 
3i Infotech Limited 
CIN: L67120MH1993PLC074411 
T: +91 22 7123 8000   F: +91 22 7123 8310    W: www.3i-infotech.com 
Regd Off: Tower # 5, 3rd to 6th Floors, International Infotech Park, Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400703, India 
 
 
 
September 7, 2024 
 
BSE Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Sir Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers  
              
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor,  
Dalal Street, Fort, 
 
 
 
 
Plot No. C-1, Block G 
Mumbai – 400 001 
 
 
 
 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Security Code: 532628  
 
 
 
Mumbai – 400 051 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scrip code: 3IINFOLTD 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub: 
Annual Report under Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
The Company has informed that 31st Annual General Meeting of the Company is scheduled to be held on 
Monday, September 30, 2024 at 11:30 a.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing / Other Audio-visual Means. 
 
Pursuant to Regulations 34(1) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
we enclose herewith the Annual Report for the financial year 2023-24 along with the Notice convening  
31st Annual General Meeting of the Company. The same is also being sent through electronic mode to all those 
Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company / Depositories / Registrar & Share Transfer 
Agent. 
 
The 
same 
is 
also 
available 
on 
the 
Company's 
website 
at 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/09/3i-Infotech_AR_2023-24.pdf 
 
You are requested to take the same on record. 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For 3i Infotech Limited                                                                  
                                                                                           
 
 
Varika Rastogi                                                                              
Company Secretary 
 
 
Encl: As Above  
 
 
 
 
 
Varika 
Rastogi
Digitally signed 
by Varika Rastogi 
Date: 2024.09.07 
20:17:23 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
Foundations for  
the Future 
Our Evolving Journey
02-43 
Company Overview 
02 Chairman’s Letter to 
Stakeholders
04 From the Acting CEO’s Desk
08 Convening the Architects of the 
Vision
10 Introducing the Faces of 3i 
Infotech’s Leadership
12 Empowering Businesses with 
Next-Generation Technology
16 Tracing The Footsteps - The 
Journey of 3i Infotech
18 Comprehensive Technology 
Solutions for the Digital Era
22 NuRe: Rede昀椀ning Digital 
Possibilities
24 NuRe Bharat Network: 
Pioneering Digital 
Transformation Across India
26 Fostering Talent. Embracing 
Innovation.
30 Navigating Opportunities. 
Adapting to Tomorrow.
32 Leveraging Our Competitive 
Strengths
34 3i Infotech’s Strategic Compass 
- Navigating Growth and 
Innovation
36 Transforming Visions into 
Reality - Client Success Stories
40 Business Highlights 
(FY 2023-24)
41 Awards
42 Paving the Way Forward with 
an Exceptional Team
43 Corporate Information
137-284 
Financial Statements
285-300 
Shareholder  
Information
137 Standalone 
208 Consolidated
285  Notice of 31st Annual 
General Meeting 
296 Global Presence
297  E-Communication 
Registration Form
Please click on the following 
link to navigate through the 
investor-related information: 
[https://www.3i-infotech.
com/investors/]
Or 
Scan the QR code below
Disclaimer: This document contains statements about expected future events and 昀椀nancials of 
3i Infotech (‘The Company’), which are forward-looking. By nature, forward-looking statements 
require the Company to make assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. There 
is a signi昀椀cant risk that the assumptions, predictions, and other forward-looking statements may 
not prove to be accurate. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking 
statements as several factors could cause assumptions, actual future results and events to differ 
materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, this document is 
subject to the disclaimer and quali昀椀ed in its entirety by the assumptions, quali昀椀cations and risk factors 
referred to in the Management Discussion and Analysis section of this annual report.
Investor  
Information 
Market Capitalisation as at 
March 31, 2024: 
₹ 667.07 Crores
CIN: 
L67120MH1993PLC074411
BSE Code: 
532628
NSE Symbol: 
3IINFOLTD
AGM Date: 
September 30, 2024, at 
11:30 a.m. (IST) 
AGM Venue: 
Video Conference / Other 
Audio Visual Means
Across 
the Pages
44-136 
Statutory Reports 
44 Management Discussion and 
Analysis
56 Boards’ Report
65 Corporate Governance
87 Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
Foundations for the Future 
encapsulates our strategic focus on 
reinforcing our core strengths while 
expanding our capabilities. We are 
enhancing operational excellence 
through rigorous internal controls, 
advanced technology integration, 
and a proactive approach to 
governance. This ensures that 
we are equipped to navigate 
the complexities of the digital 
landscape and exceed stakeholder 
expectations.
Our Evolving Journey is not just 
about responding to market 
changes; it is about leading them. 
We are realigning our product and 
service portfolio to better meet 
the demands of an increasingly 
digital world, expanding our 
global footprint, and integrating 
transformative technologies such 
as Arti昀椀cial Intelligence (AI), 
Machine Learning (ML), edge 
computing, and cloud solutions. 
These are at the heart of our 
strategic initiatives, including the 
continued development of our NuRe 
platforms—NuRe Cloud, NuRe 
Edge, and NuRe 3i—positioning 
us at the forefront of digital 
transformation and enabling us 
to deliver signi昀椀cant value to our 
clients and partners.
As we continue to build on these 
strong foundations, 3i Infotech is 
poised to transform challenges 
into opportunities, creating a 
future characterised by innovation, 
operational excellence, and 
sustained growth. This journey is 
about more than adapting to the 
future; it is about shaping it, with a 
clear vision and dedication to our 
goals.
Foundations for the Future
Our Evolving Journey
Theme Introduction
At 3i Infotech (‘The 
Company’ ‘We’), 
we stand at a 
crucial juncture—a 
transformative period 
that is reshaping 
our path forward 
and reaf昀椀rming 
our commitment to 
innovation, excellence, 
and resilience. As 
we embark on this 
journey, we are not 
just preparing for the 
future; we are actively 
creating it. This journey 
is built on a foundation 
of strategic leadership 
changes, a renewed 
focus on leveraging 
cutting-edge 
technologies, and a 
steadfast commitment 
to sustainable growth.
The future belongs to 
those who prepare for 
it today. 
– Malcolm X
Chairman’s
Letter to Stakeholders
Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders
Dear Valued Stakeholders,
 It is indeed a great honour and a privilege to address you 
for the 昀椀rst time as the Non-Executive & Independent 
Chairman of 3i Infotech. I would like to begin by 
expressing my gratitude to my fellow Board members 
for their trust in electing me and entrusting me with the 
responsibilities of this role, effective from December 10, 
2023, following the resignation of Mr. Ashok Shah, the 
former Chairman of the Company. 
We stand at a pivotal moment in your Company’s history, 
marking not just a signi昀椀cant transition but also the 
beginning of a new era 昀椀lled with growth, innovation, 
and a renewed commitment to excellence. This is a 
time of profound transformation, where we are laying 
the foundation for a future brimming with promise. 
Our Transformative Journey: Building 
the Foundation for the Future 
3i Infotech has embarked on a comprehensive 
transformation, anchored by three foundational 
pillars: Compliance, Pro昀椀tability, and Sustainability. 
These pillars represent more than just strategic 
priorities; they are the bedrock of our commitment 
to rebuilding the Company with integrity, 昀椀nancial 
strength, and long-term value creation. However, this 
transformation was necessitated by the challenges 
we faced in recent years. Operational inef昀椀ciencies, 
governance lapses, and lack of ethical conduct by 
some senior management personnel required us 
to rethink our approach. Recognising the need for 
fresh leadership, we made necessary changes to 
the team of senior management personnel, aligning 
with our focus on building one of the best ethically 
governed organisation. While we acknowledge the 
contributions of former Managing Director & Global 
CEO, his performance fell short of expectations, 
leading to his departure and  the leadership transition 
phase aimed at restoring stability and con昀椀dence. 
For ensuring seamless operations of the Company 
during this transition phase, the Board constituted the 
Executive Management Committee on April 1, 2024, 
comprising of (i) Mr. Harish Shenoy, Chief Operating 
Of昀椀cer – Professional Services & Chief Risk Of昀椀cer; 
(ii) Mr. Sanjay Rawa, Chief Financial Of昀椀cer; and (iii) 
Mrs. Varika Rastogi, Company Secretary. I would like 
to sincerely appreciate the efforts of the Executive 
Management Committee during this period. 
During transition phase, the Board initiated the 
process of recruiting a new CEO. However, this 
process is taking longer than anticipated and the 昀椀nal 
selection of a candidate for the position of CEO is still 
underway. In the best interest of stakeholders of the 
Company, the Board deemed it prudent to appoint an 
Acting CEO. Consequently, Mr. Raj Ahuja, who joined 
the Company as Senior Group President – Corporate 
Annual Report 2023-24
2
on June 24, 2024, was entrusted with the responsibilities 
of Acting CEO effective August 14, 2024.
Mr. Raj Ahuja, a rank holder Chartered Accountant and 
Cost Accountant, brings with him over three decades of 
leadership experience across multiple industries such as 
Technology, Media, FMCG, FinTech, Education, Banking, 
NBFCs and Financial Services. He has held senior 
leadership roles at various organizations, with a proven 
track record of managing business strategy formulation 
and execution, investor relations, analytics, operations, 
technology, mergers & acquisitions, 昀椀nancial structuring, 
fund raising, business planning and 昀椀nance function. 
The Necessity of Transformation and 
Embracing Technological Advancements
Our decision to transform was not merely a strategic 
choice; it was a necessity. The global technology 
landscape is evolving rapidly. To stay competitive and 
relevant, 3i Infotech must align its capabilities with 
high-demand areas. Though the Company started 
developing various Products under NuRe brand identity 
under the leadership of former MD & Global CEO,  these 
Products struggled to keep pace with the fast changing 
technological landscape. Hence, the Board formed 
the Products Innovation Sub-committee to evaluate 
capabilities of these Products, to enable the Board to 
take decision in relation to investments made in these 
Products. This transformation is about rewriting our 
future, positioning us at the forefront of technological 
innovation. Our recent achievements, including CMMI 
Level 5 appraisal and inclusion in Gartner assessments, 
validate our strategic direction and commitment to 
quality. In addition, we have made signi昀椀cant strides in 
cybersecurity, process automation, and cloud migration—
crucial to ensuring competitiveness and providing  
our clients with comprehensive solutions in the  
digital economy. 
One of our key initiatives is NuRe Bharat, a cloud-
based platform developed in collaboration with RailTel, 
designed to drive digital transformation in India’s rural 
and semi-urban areas. The Board has granted its in-
principle approval for dilution of stake upto 49% in NuRe 
MediaTech Limited (immediate holding company of NuRe 
Bharat Network Limited), to maximize value creation for 
shareholders of the Company.
Financial Performance: A Year 
of Transition and Progress and 
Strengthening Internal Controls and 
Compliance 
The past 昀椀nancial year was a period of signi昀椀cant 
transition. Despite facing 昀椀nancial instability and 
operational inef昀椀ciencies, these challenges provided 
the catalyst for our transformative initiatives. In the 
昀椀rst quarter of FY 2024-25, we saw encouraging signs 
of progress. We reported a revenue of ₹ 179.8 crores, 
supported by a positive Operating EBITDA of ₹ 3.5 
crores, and reduced losses to ₹ 9.09 crores, down from 
₹ 16.91 crores in the same quarter last year. Our strategic 
focus is now on consolidating these gains and driving 
pro昀椀tability across all business units, making targeted 
investments in product development, and deepening our 
market reach. 
A critical part of our transformation is the strengthening 
of internal controls and compliance frameworks. Past 
governance lapses highlighted the need for more robust 
structures. We have implemented rigorous Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs) and initiated forensic audits 
to ensure our operations adhere to the highest standards 
of integrity and accountability. To address legacy 
compliance issues—such as those related to Income Tax, 
GST, and FEMA—the Sub-committee on Legacy Matters, 
chaired by myself, was established. This committee has 
undertaken a thorough review of compliance concerns 
from past management and is working diligently to 
resolve them in the best interests of our shareholders. 
Although the forensic audit is ongoing, challenges like 
unavailability of old records are being addressed with the 
assistance of external experts. 
Looking Ahead: A Future of Promise 
As we move forward, I am 昀椀lled with optimism. The 
challenges we have faced have only strengthened our 
resolve to emerge stronger. Our focus is on stabilising 
operations, driving pro昀椀table growth, and enhancing our 
technological capabilities to stay ahead of market trends. 
We are building a scalable, sustainable business model 
designed to deliver long-term value. 
Acknowledgment 
In conclusion, I would like to extend my heartfelt 
gratitude to our shareholders, board members, 
customers, vendors, employees, Banker and statutory 
authorities for their unwavering support. The journey 
ahead is challenging, but it is 昀椀lled with immense 
opportunities. Together, we are writing a new chapter 
in the story of 3i Infotech—one of resilience, innovation, 
and sustainable growth. Thank you for being a part of 
this journey. I look forward to sharing more positive 
developments with you as we continue to build a 
stronger, more prosperous Company. 
Yours Sincerely, 
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal 
Non-Executive Independent Chairman
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
3
CEO’s Letter to Stakeholders
From the
Acting CEO’s Desk
“Our goal is to leverage our deep 
domain expertise and technological 
capabilities to drive expansion and 
enhance our revenue streams across 
industries and geographies.”
Annual Report 2023-24
4
“A major thrust this year has been on operational ef昀椀ciency 
and cost optimisation. We have been restructuring our 
businesses to enhance productivity and eliminate non-
productive costs. These efforts are critical to making our 
business model more resilient and adaptable to market 
changes.“
Dear Shareholders, 
It is my profound privilege to address you for the 昀椀rst time as the CEO of 3i Infotech. Stepping into this role at such a 
pivotal juncture in our Company’s journey is both a great honour and a formidable responsibility. We 昀椀nd ourselves in an 
era de昀椀ned by rapid technological evolution, where the ability to adapt and innovate is crucial for our sustained success. 
My vision for 3i Infotech is clear: to position our Company as an active participant in this evolution and be a leader in digital 
transformation and driving innovation while staying true to our core strengths.
Over the past year, 3i Infotech has undergone strategic 
realignment, which was essential to ensure our continued 
relevance and competitiveness in a dynamic marketplace. 
This realignment was not about changing who we are 
at our core; rather, it was about sharpening our focus, 
optimising our resources, and ensuring that we are fully 
equipped to meet the demands of the future. Our primary 
focus remains on the BFSI and government sectors, 
where we have established deep expertise and robust 
relationships. However, we are also expanding our 
presence in high-growth industries such as healthcare, 
manufacturing, and telecommunications. This diversi昀椀ed 
approach allows us to leverage our expertise across 
multiple industries while still maintaining our leadership 
in BFSI.
A major thrust this year has been on operational ef昀椀ciency 
and cost optimisation. We have been restructuring our 
businesses to enhance productivity and eliminate non-
productive costs. These efforts are critical to making our 
business model more resilient and adaptable to market 
changes. Our commitment to operational excellence is 
unwavering, as we continue to re昀椀ne our processes and 
maximise ef昀椀ciency across all levels of the organisation.
Strategic Realignment and 
Operational Focus
Monetisation and Value 
Creation
This year marked the launch of our rede昀椀ned product lineup 
under the ‘NuRe’ brand, which stands for ‘New Ray’. This 
new product branding represents our commitment to next-
generation technologies and services. The development 
of offerings like NuRe Cloud, NuRe Edge, and the NuRe 3i 
Platform is helping us differentiate in a competitive market.
One of the key aspects of our strategy moving forward is 
the monetisation of our existing assets and platforms. This 
is not merely about generating revenue; it’s about unlocking 
the full potential of our investments to create sustainable 
value for our stakeholders. For instance, our strategic 
decision to dilute 49% of our stake in NuRe MediaTech 
is a de昀椀ned move to unlock value and attract strategic 
partners for key projects like RailTel, who can help us scale 
the platform more effectively. This move aligns with our 
strategy of optimising our portfolio and driving focused 
growth in high-potential areas.
We are particularly excited about the potential of the NuRe 
Bharat Network project, which presents signi昀椀cant scaling 
opportunities in the coming year, that we are eager to 
capitalise on. This initiative showcases our ability to deliver 
large-scale, transformative projects that have a wide-
reaching impact.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
5
Harnessing Technological Advancements: 
The NuRe Platforms
Financial Performance 
and Outlook
At the heart of our transformation is our commitment 
to technological innovation. The NuRe platforms 
are a testament to our vision of leading the digital 
transformation space. NuRe Cloud provides a scalable and 
secure environment for enterprises looking to transition 
to the cloud, while NuRe Edge offers solutions that bring 
computing closer to the data source, enhancing ef昀椀ciency 
and reducing latency.
Our NuRe 3i platform is particularly noteworthy, as 
it integrates AI, ML, and advanced analytics to offer 
intelligent solutions tailored to our clients’ speci昀椀c needs. 
This platform is not just a product; it is a re昀氀ection of 
our commitment to providing next-generation solutions 
that drive real business value. Moreover, the NuRe 
Bharat Network, developed in partnership with RailTel, 
underscores our focus on digital inclusivity, offering cloud-
based services to rural and semi-urban areas, thereby 
bridging the digital divide in India.
The 昀椀scal year 2023-24 was a year of signi昀椀cant 
transformation for 3i Infotech. Despite the challenges 
posed by a dif昀椀cult business environment, we 
demonstrated resilience, achieving a consolidated total 
income of ₹ 866.7 Crores—a 7.1% growth from the 
previous year. This performance underscores our ability 
to expand our revenue base even in the face of market 
headwinds. However, this period was not without 
its dif昀椀culties. Conservative measures, including the 
recognition of potential impairments and provisions for 
legacy issues, impacted our short-term pro昀椀tability, 
resulting in an EBITDA of ₹ (16.59) Crores and a loss 
before tax of ₹ (283.96) Crores. These measures, 
including a prudent loss allowance of ₹ 21.93 Crores 
on intangible assets capitalised during the year, were 
necessary to fortify our 昀椀nancial foundation and position 
us for sustainable growth.
As we transition into FY 2024-25, I am encouraged 
by the early signs of a positive turnaround. Our efforts 
in strategic realignment and operational restructuring 
have begun to bear fruit, as evidenced by our improved 
performance in Q1 FY 2024-25. This upward trajectory 
not only validates the strategic decisions we made but 
also sets a strong foundation for future growth. Our 
focus moving forward is on building momentum, driving 
pro昀椀tability across all business units, and continuing to 
implement initiatives that will lead us toward our long-
term goals. The groundwork laid in the past year has 
positioned us well, and I am con昀椀dent that 3i Infotech is 
on the right path to achieving sustained success.
Evolving Service Offerings 
and Market Positioning
Our combined strengths in IT, ITeS and BPS give us a 
distinct advantage over standalone service providers. We 
have made signi昀椀cant progress in our ability to integrate 
with our clients' core systems across various industries. 
This capability allows us to offer end-to-end digital 
transformation solutions that drive real business value. 
We are no longer constrained by the limitations of our 
clients' platforms; instead, we are at the forefront, helping 
them embrace and implement cutting-edge technologies.
Our approach to this realignment has been both 
deliberate and strategic. We have streamlined our 
operations to become more agile and responsive to 
market changes, while also making targeted investments 
in areas that offer the greatest potential for growth. 
This includes not only our traditional strengths but also 
new and emerging markets where we see signi昀椀cant 
opportunities for expansion.
Annual Report 2023-24
6
Opportunities and Vision for 
the Future
Closing Remarks
Looking ahead, the opportunities for 3i Infotech are vast. 
We are strengthening and expanding our global footprint, 
particularly in regions like the US, Asia-Paci昀椀c, and 
the Middle East, where we see signi昀椀cant potential for 
growth, while maintaining our leadership position in India. 
Our goal is to leverage our deep domain expertise and 
technological capabilities to drive expansion and enhance 
our revenue streams across industries and geographies.
In the coming years, we will continue to focus on digital 
transformation services, with a particular emphasis on 
next-generation technologies and high-growth markets. 
As we look to the future, we are energised by the 
opportunities ahead. 
Our recognition as an 'Aspirant' in Everest Group's PEAK 
Matrix® for Application Automation Services and our 
positioning as a Representative Vendor in Gartner's 2023 
Market Guide for Higher Education Student Information 
Systems validate our strategic direction and fuel our 
passion for innovation.
As I step into this role, I am acutely aware of the 
challenges that lie ahead. However, I am equally con昀椀dent 
in the strength of our strategy, the dedication of our 
employees, and the trust of our clients and shareholders. 
Our long-term vision remains to establish 3i Infotech 
as a trusted global digital transformation partner. We 
aim to build a strong portfolio of IP and platform-based 
offerings that deliver tangible client value. Innovation will 
remain central to our strategy, with the ambitious goal of 
incubating and commercialising multiple technology and 
product start-ups in the coming years.
The progress we have made thus far would not have 
been possible without the resilience, dedication, and 
innovative spirit of our employees. Their contributions 
have been instrumental in driving our transformation 
and in delivering exceptional service to our 500+ active 
clients. As we navigate this transformative period, I want 
to express my sincere appreciation to our team for their 
unwavering commitment.
I want to extend my deepest gratitude to all our 
stakeholders—our employees, clients, partners, and 
shareholders—for your continued trust and support. 
Together, we are building a more resilient, innovative, and 
value-driven organisation that is well-positioned to lead 
in the digital transformation space. The journey ahead 
is one of great promise, and I look forward to sharing 
more of our successes with you as we continue to build a 
stronger, more prosperous 3i Infotech.
Sincerely,
Raj Ahuja 
Acting CEO
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
7
Convening the
Architects of the Vision
The Board of Directors
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal 
Chairman, Independent Director
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal is a Chartered Accountant with three decades of experience 
in taxation, 昀椀nance and restructuring, having worked extensively in areas such as statutory 
audit, income leakage audit, concurrent audit, and stock audit of public sector banks under 
RBI’s appointment. With the distinction of being the youngest President of ICAI 2009-10, 
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal has been acknowledged by the former President of India, Smt. 
Pratibha Devisingh Patil, for his commendable work. In the industry and presented with the 
‘Recognition of Excellence Award’. He was also awarded ‘UDAN 2011’ by the Times of India 
Group Newspaper Navbharat Times. Recipient of innumerable recognitions, CA Agarwal has 
held various responsible positions on Risk and Audit Committees of multiple large 昀椀nancial 
institutions and companies. Amongst his numerous advisory and committee responsibilities, he 
was also the Chairman of Mirae Assets Mutual Fund and on the Board of YES Bank, Reliance 
Mutual Fund – to be Replaced to  he is also on the Board of Mirae Assets Mutual Find and 
Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd and was on the Board of YES Bank, Reliance Mutual Fund. 
A member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Strategy Perspective Planning 
& Monitoring Committee (Member), CA Agarwal also holds the honorary membership of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia and the honorary membership of CAA (Certi昀椀ed 
Public Accountant of Australia). As a proli昀椀c speaker, he has addressed various conferences, 
seminars, and workshops, organised nationally and internationally by ICAI, and has authored 
several books. He established the UPACA Gurukul, situated at Abu Road (Rajasthan) to provide 
a comprehensive solution for all the problems faced by CA students, providing CA classroom 
training, hostel facilities, article ship, 昀椀nishing school and regular graduation, all under one roof.
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga  
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga has been associated with the 昀椀nancial/banking industry for almost 38 
years and has worked with some of the best global enterprises in leadership positions for India 
and globally. He has spent 26 years with the Bank of America, 昀椀rst 16 years as part of their India 
business and later 10 years establishing and scaling their Global Delivery Centres of Expertise 
as its Managing Director. He has also been part of GE Capital India where he spearheaded 
SBI Card JV as well as transport Financial Services as CEO. More recently, he served as Chief 
Operating Of昀椀cer/Executive Director/Head of Retail Bank with IDFC Bank and was instrumental 
in launching the bank and building it as a key player in the 昀椀ntech space. He holds a Master’s 
degree in Commerce as well as MBA in Marketing and Finance and is a Fellow member of the 
Institute of Directors.
Dr. Aruna Sharma  
Non-Executive Director
Dr. Aruna Sharma was an Indian Administrative Of昀椀cer of the 1982 batch, Madhya Pradesh 
Cadre. Previously, she served as a secretary of Steel and Information Technology under the 
Government of India. She has also worked as a Director General of Doordarshan, giving world-
class coverage to Commonwealth Games 2010, setting a benchmark. She was a member of 
high-level RBI committee on the deepening of digital payments. Her forte is development, core 
sectors, FinTech and environmental issues.
She regularly writes for Financial Express, Economic Times and CNBC 18. She is Director with 
3i Infotech, Welspun Enterprises Limited and Arjas Steel Private Limited. She is member in IGRB 
(appellate body) for EdTech. She is a Fellow with the University of Bath, UK, and an alumnus of 
Harvard Kennedy School, USA.
Annual Report 2023-24
8
Mr. Umesh Mehta  
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Umesh Mehta is a seasoned turnaround strategist and technology leader with experience 
across multiple industries, including Automobile, Agrochemicals, Pharma, Retail, and QSR. 
As a Chief Information Of昀椀cer (CIO), he demonstrates profound business acumen and adeptly 
integrates technology with strategic business objectives. With over 35 years of experience in 
Information Technology, Umesh has held pivotal roles in renowned manufacturing organisations 
such as Maruti Suzuki, Fiat Group, Essar Group, Jubilant Group, and PI Group. His career spans 
both domestic and international IT assignments, where he effectively leverages technology for 
strategic business advantages.
Throughout his career, Umesh has been honoured with numerous prestigious awards, including 
the ‘CIO Sammaan’ for being one of India’s top 5 CIOs in 2019 by CIO & Leader – 9.9 Group, the 
‘CIO Hall of Fame’ Award from IDG, and IDC Insight Awards for Excellence in Innovation. He has 
also been featured in the CIO Power List and CIO 100 multiple times by IDG. In addition to his 
accolades, Umesh serves as the President of the Governing Body of CIO Association (CIO Klub), 
the largest association of Chief Information Of昀椀cers globally, with over 2000 members across 16 
chapters in India, UAE, and Bangladesh.
Umesh Mehta actively contributes to the industry as a board member of 
INDUS – SAP User Group of India Subcontinent and as a subject matter expert for IT projects in 
Meghalaya with Meghalaya Industrial Development Corporation. He also participates in various 
Customer Advisory Boards for technology products and services companies. Umesh holds a 
degree in Computer Science from Delhi University and is an alumnus of XLRI Jamshedpur.
Dr. Madan Bhalchandra Gosavi  
Non-Executive Independent Director
Dr. Madan Bhalchandra Gosavi is a purpose-driven leader committed to making a signi昀椀cant 
positive impact on society through ethical principles. His motivation stems from his humble 
family background. A keen observer of life, Dr. Gosavi believes that education is key to societal 
growth and that the strength of the country lies in its diverse local culture and deep cultural 
roots. Dr. Gosavi is a committed legal professional with nearly 40 years of experience in various 
sectors, holding multiple senior management positions. His extensive experience has equipped 
him to handle special cases within the Indian Judiciary amidst critical situations. He has also 
served as Joint Secretary–cum–Legal Adviser, Department of Law & Justice, State of Maharashtra 
As a member of the NCLT, Dr. Gosavi has presided over multiple benches for the past 昀椀ve years. 
During the pandemic, he managed the work of four NCLT benches single-handedly for over six 
months.
Ms. Zohra Chatterji  
Non-Executive Independent Director
Ms. Zohra Chatterji belongs to the 1979 Batch of the IAS, UP Cadre. She has held several 
important positions in her home state including Secretary and Director Industries, Labour 
Commissioner, Secretary & DG Tourism, Secretary & Project Director Basic Education. Her last 
assignment at UP was Principal Secretary IT & Industries when she was awarded the Prime 
Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration. She joined the Government of India 
on Central deputation in 2007 as Joint Secretary, Broadcasting in the Ministry of Information & 
Broadcasting. She became Member Secretary, National Commission for Women on promotion 
as Additional Secretary and was associated with drafting landmark amendments to the Criminal 
Law Amendment Bill and the Act for Prevention of Harassment of Women at the Workplace. 
She went on to serve as Additional Secretary Coal where she also held additional charge of 
Chairperson & Managing Director (CMD) of Coal India Limited as its 昀椀rst woman CMD. She 
retired in 2014 as the Secretary, Ministry of Textiles in the Government of India. Post-retirement, 
Ms. Chatterji has been a member of the News Broadcasting Standard Authority and served 
as Chairperson on the Board of National Commodities Management Services Limited (NCML). 
Currently, she is serving on the Board of U.P. Industrial Consultants Limited as an Independent 
Director. Ms. Chatterji is a graduate of Physics from Miranda House, Delhi University and post-
graduate in English Literature from AMU. She is currently pursuing Ph.D. from the University of 
Lucknow and is the President of Alliance Francaise in Lucknow, an organisation supported by the 
Government of France for teaching the French language and promotion of Indo-French cultural 
relations.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
9
Introducing the Faces of
3i Infotech’s Leadership
Leadership Team
Mr. Raj Ahuja
Acting Chief Executive Of昀椀cer
Mr. Ahuja is a rank-holder Chartered Accountant (ICAI) and Cost Accountant (ICWAI), 
with a Bachelor’s degree in Commerce from Sri Ram College of Commerce, University 
of Delhi. His expertise spans across industries like IT, Banking, Consumer Electronics, 
Media, NBFC, and FinTech, effectively managing business strategy, creating execution 
capabilities, investor relations, technology, operations, mergers, 昀椀nancial structuring, 
fundraising, 昀椀nance etc. His responsibilities, as acting CEO, are crucial to the 
Company’s strategic growth, compliance culture and operational ef昀椀ciency, leading 
and overseeing the Company’s 昀椀nancial and operational performance. 
He brings over three decades of experience across industries and has held senior 
昀椀nance and operations leadership roles at organisations like Wipro, Yes Bank, Jio 
Financial Services, Star India, PayTM, Ampersand Group and Capri Global, excelling in 
strategy, 昀椀nance, technology and operations.
Mr. Harish Shenoy  
Chief Operating Of昀椀cer – Professional Services & Chief Risk Of昀椀cer
With over 30 years of experience in leading global business management, Mr. Harish 
Shenoy drives change through strategic processes and programmes, particularly in 
operations and software delivery for BFSI. Holding an MBA and a Master’s Diploma 
in Computer Science, his strong expertise lies in operational excellence and strategic 
processes.
Mrs. Varika Rastogi 
Company Secretary
Varika Rastogi is a highly accomplished Company Secretary with 24 years of 
experience in Corporate Secretarial, Legal, and Global Compliance functions across 
various industries, including IT Software, Fertilizer, Shipping, and Automobiles. She 
is known for her dedication to corporate governance and fostering a compliance-
driven organisational culture. Varika has worked with renowned corporations such 
as Majesco Limited, Chambal Fertilisers (K. K. Birla Group), Hero Honda, and the 
Modi Group. She is adept at navigating complex regulatory landscapes and ensuring 
adherence to industry speci昀椀c regulations, laws, and compliance frameworks across 
multiple sectors. Varika is a fellow member of the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Law.
Mr. Sanjay Rawa 
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Sanjay Rawa offers over 28 years of 昀椀nance leadership experience. His expertise 
spans 昀椀nancial management, governance, and M&A, having led 昀椀nancial management 
at Zensar Technologies. A quali昀椀ed CMA and executive alumnus of IIM and ISB, he 
aims to strengthen 昀椀nancial rigor and shareholder value.
Annual Report 2023-24
10
Mr. Nilesh Gupta 
Senior Vice President and Global Practice Head - CloudFirst 
With over 25 years of experience in infrastructure and cloud-led growth, Nilesh Gupta 
leads 3i Infotech’s cloud strategy, specialising in cloud architecture, infrastructure, 
and services. He has previously driven cloud initiatives at Oracle Financial Services 
Software Ltd. and In昀椀nite Computer Solutions, ensuring he remains at the forefront of 
emerging cloud and infrastructure technologies.
Mr. Ramu Bodathula 
Senior Vice President and Global Delivery Head 
With 27 years of experience in Telecom OSS/BSS and Network Management, 
Ramu Bodathula has led high-performance teams and played a pivotal role in 
shaping organisational strategies as a member of the Executive Leadership Team. 
His Telco expertise spans Wireline (Copper/Cable/GPON), Fixed Wireless, and 
Mobile (3G/4G/5G) technologies. His professional journey is marked by signi昀椀cant 
achievements in Product, Programme and Project Management, as well as Software 
Solutioning. Ramu has made a lasting impact through his leadership in consulting 
and software delivery for distinguished banks, telcos, and utility companies in India, 
the US, Japan, and Taiwan. He holds an Engineering degree and an MBA, driving 
transformative success.
Mr. Rishi Agrawal 
Senior Vice President - Technology
Rishi Agrawal, an Engineer and IIM Calcutta graduate, began his career 24 years 
ago with a successful digitisation startup. He now excels in digital transformation, 
delivering innovative solutions that align with business strategies and outcomes. Rishi 
has led consulting and solutions delivery for global organisations like JPMC, World 
Bank, AIG, GE, and FedEx, working across the USA, UK, Italy, UAE, and India. He is 
a recognised speaker and startup mentor with Nasscom Deeptech Forum, Forbes 
Technology Council, Management Institutes, and various events, specialising in IT, AI, 
and Digital Transformation.
Mrs. Shilpa Pai  
Senior Vice President - Human Resources
Shilpa Pai serves as Senior Vice President & Global Head of HR, leveraging 22 years 
of experience in Human Resources within the IT and ITES industries. She specialises 
in People Practices, Organisational Strategy, Talent Management, Compensation & 
Bene昀椀ts, and Talent Acquisition across multiple regions, including India, the USA, 
Europe, the Middle East, and the Far East. Shilpa has a proven track record of building 
and scaling high-performance organisations and driving change management. 
She holds an MBA in HR along with certi昀椀cations in Advanced Human Capital 
Management and Organisation Development. Her previous roles include VP & Head of 
HR at various software services and product companies.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
11
Empowering Businesses with
Next-Generation Technology
The 3i Infotech Story
Founded in 1993 and headquartered in Mumbai, India, 3i Infotech has become a leading 
provider of IT services and digital transformation solutions. With a rich legacy spanning over 
three decades, the Company has consistently empowered enterprises across various sectors, 
including BFSI, Healthcare, Manufacturing, Retail, and Government, helping them navigate the 
complexities of the modern digital landscape.
3i Infotech is at the forefront 
of a technological revolution 
specialising in advanced 
technologies such as Arti昀椀cial 
Intelligence (AI), Blockchain, 
Robotic Process Automation 
(RPA), Low-code Development, 
Internet of Things (IoT), Cloud 
Computing, and Machine Learning 
(ML). These cutting-edge 
technologies are harnessed to offer 
a comprehensive suite of services 
designed to address intricate 
business challenges, enhance 
operational ef昀椀ciency, reduce costs, 
and deliver superior customer 
experiences. The approach is built 
on the pillars of agility, innovation, 
and collaboration, seamlessly 
integrating Co-Innovation and 
Design Thinking to deliver 
customised solutions across the 
entire digital value chain.
With a global presence and a vast 
global talent pool, 3i Infotech’s 
Global Delivery Model ensures 
that tailored solutions meet 
the unique needs of its clients. 
The Company’s Technology 
Centres of Excellence integrate 
deep domain expertise with 
proven methodologies, enabling 
enterprises to build 昀氀exible and 
agile systems. Committed to 
driving innovation and excellence, 
3i Infotech continues to play a 
pivotal role in shaping the future of 
digital transformation, empowering 
businesses to achieve sustainable 
growth and long-term success.
Industries
Insurance
Banking & 
Financial Services
Healthcare
Education
Telecom
Media & 
Entertainment
Government
26+
Years of Experience
6
Countries (Operational Presence)
90%
Return Clients
250+
Active Clients
100%
Debt Free
5,600+
Employees
Annual Report 2023-24
12
Vision
To be a value-driven billion-dollar 
organisation committed towards 
customers, people and stakeholders 
with continuous orchestration, 
incubation, innovation and 
invention of digital transformation 
services harnessing the power of 
5G-powered innovation
Mission
To be a trusted global one-stop, 
digital transformation partner 
that delivers business excellence 
and exceptional outcomes to 
our customers in this new digital 
decade.
Service 
Offerings
3i Infotech’s services are centred on 
Digital Transformation, supported 
by substantial capabilities in 
Enterprise Mobility & Internet of 
Things (IoT), Business intelligence 
(BI) & Analytics, Data Science & 
Advanced Analytics, and Testing. 
The comprehensive suite of services 
includes a wide range of offerings, 
with a strong emphasis on sales, 
solutions, consulting, delivery, and 
quality assurance. These services 
are designed to drive process 
ef昀椀ciencies and enable business 
transformation, ensuring clients 
achieve strategic objectives and 
operational excellence.
Consulting Services
Cloud Transformation 
Infrastructure
Infrastructure 
Transformation & 
Management Services
Data & Analytics 
Services
Cybersecurity
Applications
Customer Digital 
Experience
 30+ Years’ 
Experience
 Innovative 
Solutioning
 Golden Professional 
Standards
 Growth-Driven 
Approach
 Subject Matter 
Experts
 Client-Focussed 
Mindset
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
13
Expanding 
The Global Reach
353.2
United States of America
44.5
Middle East and Africa
Region-wise Revenue Break-up for FY 2023-24 (₹ Crores)
Annual Report 2023-24
14
Annual Report 2023-24
14
26.8
Asia-Paci昀椀c
 36.1
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
352.9
India
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
15
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
15
Tracing The Footsteps
The Journey of 3i Infotech
3i Infotech, with three decades of industry presence, has undergone a transformative journey 
from its origins to become a seasoned and forward-thinking digital solutions provider. 
Leveraging its extensive experience, the Company continues to evolve through strategic 
expansions, restructuring, and innovative initiatives. 3i Infotech remains committed to agility 
and excellence, consistently adapting to meet changing market demands. With its wealth of 
expertise, the Company delivers signi昀椀cant value to its clients and maintains its position as an 
impactful player in the ever-evolving digital landscape.
1993
2014
1999
Incorporated in 1993 as a 
wholly owned subsidiary of 
ICICI Limited
Partnership with CRMnext
Entered IT services business
 Software development & 
services
 IT infrastructure & network 
management
 IT-enabled BPO services
2002
Ceased to be a subsidiary of ICICI 
Limited as ICICI divested majority of 
3i Infotech Equity Shares
2005
Went subscribed 6x 
by retail and 5.16x by 
institutional investors
2006
Issued FCCB of US$ 50 million with listing on 
the Singapore Stock Exchange
2007
 Achieved 1:1 revenue mix between 
Products and Services
 Crossed consolidated revenue mark of 
₹ 1,000 Crores
2008-2010
Pursued multiple acquisitions across the globe 
using LBO
2011
Undertook debt restructuring by working 
with the Corporate Debt Restructuring 
(CDR) cell to realign obligations and 
establish a viable path forward
Annual Report 2023-24
16
2020
2021 
2023
2024
 Initiated slump sale of global software 
products business 
 Executed Business Transfer Agreement 
(BTA) with Azentio Software Solutions 
Limited 
 Executed business transformation and 
restructuring for future readiness. 
 Appointed Thompson Gnanam as Managing 
Director & Global CEO Positioned to provide 
one-stop digital solutions globally 
 Adopted an agile approach to address 
evolving industry needs
 Collaborated with MDEC to build 
ASEAN Edge-as-a Service Platform in 
Malaysia
 Completed Products Business Transfer 
to Apax Partners at ~₹ 1,000 Crores 
valuation
2022
 Launched COE Tirunelveli, Residential 
Entrepreneur Programme 
 Started the 3i NuRe+ Sovereign cloud in 
Malaysia
 Won 昀椀rst B2B2C deal with RailTel for WiFi 
monetisation, ₹ 1,000 Crores potential over 
5 years
 Operationalised Oracle COE and won Oracle 
transformation project with SBI General 
 Grew Digital IMS with 18 new logos 
including HPCL and IOCL
 Won a large order from PSU client for RailTel 
project  
 In-house development of new age products 
2016
Bagged the ‘Best Innovative IT Company of 
the Year’ award
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
17
Portfolio
At the intersection of innovation and transformation, 3i Infotech has crafted a portfolio 
that anticipates the future while addressing the pressing needs of today. The Company’s 
offerings are not just solutions—they are enablers of a new digital reality where workspaces 
transcend boundaries, connectivity is unbroken, and data is 昀椀ercely protected. With a keen 
understanding of industry dynamics, 3i Infotech has positioned itself as a catalyst for change, 
driving businesses forward through tailored, cutting-edge IT infrastructure and cloud 
solutions that are designed to thrive in an ever-evolving landscape.
Comprehensive Technology 
Solutions for the Digital Era
Services
Infrastructure 
Cloud 
Cybersecurity 
Application 
Digital infrastructure 
Management 
Services -DIMS
Cloud Adoption in 
a Box
Zero Trust 
Soveriegn Cloud - 
ZTSC
Cybersecurity 
Services
Testing
NuRe Edge
Application
Annual Report 2023-24
18
Product/Platforms
Data & Analytics 
Customer Digtial 
Experience
Consulting 
Products 
Data
Analytics & AI
Digi BPS
Professional 
Services
 NuRe Edge 
 NuRe Campus
Shared Service 
Transformation
Flexib+
Wi昀椀 Monetisation
EnGRC
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
19
The Services segment is divided into six distinct categories, each addressing speci昀椀c business technology needs:
In addition to the Services segment, the Products and Platforms offerings, including EdgeTech and 
FutureTech, reinforce 3i Infotech’s commitment to delivering scalable, future-ready solutions tailored to 
speci昀椀c industry needs.
This diverse portfolio underscores 3i Infotech’s ability to cater to various industries and business demands. 
From traditional enterprise services to cutting-edge digital solutions, the Company is strategically 
positioned to support clients’ technology needs and drive innovation across multiple sectors.
Digital 
Infrastructure 
Management
Cloud Services & 
Cybersecurity
Application, 
Automation 
& Analytics
Providing managed services to 
optimise digital infrastructure, the 
expert team ensures seamless 
operation and enhancement of 
critical components, including 
servers, networks, storage, and 
virtualisation.
Supporting businesses with cloud 
migration and offering robust 
cybersecurity solutions, this 
category covers cloud adoption, 
data security, and continuous 
monitoring to protect against cyber 
threats.
Focussing on modernising and 
maintaining applications, 3i Infotech 
ensures optimal performance, 
scalability, and integration while 
driving automation through 
technologies like RPA, AI, and ML.
Annual Report 2023-24
20
Through its broad range of services and solutions, 3i Infotech offers a unique value proposition. Whether 
enhancing core operations, embarking on digital transformation, or leveraging advanced technologies for 
future growth, 3i Infotech’s portfolio provides access to relevant expertise.
With an innovative approach, 3i Infotech has positioned itself as a key enabler of digital transformation. 
The Company continues to rede昀椀ne possibilities, ensuring businesses are prepared for tomorrow’s 
challenges today.
FutureTech
Consulting Services
Digital BPS
Integrating Arti昀椀cial Intelligence 
(AI), Machine Learning (ML), 5G, 
the Internet of Things (IoT), and 
Everything as a Service (XaaS), 
FutureTech helps businesses stay 
competitive in the digital landscape.
Offering a suite of services, 
including IT consulting, 
infrastructure management, 
compliance, and application 
development, this category 
leverages global expertise to 
deliver industry standard solutions.
Offering a suite of services, 
including IT consulting, 
infrastructure management, 
compliance, and application 
development, this category 
leverages global expertise to 
deliver industry standard solutions.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
21
NuRe by 3i Infotech epitomises the future of digital transformation through its comprehensive 
suite of cloud-昀椀rst, edge computing, and cybersecurity solutions. With offerings like NuRe 
Edge, NuRe Campus, and Zero Trust Sovereign Cloud, the brand empowers businesses 
to achieve unparalleled scalability, security, and ef昀椀ciency. These solutions are designed 
to seamlessly integrate and optimise operations, safeguarding data with cutting-edge 
technology while enabling global connectivity and innovation. NuRe’s robust digital 
infrastructure ensures that enterprises are not just prepared for tomorrow but are actively 
shaping it, driving digital transformation with a focus on resilience, security, and agility.
NuRe 
Rede昀椀ning Digital Possibilities
NuRe Offerings
NuRe's Role in 3i Infotech's 
Digital Transformation Strategy
NuRe plays a pivotal role in 3i Infotech's commitment 
to advancing digital capabilities for enterprises. By 
harnessing advanced technologies, NuRe facilitates 
seamless transitions to digital ecosystems, enhancing 
business agility and operational ef昀椀ciency. Its integrated 
solutions support rapid deployment, optimised resource 
management, and strengthened data security, positioning 
businesses to thrive in an increasingly digital world. 
NuRe’s innovative approach aligns with 3i Infotech’s vision 
of enabling comprehensive, practical digital solutions that 
drive sustainable growth and transformation for its clients.
Annual Report 2023-24
22
Key NuRe Offerings
NuRe Edge
NuRe Edge (Secure Access Service Edge) revolutionises cloud and cybersecurity by securing IoT 
devices and operational technology against malware, ransomware, and other threats. It offers 
robust network and security deployment in minutes, safeguarding distributed workforces and critical 
infrastructure.
NuRe ZTSC
NuRe Zero Trust Sovereign Cloud (ZTSC) provides enterprise-grade security and scalability powered 
by Oracle. This solution represents a strategic shift to a zero-trust model, enhancing agility and 
security for IT operations, positioning businesses at the forefront of digital transformation.
NuRe Campus
NuRe Campus is a comprehensive cloud-based Enterprise Automation System for higher education 
institutions. It ef昀椀ciently manages key processes from admissions to evaluations, supporting 
inclusivity, governance, and compliance with a data-driven approach.
NuRe Bharat Network
NuRe Bharat Network leverages the extensive reach of Indian Railways to provide a unique 
marketing and advertising platform. It connects rural and urban India, facilitating digital 
transformation and unlocking massive opportunities in one of the world’s largest internet markets.
1
2
3
4
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
23
NuRe Bharat Network
Pioneering Digital Transformation 
Across India
NuRe Offerings
NuRe Bharat Network (NBN), a transformative initiative by 3i Infotech, is designed to bridge 
India’s digital divide by extending robust, secure, and scalable connectivity to even the most 
remote regions. Through a strategic partnership with RailTel and leveraging Indian Railways’ 
vast network, NBN aims to empower rural and semi-urban areas as part of India’s digital 
ecosystem. This initiative marks a signi昀椀cant step toward a more digitally inclusive and 
connected nation.
NBN leverages this extensive network, becoming a unique 
media platform that connects diverse regions of India. This 
strategic partnership enhances connectivity and access to 
digital services in underserved regions, playing a critical 
role in India's digital transformation journey.
NuRe Bharat Network: The Future 
of Marketing & Advertising
NBN, in collaboration with RailTel, has developed a 
marketing and advertising platform targeting India’s vast 
train passenger demographic. With 54 million active 
monthly WiFi users generating 85 million sessions and 
consuming 4,028 TB of data each month, this platform 
reaches 16 million suburban and 35 million long-distance 
travellers, as well as 351 million internet users in rural 
areas. This initiative bridges media-dark areas, enhancing 
digital inclusion and offering businesses unprecedented 
market access.
Strategic Focus on NuRe Bharat 
Network
3i Infotech has taken a signi昀椀cant step by deciding to 
dilute up to 49% of its stake in NuRe MediaTech, the 
holding Company of NBN. This move aims to attract 
investment and accelerate the RailTel project, a core 
component of NBN’s mission. Aligning with Indian 
Railways' infrastructure, 3i Infotech is committed to 
amplifying its digital transformation initiatives, ensuring 
widespread digital growth and inclusion across India.
Revenue Streams
 
Large PSU and private enterprise sponsorships
 
Digital-driven ad revenue
 
Super app-driven non-ad revenue
 
Content monetisation
Annual Report 2023-24
24
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
25
Fostering Talent. 
Embracing Innovation.
At 3i Infotech, the development of human capital is integral to its strategic vision, shaping 
a work environment that empowers its employees to excel. The Company is committed 
to cultivating talent through bespoke learning and development initiatives aligned with 
individual career trajectories. Emphasising inclusivity and collaboration, it celebrates the 
diverse strengths of its workforce, fostering a culture where every contribution is valued. 
The Company’s focus on employee well-being and professional advancement is reinforced 
through robust wellness programmes and performance management systems. This holistic 
approach to people management not only attracts and retains top talent, but also propels the 
Company’s success in competitive, high-growth markets.
People-First Approach
Core People Values
Key Facets of People Management
Talent Acquisition
Trust & Integrity 
Speed & Agility
Customer First
Employee Centricity
Leadership with Empathy
Collaboration & Teamwork
Innovate & Talent
Challenge Status Quo
Adaptive & Learning
High Performance Teams
Ownership
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
The Company places a strong emphasis on 
acquiring the right talent, ensuring we attract 
individuals who possess the right skills and 
expertise while aligning with our values and 
vision. The Company’s iEnrich onboarding 
platform starts the journey of enriching not 
just careers but lives, emphasising right 
昀椀tment rather than judgment.
5,011
New Hires in FY 2023-24
Annual Report 2023-24
26
Training and Development
Attracting and Retaining Talent
Innovation
Transparent Culture
Through comprehensive training and development 
programmes and association with NuRe University, the 
Company enhances the capabilities of its employees. 
These initiatives offer continuous learning opportunities in 
core, soft, and management skills, equipping employees 
with the tools and knowledge essential to excel in their 
roles and grow within the organisation.
The Company launched innovative initiatives such as 
Hi-Pot programmes and AIM 30 aimed at equipping 
employees with the necessary skills to embrace 
technological advancements. These initiatives have proven 
instrumental in talent retention within the Company over 
the years, facilitating fast-tracked growth and promoting a 
culture of lifelong learning.
Admired for unparalleled expertise, the Company boasts 
the most adept talent pool within the sector, particularly 
excelling in intricate and expansive redevelopment 
projects. The Company’s Centre of Excellence and 
workspaces encourage ideation, design thinking and 
solutions, fostering a culture of innovation and facilitating 
groundbreaking solutions.
3i fosters a culture of transparency and open 
communication where every team member’s voice 
is heard and valued. The CEO’s Club and Employee 
Initiatives break biases and barriers, fostering an open and 
transparent culture that promotes innovation, creativity 
and a sense of ownership among employees, ultimately 
driving us forward.
9,574
Training Personhours in FY 2023-24
66.16%
Retention Rate
2
New Products Launched in FY 2023-24
39
Training Programmes Conducted in FY 2023-24
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
27
EnGRC
We also introduced EnGRC, an innovative 
platform designed by industry experts to 
integrate risk management, compliance, and 
ESG goals seamlessly into enterprise operations. 
With its con昀椀gurable modules and user-friendly 
interface, EnGRC offers a scalable solution that 
drives ef昀椀ciency and delivers a high Return-On-
Investment.
NuRe Bharat Network (NBN)
We launched NuRe Bharat Network, leveraging 
Indian Railways' vast reach to create a unique 
marketing platform that bridges rural and urban 
India, driving digital transformation in one of the 
world's largest internet markets.
Ensuring Work-Life Balance
3i cultivates a harmonious work-life balance 
while nurturing a strong sense of ownership 
and productivity in the workplace. The 
Company’s 昀氀exible policies, including 
productive remote working options and the 
‘Future of Work’ hybrid model, balances the 
interests of both customers and employees.
Promoting Gender Equality
The Company champions gender equality by ensuring 
equal opportunities for all individuals across every level. 
The Company’s ‘Women Empowered’ initiative promotes 
gender supremacy beyond equality, embracing diversity 
with an inclusive approach led from the top, contributing 
to a diverse and inclusive environment.
23%
Women Employees
Annual Report 2023-24
28
Promoting Inclusivity and Diversity
3i cultivates a strong, value-driven culture of inclusivity and diversity across its global locations. As an equal opportunity 
employer, the Company is committed to sourcing the right talent for the best 昀椀t. The Company adheres to a strict policy 
of zero discrimination in all its hiring, employee engagement and welfare practices, ensuring it remains an ethical and 
compliant workplace for everyone.
Employee Bene昀椀ts and Rewards
The Company offers a diverse range of employee bene昀椀ts and celebrate loyalty through rewards and recognition 
programmes
A series of engaging 
activities designed 
to make work 
enjoyable and fun.
Comprehensive 
health and 昀椀tness 
programmes, 
including knowledge 
sessions, expert 
consultations and 
regular check-ups.
Initiatives to foster 
communication 
and collaboration, 
such as skip-
level meetings, 
discussions with 
team leaders, 
support staff and 
townhalls.
Continuous learning 
opportunities 
through weekly 
quizzes, informative 
sessions, tech 
talks, hackathons 
and multi-channel 
communication.
Recognition 
programmes that 
highlight milestone 
achievements 
and reward 
employees, including 
testimonies and 
video messages.
iFUN
iWELLNESS
iCONNECT
iKNOWLEDGE
iBRAND
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
29
Navigating Opportunities.
Adapting to Tomorrow.
Operating Environment
Global Technology Scenario
The global technology landscape is experiencing signi昀椀cant 
transformations driven by emerging technologies, economic 
shifts, and societal changes. Generative AI has gained 
substantial traction since CY 2022, with around 36% of 
companies scaling its use to enhance innovation. Cloud and 
edge computing remain essential, with 48% of companies 
fully adopting these technologies to improve operational 
ef昀椀ciency and data management. The increased focus on 
cybersecurity and digital trust re昀氀ects the growing need for 
secure and reliable digital frameworks amidst rising digital 
interactions.
Innovations in robotics and automation are revolutionising 
manufacturing and logistics, reshaping workforce dynamics 
and operational capabilities. The expansion of 5G 
technology is facilitating advancements in IoT, augmented 
reality, and autonomous vehicles by providing crucial 
infrastructure. Although still emerging, quantum computing 
holds the promise of revolutionising 昀椀elds such as 
cryptography and drug discovery. The intensi昀椀ed interplay 
between globalisation and technology underscores a 
global shift towards greater technological reliance, driven 
by the need for improved communication and operational 
ef昀椀ciency.
Indian Technology Scenario
India’s tech landscape is rapidly evolving with the rise 
of spatial computing and the industrial metaverse, 
blending physical and digital realms to enhance 
productivity. Technologies like augmented reality (AR) 
are transforming various sectors, from virtual banking to 
medical training. 
The country is also experiencing substantial growth in 
arti昀椀cial intelligence (AI), with 2.7 times increase in AI-
driven initiatives between CY 2023 and CY 2024. Over 
6,50,000 employees are expected to receive training 
in generative AI, and the GenAI market is anticipated 
to expand at a CAGR of over 24.4% from CY 2023 to 
CY 2030. This growth is expected to contribute between 
US$ 359 billion and US$ 438 billion to India’s GDP by 
CY 2029–CY 2030. Additionally, with strong government 
support and increasing software exports, India is 
advancing in cloud computing, enterprise spending, and 
global capability centres, further establishing itself as a 
major global tech hub. 
Source: (https://www2.deloitte.com/in/en/pages/technology/
articles/six-transformative-technologies-to-propel-tech-
adoption-and-growth-in-2024-deloitte-tech-trends-india-
report.html, https://orfamerica.org/newresearch/india-
technology-policy, https://www2.deloitte.com/in/en/pages/
technology/articles/tech-trends-2024.html)
Source: (Source: https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/
mckinsey-digital/our-insights/the-top-trends-in-tech)
Annual Report 2023-24
30
Company’s Response
3i Infotech is focussing on high-potential markets in the 
US, Middle East, and parts of Asia-Paci昀椀c, while taking 
a cautious approach in other regions. The Company is 
integrating AI, machine learning, and automation into 
B2B offerings to adapt to technological trends. This 
technological integration has prompted 3i Infotech to 
reevaluate the product portfolio and explore partnerships 
for managing long-term investments. The strategy aims 
to improve operational ef昀椀ciency and support clients in 
enhancing productivity and streamlining processes.
3i Infotech aims to balance immediate pro昀椀t opportunities 
with future value creation for long-term success. 
The Company is targeting key sectors like BFSI and 
government, while innovating to meet evolving customer 
needs. By maintaining equilibrium between consolidation 
and innovation, 3i Infotech seeks to strengthen market 
position and achieve sustainable growth in the dynamic 
tech landscape. The Company is also focussing on cost 
management and exploring cash-intensive projects 
through strategic partnerships to ensure effective 
resource allocation. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
31
Leveraging Our
Competitive Strengths
Core Competencies
Competitive advantages are the driving force behind the Company’s ascent to 
industry leadership. By leveraging innovative technology, strategic market focus 
and unparalleled customer service, the Company sets itself apart in the IT services 
sector. The Company’s unique blend of expertise and agility not only captures market 
share but also fosters enduring client loyalty. These advantages propel the Company 
towards sustained growth and a commanding market presence across the globe.
Advanced 
Technology 
Solutions 
3i Infotech offers cutting-
edge solutions combining 
edge computing and Secure 
Access Service Edge (SASE) 
products that integrate with 
emerging technologies like 
5G, IoT, and blockchain. The 
Company's ‘Technology 
Retro昀椀t Solutions’ enhance 
existing systems without 
disruption, maximising 
ef昀椀ciency while preserving 
client investments. 3i 
Infotech's approach focusses 
on aligning technology 
with business objectives, 
utilising lean methodologies 
to re昀椀ne processes before 
implementation. This ensures 
precise, ef昀椀cient solutions 
that meet business needs 
effectively from the outset. 
Customer-
Centric 
Innovation 
3i Infotech's commitment 
to customer-centricity 
drives its innovation 
process. The Company's 
deep understanding of 
client needs informs its 
R&D efforts, resulting in 
tailored solutions that 
address speci昀椀c industry 
challenges. This customer-
focussed approach not only 
enhances client satisfaction 
but also contributes to the 
development of industry 
leading products and 
services.
Robust 
Compliance 
Framework 
In an increasingly 
regulated environment, 3i 
Infotech's strong focus on 
compliance sets it apart. 
The Company maintains 
rigorous standards across 
its operations, ensuring 
that all solutions meet 
or exceed regulatory 
requirements. This 
commitment to compliance 
positions 3i Infotech as a 
trusted partner in sensitive 
industries.
Industry 
Speci昀椀c 
Expertise 
3i Infotech boasts deep 
domain knowledge across 
various sectors, including 
BFSI, healthcare, and 
manufacturing. This 
industry speci昀椀c expertise 
allows the Company to 
deliver solutions that are 
not just technologically 
advanced but also highly 
relevant to each client's 
unique business context. 
By combining technological 
prowess with industry 
insights, 3i Infotech creates 
value-driven solutions that 
address sector-speci昀椀c 
challenges effectively.
Annual Report 2023-24
32
Flexible 
Engagement 
Models 
Understanding diverse 
business needs, 3i Infotech 
offers 昀氀exible engagement 
models aligned with 
speci昀椀c business KPIs. 
The Company's outcome-
based partnerships ensure 
measurable bene昀椀ts from 
technology investments. 
Whether through ‘Try & 
Buy’ approaches, OPEX 
models, or ‘Pay As You 
Go’ plans, 3i Infotech 
provides solutions offering 
immediate ROI and 
adaptability to dynamic 
business needs.
Agile 
Workforce 
The Company prides itself 
on its agile workforce, 
delivering the right 
skills and expertise for a 
borderless future-ready 
workplace. The Company’s 
team of professionals is 
adept at navigating the 
complexities of the global 
market, ensuring that 
clients have access to 
the best talent available. 
This agility allows the 
Company to respond 
quickly to changing 
demands, providing 
tailored solutions that 
drive success.
Globally Local 
Presence 
With a deep understanding 
of diverse cultures, people 
and business environments 
across all continents, the 
Company brings a ‘globally 
local’ approach to its 
operations. This unique 
perspective enables the 
Company to offer solutions 
that are both globally 
competitive and locally 
relevant. The Company’s 
ability to navigate and 
integrate within various 
markets ensure that clients 
receive personalised and 
effective support, no 
matter where they are 
located.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
33
3i Infotech’s Strategic Compass
Navigating Growth and Innovation
Strategic Priorities
In the dynamic landscape of the IT services and products industry, 3i Infotech has 
charted a clear course for success through its meticulously de昀椀ned organisational 
priorities. These priorities serve as the Company’s strategic compass, guiding its 
efforts to enhance operational excellence, strengthen market position, and drive 
sustainable growth. By focussing on 昀椀ve key areas, 3i Infotech aims to differentiate 
itself in a competitive market, leverage emerging opportunities, and create lasting 
value for its stakeholders.
Rebrand & 
Reposition
The second priority involves rebranding and repositioning efforts. 3i Infotech is 
working to build its value business brand ‘NuRe’ in both services and products, 
alongside its existing 3i brand. This initiative suggests a strategic move to enhance 
market perception and potentially expand into new segments. By focussing on brand 
development, 3i Infotech aims to strengthen its market presence and differentiate 
itself from competitors.
People 
Centricity 
3i Infotech's third priority is People Centricity. The Company is implementing a 
performance-driven, value-based culture across the organisation to foster innovation 
and competitiveness. This focus underscores the signi昀椀cance 3i Infotech attaches to its 
human capital and organisational culture. Through cultivating a robust, value-oriented 
environment, the Company seeks to boost employee engagement, productivity, and 
drive overall business performance.
Leverage the 
Recession
In a strategic move, 3i Infotech's fourth priority is to leverage the macro-economic 
downturn to re-launch operations in the Western market. This approach indicates the 
Company's ability to see opportunity in challenging economic conditions. By focussing 
on expansion during a downturn, 3i Infotech was able to enter markets at lower costs 
and potentially capture market share from competitors who are scaling back.
Challenger 
& Disruptor
The 昀椀fth priority positions 3i Infotech as a Challenger & Disruptor in the market. The 
Company aims to aggressively compete with Tier-1 & Tier-2 peers as a value partner 
at the right price. This strategy demonstrates 3i Infotech's readiness to compete with 
larger rivals by offering compelling value propositions to clients. By adopting this 
challenger mindset, the Company seeks to drive innovation and create distinctive 
offerings that set it apart in the market.
Execution 
Excellence
3i Infotech's top priority is Execution Excellence. The Company aims to deliver 
consistently pro昀椀table operating margins and ensure a predictable business model 
for its shareholders. This focus demonstrates 3i Infotech's commitment to operational 
ef昀椀ciency and 昀椀nancial stability. By prioritising execution, the Company seeks to build 
trust with stakeholders and create a solid foundation for growth.
Annual Report 2023-24
34
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
35
Transforming Visions into Reality
Client Success Stories
Client Success Stories
3i Infotech is dedicated to turning client aspirations into tangible results through 
innovative IT solutions. Across multiple industries, from healthcare to e-commerce, 
3i Infotech’s expertise enables businesses to overcome challenges, streamline 
operations, and achieve exceptional outcomes. Leveraging tailored solutions and 
industry speci昀椀c knowledge, 3i Infotech consistently delivers measurable results, 
fostering long-term growth and operational excellence.
Revolutionising Bank IT Infrastructure with 24x7 Support and Strategic Managed 
Services for Ef昀椀ciency and Continuity
Client Background and Challenges 
The client is a leading private sector bank in India that emerged from a merger in 2018. The bank offers a variety of 
昀椀nancial products and services, aiming to provide innovative and inclusive banking solutions in the Indian market.
 
The client faced several challenges in managing its data centres and IT infrastructure effectively
 
Providing 24x7 data centre and disaster recovery (DC DR) support at various onsite locations. 
 
Ensuring effective governance with a three-tier model and ITIL-aligned service management practices. 
 
Implementing IT service continuity and managing IT services with strict adherence to 24x7 SLA requirements. 
 
Managing Windows, AIX/UNIX, virtualisation, storage, and backup systems effectively. 
 
Transitioning the current workforce to meet new service needs and requirements.
3i Infotech’s Solution Approach 
To address these challenges, the client partnered with a specialised service provider to implement a comprehensive 
managed services approach across its operations:
Implementation Process
 Deployed 140 skilled resources for end-to-end infrastructure 
support services, including data centre management
 Implemented ITIL process-based service management for 
continuity and adherence to 24x7 SLA-driven managed IT 
services. 
 Developed a 昀椀ve-step service pack for the managed 
services lifecycle, consisting of transition, managed services, 
management of change, and transformation phases. 
 Provided remote services delivered from the delivery centre 
located at the client’s location and onsite 24x7 DC DR 
support.
 Implemented continual service improvement strategies 
based on the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle.
Measurable Outcomes and Bene昀椀ts
Consistent and reliable support provided 
24x7 for data center and disaster recovery 
needs. Reduced total cost of ownership 
(TCO) by up to 20% through optimised 
resource usage and ef昀椀ciency. Improved 
quality and speed of incident resolution, 
resulting in an SLA compliance rate of over 
99%. Rebadging and training of the current 
workforce facilitated a smooth transition and 
faster response times.
Case Study
#1
Annual Report 2023-24
36
Spike & Endurance Tests of 
Bank BPO App
Client Background and Challenges 
The client is the largest provider of banking and 昀椀nancial services, including BPO operations. As they expanded 
their operations, they needed to assess the scalability and stability of their BPO application. 
The client was facing challenges with the scalability and stability of their BPO application. Speci昀椀cally, they need 
to ensure that the application can handle spike tests with 100 users loading and submitting data, maintain stability 
with 100 users over a 4-hour duration, and achieve an average response time for snapshot loading of 10 seconds 
or less.
3i Infotech’s Solution Approach 
3i Infotech BPS provided the following solutions to address the challenges:
Implementation Process
 Workload modelling for user mix and documents upload 
scenarios. 
 Performance test scripts for 昀椀le upload and File View.
 JSR223 sampler scripting for enhanced capabilities. 
 Stress test on the components to ensure critical transactions 
and server hardware are within the acceptable limits.
 100 concurrent users uploading and viewing documents on 
the web portal.
 Endurance tests with 100 users for 4-hour duration.
 Identify memory leaks and dead locks.
 Monitoring the endurance tests with perform and identify 
hardware issues.
Measurable Outcomes and Bene昀椀ts
Through strategic performance and 
endurance testing, as well as workload 
modeling, the client improved the scalability 
and stability of its BPO application. The 
partnership with 3i Infotech BPS allowed 
the client to ensure its application met 
performance standards and maintained 
consistent operations even under high user 
loads.
Case Study
#2
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
37
Enhancing Productivity and Service Excellence for a Leading 
Foreign Exchange Brand
Client Background and Challenges 
One of the world’s largest foreign exchange brands, known for offering comprehensive 昀椀nancial assistance through 
various channels, faced signi昀椀cant challenges that hindered their productivity and service levels. Operating 24/7, 
the brand is partnered with over 150 global banks and 昀椀nancial institutions, relying heavily on advanced contact 
centre solutions to provide product support and manage customer inquiries. However, the brand struggled with 
consistent productivity and service level tracking, quality hiring and retention, effective performance management 
across different work groups, and gaps in their quality and training frameworks, as well as in their MIS and 
reporting capabilities.
3i Infotech’s Solution Approach 
Implementation Process
The implementation of these solutions resulted in signi昀椀cant 
improvements for the client. Hourly tracking of crucial metrics 
like Average Handle Time (AHT), Service Levels (SLs), and 
Abandonment Rates (ARs) provided real-time insights into 
performance, leading to better decision-making and operational 
adjustments. The Operations Excellence governance framework 
led to improved performance across all departments, ensuring 
a higher standard of service delivery. The Training and Quality 
(TQ) framework ensured comprehensive coverage across all 
transaction types processed by operations, while also identifying 
and reducing non-value-added activities and waste in processes.
Measurable Outcomes and Bene昀椀ts
The strategic deployment of technology 
and frameworks transformed the client’s 
operations, enabling them to achieve 
higher productivity, improved service 
levels, and a more effective workforce 
management system. Through these 
efforts, the client is now better equipped 
to meet the demands of their customers 
while maintaining operational excellence.
Case Study
#3
Annual Report 2023-24
38
Transforming IT Operations for a Leading 
Indian Financial Institution
Client Background and Challenges 
Our client, a pioneering Indian 昀椀nancial institution with a focus on serving the unbanked and underbanked 
segments, had grown signi昀椀cantly since its inception as a micro昀椀nance institution. Transitioning into a small 昀椀nance 
bank in 2017, the institution expanded to over 570 locations across India, offering a diverse range of 昀椀nancial 
products to promote 昀椀nancial inclusion and empowerment. However, this rapid expansion brought forth several IT-
related challenges that needed immediate attention to ensure the delivery of consistent, high-quality services.
3i Infotech’s Solution Approach 
To address these challenges, we implemented a Hybrid Service Delivery model for IT Managed Services, powered 
by our Matured Service Delivery Framework, HybridNxT. This strategic approach enabled us to deliver tailored 
solutions that met the client’s speci昀椀c needs.
 Centralised Service Desk: We provided an onsite, 24x7 
centralised service desk, ensuring round-the-clock support for all 
IT-related issues.
 Asset Management: Implemented a robust asset management 
solution, including Physical Asset Veri昀椀cation (PAV), to ensure 
accurate tracking and management of IT assets.
 Service Standardisation: Rolled out a service standardisation 
plan to streamline and optimise IT service delivery across all 
locations.
 Workforce Rebadging and Training: We rebadged and trained 
the client’s existing workforce, enabling a faster transition and 
ensuring that all team members were equipped to handle the 
new systems and processes.
 Project Governance: Established strong project governance with 
a focus on continual service improvement, using the Plan-Do-
Check-Act (PDCA) cycle to enhance service quality, operational 
ef昀椀ciency, and business continuity.
Measurable Outcomes and 
Bene昀椀ts
The institution experienced a 
signi昀椀cant increase in uptime, 
ensuring uninterrupted access to 
banking services for its customers. 
Operational ef昀椀ciency and Service 
Level Agreements (SLAs) were 
markedly improved, leading to 
better service delivery. Moreover, 
the implementation of Knowledge 
Bases (KBs) and Standard Operating 
Procedures (SOPs) resulted in a 
higher 昀椀rst-call resolution rate, 
improving issue resolution times and 
enhancing customer satisfaction. 
Case Study
#4
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
39
Business Highlights
(FY 2023-24)
Financials
Revenue Break-up Based on Lines of 
Business (₹ Crores)
Quarter-Wise Financial Performance (₹ Crores)
Revenue Break-up Based on Types of 
Industries (₹ Crores)
AAA
513.2
IMS
147.0
BPS
106.9
CloudFirst
40.8
Others
5.9 
IT
223.9
BFS
296.1
Government
74.5
Insurance
54.2
Manufacturing & FMCG
70.9
Others
94.2 
Income Statement  
(As Reported)
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
For the Fiscal Period 
Ending
Three Months to June 
30, 2023
Three Months to 
September 30, 2023
Three Months to 
December 31, 2023
Three Months to 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from Operation
194.4
210.3
212.2
197.0
Earnings before Taxes
(14.0)
(153.3)
(18.5)
(98.1)
Net Income
(15.6)
(154.2)
(29.40)
(99.1)
Annual Report 2023-24
40
Awards and
Accolades
Awards
Our organisation has been recognised at CMMI Level 5, the highest level of the Capability 
Maturity Model Integration. CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) is a globally 
recognised model for improving organisational performance and process maturity.
LACP Annual Report Vision Awards - Gold Award: 3i Infotech earned the prestigious Gold 
Award in the LACP Annual Report Vision Awards, scoring an impressive 98 out of 100.
 
 
 
 
 
3i Infotech Limited 
SGA Adsvita 
 
is presented with the 
 
Gold Award 
 
for excellence within its industry on the development of 
the organization’s annual report for the past fiscal year. 
2022/23 VISION AWARDS 
ANNUAL REPORT COMPETITION 
 
Tyson Heyn
Principal 
Christine Kennedy 
Competition Director 
02 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
41
Mr. Umesh Mehta 
Non-Executive Director  
Dr. Aruna Sharma    
Non-Executive 
Independent Director          
Mr.Avtar Singh Monga 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director    
CA Uttam Prakash 
Agarwal 
Non-Executive Independent 
Director, Chairman
Dr. Madan Bhalchandra 
Gosavi 
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
Ms. Zohra Chatterji     
Non-Executive 
Independent Director        
Paving the Way Forward
with an Exceptional Team
Empowering Ambitions, Driving Transformation
Annual Report 2023-24
42
Corporate
Information
Corporate Information
Board of Directors
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal 
Non-Executive Independent Director, 
Chairman 
(w.e.f. December 10, 2023)
Mr.Avtar Singh Monga 
Non-Executive Independent Director
Dr. Aruna Sharma 
Non-Executive Director
Dr. Madan Bhalchandra Gosavi 
Non-Executive Independent Director 
(w.e.f. May 12, 2024) 
Mr. Umesh Mehta  
Non-Executive Director 
(w.e.f. March 22, 2024)
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Non-Executive Independent Director
Acting Chief Executive 
Of昀椀cer
Mr. Raj Ahuja 
Sr. Group President – Corporate 
(w.e.f. June 24, 2024) Acting CEO 
(w.e.f. August 14, 2024)
Chief Operating 
Of昀椀cer – Professional 
Services & Chief Risk 
Of昀椀cer
Mr. Harish Shenoy
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
Company Secretary
Mrs. Varika Rastogi
Statutory Auditors
GMJ & Co., Chartered 
Accountants
Internal Auditor
M/s. Shridhar & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants 
Bankers 
IDBI Bank Limited 
ICICI Bank Limited 
State Bank of India, California
Mandatory 
Committees of the 
Board and Present 
Constitution
Audit Committee
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal - 
Chairman
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi 
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga - Chairman
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Mr. Umesh Mehta
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
Dr. Madan Gosavi - Chairman
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Risk Management 
Committee
Mr. Umesh Mehta - Chairman
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Mr. Harish Shenoy 
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Ms. Zohra Chatterji-Chairperson
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Contact Details
Investor Relations Queries:
investors@3i-infotech.com
Business Enquiries:
marketing@3i-infotech.com
Website: https://www.3i-infotech.
com/
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
43
Global Overview
In CY 2023, the global Information Technology (IT) market 
was valued at US$ 8,509.4 billion, from US$ 6,377.9 
billion in CY 2018, registering a robust Compound Annual 
Growth Rate (CAGR) of 5.9%. This represents 8.1% of 
the global GDP. IT services constitute majority component 
having 40.1% share, trailed by telecom at 34.9%, and 
software products at 17%. This signi昀椀cant expansion 
underscores the convergence of technology across 
diverse sectors, enhancing ef昀椀ciency and productivity on a 
global scale. The burgeoning digital economy, fuelled by 
relentless innovation, has played a pivotal role in driving 
this dynamic growth.
The widespread adoption of cloud computing, big data, 
analytics, and Internet of Things (IoT) technologies has 
revolutionised business operations, fostering better 
strategic decision-making processes. The proliferation 
of smart devices and the growing signi昀椀cance of data 
security have further emphasised the demand for 
advanced IT solutions.
Accelerating this momentum, breakthroughs in interactive 
computing, Arti昀椀cial Intelligence (AI), blockchain, 
low-code/no-code development, cybersecurity, 5G 
technologies, wearable technology, robotics, and 
networking have signi昀椀cantly contributed to the market’s 
expansion. Shifts in consumer preferences towards 
handheld devices over traditional PCs and laptops, along 
with the increasing incorporation of AI, virtual reality, and 
augmented reality into IT support services, have reshaped 
the industry landscape. Additionally, the availability of 
the engineering talent pool in emerging markets like 
India, Mexico, and Vietnam, among others, are enabling 
companies in developed economies to outsource business 
processes, leveraging large talent base to cater to their 
digital transformation journey. The high valuations of 
IT companies with innovative products also attracted 
signi昀椀cant investments, which were used to hire new 
talent and enhance R&D efforts. Overall, the increasing 
IT spend is expected to accelerate digital transformation 
more profoundly in the emerging areas of AI, process 
automation, cybersecurity and moving data to the cloud.
7.8%
Expected growth rate by CY 2028
US$ 12,417.9 billion
Expected market size by CY 2028
Management Discussion 
and Analysis
Source: The Business Research Company Market Data Sources, 
TBRC Estimates, TBRC Analysis
Annual Report 2023-24
44
Global Information Technology Market, Split By Segment, CY 2023, US$ billion
North America
In CY 2023, North America was the second-largest region 
in the global IT market, accounting for US$ 2,565.4 
billion or 30.1%. From CY 2018 to CY 2023, the region 
experienced a CAGR of 4.7%, and it is forecasted to 
record a slightly higher CAGR of 4.9% from CY 2023 
to CY 2028. This growth is driven by a combination of 
factors: increasingly stringent regulatory compliance 
requirements, the growing sophistication of cyber threats, 
and widespread digital transformation initiatives in the 
BFSI sector. Additionally, the rising costs associated 
with data breaches, coupled with a shortage of in-house 
cybersecurity talent, are compelling organisations to 
seek expert consulting services. The rapid expansion 
of 昀椀ntech and digital banking platforms has introduced 
new security challenges, while increased awareness of 
cybersecurity issues at the executive level has led to 
greater investment in protective measures. Furthermore, 
the ongoing migration to cloud-based systems presents 
unique security considerations that require specialised 
expertise, further fuelling the demand for software 
security consulting services in the industry.
Key players in the North American IT services market 
are capitalising on a diverse array of emerging 
technologies to drive innovation and growth. While 
cloud computing remains signi昀椀cant, the industry is 
also embracing edge computing, AI, machine learning, 
and IoT solutions. This technological diversi昀椀cation is 
extending applications across various end-user segments, 
propelling market growth over the next 昀椀ve years. The 
extensive deployment of these advanced solutions across 
multiple industries highlights the region’s commitment 
to enhancing operational ef昀椀ciencies, securing data 
management, and enabling real-time decision-making. 
According to industry reports, North America has led 
the adoption and experimentation of both public cloud 
services and edge computing implementations, indicating 
a strong inclination towards innovative IT solutions. This 
integration of cutting-edge technologies, combined with 
the region’s robust IT infrastructure and skilled workforce, 
reinforces North America’s pivotal role in the global IT 
market, positioning it for continued growth and innovation 
in areas such as smart cities, autonomous vehicles, and 
industrial automation.
Source: (The Business Research Company Market Data 
Sources, TBRC Estimates, TBRC Analysis)
Asia-Paci昀椀c (APAC)
In CY 2023, Asia-Paci昀椀c emerged as the largest region in 
the global IT market, accounting for US$ 2,775.4 billion 
or 32.6%. The region demonstrated a historic CAGR of 
6.6% from CY 2018 to CY 2023 and is projected to clock 
in an impressive CAGR of 8.4% from CY 2023 to CY 2028. 
This rapid growth is attributed to increased IT spending, 
the adoption of advanced technologies such as AI, and the 
expanding offerings of cloud-based services. The Asia-
Paci昀椀c IT services market is expected to register a CAGR 
IT Services
Asia-Paci昀椀c
The Middle East
Source: The Business Research Company Market Data 
Source: TBRC Estimates, TBRC Analysis
7.9%
4.3%
3.8%
2.3%
17.0%
4.4%
34.9%
22.5%
40.2%
32.6%
30.1%
Software Products
Western Europe
Africa
Telecom
North America
South America
Computer Hardware
Eastern Europe
Total Market 
Value: US$ 
8,509.4 
billion
Global Information 
Technology 
Market, Split By 
Region, CY 2023, 
US$ billion
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
45
of 8.3% over the next 昀椀ve years, driven by these factors.
The demand for network services and data centre 
infrastructure is growing rapidly in the Asia-Paci昀椀c region, 
with major cloud providers and enterprises collaborating 
to establish new hyperscale and edge facilities in key 
markets. This expansion is driven by the increasing 
adoption of digital payments and the integration of 
advanced technologies such as AI, cloud computing, and 
blockchain across various industries. These data centres 
are essential for supporting the region’s booming digital 
economy, including e-commerce, online services, and 
emerging tech applications, positioning the market for 
signi昀椀cant growth. Additionally, the adoption of remote 
healthcare and wearable devices has been gaining 
traction, signi昀椀cantly in昀氀uencing the healthcare IT market. 
The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the adoption of 
cloud services, leading to a remarkable increase in the 
usage of digital solutions across Asia-Paci昀椀c. Initiatives 
such as launching AI-powered health solutions and 
expanding cloud computing services to support 5G 
networks further underscore the region’s robust growth 
trajectory in the IT sector.
Europe
Gartner forecasts that IT spending in Europe will grow by 
9.3% in CY 2024, reaching US$ 1.1 trillion. This growth 
persists despite economic challenges, with European CIOs 
shifting focus from growth to cost control, ef昀椀ciencies, and 
automation. Key areas of increased spending include cloud 
computing, with investment in cloud services expected 
to grow by 27%, and cybersecurity, with security and risk 
management spending forecasted to reach US$ 56 billion, 
a 16% increase from CY 2023.
The distribution of IT spending varies across Europe, 
with the U.K., Germany, and France accounting for 51% 
of the total, spending a combined US$ 588 billion. In 
contrast, developing countries like Hungary and Poland 
are estimated to spend US$ 32.3 billion. Cloud investment 
marks a signi昀椀cant difference between mature and 
developing markets. While there’s an anticipated increase 
in device spending, it’s not expected to return to CY 2021 
levels until CY 2027. The growth in IT services is partly 
driven by talent shortages in IT departments, leading to a 
shift of IT skills towards technology and service providers.
Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
Gartner forecasts that IT spending in the MENA region 
will grow by 4% in CY 2024, reaching US$ 183.8 
billion. This growth is driven by organisations, especially 
in the GCC region, focussing on digitalising their IT 
infrastructure to support economic diversi昀椀cation, 
public-private collaboration, and sustainability efforts. 
Software and IT services are expected to see signi昀椀cant 
growth, with software spending projected to increase 
by 12.3% and IT services by 11.1%. These increases are 
attributed to investments in cloud migration, automation, 
IoT capabilities, AI integration, data management, and 
cybersecurity.
The devices segment is forecasted to recover with a 
0.6% growth in CY 2024, following a 9.9% decline in 
CY 2023. This upturn is driven by increasing consumer 
desire for smartphones, marketing by premium brands, 
5G adoption, and new 昀椀nancing options. Additionally, 
Gartner predicts that 40% of enterprise applications in the 
MENA region will have embedded conversational AI by 
CY 2024. Business executives are investing in generative 
AI to enhance customer experiences, with a focus on 
agile methodologies and quick testing. Organisations 
are cautiously exploring GenAI for value messaging and 
coding assistance, indicating a deliberate integration of 
this technology in the future.
India
According to Gartner’s forecast, India’s IT spending is 
projected to reach US$ 124.6 billion in FY 2023-24, 
marking a signi昀椀cant increase of 10.7% from the previous 
year. This growth comes after a slight decline of 0.5% in 
FY 2022-23, when IT spending reached US$ 112.5 billion. 
The distribution of IT spending in India for FY 2023-24 is 
expected to be: Data Centre Systems at US$ 4.1 billion 
Annual Report 2023-24
46
(+9.4%), Devices at US$ 51 billion (+10.1%), Software at 
US$ 17.7 billion (+18.5%), IT Services at US$ 26.7 billion 
(+14.6%), and Communication Services at US$ 25.1 
billion (+3.5%).
The growth in IT spending is primarily driven by a 
strategic focus on AI and generative AI (GenAI), with the 
full impact expected to materialise more signi昀椀cantly 
from FY 2024-25 onward. Software and IT services are 
projected to see the highest growth rates in FY 2023-24. 
This surge is attributed to the accelerated adoption of 
digital technologies, including AI, machine learning, and 
Secure Access Service Edge (SASE), driving increased 
implementation of cloud services. The lack of internal 
skills within Indian businesses is also contributing to the 
projected increase in IT services spending. Overall, India’s 
IT sector is poised for a transformational phase marked by 
increased reliance on AI-driven solutions and ampli昀椀ed 
digital innovation.
Drivers of the IT Market
Rapid 
Technological 
Development
High Valuations 
of IT Companies 
Increasing 
Investments in 
Smart Cities
Low-Cost Talent 
Pool in Emerging 
Markets
Faster Economic 
Growth
Cloud Computing
Technological advances in areas like AI, blockchain, cybersecurity, 
wearable technologies, and robotics were key drivers of the IT market. 
These innovations, such as AI-powered conversation platforms and VR-
based customer support, signi昀椀cantly boosted IT services.
Companies with innovative products are receiving high valuations, 
attracting substantial investments. These investments are being used 
to hire talent and increase R&D spending, further propelling IT market 
growth.
Smart city projects, which integrate IoT technology for ef昀椀cient urban 
management, are on the rise. For example, in CY 2022, over 5,000 smart 
city projects were underway in India, with signi昀椀cant activity in China as 
well.
Developed economies continue to outsource business processes to 
emerging markets like India and China to capitalise on lower wages, 
driving ongoing growth of IT services in those regions.
Stable economic growth in many developed and developing economies is 
expected to increase investments in end-user markets, thereby driving the 
IT market.
The demand for cloud computing services is expected to drive IT services. 
Many companies are choosing cloud-hosted applications and data 
storage, with 94% of enterprise workloads processed by cloud data 
centres in CY 2021, boosting IT service demand.
Source: (The Business Research Company Market Data Sources, TBRC Estimates, TBRC Analysis)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
47
Business Overview
3i Infotech (referred to as ‘3i Infotech’ or ‘the Company’), 
founded in 1993 and headquartered in Navi Mumbai, 
India, has established itself as a pioneering force in 
driving substantial business value across various 
industry verticals. With a global presence spanning 17 
countries, the Company serves a diverse clientele of over 
250 global clients. Its workforce of over 5,500* highly 
skilled employees contributes to its robust operations. 
Focussed on digital transformation, 3i Infotech leverages 
extensive domain expertise in sectors such as BFSI, 
Healthcare, Manufacturing, Retail, and Public Sector Units/
Government.
The Company offers a comprehensive range of IT and 
business process services, blending cutting-edge 
technologies with established offerings. The Company 
leverages emerging technologies such as Arti昀椀cial 
Intelligence (AI), Blockchain, and Internet of Things (IoT), 
while also providing core services, including infrastructure 
and cloud management, Business Process Outsourcing 
(BPO), application development and maintenance, 
and IT staf昀椀ng. With Centres of Excellence (COEs) for 
various service areas, 3i Infotech delivers solutions 
across the technology spectrum, from innovative AI-
driven applications to traditional IT support. This diverse 
portfolio has helped the Company build a strong position 
and loyal clientele in key regions, including North America, 
India, the Middle East, Africa, and South Asia.
Every service provided by 3i Infotech is meticulously 
designed to bene昀椀t enterprises effectively, structure 
and manage operations, harness innovation to solve 
problems, address critical business challenges, seize new 
opportunities, and achieve remarkable outcomes. From 
ideation to implementation, the Company follows an agile, 
innovative, and collaborative methodology. Its customised 
services across the entire digital value chain are backed 
by co-innovation and a strong design-thinking approach. 
3i Infotech offers an array of powerful solution-oriented 
accelerators and products that enable ef昀椀cient end-to-end 
management of processes and business transformation 
while optimising operations, controlling costs, and 
enhancing customer experience.
*Workforce as of June 2024
Global Delivery Model
3i Infotech’s Global Delivery Model leverages a vast 
international talent pool to deliver superior solutions, 
bolstered by its Centres of Excellence. To meet evolving 
Services
The services segment comprises four distinct categories, each focussing on speci昀椀c aspects of business technology needs:
This provides comprehensive 
managed services to optimise 
digital infrastructure. Their 
expert team ensures seamless 
operation and optimisation of 
critical components, including 
servers, networks, storage, and 
virtualisation. 
This service assists businesses in 
cloud migration and offers robust 
cybersecurity solutions. Their 
services cover cloud adoption, 
data security, and continuous 
monitoring to safeguard against 
cyber threats.
This service focusses on 
modernising and maintaining 
applications. 3i Infotech 
ensures optimal performance, 
scalability, and integration with 
other systems. They also drive 
automation using technologies 
like RPA, AI, and ML. 
Digital Infrastructure 
Management 
Cloud Services & 
Cybersecurity 
Application, Automation & 
Analytics 
Annual Report 2023-24
48
This solution combines AI, 
Machine Learning (ML), 5G, 
Internet of Things (IoT), and 
Everything as a Service (XaaS). 
These cutting-edge offerings 
empower businesses to stay 
ahead in the digital landscape. 
This service optimises business 
processes through technology. 3i 
Infotech provides services related 
to process automation, analytics-
driven omni-channel solutions 
and operational ef昀椀ciency 
improvement.
This offers a comprehensive 
suite of services, including 
IT consulting, infrastructure 
management, compliance, 
and application development. 
Their global expertise ensures 
industry-standard solutions. 
Future Tech
Digital BPS 
Consulting Services 
business needs, 3i Infotech crafts solution frameworks 
that accelerate market entry, streamline processes, 
elevate customer service, and fortify risk management 
for its customers globally. These 昀氀exible frameworks are 
designed to operate effectively across both isolated and 
distributed data environments, helping clients adeptly 
handle digital disruptions and manage business risks. 
The Company’s digital strategy encompasses cutting-
edge technologies such as AI, Blockchain, RPA, Low-
Code/No-Code, and Digital Twins. These innovations are 
integral to enhancing the agility and inventive capacity of 
3i Infotech’s clients throughout their digital transformation 
journeys.
Products & Services
3i Infotech’s service portfolio is centred around Digital 
Transformation, underpinned by strong capabilities in 
Enterprise Mobility & IoT, Data Science & Advanced 
Analytics, and Testing. This foundational offering is 
enhanced by a broad spectrum of services, emphasising 
solutions, consulting, delivery, and quality assurance. 
Together, these services enhance process ef昀椀ciencies and 
drive business transformation, enabling organisations to 
harness advanced technologies and strategic insights for 
smooth adaptation to changing market demands and swift 
progression towards digital excellence.
Beyond Digital Transformation, 3i Infotech introduces 
innovative Cloud First solutions, including cloud 
consulting, VDI as a Service, edge services, and secure 
edge service access. The Company also explores the 
frontier of future technologies with offerings in cognitive 
computing, IoT, 5G, and blockchain/NFT solutions. 
Under its AAA (Application, Automation, and Analytics) 
framework, 3i Infotech delivers advisory services, CLM/
CLV services, automated F&A processes, and customer 
intelligence analytics. In Digital Business Process Services 
(BPS), 3i Infotech specialises in providing digital customer 
experiences, digital collections, and digital sales solutions. 
Additionally, its Digital Infrastructure Management & 
Global Command Centre (GCC) offerings span data 
centre services, cybersecurity services, and digital end-
user support & collaboration services. Moreover, NuRe 
Velocity encompasses advisory services, CLM/CLV 
services, automated F&A processes, customer intelligence 
analytics, and digital Human Resources Outsourcing 
(HRO) solutions. Through this extensive and varied 
suite of offerings, 3i Infotech equips organisations to 
fully embrace digital transformation and optimise their 
operations across diverse sectors.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
49
Product & Platforms
NuRe Cloud Adoption-in-a-Box: A Cloud-First 
strategy for faster delivery, continuous improvement, 
and enhanced service accessibility. Involves 
assessment of strategic, operational, 昀椀nancial, and 
technical aspects.
NuRe ZTSC: An Oracle-powered Zero Trust 
Sovereign Cloud solution offering enterprise-grade 
agility, security, and scalability for IT infrastructure.
EnGRC: Integrates risk management, compliance, 
and ESG goals. Features collaboration module and 
DMS, eliminating manual processes to focus on high-
value activities.
NuRe Edge: A SASE solution for seamless network 
and security deployment. Protects distributed 
workforce, IoT devices, and OT infrastructure from 
cyber threats via a user-friendly cloud service.
NuRe Campus: A cloud-based automation system 
for higher education, managing processes from 
applications to results. Emphasises data-driven 
approach for inclusivity, fairness, and compliance.
Competitive Advantage
3i Infotech, with over three decades of experience, 
stands as a formidable leader in the industry, leveraging 
its profound understanding of sector nuances to craft 
tailored solutions for clients worldwide. The Company’s 
consistent investment in cutting-edge technologies such 
as Cloud Computing, Edge Computing, Data Analytics, 
and Automation ensures its solutions stay at the forefront 
of innovation, offering secure and impactful outcomes. 
Recent forays into emerging technologies like AI, IoT, and 
Wi昀椀 Monetisation have further enhanced its capacity to 
drive digital transformation, delivering exceptional value 
to clients and reinforcing its competitive edge in the 
rapidly evolving technology landscape.
Adopting a customer-centric approach and dedicated to 
excellence, 3i Infotech continues to establish industry 
standards, af昀椀rming its role as a trusted partner for 
customers seeking innovative and secure solutions for 
their digital transformation endeavours. With continuous 
innovation, and strategic investments in new technologies, 
3i Infotech is well-positioned to spearhead business 
growth and digital innovation for its clients globally.
Annual Report 2023-24
50
Favourable Market Opportunities for the 
Company
Digital Transformation Market
3i Infotech stands as a pioneer in digital transformation, 
leveraging cutting-edge technologies like cloud 
computing, big data analytics, AI, and IoT to revolutionise 
business operations and elevate customer experiences. 
As the digital transformation market surges towards 
a projected value of US$ 4,907.1 billion by CY 2030 
from US$ 1,128.6 billion in CY 2023, India’s burgeoning 
cloud computing landscape presents vast opportunities 
for organisations to enhance ef昀椀ciency and streamline 
operations.
At the core of this digital revolution, 3i Infotech offers 
a comprehensive suite of services encompassing 
solutions, consulting, delivery, quality assurance, and 
digital transformation. With a robust portfolio spanning 
enterprise mobility, IoT, BI, analytics, testing, and 
infrastructure transformation, 3i Infotech acts as a strategic 
technology partner driving process ef昀椀ciency, enabling 
transformative change, and leading the charge towards a 
digitally empowered future for businesses globally.
Source: (https://www.nextmsc.com/report/digital-transformation-
market)
Cloud Computing Market
The global cloud computing market is set to expand 
from US$ 626.4 billion in CY 2023 to US$ 1,266.4 billion 
by CY 2028, at a 15.1% CAGR. This growth, driven by 
demand across sectors and the adoption of advanced 
technologies, is re昀氀ected in key markets like the U.S. and 
India. The Indian public cloud services market is expected 
to reach US$ 17.8 billion by CY 2027. This expansion 
in both developed and emerging markets highlights the 
increasing adoption of cloud technologies for cost savings, 
ef昀椀ciency, and innovation, supporting various service 
models and driving IT service demand.
3i Infotech, via its NuRe 3i and NuRe 3i+ offerings, 
delivers bespoke cloud computing solutions that 
cater to regulatory demands and data control issues 
while maintaining application speed and adaptability. 
Utilising Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services along with 
customer-speci昀椀c applications, these solutions cover the 
design, implementation, and management of extensive 
cloud ecosystems. They support essential operational 
applications for businesses navigating the cloud era.
Source: (https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/
cloud-computing-market-234.html
https://www.ibef.org/blogs/india-s-revolution-in-cloud-
computing-and-data#:~:text=The%20transition%20
to%20the%20cloud,since%20the%20COVID%2D19%20
epidemic.&text=According%20to%20International%20Data%20
Corporation,23.4%25%20between%202022%20and%202027.)
Potential Threats to the Company
Global Economy and IT Spending
3i Infotech operates in a dynamic global economic 
landscape, where it experiences both challenges and 
opportunities. While North America remains a key revenue 
generator, the region faces potential economic headwinds 
like in昀氀ation, rising borrowing costs, and market volatility. 
In Europe and China, economic uncertainties and evolving 
client IT spending behaviours require agile strategies 
to maintain growth momentum. To navigate these 
complexities effectively, 3i Infotech adopts a tailored 
business approach, emphasising client relationships and 
adaptability to economic shifts for sustained success and 
revenue stability.
Despite these challenges, the Company leverages its 
expertise and industry insights to capitalise on emerging 
opportunities in the technology sector. By aligning its 
strategies with market trends and focussing on innovation, 
3i Infotech aims to stay resilient and competitive in the 
ever-evolving global economy.
Cybersecurity Threats
The prevalence and sophistication of cybercrime and 
cyber espionage pose signi昀椀cant risks to IT companies 
in India, compromising organisational networks and 
data. Cyber threats can lead to fraud, intellectual 
property theft, network incapacitation, damage to brand 
reputation, and business disruptions, necessitating speci昀椀c 
measures to address these risks. However, 3i Infotech 
can mitigate cybersecurity risks by conducting regular 
risk assessments, implementing network access controls 
like zero-trust, deploying 昀椀rewalls and antivirus software, 
maintaining a patch management schedule, monitoring 
network traf昀椀c, developing an incident response plan, 
enhancing physical security measures, leveraging AI 
and automation for defence, educating employees on 
cybersecurity best practices, and ensuring comprehensive 
training programmes. These strategies collectively 
strengthen the Company’s cybersecurity posture, reduce 
vulnerabilities, and enable swift detection and response 
to potential threats, safeguarding critical assets and data 
from cyber-attacks.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
51
Intense Competition
3i Infotech faces signi昀椀cant challenges in a highly 
competitive IT market, including pricing pressures, 
dif昀椀culties in acquiring and retaining clients, the need for 
constant innovation, concerns about market saturation, 
short product lifecycles, talent scarcity, and the threat 
of disruptive competitors. To address these hurdles, the 
Company is prioritising strategic differentiation, investing 
in research and development, excelling in customer 
service, and nurturing long-lasting client relationships. 
Through these efforts, 3i Infotech aims to navigate the 
competitive landscape and achieve sustained success in 
the industry. Additionally, 3i Infotech is deeply committed 
to fostering a culture of continuous learning, adaptability, 
and agility. This proactive approach enables the Company 
to effectively navigate the evolving market dynamics and 
maintain a sustainable competitive edge.
Financial Summary and Details of Signi昀椀cant Ratio Changes
On a consolidated basis, 3i Infotech’s total income for the 昀椀scal year ending March 31, 2024, amounted to ₹ 866.7 Crores 
vis-a-vis ₹ 809 Crores in the previous year, a growth of 7.1%. Moreover, during the year ending March 31, 2023, the 
Company’s EBITDA stood at ₹ 34.6 Crores, compared to ₹ (16.6) Crores for the year ending March 31, 2024. The pro昀椀t 
before tax for the year ended March 31, 2024, stood at ₹ (283.9) Crores against ₹ 4.4 Crores for the year ended  
March 31, 2023.
Particular
FY 
2023-24
FY 
2022-23
% 
Change
Reason for Change
Inventory Turnover (Days)
NA
NA
NA
Interest Coverage Ratio
0
 7.02 
(100)
Not applicable,since we do not have positive 
bottom line
Current Ratio
 0.46 
 0.46 
0
No change
Debt-Equity Ratio
 0.14 
0.1
43
Decrease in networth mainly due to dimunition 
in value of investments & allowance for expected 
credit losses during current year
Debtors’ Turnover
 1.46 
 0.64 
130
Due to increase in allowance for expected credit 
losses as compared to previous year.
Operating Pro昀椀t Margin (%)
(3%)
30%
(109)
Due to high Fixed overheads
Net Pro昀椀t Margin (%)
(229%)
19%
(1,311)
Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments & 
allowance for expected credit losses.
Return on Net Worth
(165.15%)
6.00%
(2,852)
Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments 
& increase in allowance for expected credit losses 
during current year.
EPS
(48.52)
 3.10 
(1,663)
Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments & 
allowance for expected credit losses.
Return on Equity
(165.15%)
5.97%
(2,867)
Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments 
& increase in allowance for expected credit losses 
during current year.
Annual Report 2023-24
52
Risk Management Framework
3i Infotech employs a robust risk management framework to strengthen its processes for identifying, assessing, mitigating, 
and reporting risks. The Company entrusts its specialised Risk Management Committee with the responsibility of 
discerning, evaluating, and devising strategies to mitigate potential risks. The Company’s comprehensive risk landscape 
encompasses the following components:
Risk 
Risk Description
Mitigation Strategy
Data Privacy
Violating privacy laws can have 
signi昀椀cant consequences, including 
hefty 昀椀nancial penalties and a tarnished 
reputation.
The Company implements contractual 
safeguards for both customers and vendors 
in line with the changing demands for data 
security. Regular reviews ensure alignment 
with global regulations.
Intellectual Property 
Infringement Risk
Inadequate protection or infringement 
of intellectual property rights can lead 
to legal disputes, 昀椀nancial losses, and 
damage to the Company's competitive 
advantage and reputation.
3i Infotech has established procedures to 
manage intellectual property effectively, 
including employee training and ongoing 
evaluations to ensure compliance.
Cybersecurity
Weak cybersecurity measures can 
expose the Company to data breaches, 
昀椀nancial losses, regulatory penalties, 
and damage to customer trust and brand 
reputation.
3i Infotech strives to comply by regularly 
updating and enhancing security protocols to 
safeguard against evolving cyber threats.
Technological 
Innovation
The lack of innovation in adopting new 
technologies and meeting evolving client 
service demands can result in the loss of 
clients and revenue for the Company.
The Company focusses on reskilling, strategic 
recruitment, and research activities to stay 
ahead of technological advancements and 
meet evolving client demands.
Customer Privacy
As the Company has a dedicated vertical 
for BPO and Digital BPS services 
catering to diverse clients in BFSI and 
other critical domains across the globe, 
it has access to certain personal data of 
customers.
The Company has implemented policies 
and procedures to manage and safeguard 
customer data, ensuring compliance with 
privacy obligations through regular reviews 
and access restrictions.
Con昀氀ict of Interest
Due to the size and scale of the 
Company, along with its multiple 
subsidiaries, the governance structure 
and decision-making process need to be 
transparent and fair.
3i Infotech aims to ensure a fair and 
transparent governance process by 
implementing detailed work昀氀ow procedures 
and clear authority limits across the 
organisation and its subsidiaries. This includes 
process mapping under the checks and 
balances system along with de昀椀ned approval 
limits and delegation matrix.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
53
Risk 
Risk Description
Mitigation Strategy
Regulatory 
Compliance
Non-compliance with new legislation in 
certain jurisdictions can lead to penalties, 
damage to one’s reputation, and potential 
consequences.
3i Infotech regularly updates its compliance 
frameworks and engages external consultants 
to ensure adherence to the latest regulatory 
requirements across all jurisdictions.
Service Delivery 
Quality
Failing to maintain high-quality 
service delivery can lead to customer 
dissatisfaction, loss of business, and 
damage to the Company's reputation in 
the market.
The Company employs standardised 
processes and continuous monitoring to 
ensure high-quality service delivery. Regular 
client feedback is sought to identify and 
address any service issues.
Third-Party Risk
Inadequate management of third-party 
risks can result in service disruptions, 
data breaches, and potential legal and 
昀椀nancial liabilities for the Company.
3i Infotech conducts due diligence on 
third-party vendors and has established 
contingency plans to manage disruptions. 
Regular audits and performance assessments 
are carried out to manage such risks.
Operational 
Resilience
Lack of operational resilience can lead 
to prolonged business interruptions, 
昀椀nancial losses, and erosion of customer 
and stakeholder con昀椀dence in times of 
crisis.
The Company has a Business Continuity Plan 
(BCP) in place, including disaster recovery 
strategies and regular testing to ensure 
operational resilience in the face of unforeseen 
events.
Financial Risk
Poor 昀椀nancial risk management can 
result in unexpected losses, cash 
昀氀ow problems, and, in severe cases, 
insolvency or bankruptcy of the 
Company.
The Company employs 昀椀nancial risk 
management strategies, including budget 
controls, cost monitoring, and periodic 
昀椀nancial reviews to mitigate potential 昀椀nancial 
risks.
Annual Report 2023-24
54
Internal Control Systems and their 
Adequacies
3i Infotech has implemented robust internal 昀椀nancial 
controls in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013. 
These controls are implemented at various levels to 
ensure adherence to legal and regulatory standards 
for internal controls and the accurate documentation 
of 昀椀nancial and operational information. The Company 
has devised a comprehensive framework for internal 
controls that is tailored to the scale and complexity of 
its operations. Regular audits by the internal audit team 
evaluate the effectiveness of these controls. Moreover, 
there is a clearly de昀椀ned procedure for providing senior 
management and the Audit Committee with ongoing 
updates on internal audit results, the status of internal 
controls, and compliance with legal requirements. 
This promotes transparency and accountability in the 
Company’s 昀椀nancial and operational activities, building 
trust among stakeholders.
Human Resources – 3i Infotech’s 
Knowledge Capital
3i Infotech demonstrates exceptional management 
prowess by effectively engaging its employees in their 
day-to-day responsibilities, a key indicator of managerial 
ef昀椀cacy. As a highly agile organisation, the Company 
excels in design thinking and problem-solving, fostering 
a culture of innovation and collaboration. This, coupled 
with its extensive global reach and inclusive atmosphere, 
promotes accessibility and collaboration across its 
workforce. The Company prioritises inclusivity by actively 
seeking the participation of individuals who have taken 
career breaks, providing them opportunities to reintegrate 
and contribute their valuable skills and experiences to its 
growth. This commitment to inclusivity not only enhances 
the Company’s talent pool but also cultivates a more 
diverse and dynamic work environment. Additionally, 3i 
Infotech’s pioneering initiative, Campus Connect, goes 
beyond conventional campus recruitment practices by 
reaching out to educational institutions beyond urban 
areas. By doing so, it eliminates biases and bridges the 
gap between rural and urban talent pools, ensuring a 
more equitable recruitment process and tapping into a 
wider talent base. With a strong brand presence across 
four continents and 10+ countries, 3i Infotech is dedicated 
to achieving long-term success on a global scale. Its 
focus on fostering collaboration, promoting inclusivity, 
and embracing diverse talents further enhances its brand 
value and standing in the market, positioning it as a leader 
in the industry.
Cautionary Statement
The statements made in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis describing the Company’s objectives, projections, 
estimates and expectations may be ‘forward-looking’ 
statements within the meaning of applicable securities 
laws & regulations. Actual results could differ from those 
expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a 
difference to the Company’s operations include economic 
conditions affecting demand, supply and price conditions 
in the domestic & overseas markets in which the Company 
operates, changes in Government regulations, tax laws & 
other statutes and other incidental factors.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
55
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
FOR THE FY 2023-24
Your Directors present the Thirty-one Annual Report (the “Report”) of the Company along with the Audited Financial 
Statements for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE COMPANY ON STANDALONE AND CONSOLIDATED BASIS:
Standalone sales and other income for FY 2023-24 stood at `418.51 Crores as against `391.20 Crores for FY 2022-23. On a 
consolidated basis, sales and other income for FY 2023-24 stood at `866.70 Crores as against ` 809.05 Crores for FY 2022-
23. After meeting all expenditures, the Company made a total comprehensive income of ` (349.48) Crores on a consolidated 
basis against total comprehensive income of `(820.38) Crores on a standalone basis. 
(` in Crores except EPS)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Revenue (I)
418.51
391.20
866.70
809.05
Total Expenses (II)
812.54
353.43
914.03
799.66
Total Exceptional items (III)
424.60
14.48
236.63
(5.01)
Pro昀椀t / (Loss) before Tax (I-II+III)
(818.63)
52.25
(283.96)
4.38
Tax expense
Current Tax
-
-
6.65
2.68
Deferred Tax
-
-
6.84
0.61
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
-
-
0.82
(0.28)
Pro昀椀t / (Loss) for the year
(818.63)
52.25
(298.27)
1.37
Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the year from Discontinued Operations
-
-
-
-
Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
-
-
A.  Other Comprehensive income not to be reclassi昀椀ed to 
pro昀椀t and loss in subsequent year:
-
-
-
-
 
Remeasurement of gains / (losses) on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
plans
(1.74)
(0.62)
(0.17)
(0.21)
 
Income tax effect
-
-
(0.36)
0.13
B.  Other Comprehensive income to be reclassi昀椀ed to 
pro昀椀t and loss in subsequent years:
-
-
(50.68)
(64.69)
 
Other Comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
(1.74)
(0.62)
(349.48)
(64.77)
 
Total Comprehensive income for the year
-
-
(349.48)
(63.40)
 
Pro昀椀t for the year attributable to:
-
-
 
Equity holders of the parent
-
-
(298.27)
1.37
 
Non-controlling interests
-
-
-
-
 
Other Comprehensive income for the year attributable 
to:
-
-
-
-
 
Equity holders of the parent
-
-
(51.21)
(64.77)
 
Non-controlling interests
-
-
-
-
 
Total Comprehensive income for the year attributable 
to:
-
-
-
-
 
Equity holders of the parent
-
-
(349.48)
(63.40)
 
Non-controlling interests
-
-
-
-
 
Earnings per equity share for pro昀椀t attributable to 
equity shareholders
-
-
-
-
 
Basic EPS
(48.52)
3.10
(17.69)
0.08
 
Diluted EPS
(48.52)
3.05
(17.69)
0.08
Annual Report 2023-24
56
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
There is no amount proposed to be transferred to general 
reserve this year.
DIVIDEND
Your Directors regret to state their inability to recommend 
any dividend on equity shares for the 昀椀nancial year ended 
March 31, 2024. 
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the 
“Listing 
Regulations”), 
as 
amended, 
the 
Dividend 
Distribution Policy of the Company is available on the 
Company’s website at https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/09/dividend-distribution-policy.pdf 
BUSINESS
The Company provides information technology services and 
software solutions. It operates through three key segments, 
(i) Enterprise Services (includes ADMS, ISMS, Testing, Classic 
BPS, MVS etc.), (ii) Professional Services (includes Human 
Capital Management Services) and (iii) Digital Business 
Services (includes IT & Digital Consulting, AAA, Digital 
IMS, CloudFirst, Oracle COE, GCC, Cyber SOC, Digital BPS, 
Cognitive Computing Services, Security Services, Secure 
Access Service Edge (“SASE”), TME, Edge Computing, Edge 
Analytics, EnGRC, NuRe Campus, FutureTech etc.)
NuRe ™ is the brand launched by the Company to offer its 
new products/services.
•  
NuRe 3i: With NuRe 3i you can migrate your 
applications and infrastructure to cloud and enhance 
your business performance, ef昀椀ciency and productivity 
by unlocking cloud bene昀椀ts with the right platform, 
tools and services. 
•  
NuRe 3i+ : NuRe 3i+ is a next generation Oracle Cloud 
Infrastructure (OCI) for the most secured, optimised 
and simpli昀椀ed digital transformation. NuRe 3i+ and 
Oracle collaborate to provide a powerful, single 
vendor, application and database platforms for today’s 
data driven enterprises. Nure 3i+ helps verticals like 
banking, 昀椀nancial services & insurance (BFSI), public 
and government sectors, healthcare, media and 
entertainment to seamlessly migrate to NuRe 3i+ 
platforms.
•  
NuRe CloudFirst: It addresses design, construction 
and managing full-stack cloud solutions, including 
maintaining crucial operational applications and 
supporting the entire eco-system in the cloud
The Company has a presence in more than 10 countries 
across 4 continents. The Company has a strong foothold 
and customer base in North America, South Asia, 
Asia Paci昀椀c (APAC), Middle East and Africa (MEA) 
geographies.
The Company serves customers in banking, insurance, 
media and entertainment, capital markets, asset and 
wealth management, government, manufacturing, retail, 
distribution, telecom and healthcare industry verticals.
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATE 
COMPANIES
During the year under review, the Company has incorporated 
following wholly owned subsidiary (including wholly owned 
step- down subsidiary):
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Company
Indicate whether wholly owned 
subsidiary OR wholly owned step-
down subsidiary
% of 
Shareholding
Date of 
Incorporation
Country of 
Incorporation
1.
Nure Bharat Network Limited
Wholly owned step-down subsidiary 
100%
April 21, 2023
India
As on March 31, 2024, there are 30 subsidiaries (including step-down subsidiaries) and 1 Joint Venture of the Company. There 
has been no material change in the nature of the business of subsidiaries.
As per the 昀椀rst proviso to the Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with Rule 5 of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, the statement containing salient features of the 昀椀nancial statements of subsidiaries / associate 
companies / joint venture in the prescribed Form AOC-1 is enclosed to the consolidated 昀椀nancial statements. This statement 
also mentions highlights of performance of subsidiaries /associate companies / joint venture and their contribution to the 
overall performance of the Company during the year.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Section 136 of the Act, the standalone and consolidated 昀椀nancial statements of the Company, 
along with relevant documents and separate audited accounts in respect of subsidiaries are available on the website of the 
Company.
This Report has been prepared based on the standalone 昀椀nancial statements of the Company and highlights the performance 
of the subsidiaries, associates and joint venture companies and their contribution to the overall performance of the Company 
during the period under review.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
57
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
As required under Section 134(5) of the Act, your Directors 
hereby con昀椀rm that:
• 
in preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with 
proper explanation relating to material departures;
• 
they have selected such accounting policies and applied 
them consistently and made judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as 
at March 31, 2024 and loss of the Company for the 
昀椀nancial year ended on that date;
• 
they have taken proper and suf昀椀cient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
a. 
they have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
b. 
they have laid down internal 昀椀nancial controls 
to be followed by the Company and that such 
internal 昀椀nancial controls are adequate and are 
operating effectively; and
c. 
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems are adequate and are 
operating effectively.
Further, the 昀椀nancial statements are prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) as prescribed 
under Section 133 of the Act read with Rule 3 of the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as 
amended. Based on the reviews of internal, statutory and 
secretarial auditors, external consultants, the management 
and respective committees of the Board, the Board is of 
the opinion that the Company’s system of internal 昀椀nancial 
controls was adequate and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls was satisfactory during the 2023-24.
PARTICULARS 
OF 
LOANS, 
GUARANTEES 
OR 
INVESTMENTS UNDER SECTION 186
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments granted/ 
made during the year are given under the notes to standalone 
昀椀nancial statements forming part of this Report.
CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED 
PARTIES
During the year under review, all the contracts / arrangements 
/ transactions entered into by the Company with related 
parties referred to in Section 188 of the Act were in the 
ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length basis. 
During the year, the Company has not entered into any 
contract / arrangement / transaction with related parties 
which could be considered material in accordance with the 
policy of the Company on related party transactions.
Since all related party transactions entered into by the 
Company were in the ordinary course of business and on 
arm’s length basis, Form AOC-2 is not applicable to the 
Company.
The Company has in place a Policy on Materiality of Related 
Party Transactions and a Policy on dealing with Related 
Party Transactions. The said policy can be viewed on the 
Company’s website by accessing the following link: https://
www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Policy-
on-Materiality-of-Related-Party-Transactions-and-Policy-
on-Dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions-1.pdf 
Details regarding related party disclosures are given under 
the notes to standalone 昀椀nancial statements which form 
part of this Report.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS AFFECTING 
THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY
There have been no material changes and commitments 
affecting the 昀椀nancial position of the Company which have 
occurred between the end of the 昀椀nancial year to which the 
昀椀nancial statements relate and as on the date of this Report. 
FORENSIC AUDIT
The Audit Committee at its meeting held on September 
22, 2022, constituted Sub-committee on Legacy Matters, 
to review comprehensively all legacy matters for parent 
entity and subsidiary companies and prepare action plan for 
resolution of the same. Based on 昀椀ndings observed by the 
Sub-committee on Legacy Matters of the Audit Committee 
of the Board of the Company and on the basis of 昀椀ndings 
of various consultants/ experts/ advisors, the Board of 
Directors of the Company at its meeting held on January 
31, 2024, has decided to initiate Forensic Audit, for certain 
Legacy Matters pertaining to period before March 31, 2021 
under the erstwhile Management. 
FEMA COMPLIANCE MATTERS 
The Sub-committee on Legacy Matters of Audit Committee 
has also observed certain long outstanding non-compliances 
with various FEMA Regulations, majority of them are listed 
below. Based on recommendations of the Sub-committee, 
the Company has appointed expert consultant on the matter, 
to address these long pending  compliances and ensure that 
the compliance requirements are meet in reasonable time in 
line with various regulations..
 Overseas investments
• 
Reporting of WOS and SDS
• 
Reporting of transfer, divestment, closing of 
various subsidiaries and group entities, and 
certain speci昀椀c transactions.
• 
APR 昀椀ling and approvals
Annual Report 2023-24
58
• 
Application for UIN 
• 
Updating Project Pro昀椀le
 Current account
• 
Reconciling outstanding entries in EDPMS, IDPMS 
and P0103.
• 
Regularising legacy import transaction
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY 
REGULATORS
During the year under review, no signi昀椀cant and material 
orders were passed by the regulators or courts or tribunals 
impacting the going concern status and Company’s 
operation in future.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to maintain the highest 
standards of Corporate Governance and adhere to the 
Corporate 
Governance 
requirements. 
The 
Corporate 
Governance Report along with auditors’ certi昀椀cate thereon 
in terms of Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of the 
Listing Regulations is appended herewith as Annexure I to 
this Report.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
In terms of provisions of Regulation 34 of the Listing 
Regulations, the Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report is given under a separate section forming part of this 
Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUBSTAINABILITY 
REPORT (BRSR)
Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations mandates the 
inclusion of the BRSR as part of the Annual Report for the 
top 1000 listed entities based on market capitalisation as 
on 31st day of March of every Financial Year. Though the 
Company has not fallen under top 1000 listed entities 
based on market capitalisation as on March 31, 2024, BRSR 
is voluntarily being appended hereto as forms part of this 
Report as Annexure II.
ANNUAL RETURN
In accordance with the Act, the annual return in the prescribed 
format is available on the Company’s website at the 
following link: https://www.3i-infotech.com/annualreport/ 
CAPITAL
a) 
Preference Share Capital:
During the year under review, the Company has not 
allotted any preference shares.
b) 
Equity Share Capital:
Allotment under Employee Stock Options Scheme:
During the year under review, the Company has, on 
various dates, allotted in all 7,64,800 equity shares 
under Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018. 
Considering these allotments, the issued, subscribed 
and paid-up capital of the Company as on March 
31, 2024 stood at ` 1,69,23,08,420/- consisting of 
16,92,30,842 fully paid-up equity shares of face value 
` 10/- each.
The Company has neither issued equity shares with 
differential rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise nor 
any sweat equity shares to the employees of the Company 
under any scheme.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEMES
The Employee Stock Option Schemes of the Company in 
force are in compliance with the Act and the SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Bene昀椀ts and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 and there has been no material change in the said 
schemes during 昀椀nancial year. The Company approved the 
scheme “3i Infotech Employee Stock Option Plan 2023” and 
“3i Infotech Employee Stock Option Plan 2023” for Eligible 
Employees of Subsidiary Companies of the Company and 
same approved by the member of the Company through 
postal ballot dated June 25, 2024. Disclosures relating to 
the said schemes as required under the SEBI (Share Based 
Employee Bene昀椀ts and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 are 
available on the Company’s website at the following link: 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/ investors/ under Corporate 
Governance in the Investors’ section.
The Company has received a certi昀椀cate from the Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company that its share-based scheme(s) 
have been implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Bene昀椀ts and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (formerly the SEBI (Share Based Employee Bene昀椀ts) 
Regulations 2014) and the same is available for inspection 
by members in electronic mode.
PUBLIC DEPOSITS
During the year, the Company has not invited / accepted any 
deposit under Sections 73 and 76 of the Act.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
a) 
Composition:
As on the date of this Report, the Board of the 
Company consists of Six Directors, out of which Four 
are Independent Directors (including one woman 
Independent 
Director), 
two 
are 
Non-Executive 
Directors.
The current composition of the Board in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 149 of the Act and 
Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations is as follows:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
59
Sr. 
No
Name of the Director (s) Designation
1
CA Uttam Prakash 
Agarwal
Non-Executive - 
Independent Director, 
Chairperson
2
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Non-Executive - 
Independent Director
3
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive – Non-
Independent Director
4
Dr. Madan Bhalchandra 
Gosavi $
Non-Executive - 
Independent Director
5
Mr. Umesh Mehta @
Non-Executive - Non-
Independent Director
6
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Non-Executive - 
Independent Director
@ Mr. Umesh Mehta was appointed as Additional 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director with effect 
from March 22, 2024 and later on appointed as Non-
Executive Non-Independent Director by the members 
through postal ballot dated June 15, 2024.
$ Dr. Madan Bhalchandra Gosavi was appointed as 
Additional Non-Executive Independent Director with 
effect from May 12, 2024 after completion of the 
昀椀nancial year and later approved by the members 
through postal ballot dated June 15, 2024.
Mr. Thompson Gnanam ceased to be the Managing 
Director and Global CEO of the Company with effect 
from May 31, 2024.
b) 
Retirement by Rotation:
In accordance with Section 152 (6) and other applicable 
provisions of the Act and the Articles of Association 
of the Company, Dr. Aruna Sharma (DIN: 06515361) 
retires by rotation as a Director at the ensuing AGM 
and being eligible, offers herself for reappointment.
Detailed pro昀椀le of Dr. Aruna Sharma along with 
additional information required under Regulation 36(3) 
of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on 
General Meetings (SS-2) is provided separately by way 
of an Annexure to the Notice of the AGM which forms 
part of this Report.
c) 
Key Managerial Personnel:
As on March 31, 2024, following are the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company:
a. 
Mr. Thompson Gnanam - Managing Director and 
Global CEO, (ceased to be the Managing Director 
and Global CEO effective from May 31, 2024
b. 
Mr. Harish Shenoy - Chief Operating Of昀椀cer 
Professional Services and Chief Risk Of昀椀cer
c. 
Mr. Sanjay Rawa - Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
d. 
Mrs. Varika Rastogi - Company Secretary and 
Compliance Of昀椀cer.
There were following changes in the Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel during the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024:
• 
Mr. Ashok Shah ceased to be the Chairman & 
Independent Director of the Company with effect from 
December 10, 2023, pursuant to provisions contained 
in Section 149(11) of the Companies Act, 2013. 
• 
CA. Uttam Prakash Agarwal, Independent Director of 
the Company, appointed as the Chairman of the Board 
of Directors of the Company with effect from December 
10, 2023.
• 
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan ceased to be the Non-
Executive Director of the Company with effect from 
January 26, 2024.
• 
Mr. Umesh Mehta has been appointed as Non-
Executive Director with effect from March 22, 2024.
Based on the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors of the 
Company at its meeting held on August 14, 2024, has 
inter-alia approved that Mr. Raj Ahuja shall also act as the 
Chief Executive Of昀椀cer (in the category of Key Managerial 
Personnel) of the Company effective from August 14, 2024.
DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
The Company has received declaration from each 
Independent Director as per provisions of Regulation 25(8) 
of the Listing Regulations and Section 149 (7) of the Act, 
that he / she meets the criteria of independence laid down 
in Regulation 16(1)(b) read with Regulation 25(8) of the 
Listing Regulations and Section 149 (6) of the Act.
NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
There were 9 (Nine) meetings of the Board of Directors 
held during the year. The details of the same are given in 
Corporate Governance Report section that forms part of 
this Report. The intervening gap between two consecutive 
Board Meetings did not exceed 120 days.
POLICIES AS PER THE LISTING REGULATIONS
The Listing Regulations mandated all listed companies to 
formulate certain policies. These policies are available on 
the website of the Company at https://www.3i-infotech. 
com/investors/ under “Corporate Governance” in the 
Investors’ section. The policies, list of which is given below, 
are reviewed periodically by the Board and amended from 
time to time:
• 
Whistle Blower Policy;
Annual Report 2023-24
60
• 
Policy on Remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and other Employees;
• 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy;
• 
Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries;
• 
Policy for determination of Materiality of event or 
information;
• 
Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and 
dealing with Related Party Transactions;
• 
Policy and Procedure for Inquiry in the event of leak 
or suspected leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information;
• 
Dividend Distribution Policy;
• 
Risk Management Policy;
• 
Policy for Board Diversity;
• 
Policy for Preservation of Documents; and
• 
Policy for Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to securities.
POLICY 
ON 
DIRECTORS’ 
APPOINTMENT 
AND 
REMUNERATION
The current policy is to have appropriate mix of Executive, 
Non-Executive and Independent Directors to maintain the 
independence of the Board. The Company has put in place 
a policy on Remuneration of Directors, KMP and other 
employees including criteria for determining quali昀椀cations, 
positive attributes, independence of directors and other 
matters provided under Section 178 (3) of the Act, the Policy 
can be viewed on the website of the Company by accessing 
the following link: https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/
uploads/downloads/2020/11/Policy-on-Remuneration-of-
Directors-KMP-other-employees.pdf 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, your Company has laid down criteria for 
performance evaluation of Directors and Chairperson of the 
Board and also the process for such performance evaluation. 
Schedule IV of the Act states that the performance evaluation 
of Independent Directors shall be done by the entire Board 
of Directors, excluding the Director being evaluated. The 
Company’s policy relating to appointment and remuneration 
of Directors, KMPs and other employees, including criteria 
for determining quali昀椀cations, positive attributes and 
independence of a director are covered under the Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms a part of this Report.
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS
As per provisions of the Listing Regulations and the 
Companies Act, 2013 the Company has formulated 
Familiarisation Programme for Independent Directors. 
The same is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/
Familiarisation-programeefor- 
independent-directors.pdf. 
At the time of appointment of an Independent Director, 
the Company issues a formal letter of appointment to 
an Independent Director outlining his / her role, function, 
duties, responsibilities, etc. The terms and conditions for 
appointment of Independent Directors are also available 
on the website of the Company at the location mentioned 
above.
The Board Members are provided with necessary 
documents / brochures, reports and internal policies to 
enable familiarising them with the Company’s procedures 
and practices. Periodic presentations are made at the 
Board Meetings on business performance updates of the 
Company, global business environment, business strategy 
and risk involved.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
As on March 31, 2024, the Board has 5 (昀椀ve) mandatory and 
3 (Three) non-mandatory committees:
Mandatory Committees
i. 
Audit Committee;
ii. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
iii. 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee;
iv. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee; and
v. 
Risk Management Committee;
Non-Mandatory Committees
i. 
Investment Committee; 
ii. 
Product Innovation Sub-Committee; and
iii. 
Sub-committee on Legacy Matters of the Audit 
Committee (non-mandatory committee);
A detailed note on the composition of the Board and its 
committees is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
VIGIL MECHANISM
In line with the provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, the Company has devised and implemented 
a vigil mechanism in the form of “Whistle Blower Policy”. 
As per the Policy, the Company has an internal committee 
comprising of the Head-HR and the Compliance Of昀椀cer 
of the Company to oversee the functioning of the vigil 
mechanism as mandated by the Act and assist the Audit 
Committee thereunder. The Whistle Blower Policy framed by 
the Company is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/
Whistle-Blower-Policy-revised-04.05.23.pdf 
The detailed information regarding the committees of the 
Board, including composition of the Audit Committee, has 
been given in the Corporate Governance Report which 
forms an integral part of this Report.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
61
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Consolidated Financial Statements presented by the 
Company include the 昀椀nancial results of its subsidiary 
companies, associates and joint ventures and form part of 
this Report. The Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been prepared in accordance with the Ind AS.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS SYSTEMS AND 
THEIR ADEQUACY
The Company has implemented adequate procedures 
and internal controls which provide reasonable assurance 
regarding reliability of 昀椀nancial reporting and preparation 
of 昀椀nancial statements. The Company also ensures that 
internal controls are operating effectively.
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M/s. GMJ & Co., Chartered Accountants (Reg. No. 
103429W) were appointed as the Statutory Auditor of 
the Company for a term of 5 (昀椀ve) consecutive years, at 
the 28th AGM, held on December 15, 2021 to hold of昀椀ce 
up to conclusion of the 33rd AGM to be held in 2026. The 
Company has received con昀椀rmation from them to the effect 
that they are not disquali昀椀ed from continuing as Auditors 
of the Company.
STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT
The Auditor’s Report for the FY 2023-24 does not contain 
any quali昀椀cations remarks or reservations. The Statutory 
Auditor has 昀椀rst time issued the disclaimer of opinion in the 
Audit report for the Financial Results for the quarter and 
year ended March 31, 2024. Statement on impact of Audit 
Quali昀椀cations for the quarter and year ended March 31, 
2024 is appended as  Annexure III.
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR’S REPORT
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company had appointed M/s. 
SAP & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, to 
undertake the Secretarial Audit of the Company for the 
FY 2023-24. The Secretarial Audit Report is appended 
as Annexure IV to this Report. The Secretarial Auditor’s 
Report contains some disclosure of facts which are self-
explanatory and do not need any further comments.
REPORTING OF FRAUD BY AUDITORS
During the year under review, neither the statutory auditor 
nor the secretarial auditor has reported to the Audit 
Committee any instances of fraud committed against the 
Company by its of昀椀cers or employees under Section 143(12) 
of the Act.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
The Company complies with all the mandatory secretarial 
standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India as may be applicable.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES
The Company’s equity shares are listed on BSE Limited 
(BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION, 
ADOPTION 
AND 
INNOVATION
The Company continues to use the latest technologies to 
improve the productivity and quality of its services and 
solutions. During the year, your Company has taken the 
following technology initiatives. 
• 
Enhance Ef昀椀ciency through Automation: automated 
IT support functions to improve delivery processes and 
increase ef昀椀ciency.
• 
Innovate and Collaborate: Strengthen solutions 
through 
technological 
innovation, 
strategic 
collaborations, and acquisitions.
• 
Forge Strategic Partnerships: Partner with leading 
technology providers to develop successful go-to-
market strategies.
• 
Explore Growth Opportunities: Embrace Secure 
Access Service Edge (SASE), cloud technologies, and 
intelligent automation to unlock multi-dimensional 
growth areas.
• 
Initiate Digital Transformation: Launch upskilling 
programs across end users and support team to 
drive digital transformation initiatives and enhance IT 
capabilities within 3i
Key Achievements\POA
• 
Consolidate IT Infrastructure: Transition to cloud-
based solutions to minimize reliance on physical 
hardware servers and network devices, enhancing 
operational ef昀椀ciency.
• 
Implement Continuous Security Monitoring and 
Assessment : Regularly apply security patches, 
upgrade antivirus software, and conduct annual 
Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing 
(VAPT) to proactively address security threats.
• 
Enable Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA): Activate 
MFA for all Microsoft Of昀椀ce 365 users within 3i to 
bolster account security.
• 
Enhance User Access Restrictions: Limit access for 
local administrators and the Administrator group to 
strengthen user access controls.
• 
Upgrade Server Operating Systems: Ensure all 
server operating systems are up-to-date with the 
latest versions to improve security measures.
QUALIATY AND REGULATORY MANAGEMENT
CMMi Level 5 - 3i Infotech has reached new heights in 
quality with attainment of CMMi Level 5 where quality 
meets mastery 
Annual Report 2023-24
62
Quality & Regulatory Management Objectives: Ensuring 
compliance with Industry Best Practices 
• 
Promoting a quality and compliance culture across the 
organization.
• 
Identifying and implementing regulatory requirements 
relevant to core business activities.
• 
Achieving and maintaining product/service conformity 
and acceptance throughout their lifecycle.
ISO Certi昀椀cation Details: Effective implementation of 
Below ISO Standards applicable to 3i Infotech Limited 
Scope of Services
• 
ISO 9001:2015 QMS –DigiBPS and 3i Infotech Limited
• 
ISO 
27001:2013 
ISMS 
(Information 
Security 
Management System) - 3i Infotech Limited
• 
ISO 20000:2018 ITSM (IT Service Management) - 3i 
Infotech Limited
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R & D):
Our i-Tech team has unveiled a suite of cutting-edge 
solutions that are revolutionizing workplace ef昀椀ciency and 
employee engagement. The Pulse ChatBOT, seamlessly 
integrated into our portal, is transforming user interactions, 
while our mobile-optimized interface ensures access 
anywhere, anytime. The iReset Application streamlines IT 
support with self-service password management, and our 
Intelligent Process Automation Suite is enhancing critical 
HR functions. 
Efforts in automating manual processes are transforming 
operations—automatically managing Active Directory (AD) 
accounts during employee offboarding and onboarding 
through updates in the Hono-HR portal and ensuring 
daily synchronization of critical information such as 
reporting managers, processes, and designations. These 
advancements underscore our dedication to leveraging 
cutting-edge technology to drive ef昀椀ciency and deliver 
scalable solutions that can be tailored to meet the needs of 
our organization and employees.
Expenditure on R & D
(Amount ` in Crores)
Particulars
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Revenue Expenditure 
-
-
Capital Expenditure 
11.68
33.76
Total
11.68
33.76
Total R&D expenditure 
as a percentage of total 
standalone revenue 
2.79
8.63
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
a) 
Activities relating to exports, initiatives taken 
to increase exports, development of new export 
markets for products and services and export plans 
Around 10.43% of the revenue of the Company is 
derived from exports.
b) 
Foreign Exchange earnings and expenditure
Details of earnings and expenditure in foreign currency 
(excluding earnings and expenditure of UAE Branch) 
during the year are as below:
(Amount ` in Crores)
Particulars
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Earnings
37.27
42.00
Expenditure
1.03
-
PERSONNEL 
The Company has continued to improve the quality of 
Human Resource. The key facet has been better levels 
of productivity as compared to earlier years which has 
contributed to operating 昀椀nancial parameters showing a 
strong uplift. Regular interactions and career enhancements 
by way of bigger roles to talented employees have helped 
in strengthening the con昀椀dence of the employees in the 
tough 昀椀nancial scenario of the Company. The talent 
pipeline is looking healthy though attrition and retention 
remains a challenge for the industry and more so for the 
Company.
The Company will continue to focus and build the human 
potential which would help in improving operating 
parameters in the coming years.
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act read 
with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, a 
statement showing the names and other particulars of the 
employees drawing remuneration in excess of the limits 
set out in the said rules is provided in a separate annexure 
forming part of this Report. Having regard to the provisions 
of the 昀椀rst provision to Section 136(1) of the Act, the 
Annual Report excluding the aforesaid information is being 
sent to the Members of the Company. In terms of Section 
136 of the Act, the said annexure is open for inspection 
at the Registered Of昀椀ce of the Company. Any shareholder 
interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary.
Disclosures pertaining to the remuneration and other details 
as required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 
5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are provided in this 
Report as Annexure V.
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace
The Company has in place a policy aiming at prevention of 
sexual harassment at all workplaces of the Company in line 
with the requirements of Sexual Harassment of Women 
at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
63
Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. All employees 
(permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees) are covered 
under this Policy. The Company has complied with provisions 
relating to constitution of Internal Complaints Committee by 
setting up such Committee in the Company in accordance 
with the provisions of Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013 to consider and redress complaints received with 
respect to sexual harassment. The details of complaints 
received during the year are given separately in Corporate 
Governance Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk Management is an integral and important component 
of Corporate Governance. The Company has developed 
and implemented a comprehensive Risk Management 
Framework for the identi昀椀cation, assessment and monitoring 
of key risks that could adversely impact the Company’s goals 
and objectives. This framework is periodically reviewed by 
the Risk Management committee of the Company. The Audit 
Committee of the Board has additional oversight in the area 
of 昀椀nancial risks and controls. The Company is committed to 
continually strengthen its Risk Management framework in 
order to protect the interests of stakeholders.
CREDIT RATINGS
In July 2021, CRISIL Ratings has reaf昀椀rmed the rating at 
‘CRISIL BBB-’ while assigning a ‘Stable’ outlook. Similarly, 
one of the other rating agencies, CARE Ratings has also 
reaf昀椀rmed rating of the Company as “CARE BBB-; Stable” 
(Triple B Minus; Outlook: Stable) in September 2021.
However, in September 2022, both CRISIL and CARE had 
withdrawn the said ratings as the long-term loans were 
repaid and no dues were outstanding.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
In compliance with Section 135 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014, the Company has constituted a CSR Committee. 
A brief outline of the CSR policy of the Company and the 
statutory disclosures with respect to CSR Committee and an 
Annual Report on CSR activities for FY 2023-24 as required 
under Rule 8 (1) of the CSR Rules are set out in Annexure 
VI of this Report. The CSR Policy as recommended by CSR 
Committee and as approved by the Board is available on 
the website of the Company at https://www.3i-infotech.
com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2021/08/Corporate-
Social-Responsibility-Policy.pdf 
During the year, the Company has not spent any amount on 
CSR activities in view of losses incurred as per provisions of 
the Act.
MAINTENANCE OF COST RECORDS
Maintenance of cost records as speci昀椀ed by the Central 
Government under the provisions of Section 148(1) of the 
Act is not required for the business activities carried out by 
the Company.
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
Disclosures required under the Listing Regulations are 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report. The Corporate 
Governance Report along with auditor’s certi昀椀cate thereon, 
BRSR and the Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
forms part of this Report.
FUTURE OUTLOOK
The business outlook and the initiatives proposed by 
the management to address its 昀椀nancial risks have been 
discussed in detail in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report which forms a part of the Annual Report 
and is annexed elsewhere in the report.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Directors are thankful to the Members for their 
con昀椀dence and continued support. The Directors are grateful 
to the Central and State Government, Stock Exchanges, 
Securities & Exchange Board of India, Reserve Bank of India, 
Customs and other government authorities and last but not 
the least, its trusted customers for their continued support.
The Directors would like to express their gratitude for the 
unstinted support and guidance received from alliance 
partners and vendors.
The Directors would also like to express their sincere thanks 
and appreciation to all the employees for their commendable 
teamwork and professionalism.
For and on behalf of the Board
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Date: August 14, 2024      Chairman and Independent Director 
Place: Navi Mumbai  
(DIN: 00272983)
Annual Report 2023-24
64
Sd/-
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Corporate Governance Philosophy
The Board of Directors of the Company lays strong emphasis 
on key pillars of good governance i.e. integrity, transparency, 
accountability and compliance with the applicable laws, 
to instill the culture of ethical leadership and operational 
governance in the Company. This enables the Company to 
retain the trust of its members and other stakeholders, as 
well as strengthen the foundation for long-term pro昀椀tability 
and sustainability.
The Company is in compliance with all the mandatory 
requirements 
of 
Corporate 
Governance 
stipulated 
under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub 
regulation (2) of Regulation 46 as well as those speci昀椀ed in 
Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as 
“Listing Regulations”), as amended from time to time.
I. Board of Directors
The Company is managed by the professional Board of 
Directors (“Board”) comprising of an optimum combination 
of Executive, Non-Executive, Independent and Woman 
Directors. As on March 31, 2024, total strength of the Board 
is six, consisting of one Executive Director, three Independent 
Directors (including one Independent Woman Director) 
and two Non-Executive Directors (including one Woman 
Director). The composition of the Board is in conformity with 
Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations.
Composition of the Board
As on March 31, 2024, composition of the Board, name & 
category of the Directors, Director Identi昀椀cation Number 
(DIN), number of directorships & committee memberships 
held by the Directors and the number of shares held by them 
are given below. None of the Directors or Key Managerial 
Personnel (“KMP”) of the Company are related inter-se.
Sr. 
No
Name and DIN
Category
Date of 
Appointment/ 
Re-appointment 
in current term
Number of 
Directorships 
held in 
public  limited 
companies 
(including this 
Company) @
Number 
of Shares 
held in the 
Company
Number of Committee 
positions held in listed 
companies (including 
this Company) #
Chairperson
Member
1.
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
(DIN: 00272983)
Chairman 
& ID
16/03/2022 
4 [Refer Note (c)]
Nil
3
5
2.
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga  
(DIN:00418477)
ID
01/04/2021
4
Nil
Nil
1
3.
Dr. Aruna Sharma  
(DIN: 06515361)
NED
01/02/2022
3  
[Refer Note (d)]
Nil
1
3
4.
Mr. Thompson Gnanam  
(DIN: 07865431)  
[Refer Note (i)]
Managing 
Director & 
Global CEO
18/03/2021
1 
1,56,000
Nil
1
5.
Mr. Umesh Mehta  
(DIN: 09244647)
NED
22/03/2024
1 [Refer Note (g)]
Nil
Nil
Nil
6.
Ms. Zohra Chatterji  
(DIN: 01382511)
ID
24/03/2020
3
Nil
1
3
Legend: ID: Independent Director, NED: Non-Executive Director
@Directorships in private limited companies, foreign companies and companies formed under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”) are excluded.
#Positions in Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are considered.
Notes:
a) 
Directorship and Committee membership/ chairpersonship information has been provided on the basis of disclosures 
furnished by the Directors.
b) 
None of the Directors is a member of more than 10 (ten) Board-level Committees, or Chairperson of more than 5 (昀椀ve) 
such Committees, which is in compliance with the Listing Regulations and the Act. Further, none of the directors acts as 
an Independent Director in more than 7 (seven) listed companies.
ANNEXURE I
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
65
c) 
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal holds the position 
of 
Independent 
Director 
in 
two 
other 
listed 
companies 
i.e. 
Zee 
Entertainment 
Enterprises 
Limited 
(CIN: 
L92132MH1982PLC028767) 
and 
Cerebra 
Integrated 
Technologies 
Limited 
(CIN: 
L85110KA1993PLC015091). 
However, 
on 
May 
13, 2024, he resigned from Cerebra Integrated 
Technologies Limited.
d) 
Dr. Aruna Sharma holds the position of Independent 
Director in one other listed company i.e. Welspun 
Enterprises Limited (CIN: L45201GJ1994PLC023920).
e) 
Mr. Ashok Shah ceased to be the Chairman & 
Independent Director of the Company with effect from 
December 10, 2023, pursuant to provisions contained 
in Section 149(11) of the Act. CA Uttam Prakash 
Agarwal, Non-Executive Independent Director of the 
Company, appointed as the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of the Company with effect from December 
10, 2023.
f) 
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan ceased to be the Non-
Executive Director of the Company with effect from 
January 26, 2024.
g) 
Mr. Umesh Mehta has been appointed as the Non-
Executive Director with effect from March 22, 2024 
and his appointment was regularised by the members 
through postal ballot of which results were declared 
on June 18, 2024.
h) 
Dr. Madan Bhalchandra Gosavi has been appointed as 
the Non- Executive Independent Director with effect 
from May 12, 2024 
i) 
Mr. Thompson Gnanam ceased as Managing Director 
and Global Chief Executive Of昀椀cer of the Company 
with effect from May 31, 2024.
Matrix highlighting Skills/ Expertise/ Competencies of 
the Board of Directors
The Board of the Company is structured, having requisite 
level of quali昀椀cations, professional background and industry 
expertise. The Board, after taking into consideration the 
Company’s nature of business and key characteristics, has 
identi昀椀ed the following key skills/ expertise/ competencies, 
as required in the context of its business and sector for it to 
function effectively.
• 
Global Business
 
Experience in driving business success in markets 
around the world, with an understanding of diverse 
business environments, economic conditions, cultures 
and regulatory frameworks and a broad perspective on 
global market opportunities.
• 
Strategy
 
Ability to think strategically and identify and critically 
assessed strategic opportunities and threats and 
develop effective strategies for the growth of the 
Company.
• 
Finance
 
Quali昀椀cation and experience in accounting, taxation, 
昀椀nance, ability to analyse key 昀椀nancial statements and 
contribution towards strategic 昀椀nancial planning.
• 
Information Technology
 
Background in technology, resulting in knowledge 
of how to anticipate technological trends, generate 
disruptive innovation and extend or create new 
business models.
• 
Risk
 
Ability to identify key risks to the organisation in a wide 
range of areas including legal & regulatory compliance, 
and monitor risk  & compliance management 
frameworks and systems.
The speci昀椀c areas of skills/ expertise/competence, which 
individual Board members meet, are given below. Absence 
of mention regarding an area of expertise against a Board 
member’s name does not necessarily mean that the member 
does not possess the corresponding quali昀椀cation or skill.
Name of the Director  
(as at March 31, 2024)
Area of Expertise
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Chairman and Independent 
Director
• Global Business
• Strategy
• Finance
• Risk
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
• Global Business
• Finance
• Risk
• Information Technology
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive Director
• Global Business
• Strategy
• Finance
• Risk
Mr. Thompson Gnanam 
Managing Director & Global 
CEO
• Global Business
• Risk
• Information Technology
• Strategy
Mr. Umesh Mehta
Non-Executive Director
• Global Business
• Information Technology
• Strategy
• Risk
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Independent Director
• Global Business
• Strategy
• Finance
• Risk
Annual Report 2023-24
66
Declarations from Independent Directors
The Company has received declarations from all the 
Independent Directors that they ful昀椀l the criteria of 
independence as de昀椀ned under Section 149(6) of the Act 
read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Quali昀椀cation of Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 16(1)
(b) of the Listing Regulations.
Based on declarations received from all the Independent 
Directors of the Company, the Board is of the opinion 
that they have relevant integrity, quali昀椀cations, expertise, 
experience and they also ful昀椀l the criteria of independence 
and are independent of the management of the Company. 
In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the Listing Regulations, the 
Independent Directors have con昀椀rmed that they are not 
aware of any circumstance or situation which exists or may 
be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties.
During FY 2023-24, none of the Independent Directors 
resigned from the Company before the expiry of his/ 
her tenure. Mr. Ashok Shah was re-appointed by the 
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company 
held on December 23, 2020 for term of 昀椀ve consecutive 
years commencing from October 1, 2020 as an Independent 
Director of the Company. However, it was observed that his 
re-appointment as an Independent Director was for the third 
term, which is not permissible as per Section 149(11) of the 
Act. In view of above, Mr. Ashok Shah demitted his of昀椀ce 
as an Independent Director with effect from December 10, 
2023.
A separate meeting of Independent Directors was held on 
May 5, 2023, to enable the Independent Directors to discuss 
matters pertaining to the Company’s affairs and evaluate 
the performance of the Non-Independent Directors and the 
Board as a whole.
In terms of Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 6 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Quali昀椀cation of Directors) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, all Independent Directors of 
the Company have registered themselves for inclusion in 
the Independent Directors’ databank maintained by the 
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs and have renewed 
their registrations periodically within stipulated timelines. 
The Independent Directors have also either cleared online 
pro昀椀ciency self-assessment conducted by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs or have been duly exempted 
therefrom.
Board Meetings
Along with the matters mandated as per the Listing 
Regulations, the Board reviews at its meetings key matters 
like operations and 昀椀nancial results, annual operating plan, 
capital/operating budgets, investment, observations of the 
statutory auditor and internal auditor, compliance with the 
applicable laws and pending taxation and litigation matters 
etc.
The Managing Director & Global Chief Executive Of昀椀cer 
and Chief Financial Of昀椀cer apprise the Board, at each of 
its meetings, about overall performance of the Company 
with presentations on business operations on a regular 
basis. Members of the Executive Management Team are 
invited as & when required at the Board meetings to provide 
necessary insights into the performance of the Company 
and for discussing business strategies with the Board.
As permitted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, most of 
the meetings of the Board and its Committees were held 
through video conferencing mode in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act.
During FY 2023-24, the Board met 9 (nine) times on the 
following dates, April 12, 2023, May 6, 2023, July 27, 2023, 
July 28, 2023, November 7, 2023, December 10, 2023, 
January 31, 2024, February 7, 2024 and March 21, 2024. 
Intervening period between two Board meetings was well 
within the maximum period of 120 days as prescribed under 
the Act and the Listing Regulations. Requisite quorum was 
present for all the meetings.
Name of the Director
Attendance at 
the AGM held on 
September 25, 
2023 through video 
conference
Number of 
Meetings held 
during tenure of 
the Director
Number of Meetings attended
Physical
Virtual
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
√
9
7
2
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
√
9
6
3
Dr. Aruna Sharma
√
9
4
5
Mr. Ashok Shah
√
6
5
1
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan
√
6
5
1
Mr. Thompson Gnanam
√
9
8
1
Mr. Umesh Mehta (w.e.f. March 12, 2024)
NA
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
√
9
5
3
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
67
Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Senior 
Management of the Company
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for the Board 
of Directors and Senior Management, in order to inculcate the 
spirit of Corporate Governance in the affairs of the Company 
and promote ethical conduct and operational governance. 
The Code is available on the website of the Company at 
the link: https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/
downloads/2016/03/Code-of-Conduct-for-Board-and-
Senior-Management.pdf. Pursuant to Regulation 26(6) 
of the Listing Regulations, Directors, KMP and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company have not entered 
into any agreement for themselves or on behalf of any other 
person, with any member or any other third party with 
regard to compensation or pro昀椀t sharing in connection with 
dealings in the securities of the Company.
Directors, KMP and Senior Management Personnel of the 
Company have af昀椀rmed compliance with the said Code of 
Conduct for the FY 2023-24. A declaration to this effect 
signed by the Chief Executive Of昀椀cer is appended to this 
Corporate Governance Report and forms an integral part of 
this Corporate Governance Report.
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading
The Company has instituted a comprehensive Code of 
Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading for Directors 
and Designated Persons of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and their immediate relatives (“Insider Trading Code”), in 
compliance with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time. Insider 
Trading Code lays down procedures to be followed and 
disclosures to be made, while dealing in the shares of the 
Company and penalties in case of violations.
Directors and Designated Persons of the Company provide 
disclosure on an annual basis about the number of shares 
held by them in the Company and by their immediate 
dependent relatives. Further, they also declare that they 
have not traded in the shares of the Company based on 
the unpublished price sensitive information and they have 
not entered into an opposite transaction i.e. sale/ purchase 
during the six months from the date of erstwhile transaction 
as per the provisions of the Insider Trading Code.
Pursuant to the Regulation 3(5) of the SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 a Structured Digital 
Database, as mandated under the said regulation is duly 
maintained.
II. Committees of the Board
Committees of the Board perform a critical role in ensuring 
operational 
governance. 
Committees 
are 
constituted 
pursuant to the approval of the Board, in consultation with 
the Chairperson of the Company, to carry out their clearly 
de昀椀ned roles. 
Each committee is guided by its terms of reference explained 
hereafter. Recommendations and/ or observations of the 
committees are placed before the Board for information 
or approval. During the year under review, the Board has 
accepted all the recommendations of all the Committees 
on matters where such recommendation is mandatorily 
required.
The Board has constituted the following committees:
a. 
Audit Committee
b. 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
c. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
d. 
Risk Management Committee
e. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
f. 
Investment Committee (Non-mandatory committee)
g. 
Products Innovation Sub-Committee (Non-mandatory 
committee) 
h. 
Sub-committee on Legacy Matters (Non-mandatory 
committee constituted by the Audit Committee)
a. 
Audit Committee
Audit Committee of the Company has been constituted 
in compliance with the provisions of Section 177 of the 
Act read with Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. 
Audit Committee acts as a vital link between the 
management, statutory and internal auditors and the 
Board of Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s 昀椀nancial reporting process by providing 
direction to the audit function and monitoring the 
scope and quality of internal and statutory audits. The 
Committee, along with the Statutory Auditor, reviews 
the quarterly, half yearly and annual 昀椀nancial results 
at its Meetings, before recommending them to the 
Board of Directors. All the recommendations of the 
Committee have been accepted by the Board, during 
the year under review.
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met 6 (six) times 
on the following dates, April 11, 2023, May 05, 2023, 
July 27, 2023, November 07, 2023, January 31, 2024 
and February 07, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
68
Composition of the Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the year:
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Independent Director
Chairman
6
5
1
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Member
6
3
3
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive Director
Member
6
2
4
Mr. Ashok Shah*
Independent Director
Member
4
3
1
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Independent Director
Member
6
2
3
 
*Ceased to be member w.e.f. December 10, 2023.
 
Chief Executive Of昀椀cer, Chief Financial Of昀椀cer, Internal 
Auditor and Statutory Auditor attend meetings of 
the Audit Committee as invitees. The Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended the 
previous AGM held on September 25, 2023.
 
Terms of reference of the Committee (laid out as per 
the guidelines set out in the Listing Regulations and 
Section 177 of the Act
• 
Oversight of the Company’s 昀椀nancial reporting 
process and disclosure of its 昀椀nancial information 
to ensure that the 昀椀nancial statements are correct, 
suf昀椀cient and credible;
• 
Recommendation for the appointment/ removal, 
remuneration of statutory auditor & internal 
auditor, and payment to statutory auditor for any 
other services rendered by statutory auditor;
• 
Reviewing with the management, the quarterly/ 
annual 昀椀nancial statements and auditor’s report 
thereon before submission to the Board for 
approval, with particular reference to:
a) 
Matters required to be included in the 
Directors’ Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s Report in terms of 
Section 134(3)(c) of the Act;
b) 
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
c) 
Major 
accounting 
entries 
involving 
estimates based on exercise of judgment by 
management;
d) 
Signi昀椀cant adjustments made in the 昀椀nancial 
statements arising out of audit 昀椀ndings;
e) 
Compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to 昀椀nancial statements;
f) 
Disclosure of any related party transactions; 
and
g) 
Modi昀椀ed opinion(s) in draft audit report.
• 
Review with the management performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of 
internal control systems;
• 
Review the adequacy of internal audit function, 
reporting structure, coverage and frequency of 
internal audit;
• 
Discussion with internal auditors about any 
signi昀椀cant 昀椀ndings and follow-up there on;
• 
Review 昀椀ndings of any internal investigations by 
the internal auditors into matters where there 
was suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of 
internal control systems of a material nature and 
reporting the matter to the Board;
• 
Discussion with statutory auditors before the 
audit commences, nature and scope of audit as 
well as having post audit discussion to ascertain 
any area of concern;
• 
Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults, 
if any, in the payment to the depositors, debenture 
holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment of 
declared dividends) and creditors;
• 
Review of functioning of the Whistle Blower 
Mechanism;
• 
Approval for appointment of Chief Financial 
Of昀椀cer, 
after 
assessing 
the 
quali昀椀cations, 
experience and background, etc. of the candidate;
• 
Reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
the 
auditor’s 
independence and performance and effectiveness 
of audit process;
• 
Approval of Related Party Transactions and any 
subsequent modi昀椀cation thereof;
• 
Review with the management, the statement 
of uses/ application of funds raised through an 
issue (public issue, right issue, preferential issue 
or quali昀椀ed institutions placement, etc.), if any, 
the statement of funds utilised for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer/ document/ 
prospectus/ notice and the report submitted by 
the monitoring agency, monitoring the utilisation 
of proceeds of a public or rights issue and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to 
take up steps in this manner;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
69
• 
Review of the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staf昀椀ng and seniority of the of昀椀cial 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;
• 
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
• 
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
Company, wherever necessary;
• 
Review of utilisation of loans and/ or advances 
from/ investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding ` 100 Crores or 10% of the 
asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower, 
including existing loans/ advances/ investments;
• 
To consider and comment on rationale, cost 
bene昀椀ts and impact of schemes involving merger, 
demerger, amalgamation etc., on the Company 
and its shareholders; and
• 
To carry out any other function as may be 
mandated by the Board from time to time and/ 
or enforced by any statutory noti昀椀cations and/ 
amendments, as applicable.
b. 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Company 
was constituted by the Board in compliance with 
the provisions of Section 178 of the Act read with 
Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations, to look into 
the redressal of shareholders’/ investors’ grievances, 
such as transfer of securities, non-receipt of dividend, 
notice, annual reports and all other securities holder 
related matters.
 
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met 4 (four) times 
on the following dates, May 05, 2023, July 27, 2023, 
November 07, 2023 and January 31, 2024.
 
Composition of the Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the year:
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
Mr. Ashok Shah*
Independent Director 
Chairman*
3
2
1
Ms. Zohra Chatterji$
Independent Director
Chairperson$
4
2
1
Mr. Thompson Gnanam^
Managing Director and Global CEO
Member
4
3
1
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan#
Non-Executive Director
Member
NIL
NIL
NIL
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal%
Independent Director
Member
1
1
-
*Ceased to be Chairman w.e.f. December 10, 2023.
$ Re-designated from member to Chairperson on December 20, 2023. 
^ Ceased to be Member w.e.f. May 29, 2024. 
# Appointed as a member w.e.f. December 11, 2023 and ceased to be member w.e.f. January 26, 2024.
%Appointed to be member w.e.f. December 20, 2023.
 
Mrs. Varika Rastogi, Company Secretary acts as Secretary of this Committee.
 
Terms of reference of the Committee (laid out as per the guidelines set out in the Listing Regulations and Section 178 
of the Companies Act, 2013)
• 
To issue and allot to the applicants, shares and other securities issued by the Company from time to time, including 
allotment under Employee Stock Option Scheme.
• 
To approve/ reject transfers duly lodged for registration of transfer of shares and other securities issued and that may 
be issued from time to time;
• 
To approve or reject application for transmission of shares and other securities with and without any legal 
representation (i.e. probate, letter of administration, succession certi昀椀cate etc.) in the name(s) of the legal heir(s) or 
such other person on such terms and conditions as the Committee might deem 昀椀t;
• 
To lay down suitable procedure and approve issue of duplicate certi昀椀cates of shares and other securities;
• 
To decide account(s) to be opened/ closed with any bank(s) in India for the purpose of payment of interest/ dividend 
or for such other purpose relating to shares or other securities and to authorise such of the executive(s) or of昀椀cer(s) 
of the Company or any other person(s) as the Committee might deem 昀椀t to open/ close and operate bank account(s) 
already opened for said purposes;
• 
To 昀椀x record date and determine closure of Register of Members and Transfer books for the purpose of payment of 
dividend, interest, issue of rights /bonus shares or for such other purpose as Committee might deem 昀椀t;
Annual Report 2023-24
70
• 
To resolve grievances of the security holders 
including 
complaints 
related 
to 
transfer/ 
transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual 
report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of 
new/ duplicate certi昀椀cates, general meetings, etc.;
• 
To review measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders;
• 
To review adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent;
• 
To review the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the quantum 
of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely 
receipt of dividend warrants/ annual reports/ 
statutory notices by the shareholders of the 
Company; and
• 
To carry out any other function as mandated by 
the Board from time to time and/ or enforced by 
any statutory noti昀椀cations/amendments as may 
be applicable.
 
Status of Shareholders’ instructions and grievances 
received during the year under review.
Particulars
As on 
April 01, 
2023
Received Processed
As on 
March 
31, 2024
Instructions
0
23
23
0
Grievances
0
9
9
0
c. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) 
has been constituted in compliance with the provisions 
of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations.
 
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met 6 (six) times 
on the following dates, April 08, 2023, May 05, 2023, 
July 27, 2023, January 31, 2024, March 21, 2024 and 
March 31, 2024.
 
Composition of NRC and details of meetings held & attended during the year
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Chairman$
6
3
3
Mr. Ashok Shah#
Independent Director
Member
3
2
1
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan**
Non-Executive Director
Member
3
2
1
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal***
Independent Director
Member
3
1
2
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Independent Director
Member*
6
3
2
 
$ Appointed as a Chairman w.e.f. December 21, 2023.
 
* Re-designated from Chairperson to member w.e.f. December 21, 2023.
 
# Ceased to be member w.e.f. December 10, 2023
 
**Ceased to be member w.e.f. December 21, 2023.
 
*** Appointed as a member w.e.f. December 21, 2023. 
 
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to NRC.
 
The Chairperson of NRC attended the previous AGM held on September 25, 2023, to respond to the queries of the 
members, if any, with respect to functioning of the NRC. All the recommendations of NRC have been accepted by the 
Board, during the year under review.
 
Terms of reference of the Committee (laid out as per the guidelines set out in the Listing Regulations and Section 178 
of the Companies Act, 2013)
• 
Assisting the Board in identifying the prospective directors and selecting or recommending to the Board in 昀椀lling up 
the vacancies in the of昀椀ces of directors and appointment of additional directors of the Company;
• 
Evaluating the current composition, organisation and governance of Board and its committees, board of its 
subsidiaries, determine future requirements and making recommendations to the Board for approval;
• 
Ensuring that the Board is properly constituted to meet its 昀椀duciary obligations, the corporate governance principles 
and best practices;
• 
Determining the Directors who shall be liable to retire by rotation;
• 
Appointment of Whole Time Directors;
• 
Conducting succession planning and working with the Board for evaluating the potential successors to executive 
management positions;
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
71
• 
Identifying persons who are quali昀椀ed to be 
appointed in senior management in accordance 
with criteria laid down, recommending to the 
Board their appointment and removal;
• 
Formulating criteria for evaluation of performance 
of Independent Directors and the Board, whether 
to extend or continue the term of appointment 
of the Independent Director, on the basis of the 
report of performance evaluation of Independent 
Directors;
• 
Devising a policy on Board diversity;
• 
Recommending to the Board a policy relating to 
remuneration for the directors, KMP and other 
employees;
• 
Recommending to the Board, all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to executive directors and 
senior management;
• 
Framing/ modifying the Employees Stock Options 
Scheme and recommend granting of stock options 
to the employees and executive directors of the 
Company and the group companies;
• 
For every appointment of an independent director, 
to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and on the basis of 
such evaluation, to prepare a description of the 
role and capabilities required by an independent 
director. The person recommended to the Board 
for appointment as an independent director shall 
have the capabilities identi昀椀ed in such description.
 
Performance Evaluation
 
Your Company has in place a Board evaluation 
framework setting out the process and the criteria 
for performance evaluation, as approved by the NRC, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the 
Listing Regulations. A structured questionnaire for 
evaluating performance of Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors was prepared after taking 
into consideration the parameters as per the Listing 
Regulations. As regards Managing Director & Global 
CEO, NRC evaluates the performance of Managing 
Director based on deliverables laid out as per Annual 
Operating Plan. Based on the recommendations 
of NRC, the Board evaluates the performance of 
Managing Director. 
 
NRC has laid down the following criteria for 
performance evaluation of Non-Executive Directors:
• 
Quality of and regularity in participation in 
meetings and devotion of time to matters of the 
Company;
• 
Strategic direction, inputs, advice and contribution 
for long term stability and sustenance of the 
Company;
• 
Contribution to Board deliberations using their 
knowledge, skill, experience and expertise in 
relation to the business of the Company, industry, 
international, 
昀椀nancial/investment 
banking, 
domestic/ global market and regulatory and other 
environment and its practical application towards 
the growth of the Company;
• 
Contribution towards accounting, 昀椀nance, tax 
matters, general management practices, matters 
of international relevance;
• 
Level of commitment towards compliance of legal 
requirements, codes of conduct and corporate 
ethics and values;
• 
Working relationships with other Board members 
and senior management and the Director’s ability 
to communicate with and listen to others, within 
and outside the Board;
• 
Sensitivity towards the shareholders’ wealth and 
interest of the Company’s customers, suppliers, 
employees and partners; and
• 
Ability to analyse and review the performance of 
the management on behalf of and in the interest of 
the stakeholders and to give concrete suggestions 
for course corrections.
d. 
Risk Management Committee
 
Risk Management Committee (RMC) has been 
constituted in line with the provisions of Regulation 21 
of the Listing Regulations.
 
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met twice (2) times 
on the following dates, July 26, 2023 and January 15, 
2024.
 
Composition of RMC and details of meetings held & attended during the year:
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Chairman
2
1
1
Mr. Thompson Gnanam^
Managing Director & Global CEO
Member
2
1
-
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive Director
Member
2
-
1
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Independent Director
Member
2
1
1
Mr. Harish Shenoy
Chief Risk Of昀椀cer
Member
2
1
1
 
^ Ceased to be the member w.e.f. May 29, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
72
 
RMC comprises of both members of the Board and 
senior executives of the Company. The Chairman of the 
Committee is an independent Director. Majority of the 
Committee members are members of the Board. Two 
of the Committee members are Independent Directors. 
The Chief Financial Of昀椀cer is the permanent invitee to 
the meetings of RMC. The Company Secretary acts as 
the Secretary to RMC.
 
Terms of reference of the Committee (laid out as per 
the guidelines set out in the Listing Regulations)
• 
Formulating a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
a) 
The framework for identi昀椀cation of internal 
and external risks speci昀椀cally faced by 
the 
Company, 
in 
particular, 
including 
昀椀nancial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly ESG related risks), information, 
cyber security risks or any other risk as may 
be determined by the Committee;
b) 
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control of 
identi昀椀ed risks; and
c) 
Business continuity plan;
• 
Ensuring 
that 
appropriate 
methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor 
and evaluate risks associated with business of 
the Company;
• 
Monitoring and overseeing implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
• 
Periodically reviewing the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, considering 
the changing industry dynamics and evolving 
complexity;
• 
Keeping the Board of Directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken; and
• 
Reviewing appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Of昀椀cer (if any).
e. 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee
 
As required under Section 135 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Company, 
at its meeting held on May 2, 2014, constituted CSR 
Committee towards looking into the CSR initiatives 
of the Company. The Company has not spent any 
amount on CSR activities for FY 2023-24 in view of 
losses incurred as per provisions of the Act. During 
the year under review, no meeting of CSR Committee 
was held.
 
Composition of CSR during the year 
Name of the 
Director
Category
Position
Mr. Ashok Shah*
Independent 
Director
Chairman
Ms. Zohra Chatterji$
Independent 
Director
Chairperson
Mr. Thompson 
Gnanam** 
Managing Director 
& Global CEO
Member
Dr. Aruna Sharma#
Non-Executive 
Director
Member
Mr. Sriram 
Venkataramanan***
Non-Executive 
Director 
Chairman
 
* Ceased to be Chairman and member w.e.f. December 
10, 2023.
 
$ designated as Chairperson w.e.f. January 31, 2024.
 
** Ceased to be member w.e.f. May 29, 2024.
 
# Appointed as member w.e.f. December 20, 2023.
 
*** Ceased to be a Chairman w,e,f, January 26, 2024 
 
Terms of reference of the Committee (laid out as per 
the Companies Act, 2013)
• 
Considering and formulating the Company’s value 
and strategy with regard to CSR, developing 
and reviewing the Company’s CSR policies and 
recommending the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on activities indicated in the said CSR 
policy;
• 
Identifying CSR issues and related risks & 
opportunities 
relevant 
to 
the 
Company’s 
operations and incorporating the issues or factors 
into the Company’s existing risk management;
• 
Monitoring and overseeing implementation of the 
Company’s CSR policy to ensure compliance with 
the applicable legal and regulatory requirements;
• 
Evaluating and enhancing the Company’s CSR 
performance and making recommendation to the 
Board for improvement;
• 
Reviewing and endorsing the Company’s annual 
CSR report for the Board’s approval for public 
disclosure; and
• 
Monitoring CSR Policy of the Company from time 
to time.
f. 
Investment Committee
 
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 
31, 2024, has constituted its investment committee, for 
review of investments and divestments decisions and 
recommending the same to the Board.
 
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met once on the 
January 31, 2024. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
73
 
Composition of Investment Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the year:
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Independent Director
Chairman
1
1
-
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Member
1
1
-
Mr. Thompson Gnanam*
Managing Director and Global CEO
Member
1
1
-
Mr. Uttam Jhunjhunwala^
Global Head Corporate Strategy
Member
1
1
-
Mrs. Varika Rastogi
Company Secretary and Head – Legal
Member
1
1
-
 
* Mr. Thompson Gnanam ceased to be member w.e.f. May 29, 2024.
 
^Mr. Uttam Jhunjhunwala ceased to be member w.e.f. July 01, 2024.
g. 
Products Innovation Sub-Committee
 
The Board of Directors, on December 20, 2023, has constituted its Products Innovation Sub-Committee. During 
FY 2023-24, the Committee met once on the February 13, 2024. 
 
Composition of Products Innovation Sub-Committee and details of meetings held & attended during the year
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Independent Director
Chairperson
1
1
-
Mr. Umesh Mehta$
Non-Executive Director
Member
-
-
-
Mr. Thompson Gnanam*
Managing Director and Global CEO
Member
1
1
-
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Member
1
1
-
 
* Mr. Thompson Gnanam ceased to be members w.e.f. April 1, 2024.
 
$ Mr. Umesh Mehta was appointed as member w.e.f. April 1, 2024.
h. 
Sub-committee on Legacy Matters
 
The Audit Committee at its meeting held on September 22, 2022, has constituted its sub-committee, for dealing with 
legacy matters.
 
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met eight (8) times on the following dates, April 28, 2023, July 26, 2023, September 
04, 2023, October 30, 2023, November 07, 2023, January 10, 2024, January 25, 2024 and March 11, 2024. 
 
Composition of Sub-committee during the year and details of meetings held & attended
Name of the Director
Category
Position
Number of Meetings
Held
Attended
Physical
Virtual
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Independent Director
Chairman
8
8
-
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Member
8
7
1
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Member
8
8
-
 
Terms of reference of the Committee
i. 
To review comprehensively all legacy matters for parent entity and subsidiary companies and prepare action plan for 
resolution of the same;
ii. 
To review all the pending taxation related matters for parent entity and subsidiary companies and prepare action 
plan for resolution of the same;
iii. 
To review any other matter as may be required by the Audit Committee, from time to time; and
iv. 
To investigate legacy matters/ any activity within its terms of reference, seek information from any employee including 
past employee and obtain outside legal or accounting related professional advice, if it considers necessary.
Annual Report 2023-24
74
III. Senior Management
As on March 31, 2024, followings are the Senior 
Management Personnel:
• 
Mr. Harish Shenoy- Chief Operating Of昀椀cer Professional 
Services & Chief Risk Of昀椀cer (KMP)
• 
Mr. Sanjay Rawa- Chief Financial Of昀椀cer (KMP)
• 
Mrs. Varika Rastogi- Company Secretary and Head –
Legal (KMP)
• 
Mr. Sax Krishna- Chief Operating Of昀椀cer – Value 
Business (Ceased on March 31, 2024)
• 
Mr. Sushant Purushan- Chief Revenue Of昀椀cer – 
Enterprise Services (Ceased on April 15, 2024) 
Mr. Mohan TS ceased to be the Chief Human Resource 
Of昀椀cer effective from February 09, 2024. 
IV. Remuneration of the Directors
The Company has formulated a policy for ascertaining 
remuneration payable to Directors, KMPs and other Senior 
Management Personnel. While 昀椀xing the remuneration of 
Directors, Senior Management and KMPs, the Company 
considers industry benchmarks, quali昀椀cation of the 
appointee(s), their experience and other relevant factors. The 
detailed policy pertaining to remuneration of Directors, KMPs 
and other Senior Management Personnel is available on the 
Company’s website at the following link: https://www.3i-
infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2020/11/
Policy-on-Remuneration-of-Directors-KMP-other-
employees.pdf. 
Pecuniary Relationship or Transactions with Non- 
Executive Directors and criteria of making payments to 
Non-Executive Directors 
During FY 2023-24, the Company did not pay remuneration 
by way of commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company. 
During the year under review, there were no pecuniary 
relationships or transactions entered into between the 
Company and any of its Non-Executive/ Independent 
Directors, apart from payment of sitting fees for attending 
the Board and Committee meetings.
Details of sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors 
during FY 2023-24 are stated below.
Name of the Non-Executive Director
Sitting Fees (in `)
Mr. Ashok Shah
11,20,000
Dr. Aruna Sharma
17,00,000
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
32,00,000
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan
9,00,000
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
29,60,000
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
19,80,000
Mr. Umesh Mehta*
NIL
Total
1,18,60,000
*Appointed w.e.f. March 22, 2024.
Disclosures with respect to remuneration paid to the Managing Director & Global CEO
Mr. Thompson Gnanam was appointed as the Managing Director & Global CEO of the Company w.e.f. April 01, 2021 and 
ceased the of昀椀ce w.e.f. May 31, 2024. 
During the year under review, the Company has paid remuneration to its Managing Director & Global CEO, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and rules made thereunder. Relevant details of 
remuneration paid during the FY 2023-24 are as follows: 
(Amount in `)
Name of the Director
Basic Salary, 
allowances 
Performance 
Incentive paid 
for the FY 
2022-23
Perquisites
Perquisites due 
to exercise of 
employee stock 
options
Contribution to 
Provident Fund
Total
Mr. Thompson Gnanam
1,64,78,400 
85,00,000
9,63,818
34,95,250
21,600
2,94,59,068
During the FY 2023-24, Managing Director has not received any remuneration or commission from any of subsidiaries of the 
Company. 
Service contracts, notice period, severance fees
Mr. Thompson Gnanam was appointed as Managing Director & Global CEO for a period of 昀椀ve years with effect from April 
01, 2021. He may resign by serving six months’ prior written notice to the Company. The Company may as well terminate 
employment by serving six months’ prior written notice. 
Mr. Thompson Gnanam vide letter dated March 31, 2024, tendered his resignation from his of昀椀ce as Managing Director & 
Global CEO effective from May 31, 2024. Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on April 1, 2024, accepted his 
resignation and he has been relieved from his roles and responsibilities at the Company from May 31, 2024. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
75
Number of stock options & Vesting Schedule
During the FY 2023-24, Mr. Thompson Gnanam, Managing Director & Global CEO, was not granted any stock options.
During the FY 2021-22, Mr. Thompson Gnanam, Managing Director & Global CEO, was granted 75,00,000 stock options 
on May 17, 2021 under Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018 (“ESOS 2018”) of the Company. Pursuant to the Scheme of 
Arrangement (“Scheme”) implemented, these stock options have been adjusted to 7,50,000 on August 31, 2021 (Record 
Date for the Scheme). The stock options granted under ESOS 2018 vest in a graded manner over a period of three years with 
33%, 33% and 34% of the grants vesting in each year, commencing from one year after the date of the grant at a face value 
of ` 10 (ten) each. Options can be exercised within 5 (昀椀ve) years from the date of vesting.
During the year, Mr. Thompson Gnanam has exercised 1,55,000 shares under ESOS 2018 and the same has been allotted on 
August 25, 2023.
None of the other Directors holds any shares, convertible instruments or stock options in the Company as on March 31, 2024, 
except as disclosed above.
V. General Body Meetings
a) 
Details of last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs)
Financial Year
Date and Time
Venue
Special Resolutions passed
FY 2022-23
September 25, 2023 
at 11:30 a.m. 
Through video conferencing and other 
audio-visual means
No special resolutions were passed.
FY 2021-22
September 22, 2022 
11:30 a.m.
Through video conferencing and other 
audio-visual means
No special resolutions were passed.
FY 2020-21
December 15, 2021 
2:00 p.m.
Through video conferencing and other 
audio-visual means
No special resolutions were passed.
b) 
Details of Extraordinary General Meetings held during the last three years
 
No Extraordinary General Meetings were held during the last three years.
c) 
Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot, the person who conducted postal ballot exercise and details of voting 
pattern
 
During FY 2023-24 and till the date of this Corporate Governance Report, the Company sought approval of the Members 
by way of Postal Ballot pursuant to Section 110 of the Act read with the rules made thereunder on two occasions, the 
details of which are given below:
Date 
of the 
Notice
Last date for 
receipt of 
Postal Ballot 
Forms
Date of 
declaration 
of Result
Name of the 
Scrutiniser
Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot
Type of 
Resolution
May 06, 
2023
June 25, 
2023
June 26, 
2023
Mr. Atul Mehta, 
Partner,  
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, 
Practicing Company 
Secretaries
Approval of “3i Infotech Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023”
Special 
Resolution
Approval of “3i Infotech Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023” for Eligible Employees of 
Subsidiary Companies of the Company
Special 
Resolution
May 11, 
2024
June 15, 
2024
June 18, 
2024
Mr. Prakash Shenoy, 
Partner,  
M/s. SAP & 
Associates, 
Practicing Company 
Secretaries
Appointment of Mr. Umesh Mehta as a Non-
Executive Director of the Company, liable to 
retire by rotation
Ordinary 
Resolution
Appointment of Dr. Madan Bhalchandra 
Gosavi as an Independent Director of the 
Company to hold of昀椀ce for the 昀椀rst term of 昀椀ve 
consecutive years with effect from May 12, 
2024 to May 11, 2029
Special 
Resolution
Approval for payment of remuneration to Mr. 
Thompson Gnanam as the Managing Director 
and Global Chief Executive Of昀椀cer, for the 
period of two months from April 1, 2024 to 
May 31, 2024
Special 
Resolution
Annual Report 2023-24
76
Pursuant to Section 110 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with rules made thereunder, notice of the Postal Ballot was 
sent in electronic form to all those shareholders whose email ids were registered with their Depository Participants (DPs) 
and published in the newspapers. Results of the Postal Ballot were displayed at the registered of昀椀ce of the Company 
and on its website.
Particulars
Number of 
Shares held
Number 
of Votes 
polled
% of Votes 
polled on 
outstanding 
shares
Number of 
Votes- in 
favour
Number 
of Votes 
against
% of 
Votes in 
favour 
on votes 
polled
% of 
Votes 
against 
on votes 
polled
Postal Ballot passed on June 25, 2023
Approval of “3i Infotech 
Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2023”
16,84,66,042 2,25,20,511
13.37
2,02,10,107
23,10,404
89.74
10.26
Approval of “3i Infotech 
Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2023” for Eligible 
Employees of Subsidiary 
Companies of the 
Company
16,84,66,042 2,25,17,442
13.37
2,02,26,557
22,90,885
89.83
10.17
Postal Ballot passed on June 15, 2024
Appointment of Mr. Umesh 
Mehta as a Non-Executive 
Director
16,92,30,842 2,62,23,968
15.50
2,61,79,373
44,595
99.83
0.17
Appointment of Dr. Madan 
Bhalchandra Gosavi as an 
Independent Director
16,92,30,842 2,62,23,805
15.50
2,61,48,887
74,918
99.71
0.29
Approval for payment of 
remuneration to  
Mr. Thompson Gnanam 
as the Managing Director 
and Global Chief Executive 
Of昀椀cer, for the period of 
two months from April 1, 
2024 to May 31, 2024
16,92,30,842 2,62,23,734
15.50
2,56,83,172
5,40,562
97.94
2.06
VI. Policies, Af昀椀rmations and Disclosures
a) 
Related Party Transactions
 
During the year under review, all the contracts or arrangements entered into with related parties as de昀椀ned in the 
Companies Act, 2013 and as per Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations have been on an arm’s length basis and in the 
ordinary course of business. There were no materially signi昀椀cant related party transactions during the FY 2023-24. The 
details of related party transactions have been disclosed in the notes forming part of the 昀椀nancial statements in the 
Annual Report. A summary statement of related party transactions in ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length 
basis is placed before the Audit Committee for review, on a quarterly basis.
 
The Board has approved a policy on dealing with related party transactions which has been uploaded on the Company’s 
website at the following link: Policy-on-Materiality-of-Related-Party-Transactions-and-Policy-on-Dealing-with-
Related-Party-Transactions-1.pdf.
b) 
Details of non-compliance, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or 
any Statutory Authority, on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years
No penalties or strictures (except below) were imposed on the Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any other 
Statutory Authority on any matters relating to capital markets during the last three years.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
77
c) 
Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism
 
The Company has put in place a Whistle Blower Policy 
and has established the necessary vigil mechanism, to 
enable the employees and Directors to report concerns 
about unethical behaviour. 
 
Under this policy, employees and Directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries are free to communicate 
any matters of concern in the areas of accounts, 
昀椀nance, management, operations, employment and 
other affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and 
discuss the same in terms of this policy. No employee 
has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee with regard to above.
 
The Whistle Blower Policy is posted on the 
website of the Company in the Investors’ section 
at 
the 
weblink: 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-
content/uploads/2023/05/Whistle-Blower-Policy-
revised-04.05.23.pdf 
d) 
Details of compliance with mandatory requirements 
and 
adoption 
of 
non-mandatory 
Corporate 
Governance requirements mentioned in the Listing 
Regulations
 
The Company has complied with corporate governance 
requirements speci昀椀ed in Regulations 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
of the Listing Regulations and necessary disclosures 
have been made in this Corporate Governance Report. 
 
The Company has adopted the following discretionary 
requirements as set out in Part E of Schedule II to the 
Listing Regulations:
i. 
Shareholders’ rights
 
The Company’s quarterly, half-yearly and annual 
昀椀nancial results are published in the newspapers 
having wide circulation in regional language as 
well English language. Financial Results along 
with the press releases are made available on 
website of the Company in the Investors’ section at 
this link: https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/. 
The Company also holds the Earnings Call every 
quarter after declaration of 昀椀nancial results and 
answers the questions raised by the participants. 
The earning call on 昀椀nancial results for the quarter 
and year ended March 31, 2024 was not held, 
due to vacancy in the of昀椀ce of Managing Director 
and Global CEO.
 
Audio-video recordings as well transcripts of 
these quarterly earnings calls are also made 
available on the Company’s website. Considering 
wider dissemination through website uploads 
and newspaper publications, separate half-yearly 
昀椀nancial performance report has not been sent to 
each shareholder in this regard. 
ii. 
Separate posts of Chairman and CEO
 
The Company has appointed separate persons 
to the posts of the Chairman and the CEO. The 
Chairman, CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal is a Non-
Executive Independent Director and is not related 
to CEO of the Company.
iii. 
Reporting of Internal Auditor
 
The Internal Auditor reports to the Audit 
Committee, 
attends 
the 
Audit 
Committee 
meetings and interacts with the Audit Committee 
members.
e) 
Familiarisation Programme
 
A Director, on being inducted to the Board, is 
familiarised with the Company’s Corporate Pro昀椀le, 
Product Offerings, Code of Conduct for Directors 
and Senior Management and Code of Conduct for 
prevention of Insider Training. Details of familiarisation 
programme are available on the Company’s website 
at the link: https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/Familiarisation-programee-for-
independent-directors.pdf 
f) 
Material subsidiaries of the Company
 
Based on the criteria laid out in Regulation 16(1) (c) of 
the Listing Regulations and considering consolidated 
昀椀nancial statements of the Company for the 昀椀nancial 
year ended March 31, 2023, the Company had 5 (昀椀ve) 
material subsidiaries, namely (i) 3i Infotech Inc., USA; 
(ii) 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius; (iii) 
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC; (iv) 3i Infotech Digital 
BPS Limited and (v) 3i infotech Consultancy Services 
Limited. As per the consolidated 昀椀nancial statements 
of the Company for the 昀椀nancial year ended March 31, 
2024, the Company had 4 (Four) material subsidiaries, 
namely (i) 3i Infotech Inc.; (ii) 3i Infotech SDN BHD 
(iii) 3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited and (iv) 3i infotech 
Consultancy Services Limited. 
 
However, as per threshold limits speci昀椀ed under 
Regulation 24(1) of the Listing Regulations, the 
Company has 1 (one) material subsidiary. The 
Company has appointed one Independent Director of 
the Company, on the Board of this material subsidiary 
of the Company.
 
Policy 
for 
determining 
material 
subsidiaries 
is 
available on the Company’s website at the link: 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/
downloads/2016/03/Policy-fordetermining-‘Material-
Subsidiaries’.pdf 
Annual Report 2023-24
78
 
Details of the material subsidiaries of the Company
Name of material 
Subsidiary 
Date of 
incorporation
Place of 
Incorporation
Name of Statutory Auditor
Date of Appointment of 
the Statutory Auditor
3i Infotech Inc.
January 07, 2000
USA
VBC & Co., USA (Formerly 
known as L. Shanti Kumar & Co.)
January 07, 2000
3i Infotech SDN BHD
September 26, 2002
Malaysia
Raki CS Tan & Ramanan
December 19, 2019
3i Infotech Digital 
BPS Limited
March 12, 1990
India
GMJ & Co.
September 30, 2016
3i Infotech 
Consultancy Services 
Limited
November 30, 2007
India
GMJ & Co.
September 30, 2016
g) 
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and 
hedging activities
 
The Company does not deal in commodities and 
hence, the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 
November 15, 2018 is not required to be given for 
commodity hedging activities.
h) 
Details of utilisation of funds raised through 
Preferential 
Allotment/ 
Quali昀椀ed 
Institutional 
Placement
 
During FY 2023-24, the Company has not raised funds 
through preferential allotment of shares or quali昀椀ed 
institutional placement except from its employees 
upon exercise of stock options granted to them under 
ongoing employee stock option schemes.
i) 
Certi昀椀cate from Practicing Company Secretary as 
regards non-disquali昀椀cation of Directors
 
The certi昀椀cate from M/s. SAP & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, has been obtained by the 
Company and the same is appended herewith as 
Annexure I-A to this Corporate Governance Report.
j) 
Disclosure 
pertaining 
to 
Committees’ 
Recommendations
 
During 
FY 
2023-24, 
there 
were 
no 
such 
recommendations made by any Committee of the 
Board that were mandatorily required and not accepted 
by the Board.
k) 
Management Discussion & Analysis
 
Management Discussion and Analysis section forms 
part of the Annual Report and is annexed elsewhere in 
the Annual Report.
l) 
Total Fees paid or payable to Statutory Auditors for 
FY 2023-24
 
During the year under review, total fees of 
` 50,00,000/- paid or payable by the Company and 
its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to M/s. GMJ 
& Co., Chartered Accountants, Statutory Auditor, for 
providing audit and other services.
m) Disclosure in relation to Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013:
 
The Company has in place a policy aiming at prevention 
of sexual harassment at all workplaces of the Company 
in line with the requirements of Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. 
Internal Complaints Committee has been constituted to 
consider and redress complaints received with respect 
to sexual harassment. Details of complaints received 
and disposed of during FY 2023-24 are mentioned 
below.
Number of Complaints
No. of cases
Pending as on April 01, 2023
NIL
Filed during the FY 2023-24
0
Disposed off during the FY 2023-24
0
Pending as on March 31, 2024
NIL
n) 
Loans and advances in the nature of loans granted 
by the Company and its subsidiaries to 昀椀rms/ 
companies in which directors are interested
 
During FY 2023-24, the Company and its subsidiaries 
have not granted any loans or advances in the nature 
of loans to 昀椀rms/ companies in which Directors are 
interested.
o) 
Compliance Certi昀椀cate on Corporate Governance
 
Certi昀椀cate on compliance of conditions of corporate 
governance issued by M/s. SAP & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, as stipulated under Schedule V 
of the Listing Regulations is annexed to this report as 
Annexure I-B.
VII. Means of Communication with Members
Quarterly, half-yearly and annual 昀椀nancial results as 
well as notice of Postal Ballot and AGM are published in 
The Financial Express (English) and Mumbai Lakshdeep 
(Marathi) newspapers. These 昀椀nancial results along with 
press releases are posted on the website of the Company at 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/newspaper-advertisements/. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
79
Information relating to shareholding pattern is also promptly 
made available over the website.
Presentations to the institutional investors or analysts and 
transcript of earnings call are displayed on the Company’s 
website at https://www.3i-infotech.com/investor-meet/.
The Company has an Investor Relations cell to address the 
grievances/ queries of the shareholders. In order to enable 
shareholders to raise queries and grievances, the Company 
has a designated email ID: investors@3i-infotech.com.
VIII. General Shareholder Information
a) 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Day and Date
Time
Venue
Monday, 
September 
30, 2024
11:30 
AM (IST)
Through video 
conferencing/ other audio-
visual means
b) 
Financial Year and tentative calendar
 
The Company follows April to March as the 昀椀nancial 
year.
Quarter ended
Tentative 
Date 
of 
Board 
meeting for Financial Results
June 30, 2024
August 14, 2024
September 30, 2024 On of before November 14, 2024
December 31, 2024
On or before February 14, 2025
March 31, 2025
On or before May 30, 2025
c) 
Date of Book Closure for the purpose of AGM
 
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 to Monday, September 
30, 2024 (both days inclusive). 
d) 
Dividend Payment date: Not Applicable
e) 
Listing on Stock Exchanges and payment of Listing Fees:
 
Equity shares of the Company are listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE). 
Annual listing fees for FY 2023-24 have been paid to both these stock exchanges within due time.
f) 
Stock Codes and International Securities Identi昀椀cation Number (ISIN)
Stock Exchange
NSE
BSE
Stock Code/ Symbol
3IINFOLTD
532628
Permanent ISIN in NSDL and CDSL for credit of shares upon 
receipt of trading approvals from exchanges
INE748C01038
g) 
Stock Market Price Data
 
Monthly high & low prices and trading volume for FY 2023-24:
Month
NSE
BSE
Total
High 
Low 
Trade 
Quantity
High 
Low 
Trade 
Quantity
Quantity 
Trade
Apr-23
36.90
27.25
11509984
36.88
27.50
2320050
13830034
May-23
37.30
30.70
10036589
37.30
30.82
2403712
12440301
Jun-23
38.20
31.10
16581834
38.20
31.10
2543941
19125775
Jul-23
36.80
32.25
16165612
36.66
32.30
2884498
19050110
Aug-23
35.80
31.50
10881824
35.74
31.55
2429280
13311104
Sep-23
44.45
32.50
54023602
44.48
32.60
8172121
62195723
Oct-23
43.20
34.65
15630391
43.14
34.62
2296741
17927132
Nov-23
50.95
35.20
76356145
50.87
35.20
9621348
85977493
Dec-23
51.90
42.70
54642318
51.95
42.65
7220054
61862372
Jan-24
63.90
49.20
95540900
63.90
49.26
14098944
109639844
Feb-24
61.20
44.85
54059891
61.11
45.52
7714147
61774038
Mar-24
50.20
38.55
29511490
50.25
38.59
5182077
34693567
 
Source: BSE Limited (www.bseindia.com) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (www.nseindia.com).
Annual Report 2023-24
80
h) 
3i Infotech share prices versus 
 
a. 
Performance of the share price (NSE) of the Company in comparison to the NIFTY 50
 
b. 
Performance of the share price (BSE) of the Company in comparison to the BSE Sensex
i. 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
 
The Company is a SEBI registered, Category I Share 
Transfer Agent and handles all Registrar and Transfer 
Agents’ work in-house. The Company has adequate 
infrastructure to enable service its shareholders.
j. 
Share transfer system
 
SEBI has mandated that, effective April 01, 2019, no 
shares can be transferred in physical mode. Hence, the 
Company has stopped accepting any fresh lodgement 
of transfer of shares in physical form. Trading in 
equity shares of the Company is permitted only in 
dematerialised form. In case of shares in electronic 
form, transfers are effected by depositories viz. NSDL 
and CDSL.
k. 
Dematerialisation of shares and liquidity
 
Trading in the Company’s shares is permitted only in 
dematerialised form. The Company has established 
connectivity with both the depositories viz. NSDL and 
CDSL through its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, 
whereby the investors have the option to dematerialise 
their shares with either of the depositories.
 
The Company obtains a certi昀椀cate from a Practicing 
Company Secretary every quarter, which con昀椀rms that 
total issued capital of the Company tallies with total 
number of shares in dematerialised form with NSDL 
and CDSL and shares in physical form.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
81
 
Shares held in dematerialised and physical form as on March 31, 2024 are as follows:
Physical
Electronic
Total no. of 
shares
No. of shares
% to total no. 
of shares
NSDL
CDSL
No. of shares
% to total no. 
of shares
No. of shares
% to total no. 
of shares
6,60,674
0.39
10,00,28,390
59.11
6,85,41,778
40.50
16,92,30,842
l. 
Distribution of Holdings as on March 31, 2024
Shareholding of nominal value of (`)
Shareholders
Share Amount
Number
%
`
%
Upto 5000 
2,47,870
89.09
2,06,53,319
12.20
5001-10000 
14,304
5.14
1,14,12,978
6.74
10001-20000 
7,642
2.75
1,15,17,500
6.81
20001-30000 
2,736
0.98
69,94,775
4.13
30001-40000 
1,259
0.45
44,91,091
2.65
40001-50000 
1,133
0.41
53,59,796
3.17
50001-100000 
1,820
0.65
1,34,76,413
7.96
100001 and above 
1,463
0.53
9,53,24,970
56.33
Total 
2,78,227
100
16,92,30,842
100
 
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2024
Category
Shares
Percentage (%)
Promoter
0
0
Government Financial Institutions, Banks and NBFCs Registered with RBI
1,71,92,827
10.16
Financial Institutional Investors (FIIs) 
15,92,506
0.94
Foreign Banks, Foreign Companies and Bodies Corporates (Indian/Overseas)
88,01,674
5.20
Non-Residents 
73,82,269
4.36
Resident Indians
13,42,27,378
79.32
Investors’ Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
34,188
0.02
Total
16,92,30,842
100
Number of Shareholders
2,78,227
 
Top 10 equity shareholders of the Company as on March 31, 2024
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Shareholder
Number of equity shares held
Percentage of holding
1
SREI MULTIPLE ASSET INVESTMENT TRUST
1,76,52,011
10.43
2
INDIAN BANK
49,49,167
2.92
3
CANARA BANK
49,16,922
2.91
4
BANK OF INDIA
21,51,320
1.27
5
VIJIT GLOBAL SECURITIES PRIVATE LIMITED
23,36,744
1.38
6
HDFC BANK LIMITED
15,89,581
0.94
7
TATA CAPITAL LIMITED
15,19,007
0.90
8
STATE BANK OF INDIA
8,86,437
0.52
9
ASHOK BATRA
7,70,807
0.46
10
LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA
7,45,742
0.44
TOTAL
3,75,17,738
22.17
m. 
Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity
 
As on March 31, 2024, there are no outstanding GDRs/ ADRs, warrants or any convertible instruments in the Company.
Annual Report 2023-24
82
n. 
Unclaimed Shares lying in Demat Suspense Account
As per the requirements of Regulation 39 read with 
Schedule VI of the Listing Regulations, the Company 
maintains a separate demat suspense account for the 
purpose of holding unclaimed shares.
Details of shares held in the demat suspense account 
as on March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Number of 
Shareholders
Number  
of Shares*
Aggregate 
number 
of 
shareholders 
and 
the 
outstanding shares in the 
suspense account as on 
April 1, 2023
4
52
Number of shareholders 
who 
approached 
the 
Company for transfer of 
shares 
from 
suspense 
account during the year 
-
-
Number of holders to 
whom 
shares 
were 
transferred from suspense 
account during the year 
-
-
Aggregate 
number 
of 
shareholders 
and 
the 
outstanding shares lying 
in suspense account as on 
March 31, 2024
4
52
*After giving effect of the Scheme of Arrangement 
between the Company and its Shareholders under 
Sections 230 to 232 of the Act implemented in 2021.
The voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen 
till the rightful owner of such shares claims the same.
o. 
Disclosure of Agreements binding the listed entity
 
There are no such agreements in respect of information 
disclosed under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of 
Schedule III of the Listing Regulations and hence not 
applicable.
p. 
Transfer to IEPF
 
As per the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”) and amendments made 
thereunder, the Company was required to 昀椀le with 
the Registrar of Companies, the details of unclaimed/ 
unpaid dividend lying with the Company which would 
be transferred to the IEPF after a period of seven years 
of its declaration and to display the details on the 
website of the Company. Accordingly, the details of 
unclaimed/ unpaid dividend were 昀椀led and were also 
displayed on the website of the Company.
 
The Company has not declared dividend on its equity 
shares after 昀椀nancial year 2010-11 and all the 
unclaimed dividend till 昀椀nancial year 2010-11 has 
been transferred to IEPF as required by the IEPF Rules.
 
The Company has also transferred all those shares in 
respect of which dividend has not been claimed/paid 
for seven consecutive years, as per the provisions of 
Section 124(6) of the Act read with Rules 6 and 8 of 
IEPF Rules.
q. 
Credit ratings
 
In July 2021, CRISIL had reaf昀椀rmed the rating at ‘CRISIL 
BBB-’ while assigning a ‘Stable’ outlook. Similarly, one 
of the other rating agencies, CARE had also reaf昀椀rmed 
rating of the Company as “CARE BBB-; Stable” (Triple 
B Minus; Outlook: Stable) in September 2021.
 
However, in September 2022, both CRISIL and CARE 
had withdrawn the said ratings as the long-term loans 
were repaid and no dues were outstanding.
r. 
Delivery Centres
 
As the Company is engaged in Information Technology 
industry, it does not have any plant. The Company 
operates from various of昀椀ces in India and abroad. 
Details of location of of昀椀ces have been provided 
elsewhere in the Annual Report.
s. 
Address for correspondence 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER
Company Secretary & Compliance Of昀椀cer 3i Infotech 
Limited
(CIN: L67120MH1993PLC074411)
Tower # 5, International Park,
Vashi Railway Station Commercial Complex, Vashi, Navi 
Mumbai 400 703, Maharashtra (India)
Ph: +91 22 7123 8000
Email: investors@3i-infotech.com
SHARE DEPARTMENT
3i Infotech Limited
Tower # 5, 3rd Floor,
International Infotech Park
Vashi Railway Station Commercial Complex
Vashi, Navi Mumbai 400 703
Maharashtra (India)
Ph: (91-22) 7123 8035/8034 
Email: investors@3i-infotech.com 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
83
Annexure I-A
To, 
The Members of 
3i Infotech Limited 
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park, 
Vashi Station Complex, Navi Mumbai 400703. 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 3i Infotech 
Limited having CIN:L67120MH1993PLC074411 (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) having its registered of昀椀ce at 
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park, Vashi Station Complex, Navi Mumbai 400703, produced before us by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this Certi昀椀cate, in accordance with Regulation 34 (3) read with Schedule V Para-C, clause 10 (i) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the veri昀椀cations [including veri昀椀cation of Directors Identi昀椀cation 
Number (DIN) status as per the portal of Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) i.e. www.mca.gov.in as considered necessary and 
explanations furnished to us by the Company & its of昀椀cers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company as stated below, for the 昀椀nancial year ending on March 31, 2024 have been debarred or disquali昀椀ed from being 
appointed or continuing to act as Director of the Company by Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India or by any such other statutory regulatory authority:-
Sr. No.
DIN
Name of the Director 
Designation
Date of Appointment *
1.
00272983
Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Independent Non-Executive Director
March 16, 2022
2.
00418477
Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Non-Executive Director
April 01, 2021
3.
06515361
Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive Director
February 01, 2022
4.
01194846
Ashok Shah**
Independent Non-Executive Director
December 01, 2011
5.
03631606
Sriram Venkataramanan**
Non-Executive Director
January 13, 2022
6.
07865431
Thompson Prashanth Gnanam**
Managing Director
April 01, 2021
7.
09244647
Umesh Mehta
Director
March 22, 2024
8.
01382511
Zohra Chatterji
Independent Non-Executive Director
March 24, 2020
* Dates of appointment of Directors as stated above are based on information appearing on the MCA portal.
** Note:
1. 
Sriram Venkataramanan ceased to be a Non-Executive Director of the Company w.e.f. January 26, 2024 
2. 
Ashok Shah ceased to be an Independent Non-Executive Director of the company w.e.f. December 10, 2023
3. 
Thompson Prashanth Gnanam ceased to be a Managing Director of the company w.e.f. May 31, 2024 (After the Balance 
sheet date). 
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the Management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our veri昀椀cation. We further state that this 
certi昀椀cate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the ef昀椀ciency or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
 
 
SAP & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
[Firm Regn. No. P2020MH079800] 
[PR No.: - 3269/2023]
 
 
Sd/-
Name of the Partner: Vishwanath Kote
ACS No. 60460
Place: Navi Mumbai 
CP No. 22647. 
Date:  August 23, 2024.  
UDIN : A060460F001030550 
Note: Date of approval of this certi昀椀cate is August 14, 2024 and the date of signature by the Practicing Company Secretary is August 23, 2024
CERTIFICATE OF NON- DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10) (i) of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
Annual Report 2023-24
84
Annexure I-B
CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE OF CONDITIONS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To, 
The Members of 
3i Infotech Limited 
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park, 
Vashi Station Complex, 
Navi Mumbai 400703. 
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by 3i Infotech Limited (“the Company”), for 
the 昀椀nancial year ended March 31, 2024, as prescribed in the Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of 
Regulation 46 and paras C, D and E of Schedule V of Chapter IV of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”).
We state that the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company 
and our examination was limited to the review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for 
ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the 
昀椀nancial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company 
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance during the 昀椀nancial year ended March 31, 2024, as stipulated 
in the aforesaid provisions of LODR except the Director’s responsibility statement for the FY 2022-23 was not reviewed by 
the Audit Committee, the Audit Committee had not reviewed the Management Letters/ Management Representation Letters 
(MRL) given by the Management to the Auditors during FY 2023-24 and Mr. Ashok Shah, ex-Chairman of the Company, who 
had resigned from the Board on December 10, 2023 as his re-appointment made in October 2020 as an independent director 
was for the third term, which was in violation of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 25 of LODR. 
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the ef昀椀ciency or the 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
SAP & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
[Firm Regn. No. P2020MH079800] 
[PR No.: - 3269/2023]
 
 
Sd/-
Name of the Partner: Vishwanath Kote
ACS No. 60460
Place: Navi Mumbai 
CP No. 22647. 
Date:  August 23, 2024.  
UDIN : A060460F001030616 
Note: Date of approval of this certi昀椀cate is August 14, 2024 and the date of signature by the Practicing Company Secretary is August 23, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
85
CERTIFICATE FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AS REGARDS COMPLIANCE OF CODE OF CONDUCT FOR THE 
BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
This is to certify that 3i Infotech Limited has put in place the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Senior Management. 
This Code is applicable to all the Directors of the Company and the Members of Senior Management, who are one level below 
the Chief Executive Of昀椀cer, including all the functional heads and Business heads and includes Company Secretary and Chief 
Financial Of昀椀cer. The Directors and Members of Senior Management have af昀椀rmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for 
the Board of Directors and Senior Management for the 昀椀nancial year ended March 31, 2024.
Sd/-
Date: August 14, 2024  
Raj Ahuja 
Place: Navi Mumbai  
Acting Chief Executive Of昀椀cer
CERTIFICATE FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO REGULATION 17(8) 
READ WITH PART B OF SCHEDULE II OF LISTING REGULATIONS
In terms of Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulation 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), we hereby certify as under:
A. 
We have reviewed 昀椀nancial statements and the cash 昀氀ow statement for the year and that to the best of our knowledge 
and belief:
1) 
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
2) 
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B. 
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which 
are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C. 
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for 昀椀nancial reporting and that we have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to 昀椀nancial reporting and we have 
disclosed to the auditors and the audit committee, de昀椀ciencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, 
of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these de昀椀ciencies.
D. 
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit committee:
1) 
signi昀椀cant changes in internal control over 昀椀nancial reporting during the year;
2) 
signi昀椀cant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
昀椀nancial statements; and
3) 
instances of signi昀椀cant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or an employee having a signi昀椀cant role in the Company’s internal control system over 昀椀nancial reporting.
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
Raj Ahuja 
Sanjay Rawa 
Acting Chief Executive Of昀椀cer 
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Date: August 14, 2024 
Place: Navi Mumbai
Annual Report 2023-24
86
ANNEXURE II
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) is the practice of companies disclosing information about their 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. It goes beyond 昀椀nancial reporting to provide stakeholders with 
a comprehensive view of a company’s non-昀椀nancial impacts and contributions to sustainable development. BRSR covers 
topics such as environmental impact, social responsibility, and governance practices, aiming to promote transparency and 
accountability.
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details of the listed entity
Sr. 
No. 
Particulars
FY 2023-2024
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
 L67120MH1993PLC074411
2
Name of the Listed Entity
 3i Infotech Limited
3
Year of incorporation
October 11, 1993
4
Registered of昀椀ce address
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park,
Vashi Station Complex, 
Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400703
5
Corporate address
Tower 2, 6th Floor, E Wing, Seawoods 
Grand Central, Next to Seawoods Darave Railway Station, 
Nerul Node, Seawoods Darave,
Navi Mumbai – 400706
6
E-mail
investors@3i-infotech.com
7
Telephone
+91-22-7123 8000
8
Website
www.3i-infotech.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and 
BSE Limited
11
Paid-up Capital
` 16,92,30,842
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of 
the person who may be contacted in case of any queries 
on the BRSR report
Mrs. Varika Rastogi
Ph: +91-22-7123 8000
Email ID: compliance@3i-infotech.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report 
made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on 
a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities 
which form a part of its consolidated 昀椀nancial statements, 
taken together).
 Standalone basis
14
Name of assurance provider
 Not Applicable
15
Type of assurance obtained
 Not Applicable
II. Products/Services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the Turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Application Automation Analytics 
Application Automation Analytics
31%
2
Business Process Services
Business Process Services 
10%
3
Infrastructure Management Services
Infrastructure Management Services
37%
4
Other information service activities
Others information Service activities
22%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
87
17. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover Contributed
1
Application Automation Analytics 
620
31%
2
Business Process Services
639
10%
3
Infrastructure Management Services
631
37%
4
Other Information Service Activities
639
22%
III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/of昀椀ces of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of of昀椀ces
Total
National
0
23
23
International
0
0
0
9 international locations are represented by subsidiaries of 3i Infotech Limited. 
19. Markets served by the entity:
 
a.  
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
9
International (No. of Countries)
0
International locations in 7 countries are represented by subsidiaries of 3i Infotech Limited.
 
b.  
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
 
 
 
10.43%
 
c.  
A brief on types of customers
Our customers are from a range of diversi昀椀ed industry sectors from across the globe; we also work with the 
government sector in India.
IV. Employees
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
 
a.  
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
1,575
1,227
77.90%
348 
22.10%
2
Other than Permanent (E) 
71
53
74.65%
18
25.35%
3
Total employees (D + E)
1,646
1,280
77.76%
366
22.24%
WORKERS*
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0%
0
0%
5
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
6
Total workers (F + G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
 
 
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
 
b.  
Differently abled Employees and workers:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1 Permanent (D)
2
2
100%
0
0%
2 Other than Permanent (E) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
3 Total differently abled employees (D + E)
2
2
100%
0
0%
Annual Report 2023-24
88
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS*
4 Permanent (F)
0
0
0%
0
0%
5 Other than Permanent (E) 
0
0
0%
0
0%
6 Total differently abled workers (F + G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Differently Abled Workers’ category
21.  Participation/Inclusion/Representation of Women
Particulars
Total
No. and percentage of Females
(A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
6*
2
33.33%
Key Managerial Personnel
4
1
25%
*Includes Managing Directors and Global CEO who is also the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.
22.  Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Particular
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
FY 2021-22
(Turnover rate in  
current FY)
(Turnover rate in  
previous FY)
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
37.50%
52.87%
41.23%
46.96%
65.90%
51.94%
67.93%
63.89%
66.98%
Permanent Workers*
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Permanent Workers’ category.
** For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including those 
of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including Joint Ventures)
23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Holding / Subsidiary / Associate Companies 
/ Joint Ventures
Indicate 
whether 
Holding/
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ 
Joint Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity 
indicated at 
column A, 
participate in 
the Business 
responsibility 
initiatives of the 
listed entity? 
(Yes/No)
 
Foreign Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 1
3i Infotech Inc.
Subsidiary
100%
NO
 2
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
 3
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
Subsidiary
100%
NO
4
3i Infotech Software Solutions LLC 
Subsidiary
100%
NO
5
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
6
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
7
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC
Subsidiary
100%
NO
8
3i Infotech SDN BHD
Subsidiary
100%
NO
9
NuRe Digital SDN BHD
Subsidiary
100%
NO
10
3i Infotech (UK) Limited 
Subsidiary
100%
NO
11
3i Infotech (Western Europe) Holdings Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
12
3i Infotech (Western Europe) Group Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
89
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Holding / Subsidiary / Associate Companies 
/ Joint Ventures
Indicate 
whether 
Holding/
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ 
Joint Venture
% of 
shares 
held by 
listed 
entity
Does the entity 
indicated at 
column A, 
participate in 
the Business 
responsibility 
initiatives of the 
listed entity? 
(Yes/No)
13
Rhyme Systems Limited 
Subsidiary
100%
NO
14
3i Infotech (Cyprus) Limited (formerly 
known as Black-Barret Holdings Limited)
Subsidiary
100%
NO
15
3i Infotech (South Africa) (Pty) Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
16
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
17
3i Infotech (Canada) Inc.
Subsidiary
100%
NO
18
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
19
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
Subsidiary
100%
NO
20
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte. Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
21
NuRe Edge Tech Inc
Subsidiary
100%
NO
22
Process Central Limited
Joint Venture
47.50%
NO
Indian Subsidiaries 
1
3i Infotech Consultancy Services Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
2
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited  
(formerly known as 3i Infotech BPO Limited)
Subsidiary
100%
NO
3
Versares Digital Technology Services Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
4
Professional Access Software Development Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
5
NuRe EdgeTech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
6
NuRe FutureTech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
7
NuRe CampusLabs Private Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
8
NuRe MediaTech Limited 
Subsidiary
100%
NO
9
NuRe Bharat Network Limited
Subsidiary
100%
NO
VI. CSR Details
24. (i)  Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
 
 
No
a.  
Turnover (in `)
3,57,32,99,397.41 
b. 
 Net Worth (in `)
(19,73,44,874.73) 
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 
25. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC):
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No) * 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
昀椀led during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
昀椀led during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
Yes
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Annual Report 2023-24
90
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No) * 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
昀椀led during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
昀椀led during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Shareholders
Yes
9
0
Nil
2
0
Nil
Employees and 
Workers
Yes
3
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
Customers
Yes
1
0
Nil
2
0
Nil
Value Chain Partners
Yes
0
0
Nil
0
0
Nil
 
* Grievance Redressal Mechanism in Place (Yes/No) (If Yes, then provide web-link for grievance redress policy)
Stakeholder group from whom complaint is received
Web Link for Grievance Policy
Communities
Not available
Investors (other than shareholders)
https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/
Shareholders
https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/
Employees and Workers
Available on the Internal Knowledge Management Portal 
of the Company 
Customers
https://www.3i-infotech.com/privacy-policy-2/ 
Value Chain Partners
Not available
Other (please specify)
-
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along-with its 昀椀nancial implications, as per the following format
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identi昀椀ed
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
 1
Customer 
Privacy
R
The Company’s specialized division, 
focused on BPO and Digital BPS 
services, serves a diverse clientele in 
critical domains such as BFSI across 
the global landscape. As a result, 
the Company has access to speci昀椀c 
customer personal data.
1.  Contractual management 
of Con昀椀dential Information
2.  Access controls to such 
designated information
3. Periodic review of the 
processes and controls
Negative
 2
Data Security
R
In light of the increasing frequency 
of cyberattacks, organizations face 
heightened risks related to data 
security. These risks encompass data 
breaches, loss, manipulation, and 
exposure. As the digital landscape 
evolves, 
safeguarding 
sensitive 
information has become paramount. 
Organizations must remain vigilant
1. Ef昀椀cient 
IT 
security 
measures
2. Compliance 
with 
ISO 
standards related to IT 
security 
3. Training, orientation and 
awareness to employees
Negative
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
91
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identi昀椀ed
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
and implement robust measures to 
protect against potential threats to 
their data integrity.
 3
Diversity
O
The organization is dedicated to 
fostering 
an 
inclusive 
workplace 
culture, 
ensuring 
that 
all 
underrepresented 
communities 
have equitable access to upskilling 
opportunities 
and 
empower 
individuals from diverse backgrounds 
to create a more robust workforce.
NA
Positive
 4
Responsible 
AI
O
As 
automation 
and 
arti昀椀cial 
intelligence continue to advance, the 
transformation of existing technologies 
and services becomes increasingly 
inevitable. In this dynamic landscape, 
staying ahead of the curve is essential 
for sustained relevance.
NA
Positive
5
Employee 
Wellbeing
R
Employee wellbeing and satisfaction 
should be crucial, as it impacts the 
productivity, health and creativity of 
the workforce due to longer working 
hours. Poor employee health and 
well-being including mental health 
and posture issues from prolonged 
technology use, can lead to decreased 
productivity, absenteeism, burnout, 
and physical discomfort.
HR actively engages in regular 
weekly and monthly sessions 
that involve health, wellness, 
medical checks and other 
destressing sessions to help 
employees learn to balance 
work and life.
Negative
6
Talent 
attraction and 
retention
R
Attracting top talent is crucial to have 
a competitive advantage and retaining 
talent ensures stability and reputation 
in this dynamic tech sector. 
Competitive 
salaries 
with 
Leading & Development (L & 
D) opportunities are awarded 
giving signi昀椀cant space for 
growth and leadership as vital 
part of Talent management
Negative
7
Community 
development
O
Community development eradicates 
illiteracy, 
including 
IT 
illiteracy, 
through education, empowering rural 
populations 
with 
essential 
skills 
and economic opportunities. Health 
education and healthcare provision 
improve well-being and productivity. 
Assisting the less fortunate promotes 
inclusivity 
and 
social 
cohesion, 
fostering 
a 
more 
equitable 
and 
prosperous community
NA
Positive
Annual Report 2023-24
92
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identi昀椀ed
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
8
Corporate 
Governance 
& Business 
Ethics
O
Having strong governance is crucial as 
it can impact a Company’s reputation, 
decision-making 
processes, 
risk 
management, 
and 
long-term 
sustainability. 
It 
helps 
create 
a 
culture of integrity, transparency, and 
accountability.
NA
Positive
9
Con昀氀ict of 
Interest
R
Given the organization’s substantial 
size 
and 
extensive 
network 
of 
subsidiaries, ensuring transparency 
and equity in its governance structure 
and decision-making processes is 
paramount. As organizations grow 
and diversify, maintaining clear lines 
of communication, equitable practices, 
and openness becomes crucial.
1. Detailed process mapping 
under 
MCAR 
structure 
(Maker, Checker, Approver 
and Reviewer)
2. Detailed 
chart 
of 
authority 
with 
de昀椀ned 
approval 
limits 
and 
delegation power
Negative
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
93
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBCs) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:  
P1  Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable.  
P2  Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.  
P3  Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.  
P4  Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.  
P5  Businesses should respect and promote human rights.  
P6  Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.  
P7  Businesses when engaging in in昀氀uencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent.  
P8  Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.  
P9  Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Sr. 
No
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
1.
Policy and management processes
a  
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No/
NA)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b  
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No/
NA)
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
No
c  
Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/
2
Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. 
(Yes / No/ NA)
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
3
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/No/NA)
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4
Name of the national and international codes/certi昀椀cations/labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each 
principle.
ISO 9001:2015 
NA
Yes
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
ISO 20000:2018 
NA
Yes
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
ISO 27001:2013
NA
Yes
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
CMMi level 5
NA
Yes
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
5
Speci昀椀c commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with de昀椀ned timelines, if any.
While we don't have mandated targets or commitments for 
all policies, we have established procedures to effectively 
track key parameters. These include customer NPS, 
shareholder complaints, employee satisfaction surveys, 
and the consumption of resources such as water, paper, 
and electricity.
6
Performance of the entity against the speci昀椀c commitments, 
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
Not Applicable
Notes:
1 
All policies are framed as per applicable law and as per industry standards. While there may not be formal 
consultation with all stakeholders, the relevant policies have evolved over a period of time by taking inputs from 
concerned internal stakeholders.
2 
Wherever applicable, policy conforms to relevant national/international standards. All policies are framed based on 
applicable laws, business needs and industry practices / standards.
Annual Report 2023-24
94
3 
Policies are approved by respective functional heads. Wherever mandated by the applicable laws, rules and 
regulations, the policy has been approved by the Board and/or CEO.
4 
The implementation of the policies is overseen by Board / Committee / Director/ Of昀椀cial wherever mandated by the 
applicable laws, rules and regulations in force. Implementation of policies is carried out by respective functional 
heads and is reviewed by the Management.
5 
All 3i Infotech policies are uploaded on the Internal Knowledge Management Portal of the Company for the 
information of and implementation by the internal stakeholders / employees. Access of the same is available to 
all its employees. Wherever applicable, policies have been formally uploaded on the Company website and/or 
communicated to all relevant stakeholders.
6 
The Company’s Internal Audit function is responsible for periodically reviewing the policies.
7 
The Company does not have separate policy for advocacy.
8 
The Company does not have a separate policy for environment protection. However, this principle is one of the thrust 
areas in the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy of the Company.
9 
The Company has formulated a CSR policy in compliance with Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (“CSR Rules”) and has also constituted a CSR 
Committee to ensure that implementation and monitoring of the CSR policy is in compliance with CSR objectives 
and policy of the Company. However, due to accumulated losses from past years, the Company has not been able to 
spend any amount on CSR activities.
10 At 3i Infotech, we constantly strive to provide best services to our clients. We are committed to have an effective 
service management system by means of timely and quality deliveries. We always strive for continual improvement 
by following process-based approach in our business operations. 3i Infotech has received ISO 9001:2015, 
ISO 20000:2018, ISO 27001:2013; CMMI level 5. These certi昀椀cations are an emblem of our capabilities to provide 
quality services that satisfy our customers.
Governance, leadership and oversight : 
7 
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and  achievements (listed entity has 昀氀exibility regarding the placement of this disclosure) 
 
Building on our commitment to responsible and sustainable business practices, this year we have further strengthened 
our focus on key ESG issues identi昀椀ed in collaboration with our stakeholders. Our highly quali昀椀ed and diverse Board, along 
with the ESG executive forum, continues to oversee and guide our ESG journey. We have enhanced our Comprehensive 
Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, promoted a robust risk culture, and advanced our digital transformation efforts. 
Additionally, we have launched innovative products, increased our investments in cybersecurity and information security, 
and implemented enhanced employee welfare policies. We are also rigorously monitoring our resource consumption and 
have set ambitious targets for reducing electricity, fuel, and paper usage, among other sustainable practices. 
8 
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility 
Policy (ies). 
 
Mr. Thompson Gnanam, Managing Director and Global CEO (DIN-07865431) 
9 
Does the entity have a speci昀椀ed Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No/ NA).
 
Yes
 
If Yes please provide details- 
 
Mr. Thompson Gnanam, Managing Director and Global CEO (DIN-07865431) 
 
Note: Board of Directors of the Company had designated Mr. Thompson Gnanam, Managing Director and Global CEO 
as the director responsible for BR Report and the BR head of the Company at its meeting held on November 08, 2021. 
Mr. Thompson Gnanam stepped down from the Board of Directors of the Company on May 31, 2023. Thereafter, the 
Board of Directors of the Company has designated Mr. Raj Ahuja, Acting Chief Executive Of昀椀cer, as the person responsible 
for BRS Report and implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy at its meeting held on August 
14, 2024. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
95
10 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/Committee of the Board/Any other 
Committee
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
a.
Performance against above policies and follow up action
Director
b.
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the 
principles and recti昀椀cation of any non-compliances*
Director 
Subject for Review
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly /Quarterly/  
Any other-please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
a.
Performance against above policies and follow up action
Quarterly
b.
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the 
principles and recti昀椀cation of any non-compliances
Quarterly
Subject for Review
Frequency (Annually / Half yearly /Quarterly/  
Any other-please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation 
of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). 
No
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
No
Yes
If yes, provide name of the agency.
-
BSI Certi昀椀cation
-
-
-
-
-
-
Intertek Certi昀椀cation 
Limited 
* Status of compliance with all applicable statutory requirements is reviewed on-a quarterly basis by the Board. Quarterly 
Compliance Certi昀椀cate on applicable laws is provided by respective department heads and placed before the Board.
12
 
 
 
 
 
If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles 
are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on speci昀椀ed principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the 昀椀nancial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next 昀椀nancial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Annual Report 2023-24
96
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable. 
(This principle focuses on the importance of ethical conduct and transparency in business operations. The Companies should 
follow ethical business practices and adhere to high standards of integrity. They should also be transparent about their 
activities, operations, and 昀椀nancial reporting, as well as be accountable for their actions)
Essential Indicators
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the 昀椀nancial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/principles covered under the training and 
its impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
1
Sustainable Growth Model in the interest of all 
stakeholders 
 100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
1
Business, strategy, risk, update of laws, Principles 
of Corporate Governance
100%
Employees other than 
BOD and KMPs
36
1. Business Etiquette 
2. Essential Skills - Communication, Problem 
Solving, Decision Making, and other managerial 
skills.
 97.90%
Workers*
NA
NA
NA
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
2. 
Details of 昀椀nes / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 昀椀nancial year, 
in the following format
Monetory
Particulars
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions
Amount (In `) 
(For Monetory 
Cases only)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
NA
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non Monetory
Particulars
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NA
Punishment
 
No such incident has taken place in FY 2023-24.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
97
3. 
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
 No such incident has taken place in FY 2023-24.
4.  
Does the entity have anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? (Yes/ No): 
Yes
 
If Yes, provide details in brief  
The Company’s reputation for honesty, integrity, and fair dealing is crucial to its 昀椀nancial success and employee 
satisfaction. Relevant anti-corruption laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the Bribery Act, 2010, 
and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PCA). These laws apply to the Company, its employees, and third-party 
agents. 
If Yes, Provide a web link to the policy, if available -Web link anti-corruption or anti bribery policy is place 
Policy is available on the Internal Knowledge Management Portal of the Company. 
5.  
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Particular
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers*
NA
NA
 
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
6.  
Details of complaints with regard to con昀氀ict of interest:
Case Details
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remark
Number
Remark
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Con昀氀ict of Interest of 
the Directors
0
Nil
0
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Con昀氀ict of Interest of 
the KMPs
0
Nil
0
Nil
7.  
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to 昀椀nes / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and con昀氀icts of interest.
 
NA
8.  
Number of days of accounts payables in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of days of accounts payables
57
198
9.  
Open-ness of business
 
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with 
loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of Purchases
a.  
Purchases from trading houses as % 
of total purchases
0%
0%
b.  
Number of trading houses where 
purchases are made from
0
0
c.  
Purchases from top 10 trading houses 
as % of total purchases from trading 
houses
0%
0%
Concentration of Sales
a.  
Sales to dealers / distributors as % of 
total sales
0%
0%
Annual Report 2023-24
98
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
b.  
Number of dealers / distributors to 
whom sales are made
0
0
c.  
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as 
% of total sales to dealers / distributors
0%
0%
Share of RPTs in
a.  
Purchases (Purchases with related 
parties / Total Purchases)
19.90%
55.83%
b.  
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total 
Sales)
27.60%
34.40%
c.  
Loans & advances (Loans & advances 
given to related parties / Total loans & 
advances)
100%
0%
d.  
Investments
0.0093%
0.0023%
Leadership Indicators
1.  
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage con昀氀ict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No)  
 
Yes
 
If Yes, provide details of the same.
 
The Company maintains a Code of Conduct for its Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel, outlining 
guidelines for avoiding and disclosing con昀氀icts of interest. Annually, the Board and Senior Management submit 
declarations of their interests in various entities. The Company ensures necessary legal approvals are obtained before 
engaging in transactions with these entities. The Code of Conduct can be accessed from the following link:
 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/#tab-corporate-governance-470 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
99
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
(This principle highlights the importance of sustainable and safe production practices. The Companies should strive to 
minimize the environmental impact of their activities and ensure that their products and services are safe for consumers and 
the environment.)
Essential Indicator
1.  
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in speci昀椀c technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
Sr. 
No.
Particular
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
1
R&D
0%
0%
Nil
2
Capex
0%
0%
Nil
2  
a.  
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
 
 
No
 
b.  
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
 
0%* 
 
* Although we do not have speci昀椀c procedures for sustainable sourcing, our regular supplier selection process does 
consider factors related to sustainability.
3.  
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of 
life, for
(a) 
Plastics (including packaging)
NA 
(b) 
E-waste
NA 
(c) 
Hazardous waste
NA 
(d) 
other waste
NA 
 
*Since the Company is not in the product manufacturing segment, product reclaim is not applicable.
4. 
a 
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No)
 
 
No*
b 
If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan 
submitted to Pollution Control Boards?  
 
NA 
c 
If not, provide steps taken to address the same 
 
NA 
*EPR is not applicable to the Company since the Company is not in the product manufacturing segment.
Annual Report 2023-24
100
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value 
chains.
(This principle emphasizes the importance of employee well-being. The Companies should provide safe and healthy working 
conditions, fair wages, and opportunities for career development to all employees in their value chains, including suppliers, 
contractors, and temporary workers.)
Essential Indicators
1  
a.  
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of worker covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
bene昀椀ts
Paternity 
Bene昀椀ts
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent worker
Male
1,227
1,227
100%
1,227
100%
-
-
1,227
100%
0
0%
Female
348
348
100%
348
100%
348
100%
-
-
0
0%
Total
1,575
1,575
100%
1,575
100%
348
22.10%
1227
77.90%
0
0%
Other than permanent employees
Male
53
17
32.08%
19
35.85%
-
-
18
33.96%
0
0%
Female
18
7
38.89%
12
66.67%
10
55.56%
-
-
0
0%
Total
71
24
33.80%
31
43.66%
10
14.08%
18
25.35%
0
0%
 
b.  
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of worker covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
bene昀椀ts
Paternity 
Bene昀椀ts
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent worker
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than permanent workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category. 
  
c.  
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well- being measures as a % of total revenue of the 
Company
0.65% 
0.46%
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
101
2.  
Details of retirement bene昀椀ts, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
Bene昀椀ts
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers*
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers*
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
NA
Yes 
70%
NA
Yes 
Gratuity
100%
NA
Yes
0%
NA
Yes
ESI
4.06%
NA
Yes
7.71%
NA
Yes
Others – please specify
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
** For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including those 
of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
3.  
Accessibility of workplaces
 
Are the premises / of昀椀ces of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
 
No
 
If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard. 
 
Our head of昀椀ce is equipped with ramps and lift facilities to ensure accessibility for differently-abled employees and 
workers. We are in the process of expanding these accessibility features to all our other locations to create an inclusive 
environment across our entire organization. Additionally, we are progressively working on to ensure wheelchairs and 
stretchers at locations where they are not currently available. The Company also strives to provide suitable infrastructure, 
subject to practical feasibility, to enable differently-abled employees to access common facilities, including the physical 
environment, information, and communications technologies and systems, without any inconvenience. 
4.  
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
 
Yes
 
If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
 
The policy applies to all employees of 3i Infotech Limited and its subsidiaries, promoting inclusiveness and equal 
opportunity.
 
Policy is available on the Internal Knowledge Management Portal of the Company. 
5.  
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Return to work rate
Retention Rate
Return to work rate
Retention Rate
Male
100% 
67% 
NA
NA
Female
86% 
30% 
NA
NA
Total 
93%
51%
NA
NA
 
The Company does not have any staff in ‘Permanent Workers’ category.
6.  
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Category
Yes/No If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief
Permanent Workers
No
Other than Permanent Workers
No
Permanent Employees
 Yes
1.  
Employee to report the concern to the Grievance committee SPOC 
allocated for their respective location. (Grievance member SPOC 
details shared in Policy document).
2.  
The committee will meet the required team regarding the complaint 
and will resolve the grievances.
3.  
The Grievance report will be created and shared with the 
complainant, HRBP and Senior Management.   
Other than Permanent Employees
 Yes
 
The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ and ‘Other than permanent workers’ category.
Annual Report 2023-24
102
7.  
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category 
(C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent Employees
1,557
0
0%
1,141
2
0.18%
Male
1,227
0
0%
840
2
0.24%
Female
348
0
0%
301
0
0%
Total Permanent Workers*
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
 
** For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including 
those of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
8.  
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Number 
(B)
%  
(B / A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C / A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E / D)
Number 
(F)
%  
(C / D)
Employees
Male
1,227
180
14.67%
996
81.17%
840
0
0%
102
12.14%
Female
348
86
24.71%
245
70.40%
301
0
0%
24
7.97%
Total
1,575
266
16.89%
1241
78.79%
1,141
0
0%
126
11.04%
Workers*
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
** For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including those 
of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
9.  
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (D)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
Employees
Male
1,227
511
41.65%
840
544
64.76%
Female
348
169
48.56%
301
208
69.10%
Total
1,575
680
43.17%
1,141
752
65.91%
Workers*
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
**For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including those 
of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
103
10. Health and safety management system 
a.  
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No) 
 
Yes
 
If Yes, the Coverage such systems? 
 
The Company is maintaining 昀椀rst aid kits, conducting evacuation drills, providing training on the use of 昀椀re and safety 
equipment, and ensuring workplace hygiene. Additionally, regular inspections and periodic reviews are conducted to 
improve the safety protocols. 
b.  
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity? 
 
No* 
c.  
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks? (Yes/ No)
 
No*
d.  
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No) 
 
Yes
 
*A formal process to identify and register work-related injuries is not in place, due to the nature of the business as an IT 
company.
11.  Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category*
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one mil-
lion-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High-consequence work-related injury or ill health (ex-
cluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
 
*Including in the contract workforce
12.  Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
 
The Company conducts regular 昀椀re drills and provides training to employees. Proper housekeeping and workplace safety 
are maintained. Round-the-clock electrical maintenance of昀椀cials are arranged for the maintenance and safety of electrical 
equipment, supported by an annual maintenance contract. First aid kits are available at every location, and emergency 
contact numbers are displayed in of昀椀ces. Continuous housekeeping, regular pest control, and hygiene at workstations and 
the cafeteria are maintained to ensure safe workplaces.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
Annual Report 2023-24
104
14.  Assessment for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and of昀椀ces that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
15.  Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
signi昀椀cant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
 
No such safety related incident, signi昀椀cant risk or concerns had been reported from any assessment.
Leadership Indicators
1.  
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
 
The Company checks the relevant documents from the contractors that all the statutory dues such as Income Tax, ESIC, 
Provident Fund, Professional Tax, GST, etc. have been deducted and deposited on time by value chain partners. Hence 
making sure that all our value chain partners are remitting the statutory dues to the employee and the authority regularly.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
105
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
(This principle highlights the importance of stakeholder engagement. The Companies should consider the interests and 
perspectives of all stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and the communities in which they 
operate. They should also be responsive to stakeholder concerns and feedback.)
Essential Indicators
1.  
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
Effective stakeholder management begins with the identi昀椀cation of both internal and external stakeholders. Internal 
stakeholders are individuals within the organization or team, with whom the Company has frequent interactions and 
greater accessibility. The Company wield more in昀氀uence over internal stakeholders. External stakeholders are those 
outside the organization who maintain business connections, albeit with less direct control.
2.  
List stakeholder groups identi昀椀ed as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identi昀椀ed as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group
Channels of 
communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website, 
Other- Please Specify)
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually, Half-yearly, 
Quarterly, others- 
Please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Shareholder
No
Others –  
Email, Newspaper, Website
Others –  
Quarterly, Event Basis
Financial Results, Investor related 
information
Customers
No
Others -  
Email, In-person meetings, 
Customer portals
Others –  
Monthly as needed
Addressing product / service 
feedback, 
resolving 
issues, 
enhancing customer satisfaction, 
gathering 
suggestions 
for 
improvement, discussing new 
products or services
Vendors
No
Others -  
Email, Vendor Portals, 
Meetings
Quarterly
Maintaining the quality of delivery, 
conforming to code of conduct, 
meeting 
the 
environmental, 
social and governance standards 
set by the Company, compliance 
and regulatory issues
Employees
No
Others -  
Email, Workshops, Training 
sessions
Others –  
Monthly as needed 
Job 
satisfaction, 
career 
development, 
workplace 
issues, feedback on policies and 
procedures, training needs
Regulatory 
Bodies
No
Other -  
Of昀椀cial Letters, Reports
Quarterly 
Compliance 
with 
applicable 
laws and regulations, reporting 
requirements, 
adherence 
to 
industry standards, addressing 
legal concerns, reporting the 
activities diligently.
Community
No
Other –  
social media
 Others –  
As needed
Corporate Social Responsibility, 
community 
development, 
environmental 
impact, 
local 
employment opportunities
Annual Report 2023-24
106
Leadership Indicators
1.  
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. 
 
After identifying stakeholders, the next step is to develop a stakeholder engagement plan to ensure continuous and 
effective communication. This plan should detail the frequency of communication, the individuals involved from both 
sides in each business segment, and the modes of engagement such as questionnaires, interviews, periodic meetings, 
and mailers. It should also outline the decisions and approvals required from decision-makers. Implementing this plan 
facilitates regular and precise interactions with stakeholders, fostering trust and enabling effective monitoring. Establishing 
an open channel for stakeholders to voice their opinions, regardless of race, gender, culture, or language, is crucial. This 
bi-directional interaction involves gathering feedback, suggestions, and complaints from stakeholders and reporting back 
on how their needs are addressed.  
2.  
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identi昀椀cation and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes/No). 
 
Yes
 
If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated 
into policies and activities of the entity.  
 
The satisfaction and performance of stakeholders signi昀椀cantly impact the organization’s success, necessitating close 
monitoring. Periodic assessments using methods such as public surveys, audits, and evaluations are essential. When 
necessary, actions should be taken to achieve desired outcomes or meet stakeholder requirements. Additionally, it is 
important to report back to stakeholders on the status of commitments made to them. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
107
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
(This principle focuses on the importance of human rights. The Companies should respect and promote human rights, including 
the rights to freedom of expression, association, and privacy. They should also prevent and address human rights violations 
in their operations and value chains.)
Essential Indicators
1. 
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in 
the following format
Bene昀椀ts
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
%  
(B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
%  
(D / C)
Employees
Permanent
1,575
891
56.57%
1,141
133
11.66%
Other than permanent
71
71
100%
85
9
10.59%
Total Employees
1,646
962
58.44%
1,226
142
11.58%
Workers*
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
* The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
 
** For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including those 
of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
2.  
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. 
(B)
%  
(B /A)
No. 
(C)
%  
(C /A)
No. 
(E)
%  
(E /D)
No. 
(F)
%  
(F /D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
1,227
7
0.57%
1220
99.43%
840
11
1.31%
829
98.69%
Female
348
2
0.57%
346
99.43%
301
9
2.99%
292
97.01%
Total
1,575
9
0.57%
1566
99.43%
1,141
20
1.75%
1121
98.25%
Other than Permanent*
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
*Minimum wages act is not applicable to other than permanent employees.
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. 
(B)
%  
(B /A)
No. 
(C)
%  
(C /A)
No. 
(E)
%  
(E /D)
No. 
(F)
%  
(F /D)
Workers*
Permanent
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Annual Report 2023-24
108
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23**
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. 
(B)
%  
(B /A)
No. 
(C)
%  
(C /A)
No. 
(E)
%  
(E /D)
No. 
(F)
%  
(F /D)
Other than Permanent
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
*The Company does not have any staff in ‘worker’ category.
 
** For FY 2022-23, the Company has reported employee data for all its national and international of昀椀ces, including 
those of subsidiary companies. This data has been revised, recalculated, and reported on a standalone basis this year.
3.  
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
 
a.  
Median remuneration / wages:
Particulars
Male
Female
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD)
1 
2,94,59,068 
0 
NA 
Key Managerial Personnel
3
2,24,42,940 
1
53,12,460
Employees other than BoD and KMP
1,225
8,00,004
347
7,01,316
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
 
 
The Company does not have any staff in ‘Workers’ category.
 
b.  
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
18.83%
20.05%
4.  
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? 
 
Yes, Employees can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee or their respective Business HRs for addressing 
grievances. Additionally, the Whistle Blower Policy is in place to provide employees with a secure and con昀椀dential 
channel to report any unethical behaviour or violations, further reinforcing our commitment to maintaining an ethical and 
supportive workplace.
 
The whistle blower policy can be assessed on following link:
 
https://www.3i-infotech.com/investors/#tab-corporate-governance-470
5.  
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 
Business HRs are the primary contact for such concerns, aligning with the Company’s commitment to human rights and 
a safe, respectful work environment. The Company has established a process for employees to contact their respective 
Business HRs through various communication modes, including verbal, telephonic, or mail. This mechanism ensures 
employees can voice concerns and seek timely redressal. The Company encourages all employees to use this grievance 
redressal mechanism, re昀氀ecting its commitment to a safe and respectful work environment that upholds human rights 
standards. Additionally, the Company has institutionalized a Grievance Redressal Framework with a transparent helpdesk 
ticketing system and an escalation mechanism to address grievances promptly. The complaint can also be raised using 
the whistle blower mechanism.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
109
6. 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the 
end of 
year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the 
end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
0
0
-
0
0
-
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights related issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
7.  
Complaints 昀椀led under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
0
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0%
0%
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
8.  
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
 
In discrimination and harassment cases, the complainant’s identity is kept con昀椀dential to prevent retaliation or 
discrimination. POSH and grievance-related matters are handled with high con昀椀dentiality for both the complainant 
and relevant witnesses. In such cases it is ensured that any complaint investigation is conducted fairly and impartially, 
allowing the complainant to present their case.
9.  
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No/NA) 
 
Yes 
 
Human rights requirements form a part of the Company’s business agreements and contracts as and where relevant.
10.  Assessments for the year:
Name of the Assessment
% of your plants and of昀椀ces that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour 
100%  
Forced/involuntary labour 
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11.  Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address signi昀椀cant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 10 above.
 
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.  
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted
 
As part of Human Resource Framework, principles of Natural Justice is institutionalised in its employee lifecycle processes.
2.  
Is the premise/of昀椀ce of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? (Yes/No) 
 
Yes
Annual Report 2023-24
110
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
(This principle emphasizes the importance of environmental stewardship. The Companies should minimize their impact on the 
environment, conserve natural resources, and promote environmental sustainability. They should also take steps to restore 
and rehabilitate degraded ecosystems.)
Essential Indicators
1.  
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23*
From renewable sources
 
 
Total electricity consumption (A)
0
0
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
0
0
From non-renewable sources
 
 
Total electricity consumption (D)
7270.90 (GJ)
8448.41 (GJ) 
Total fuel consumption (E )
 154.80 (GJ)
 0
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
 0
 0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
 7425.70 (GJ)
8448.41 (GJ) 
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
7425.70 (GJ)
8448.41 (GJ) 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total energy consumed in GJ / Revenue from operations in Rs.)
0.00000208
0.00000306 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed in GJ/ Revenue from operations in  
Rs. adjusted for PPP)**
0.00004202
 0.00006184
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? 
 
No
 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
NA  
 
*In FY 2022-23 company has reported electricity consumption in kWh.
 
**The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor for India published 
by the World Bank for the year 2023, which is 20.22.
2.  
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identi昀椀ed as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Yes/No) 
 
No
 
If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been 
achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
 
NA 
3.  
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)  
Surface water
0
0
(ii)  Groundwater
0
0
(iii)  Third party water
19317.50
19319.00
(iv)  Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v)  Others
0
269.42
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
19317.50
19588.42
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
19317.50
19588.42
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
111
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total water consumption in KL / Revenue from operations in Rs.)
 0.00000541
0.00000699 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption in KL/ Revenue from operations in Rs. adjusted 
for PPP)
 0.00010931
0.00014141 
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Yes/No) 
 
No 
 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
NA  
4.  
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)  To Surface water
 
 
No treatment
0
0
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii)  To Groundwater
 
No treatment
0
0
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii)  To Seawater
 
No treatment
0
0
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv)  Sent to third-parties
 
No treatment
19317.50
19588.42
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(v)  Others
 
No treatment
0
0
 
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
19317.50
 19588.42
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N)
 
No 
 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
NA  
5.  
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? 
 
No
 
If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation. 
 
NA
6.  
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx
NA
NA
NA
SOx
NA
NA
NA
Particulate matter (PM)
NA
NA
NA
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
NA
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
NA
NA
NA
Annual Report 2023-24
112
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
NA
NA
NA
Others – please specify
-
- 
- 
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) 
 
No
 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
NA 
 
There are no continuous sources of air emissions in our operations. The DG sets are operated only during power outages 
and hence the air emissions of pollutants (other than GHGs) are not material. 
7.  
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
569.99
-
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
1,680.29
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations in Rs.)
 
0.00000063
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations in Rs. adjusted for PPP)
 
0.00001273
-
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) 
 
No
 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
NA 
 
The Company has built its capability to monitor and track environment data from FY 2023-24. 
8.  
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? (Yes/ No) 
 
Yes
 
If Yes, then provide details. 
 
The Company has implemented the use of LED lights across all premises, initiated various electricity savings measures, 
and encouraged employees to utilize public transport to reduce Green House Gas emissions. 
9.  
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0
 -
E-waste (B)
5
 -
Bio-medical waste (C)
0
 -
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
 -
Battery waste (E)
0
 -
Radioactive waste (F)
0
 -
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
113
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
0
 -
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H).  
Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant 
to the sector)
6
 -
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
11
 -
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total waste generated in MT/ Revenue from operations in Rs.)
0.0000000003 
 -
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Pow-
er Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated in MT / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
 0.000000006
 -
 
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(i)  
Recycled
0
 -
(ii)  Re-used
0
 -
(iii)  Other recovery operations
0
 -
Total
0
 -
 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(i)  
Incineration
0
 -
(ii)  Land昀椀lling
0
 -
(iii)  Other disposal operations
11
 -
Total
11
- 
 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N)
 
No 
 
If yes, name of the external agency.
 
NA 
 
The Company has built its capacity to monitor and track environment date from Financial Year 2023-24.
10.  Brie昀氀y describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes.
 
Upon the completion of the retention period, a list of assets that are either obsolete, no longer required, or non-functional 
is compiled. This list is then submitted for approval to the respective business head and the Chief Financial Of昀椀cer (CFO). 
Following approval, quotations are solicited from scrap vendors. A comparative analysis of the received quotations is 
conducted, and further approval is obtained from the CFO’s of昀椀ce. An invoice is subsequently issued in the name of the 
selected scrap vendor. Once the payment or advance payment is received from the scrap vendor, a proper gate pass is 
prepared, and the assets are removed from the of昀椀ce premises. Additionally, waste bins are inspected daily to ensure 
proper waste management before handing over the waste to municipal authorities.
11.  If the entity has operations/of昀椀ces in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Location of operations/
of昀椀ces
Type of operations
Whether the conditions 
of environmental 
approval/clearance are 
being complied with? 
(Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof 
and corrective action 
taken, if any.
The Company does not have any operation/entity in ecologically sensitive area.
Annual Report 2023-24
114
12.  Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current 昀椀nancial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Noti昀椀cation 
No.
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web 
link
Environmental Impact Assessment has not been conducted for any of the project.
13.  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N/NA). 
 
Yes
 
If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: 
Specify the law/regulation/ 
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the non- 
compliance
Any 昀椀nes / penalties / 
action taken by regulatory 
agencies such as pollu-
tion control boards or by 
courts
Corrective action taken, if 
any
NA
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
115
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in in昀氀uencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent.
(This principle highlights the importance of responsible advocacy. The Companies should engage in policy advocacy in a 
responsible and transparent manner, and avoid engaging in activities that could undermine the public interest or the democratic 
process.)
Essential Indicators
1. 
a.  
Number of af昀椀liations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
 
 
2
b.  
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ af昀椀liated to.
Sr. 
No.
Name of the trade and  
industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations 
(State/National/ International)
 1
BCCI - Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry
State
 2
NASSCOM - National Association of Software 
and Service Companies
National
2.  
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
 No such adverse order has been received from any regulatory authority on issue related to anti-competitive conduct.
Annual Report 2023-24
116
PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
(This principle emphasizes the importance of promoting inclusive and equitable economic development. The Companies 
should create economic opportunities for all, including disadvantaged and marginalized groups. They should also contribute 
to the development of local communities and support social and economic empowerment.)
Essential Indicators
1.  
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current 昀椀nancial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Noti昀椀cation 
No.
Date of 
noti昀椀cation
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web 
link
Considering the nature of the business of the Company, no Social Impact Assessment (SIA) of project has been undertaken 
in FY 2023-24.
2.  
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity, in the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY 
(In `)
Considering the nature of the business of the Company, no Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) for any project has 
been undertaken in FY 2023-24.
3. 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
Currently no such mechanism is in place.
4.  
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Particular
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
10%
2%
Directly from within India
90%
54%
5.  
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Particular
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural
0%
0%
Semi-urban
0%
0%
Urban
0%
0%
Metropolitan
100%
100%
 
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classi昀椀cation System - rural / semi-urban / urban/metropolitan)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
117
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
(This principle highlights the importance of responsible consumer engagement. The Companies should provide safe, high-
quality products and services, and ensure that they are marketed and sold ethically and responsibly. They should also be 
transparent about their products and services, and provide consumers with the information they need to make informed 
choices.)
Essential Indicators
1.  
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
At 3i Infotech, our commitment to continuous improvement is anchored in our robust three-tier customer feedback 
mechanism. We prioritize understanding and addressing customer needs through our Operational, Service, and 
Steering Committees. At the Operational level, our front-line teams diligently collect and address immediate feedback, 
ensuring prompt resolution of issues. The Service Committee then analyses these insights to identify trends and areas 
for enhancement, while the Steering Committee oversees strategic adjustments and long-term improvements. This 
structured approach ensures that we not only address immediate concerns but also drive systemic improvements to 
enhance overall customer satisfaction and service excellence. Through this comprehensive feedback mechanism, we are 
dedicated to evolving our services and maintaining the highest standards of quality for our clients.
2. 
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry information 
about
Particulars
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
NA
Recycling and/or safe disposal
NA
 
Considering the nature of products and services of the Company, this is not applicable.
3.  
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
Remark
FY 2022-23
Remark
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Data privacy
0
0
-
0
0
-
Advertising
0
0
-
0
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of essential services
0
0
-
0
0
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other
-
-
-
-
-
-
4.  
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Particulars
Number
Reason for recall
Voluntary recalls
 0
 NA
Forced recalls
 0
 NA
5.  
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) 
 
Yes
 
If available, provide a web link of the policy 
 
Privacy Policy - https://www.3i-infotech.com/3i-new/privacy-policy/ 
6.  
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
 
No such instance has taken place in FY 2023-24.
Annual Report 2023-24
118
7.  
Provide the following information relating to data breaches
 
a.  
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact 
 
 
0
 
b.  
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identi昀椀able information of customers 
 
 
0%
 
c.  
Impact, if any, of the data breaches 
 
 
No incident of any data breach has taken place in FY 2023-24. 
Leadership Indicator
1.  
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, 
if available).
 
Information on products and services of the Company can be accessed on https://www.3i-infotech.com/
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
119
STATEMENT ON IMPACT OF AUDIT QUALIFICATIONS (FOR AUDIT REPORT WITH MODIFIED OPINION) 
SUBMITTED ALONG-WITH ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL RESULTS - (CONSOLIDATED)
Statement on Impact of Audit Quali昀椀cations for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 
[Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016]
I.
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Audited Figures 
(as reported before 
Adjusting for 
quali昀椀cations)  
(` in Lakhs)
Adjusted Figures 
(audited 昀椀gures 
after adjusting for 
quali昀椀cations)  
(` in Lakhs)
1.
Turnover / Total income
81,720
N/A
2.
Total Expenditure
91,403
N/A
3.
Net Pro昀椀t/(Loss)
(29,827)
N/A
4.
Earnings Per Share
` 17.69
N/A
5.
Total Assets
66,399
N/A
6.
Total Liabilities
37,055
N/A
7.
Net Worth
29,344
N/A
8.
Any other 昀椀nancial item(s) (as felt appropriate by the management)
-
-
II. 
Audit Quali昀椀cation (each audit quali昀椀cation separately):
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Details of Audit Quali昀椀cation:
Following disclaimer has been given by the Auditors in the audit 
report on Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company:
1. 
We have not received the Audited Financial Statements of 
material subsidiaries i.e. 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited 
and 3i Infotech Middle East FZ LLC.
In the absence of these Audited Financial Statements we are unable 
to assess the impact of this matter on Consolidated Financial 
Statements and therefore unable to express an opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
b.
Type of Audit Quali昀椀cation: Quali昀椀ed Opinion 
/ Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion
Disclaimer of Opinion
c.
Frequency 
of 
quali昀椀cation: 
Whether 
appeared 昀椀rst time / repetitive / since how 
long continuing
First time
d.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact 
is quanti昀椀ed by the auditor, Management's 
Views:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
e.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact is 
not quanti昀椀ed by the auditor:
(i)  
Management’s estimation on the impact 
of audit quali昀椀cation:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
ANNEXURE III
Annual Report 2023-24
120
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
(ii) 
If management is unable to estimate 
the impact, reasons for the same:
We do not envisage any material changes in the management 
certi昀椀ed 昀椀nancials and the audited 昀椀nancials. 
2.   There is an observation by the statutory auditors of 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited seeking inputs of transactions in 
functional currency pertaining to legacy period (prior to April 
01, 2021) which is more than 10 years old for which the inputs 
and data is limited for this period. We have tried to reach 
the erstwhile management / previous statutory auditors of 
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited in this matter to get the 
sought inputs and data.
As regards audited 昀椀nancial statements for 3i Infotech Middle East 
FZ LLC, the audit report has been received afterwards and there are 
no changes in the management certi昀椀ed 昀椀nancials and the audited 
昀椀nancials.
(iii)  Auditors’ Comments on (i) or (ii) above:
We refer to our comment in para II (a) above.
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Details of Audit Quali昀椀cation:
Following disclaimer has been given by the Auditors in the audit 
report on Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company:
The holding company’s Board had set up a Legacy Committee as a 
Sub – Committee of the Audit Committee, to evaluate and address all 
long outstanding legacy related matters, after evaluating the reports 
of Sub Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company at its 
meeting held on January 31, 2024, decided to initiate Forensic Audit 
for legacy issues, of which completion is still pending. In the absence 
of outcome of the Forensic Audit, we are unable to comment on the 
possible consequential effects thereof, if any, on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
b.
Type of Audit Quali昀椀cation: Quali昀椀ed Opinion 
/ Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion
Disclaimer of Opinion
c.
Frequency 
of 
quali昀椀cation: 
Whether 
appeared 昀椀rst time / repetitive / since how 
long continuing
First time
d.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact 
is quanti昀椀ed by the auditor, Management’s 
Views:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management view.
e.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact is 
not quanti昀椀ed by the auditor:
(i)  
Management’s estimation on the impact 
of audit quali昀椀cation:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management view
(ii) 
If management is unable to estimate 
the impact, reasons for the same:
During the 昀椀rst quarter audit discussions, queries were raised by the 
Audit Committee with the statutory auditors and current management 
pertaining to balances prior to March 31, 2021 to which no proper 
satisfactory answers was available from both. In the absence of 
proper details on record, the Audit Committee thereby set up a sub-
committee for legacy matters to look into the depth of the nature 
of transactions & the genuinity of the 昀椀nancial records. The legacy 
sub-committee thereafter appointed a chartered accounted 昀椀rm and 
a company secretary 昀椀rm to get into details of the 昀椀nancials prior 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
121
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
to March 31, 2021 which goes into a period of around 15 years & 
more (from FY 2009-10 & earlier to the period till March 31, 2021) 
in coordination with the current management team and to follow up 
with the erstwhile Board of Directors / management team / statutory 
auditors / company secretary / audit committee members to get the 
required details of the un-explained transactions in order to disclose 
to the investor’s a correct and fair view of the Company. There has 
been complete non-cooperation by the erstwhile management team 
despite aggressive follow-up with them for the sought inputs and 
data. Since no proper inputs was available for the earlier 昀椀nancial 
years prior April 01, 2021, the chartered accountant has given a 
report on the same to the legacy sub-committee. On the basis of 
review of their report, the Board of Directors, Chairman of audit 
Committee  of the Company has initiated a forensic audit for the un-
explained transactions pertaining to the period prior to April 01, 2021. 
The forensic audit is still in progress as it is taking time to gather the 
required information from the available records. The management is 
unable to estimate the impact of the same. Nevertheless, the new 
management by way of abundant precaution has made provisions on 
a conservative and prudent basis. 
(iii)  Auditors’ Comments on (i) or (ii) above:
We refer to our comment in para II (a) above.
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Details of Audit Quali昀椀cation:
Following disclaimer has been given by the Auditors in the audit 
report on Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company:
3. 
The intangible assets amounting to ` 4,454.80 Lakhs, were 
capitalised during the current year. However, the holding 
company’s management has on the basis of internal evaluation 
made a loss allowance of ` 2,193.18 Lakhs in the current 
昀椀nancial year. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and appropriate 
audit evidence, we are unable to comment on the management 
estimate for loss allowance amounting to ` 2,193.18 Lakhs 
and recoverability of balance carrying value amounting to 
` 1,732.80 Lakhs in the consolidated 昀椀nancial results. 
b.
Type of Audit Quali昀椀cation: Quali昀椀ed Opinion 
/ Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion
Disclaimer of Opinion
c.
Frequency 
of 
quali昀椀cation: 
Whether 
appeared 昀椀rst time / repetitive / since how 
long continuing
First time
d.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact 
is quanti昀椀ed by the auditor, Management’s 
Views:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
e.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact is 
not quanti昀椀ed by the auditor:
(i)  
Management’s estimation on the impact 
of audit quali昀椀cation:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
Annual Report 2023-24
122
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
(ii)  If management is unable to estimate 
the impact, reasons for the same:
During the 昀椀nancial year after resignation of the CEO & Managing 
Director (Mr. Thompson Gnanam), Chairman (Mr. Ashok Shah) 
and Non-Executive director (Mr. Sriram Venkatramanan), the 
Audit Committee while reviewing the legacy issues thought it 
was also appropriate to review the current 昀椀nancial statements 
pertaining to the current assets and capital assets of the Company 
in order to present a true and fair 昀椀nancial statements to its 
shareholders. Considering this, the Board of Directors had formed 
a sub-committee to evaluate all Intangible capital projects. On 
the basis of the evaluation of the intangible projects capitalised 
during the year (amounting to 4454.80 Lakhs) by the sub-
committee and basis valuation report from Kroll, an impairment 
of ` 2193.18 Lakhs has been taken in the current 昀椀nancial year. 
(iii)  Auditors’ Comments on (i) or (ii) above:
We refer to our comment in para II (a) above.
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Details of Audit Quali昀椀cation:
Following disclaimer has been given by the Auditors in the audit 
report on Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company:
4. 
The standalone 昀椀nancial statements of the subsidiary, 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited (Mauritius) for the previous 昀椀nancial 
year ended as on March 31, 2023, wherein the component 
auditor has quali昀椀ed the opinion on the basis that while the 
presentation currency of the subsidiary is Mauritian Rupees. 
The foreign exchange gains / losses arising on translation from 
functional to presentation currency, have been recognised in the 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss and retained earnings rather than 
in Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) and Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserves (“FCTR”). This constitutes a departure 
from IAS 21. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and appropriate audit 
evidence about the carrying amount of FCTR and the amount 
that should have been recorded in OCI, the component auditor 
was unable to determine the adjustments needed to those 
items. Consequently, we are unable to determine the possible 
impact on the consolidated 昀椀nancial results of the Group in 
respect of this matter.
b.
Type of Audit Quali昀椀cation: Quali昀椀ed Opinion 
/ Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion
Disclaimer of Opinion
c.
Frequency 
of 
quali昀椀cation: 
Whether 
appeared 昀椀rst time / repetitive / since how 
long continuing
First time
d.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact 
is quanti昀椀ed by the auditor, Management’s 
Views:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
e.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact is 
not quanti昀椀ed by the auditor:
(i)  
Management’s estimation on the impact 
of audit quali昀椀cation:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
123
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
(ii)  If management is unable to estimate 
the impact, reasons for the same:
No material impact of the same on the consolidated 昀椀nancial 
statements. We are engaging with the subsidiary auditor of 3i 
Infotech Holdings Private Limited to address this issue. Further 
since the data sought for transactions in functional currency pertains 
to legacy period (prior to April 01, 2021) which is more than 10 
years old for which the inputs and data is limited for this period.
(iii) Auditors' Comments on (i) or (ii) above:
We refer to our comment in para II (a) above.
III. Signatories
For 3i Infotech Limited 
 
For GMJ & Co 
 
 
Chartered Accountants 
 
 
FRN: 103429W
 
 
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
Sd/-
Sanjay Rawa 
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal 
CA Madhu Jain 
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer 
Audit Committee Chairman 
Partner 
 
 
M. No.: 155537
Place: Mumbai 
Place: Mumbai 
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 31, 2024 
Date: May 31, 2024 
Date: May 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
124
STATEMENT ON IMPACT OF AUDIT QUALIFICATIONS (FOR AUDIT REPORT WITH MODIFIED OPINION) 
SUBMITTED ALONG-WITH ANNUAL AUDITED FINANCIAL RESULTS - (STANDALONE)
Statement on Impact of Audit Quali昀椀cations for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 
[Regulation 33 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016]
I.
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Audited Figures 
(as reported before 
adjusting for 
quali昀椀cations) 
(` in Lakhs)
Adjusted Figures 
(audited 昀椀gures 
after adjusting for 
quali昀椀cations) 
(` in Lakhs)
1.
Turnover / Total income
36,579
N/A
2.
Total Expenditure
81,254
N/A
3.
Net Pro昀椀t/(Loss)
(81,863)
N/A
4.
Earnings Per Share
` 48.52
N/A
5.
Total Assets
49,745
N/A
6.
Total Liabilities
41,019
N/A
7.
Net Worth
8,726
N/A
8.
Any other 昀椀nancial item(s) (as felt appropriate by the management)
-
-
II. 
Audit Quali昀椀cation (each audit quali昀椀cation separately):
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Details of Audit Quali昀椀cation:
Following disclaimer has been given by the Auditors in the audit 
report on Standalone Financial Statements of the Company:
1.  
The Board had set up a Legacy Committee as a Sub – Committee 
of the Audit Committee, to evaluate and address all long 
outstanding legacy related matters. After evaluating the reports 
of Sub Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company at its 
meeting held on January 31, 2024, decided to initiate Forensic 
Audit for legacy issues, the completion of which is still pending. 
In the absence of outcome of the Forensic Audit, we are unable 
to comment on the possible consequential effects thereof, if 
any, on the standalone 昀椀nancial results.
2.    The Company has carried net investment in 3i Infotech Holdings 
Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, amounting to ` 
10,104.36 Lakhs in Equity Shares and ` 71,172.83 Lakhs in 
Redeemable Preference Shares after making a loss allowance, 
on the basis of internal evaluation, of ` 42,170.13 Lakhs 
in the current 昀椀nancial year. We have not been provided the 
audited 昀椀nancial statements of the subsidiary. In the absence 
of suf昀椀cient and appropriate audit evidence, we are unable 
to comment on the management estimate for loss allowance 
amounting to ` 42,170.13 Lakhs and recoverability of carrying 
value of investments in subsidiary amounting to ` 81,277.19 
Lakhs in the standalone 昀椀nancial results.
3.    The Company has a net receivable balance on account of 
trade receivables, loans & interest of ` 7,636.05 Lakhs from 
its various foreign subsidiaries, after making a loss allowance 
of ` 32,990.46 Lakhs on the basis of internal evaluation in the 
current 昀椀nancial year. The recoverability of the same are long 
outstanding. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and appropriate audit
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
125
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
 
evidence of recoverability of these balances and basis of the 
loss allowance, we are unable to comment on the management 
estimate for loss allowance amounting to ` 32,990.46 Lakhs 
and recoverability of carrying value of net receivables amounting 
to ` 7,636.05 Lakhs in the standalone 昀椀nancial results.
4.   In the current 昀椀nancial year, the Company has presented all 
the legacy outstanding balances of its receivable of ` 7,636.05 
Lakhs, investments of ` 81,276.83 Lakhs and payable of ` 
1,08,097.21 Lakhs relating to its wholly owned subsidiaries as 
a single line item in the Balance Sheet of ` 19,183.97 Lakhs 
under “Legacy related liabilities and assets.” We are unable to 
comment on the appropriateness of the presentation of these 
receivables / investments and payables in the standalone 
昀椀nancial results.
b.
Type of Audit Quali昀椀cation: Quali昀椀ed Opinion 
/ Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion
Disclaimer of Opinion
c.
Frequency 
of 
quali昀椀cation: 
Whether 
appeared 昀椀rst time / repetitive / since how 
long continuing
First time
d.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact 
is quanti昀椀ed by the auditor, Management's 
Views:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
e.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact is 
not quanti昀椀ed by the auditor:
(i)  
Management's estimation on the impact 
of audit quali昀椀cation:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
(ii) 
If management is unable to estimate 
the impact, reasons for the same:
The above mentioned comments given by the statutory auditors is 
for the 昀椀rst time in their audit report as a disclaimer of opinion and are 
related to transactions done by the erstwhile management prior to the 
carve period (i.e. prior to April 01, 2021). During the 昀椀rst quarter audit 
discussions, queries were raised by the Audit Committee    with the 
statutory auditors and current management pertaining to balances 
prior to March 31, 2021 to which no proper satisfactory answers 
was available from both. In the absence of proper details on record 
the Audit Committee thereby set up a sub-committee for legacy 
matters to look into the depth of the nature of transactions & the 
genuity of the 昀椀nancial records. The legacy sub-committee thereafter 
appointed a chartered accounted 昀椀rm and a company secretary 昀椀rm 
to get into details of the 昀椀nancials prior to March 31, 2021 which 
goes into a period of around 15 years & more (from FY 2009-10 & 
earlier to the period till March 31, 2021) in coordination with the 
current management team and to follow up with the erstwhile Board 
of Directors / management team / statutory auditors / company 
secretary / audit committee members to get the required details of 
the un-explained transactions in order to disclose to the investor’s a 
correct and fair view of the Company. There has been complete non-
cooperation by the erstwhile management team despite aggressive 
follow-up with them for the sought inputs and data. Since no proper 
inputs was available for the earlier 昀椀nancial years prior April 01, 
2021, the chartered accountant has given a report on the same to
Annual Report 2023-24
126
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
the legacy sub-committee. On the basis of review of their report, the 
Board of Directors, Chairman of Audit Committee / of the Company 
has initiated a forensic audit for the un-explained transactions 
pertaining to the period prior to April 01, 2021. The forensic audit is 
still in progress as it is taking time to gather the required information 
from the available records. 
Since the new management is unable to estimate the impact 
of the same, nevertheless, by way of abundant precaution has 
made provisions on a conservative and prudent basis. For a more 
appropriate, true and fair presentation we have grouped together 
the legacy items and given full disclosures thereof. Ind-AS, para 19 
permits departure from the guidelines of reporting with a requirement 
in an Ind-AS for true and fair presentation of the entity’s 昀椀nancial 
position. An appropriate disclosure has been provided in the Notes 
to Accounts in the Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
(iii)  Auditors’ Comments on (i) or (ii) above:
We refer to our comment in para II (a) above.
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
a.
Details of Audit Quali昀椀cation:
Following disclaimer has been given by the Auditors in the audit 
report on Standalone Financial Statements of the Company:
5. 
The intangible assets amounting to ` 4,454.80 Lakhs, 
were capitalised during the current year. However, the 
management has on the basis of internal evaluation made 
a loss allowance of ` 2,193.18 Lakhs in the current 昀椀nancial 
year. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and appropriate audit 
evidence, we are unable to comment on the management 
estimate for loss allowance amounting to ` 2,193.18 Lakhs 
and recoverability of balance carrying value amounting 
to ` 1,732.80 Lakhs in the standalone 昀椀nancial results. 
b.
Type of Audit Quali昀椀cation: Quali昀椀ed Opinion 
/ Disclaimer of Opinion / Adverse Opinion
Disclaimer of Opinion
c.
Frequency 
of 
quali昀椀cation: 
Whether 
appeared 昀椀rst time / repetitive / since how 
long continuing
First time
d.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact 
is quanti昀椀ed by the auditor, Management's 
View’s:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
e.
For Audit Quali昀椀cation(s) where the impact is 
not quanti昀椀ed by the auditor:
(i)  
Management's estimation on the impact 
of audit quali昀椀cation:
Not quanti昀椀ed by auditors and hence no management views
(ii)  If management is unable to estimate 
the impact, reasons for the same:
During the 昀椀nancial year after resignation of the CEO & Managing 
Director (Mr. Thompson Gnanam), Chairman (Mr. Ashok Shah) and Non-
Executive Director (Mr. Sriram Vankatramanan), the Audit Committee 
while reviewing the legacy issues thought it was also appropriate 
to review the current 昀椀nancial statements pertaining to the current 
assets and capital assets of the Company in order to present a true 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
127
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Remarks
and fair 昀椀nancial statements to its shareholders. Considering this, 
the Board of Directors had formed a sub-committee to evaluate 
all Intangible capital projects. On the basis of the evaluation of 
the intangible projects capitalised during the year (amounting to 
4454.80 Lakhs) by the sub-committee and basis valuation report 
from Kroll, an impairment of ` 2193.18 Lakhs has been taken in the 
current 昀椀nancial year. 
(iii)  Auditors' Comments on (i) or (ii) above:
We refer to our comment in para II (a) above.
III. Signatories
For 3i Infotech Limited 
 
For GMJ & Co 
 
 
Chartered Accountants 
 
 
FRN: 103429W
 
 
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
Sd/-
Sanjay Rawa 
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal 
CA Madhu Jain 
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer 
Audit Committee Chairman 
Partner 
 
 
M. No.: 155537
Place: Mumbai 
Place: Mumbai 
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 31, 2024 
Date: May 31, 2024 
Date: May 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
128
To,  
The Members,  
3I INFOTECH LIMITED  
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park,  
Vashi Station Complex, Navi Mumbai,  
Maharashtra, India, 400703
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by 3i Infotech Limited 
(CIN: L67120MH1993PLC074411) (“the Company”). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. 
We are issuing this report based on:
(i)  
Our veri昀椀cation of the Company’s books, papers, 
minutes books, soft copies of various records, scanned 
copies of minutes of the Board and its Committee, 
forms and returns 昀椀led and other records maintained 
by the Company during the 昀椀nancial year ended March 
31, 2024, as well as before the date of issue of this 
report;
(ii)  Our observations pursuant to visits to the of昀椀ces of the 
Company;
(iii)  Compliance certi昀椀cates con昀椀rming compliance with 
all laws applicable to the Company as given by the Key 
Managerial Personnel / Senior Managerial Personnel 
of the Company and taken on record by the Audit 
Committee / Board of Directors; and
(iv)  Representations 
made, documents shown and 
information provided by the Company, its of昀椀cers, 
agents and authorised representatives during our 
conduct of Secretarial Audit.
We hereby report that, in our opinion, during the audit period 
covering the 昀椀nancial year ended on March 31, 2024, 
the Company has:
(i) 
Complied 
with 
the 
statutory 
provisions 
listed 
hereunder; and
(ii) 
Board processes and compliance mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns 昀椀led and other records provided to us and 
maintained by the Company for the 昀椀nancial year ended on 
March 31, 2024, according to the provisions of:
(i) 
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
there under;
(ii) 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under;
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws Framed there under;
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial borrowings. 
(v) 
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):- 
(a) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; 
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
(c) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
(d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share based Employee Bene昀椀ts) Regulation, 
2014 and The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share based Employee Bene昀椀ts and Sweat 
Equity) Regulation, 2021; 
(e) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 
and The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; 
(f) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
FORM NO. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
ANNEXURE IV 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
129
(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
and
(h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; 
(i) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations 2015; and
(vi) We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i) 
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
(ii) 
The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with Stock Exchange(s), applicable; 
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above subject to the following 
disclosure of the fact:
1. 
As per Secretarial Standards-1 with regard to Board 
Meetings, the agenda and notes on agenda shall be 
given to the Directors at least seven days before the 
meeting. 
 
The Company has sent the detailed agenda setting 
out the business to be transacted at the meetings 
along with Notes on agenda to the Directors, after the 
prescribed timeline of seven days before the scheduled 
date of meeting. 
2. 
As per Regulation 18 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, Director’s 
responsibility statement was not reviewed by the Audit 
Committee, though Director’s responsibility statement 
was included in the Directors’ Report for 昀椀nancial year 
2022-23 (forming part of Annual Report), as approved 
by the Board of Directors of the Company. 
3. 
As per Regulation 18 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 - Audit 
Committee should review the Management Letters/ 
Management Representation Letters (MRL) given by 
Management, However, no such item was seen in the 
audit committee meetings during period under review. 
4. 
Mr. Ashok Shah, ex-Chairman of the Company had 
resigned from the Board on December 10, 2023 due 
to his re-appointment made in October 2020 as an 
independent director for the third term, which was in 
violation of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 25 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015. 
5. 
With regard to Car lease Policy of the Company, 
There was no Car Lease Policy de昀椀ned at the time 
of appointment of MD & Global CEO. The Car Lease 
Policy for CXO was introduced in July 2022 which 
was subsequently amended by the Chief Human 
Resources Of昀椀cer of the Company on September 21, 
2023 to de昀椀ne MD eligibility for car. - This policy has 
been amended by the Chief Human Resources Of昀椀cer 
of the Company, without obtaining any approval from 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board. 
6. 
With 
regard 
to 
perquisites, 
in 
August 
2023, 
monetisation of perquisites related to the car and club 
bene昀椀ts for the Managing Director & Global CEO was 
approved by the Chief Human Resources Of昀椀cer of the 
Company and equivalent amount of ` 49 Lakhs was 
paid to the Managing Director & Global CEO as he has 
not availed car and club bene昀椀ts since his joining in 
year 2021. 
 
Amount of ` 49 Lakhs was paid to the Managing 
Director & Global CEO, without prior approval of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee the Board of 
Directors. 
 
Later on, basis recommendation of NRC at its meeting 
held on March 21, 2024, the Board, at its meeting held 
on March 21, 2024 approved to adjust ` 49 Lakhs 
against the due variable pay for the 昀椀nancial year 
2022-23, to the Managing Director. 
7. 
With regards to RBI 昀椀ling and disclosures, in case of 
overseas companies, Indian parent Company must 
submit Annual Performance report (APR) and such 
report is pending for submission since last 15 years i.e. 
from 2009 onwards in some cases. 
 
For 3i Infotech Saudi Arabia there are some old APR 
is pending, including current year which needs to be 
addressed into.
 
In respect of 3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte. Limited, 
Singapore, there is a mismatch between outward 
remittance towards equity and 昀椀nancial commitment 
and data mentioned in Company’s books. Unless all 
these entries are recti昀椀ed, Company’s proposal for 
writing off of or set off of large amount will not be 
taken into account by RBI.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors including Woman 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of 
Directors that took place during the period under review 
were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, including committees thereof, along with 
agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clari昀椀cations on 
Annual Report 2023-24
130
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting by the Directors otherthan 
what is stated above in Sr. No.1 for the delay in sending 
the detailed agenda.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings 
are carried out unanimously and recorded in the minutes of 
the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committee of the 
Board, as the case may be.
Speci昀椀c Event 
1. 
During the period under review, the Company has 
incorporated wholly owned step-down subsidiary, 
M/s. Nure Bharat Network Limited on April 21, 2023 
in India. And as on March 31, 2024, there are 30 
subsidiaries (including step-down subsidiaries) of the 
Company. There has been no material change in the 
nature of the business of subsidiaries.
2. 
Forensic Audit - The Audit Committee at its 
meeting held on September 22, 2022, constituted 
Sub- committee on Legacy Matters, to review 
comprehensively all legacy matters for parent entity 
and subsidiary companies and prepare action plan for 
resolution of the same. Based on 昀椀ndings observed 
by the Sub-committee on Legacy Matters of the Audit 
Committee of the Board of the Company and on the 
basis of 昀椀ndings of various consultants/experts/ 
advisors, the Board of Directors of the Company at 
its meeting held on January 31, 2024, has decided to 
initiate Forensic Audit for certain legacy related matters 
pertaining to period before March 31, 2021, under the 
erstwhile Management.
3. 
Equity Share Capital: - Allotment under Employee 
Stock Options Scheme:
 
During the year under review, the Company has, on 
various dates, allotted in all 7,64,800 equity shares 
under Employee Stock Option Scheme 2018. 
 
Considering these allotments, the issued, subscribed 
and paid-up capital of the Company as on March 
31, 2024 stood at ` 1,69,23,08,420/- consisting of 
16,92,30,842 fully paid-up equity shares of face value 
` 10/- each.
 
The Company has neither issued equity shares with 
differential rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise 
nor any sweat equity shares to the employees of the 
Company under any scheme.
We further report that the compliance by the Company of 
applicable 昀椀nancial laws such as direct and indirect tax laws 
and maintenance of 昀椀nancial records and books of accounts 
have not been reviewed in this audit since the same have 
been subject to review by the statutory 昀椀nancial auditors, 
tax auditors and other designated professionals.
We further report that as per the explanations given to us 
and the representation made by the Management and relied 
upon by us, there are adequate systems and processes in 
the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, there was no 
other event/action having major bearing on the Company’s 
affairs.
Place: Vashi, Navi Mumbai 
sd/-
Date: August 14, 2024 
Name of Firm: SAP & Associates 
 
Company Secretaries  
 
[Firm Regn. No. P2020MH079800]
 
[PR No.: - 3269/2023]
 
 
Name of the Partner: Vishwanath Kote
 
ACS No. 60460
 
CP No. 22647. 
 
UDIN :- A060460F000972580
Note : This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report. 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
131
Annexure – A
To,  
The Members,  
3I INFOTECH LIMITED  
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park,  
Vashi Station Complex, Navi Mumbai,  
Maharashtra, India, 400703
Re: Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. 
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The veri昀椀cation was done on test-check basis to ensure that correct 
facts are re昀氀ected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
3. 
We have not veri昀椀ed the correctness and appropriateness of 昀椀nancial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4. 
Wherever required, we have obtained management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events, etc.
5. 
The compliance of the provisions or corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the veri昀椀cation of procedures on test-check basis.
6. 
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the ef昀椀cacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Place: Vashi, Navi Mumbai 
sd/-
Date: August 14, 2024 
Name of Firm: SAP & Associates 
 
Company Secretaries  
 
[Firm Regn. No. P2020MH079800]
 
[PR No.: - 3269/2023]
 
 
Name of the Partner: Vishwanath Kote
 
ACS No. 60460
 
CP No. 22647. 
 
UDIN :- A060460F000972580
Annual Report 2023-24
132
DETAILS RELATING TO REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL (KMP) AS REQUIRED 
UNDER SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 5(1) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT 
AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
i) 
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
昀椀nancial year 2023-24
Name of Director
Designation
Ratio of remuneration to median 
remuneration of employees
Mr. Thompson Gnanam
Managing Director and Global CEO
32.35:1
ii) 
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Of昀椀cer, Chief Financial Of昀椀cer and 
Company Secretary in the 昀椀nancial year 2023-24
Name
Designation
Percentage increase / (decrease) in 
remuneration
Mr. Thompson Gnanam
Managing Director and Global CEO
10%
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
17%
Ms. Varika Rastogi
Company Secretary
11%
iii) 
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the 昀椀nancial year 2023-24
 
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the 昀椀nancial year is 20% on a like to like basis. The 
median remuneration for FY 2023-24 includes applicable performance bonus for the previous year. 
iv) The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company 
 
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as at March 31, 2024 was 1575. 
v) 
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the 
last 昀椀nancial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justi昀椀cation 
thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration. 
 
On an average employee received an annual increase of 5.61%. The individual increments varied up to 0% to 54% based 
on individual performance. The average increase in renumeration of KMP is 10.60%. 
 
Note: Perquisite arising due to exercise of employee stock options has been excluded while calculating the total 
remuneration.
vi) The key parameters for any variable components of remuneration availed by the directors 
 
Non-Executive Directors receive only sitting fees from the Company. Variable pay for the Managing Director and Global 
CEO is determined by the Nomination and Renumeration Committee based on the organisation’s performance and within 
the limits approved by the Shareholders of the Company.
vii) Af昀椀rmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company 
 
The Company af昀椀rms that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
ANNEXURE V
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
133
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES FOR THE FY 2022-23
1. 
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 
At 3i Infotech Limited, we sincerely believe that the actions of the organisation and its community are highly interdependent. 
It is through constant and collaborative interactions with our external stakeholders that the Company strives to become 
an asset in the communities where it operates. Pursuant to provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
“Act”), the Company has formulated a CSR Policy which is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.3i-
infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2021/08/Corporate-Social-Responsibility-Policy.pdf 
 
The Policy aims to initiate projects that bene昀椀t communities; encourage an increased commitment from employees 
towards CSR activities and volunteering and generating goodwill in communities where the Company operates or is 
likely to operate.
2. 
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of Directorship
Number of
meetings of 
CSR
Committee 
held
during the year
Number of 
meetings
of CSR 
Committee
attended during 
the year
1
Mr. Ashok Shah*
Chairman (Independent Director)
NIL
NIL
2
Ms. Zohra Chatterji$
Chairperson (Independent Director)
NIL
NIL
3
Mr. Thompson Gnanam**
Member (Managing Director & Global CEO)
NIL
NIL
4
Dr. Aruna Sharma#
Member (Non-Executive Director)
NIL
NIL
5
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan*** Chairman (Non-Executive Director)
NIL
NIL
 
* Ceased to be Chairman and member w.e.f. December 10, 2023. 
 
$ designated as Chairperson w.e.f. January 31, 2024. 
 
** Ceased to be member w.e.f. May 29, 2024. 
 
# Appointed as member w.e.f. December 20, 2023. 
 
*** Ceased to be Chairman w.e.f. January 26, 2024. 
3. 
Provide the web-link where composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board 
are disclosed on the website of the Company:
 
The Company’s CSR Policy is placed on the website of the Company and the web link for the same is - https://www.3i-
infotech.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2021/08/Corporate-SocialResponsibility-Policy.pdf. 
4. 
Provide the details of impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report): 
 
Not Applicable.
5. 
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the 昀椀nancial year, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off from 
preceding 昀椀nancial years (in `)
Amount required to be set-off for 
the 昀椀nancial year, if any (in `)
1
FY 2023-24
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Total
6. 
Average net pro昀椀t of the company as per section 135(5) 
Particulars
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Net Pro昀椀t / (Loss) before tax
(1,502.32)
(1,528.73)
(1,510.66)
 
Average Net Pro昀椀t/(Loss) before tax for last 3 years calculated in accordance with Section 198 of Companies Act, 2013 
= (` -1,513.90 Crores) i.e. [{(-4,541.71)}/3] 
ANNEXURE VI
Annual Report 2023-24
134
7. 
(i) 
Two percent of average net pro昀椀t of the company as per section 135(5):
 
The Company does not meet the applicability threshold as per Section 135 of the Act. Hence, the provisions of the 
said section are not applicable during the current 昀椀nancial year.
 
(ii)  Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 昀椀nancial years: 
 
 
Not Applicable.
 
(iii)  Amount required to be set off for the 昀椀nancial year, if any:
 
 
Not Applicable.
 
(iv)  Total CSR obligation for the 昀椀nancial year (7a+7b-7c): Not Applicable.
8. 
(i) 
CSR amount spent or unspent for the FY 2023-24: 
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund speci昀椀ed under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount.
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
Not Applicable.
 
(ii)  Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the FY 2023-24: 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item 
from the 
list of 
activities 
in 
Schedule 
VII to the 
Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of 
the project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project 
(in `)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
current 
昀椀nancial 
Year (in 
`)
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
for the 
project as 
per Section 
135(6)  
(in `)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Direct  
(Yes/No)
Mode of  
Implementation - 
Through 
 Implementing 
Agency
State District
Name
CSR  
Registra-
tion  
number
1.
Not Applicable
(iii) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the FY 2023-24: (Please con昀椀rm)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sl. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/ 
No)
Location of the 
project
Amount 
spent 
for the 
project 
(in `)
Mode of 
implementation - 
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of implementation 
- Through implementing 
agency
State
District
Name
CSR registration 
number
1.
Not Applicable
(iv)  Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Not Applicable.
(v)  Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not Applicable. 
(vi)  Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): Not Applicable. 
(vii)  Excess amount for set off, if any - (Please con昀椀rm)
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (in `)
(i)
Two percent of average net pro昀椀t of the company as per section 135(5)
NIL
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
NIL
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the 昀椀nancial year [(ii)-(i)]
NIL
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 昀椀nancial 
years, if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding 昀椀nancial years [(iii)-(iv)]
NIL
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
135
9. 
(i)  Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three 昀椀nancial years: (Please con昀椀rm)
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under 
section 135 
(6) (in `)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in `)
Amount transferred to any fund speci昀椀ed 
under Schedule VII as per section 135(6), if 
any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
昀椀nancial 
yea` (in `)
Name of the 
Fund
Amount (in 
Rs)
Date of 
transfer
1.
FY 2022-23
Not Applicable
2
FY 2021-22
Not Applicable
3
FY 2020-21
Not Applicable
Total
(ii)  Details of CSR amount spent in the 昀椀nancial year for ongoing projects of the preceding 昀椀nancial year(s): 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sl. 
No.
Project ID Name of the 
Project
Financial 
Year in 
which the 
project was 
commenced
Project 
duration
Total 
amount 
allocated 
for the 
project  
(in `)
Amount 
spent on 
the project 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in `)
Cumulative 
amount 
spent at 
the end of 
reporting 
Financial 
Year (in `)
Status of 
the project - 
Completed /
Ongoing
1
Not Applicable
10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired 
through CSR spent in the 昀椀nancial year (asset-wise details). 
 
(a) 
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s). – Not Applicable
(b)  Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset. - Not Applicable
(c)  Details of the entity or public authority or bene昀椀ciary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their 
address etc. - Not Applicable
(d)  Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital 
asset). - Not Applicable
11. Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net pro昀椀t as per Section 
135(5): Not applicable for FY 2022-23 since as per Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013, the Company does not meet 
the applicability threshold.
Date: August 14, 2024
Place: Navi Mumbai
For and on behalf of the Board
Zohra Chatterji 
Chairperson of CSR Committee
(DIN: 01382511)
Annual Report 2023-24
136
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the Members of 
3I Infotech Limited 
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE IND AS 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Disclaimer of Opinion
We were engaged to audit the accompanying standalone 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements of 3I INFOTECH LIMITED (“the 
Company”) which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 
31, 2024, the Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Loss), the Statement of Changes in Equity 
and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended on that 
date, and notes to 昀椀nancial statements, including a summary 
of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as the “the standalone 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements”).
We do not express an opinion on the accompanying 
standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements of the Company. 
Because of the signi昀椀cance of the matter described in the 
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section of our report, we 
have not been able to obtain suf昀椀cient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these 
standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements.
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion
1. 
As depicted in Note No. 18, the Board had set up 
a Legacy Committee as a Sub – Committee of the 
Audit Committee, to evaluate and address all long 
outstanding legacy related matters. After evaluating 
the reports of Sub Committee, the Board of Directors 
of the Company at its meeting held on January 31, 
2024, decided to initiate Forensic Audit for legacy 
issues, the completion of which is still pending. In 
the absence of outcome of the Forensic Audit, we are 
unable to comment on the possible consequential 
effects thereof, if any, on the standalone Ind AS 
昀椀nancial statements.
2. 
As depicted in Note No. 5(a), the Company has carried 
net investment in 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, 
a wholly owned subsidiary, amounting to INR 101.04 
crores in Equity Shares and INR 711.73 crores in 
Redeemable Preference Shares after making a loss 
allowance, on the basis of internal evaluation, of INR 
421.70 crores in the current 昀椀nancial year. We have 
not been provided the audited 昀椀nancial statements 
of the subsidiary. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and 
appropriate audit evidence, we are unable to comment 
on the management estimate for loss allowance 
amounting to INR 421.70 crores and recoverability of 
carrying value of investments in subsidiary amounting 
to INR 812.77 crores in the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements.
3. 
As depicted in Note No. 6, 5(b) & 5(c), the Company 
has a net receivable balance on account of trade 
receivables, loans & interest of INR 76.36 crores 
from its various foreign subsidiaries, after making a 
loss allowance of INR 329.90 crores on the basis of 
internal evaluation in the current 昀椀nancial year. The 
recoverability of the same are long outstanding. In the 
absence of suf昀椀cient and appropriate audit evidence 
of recoverability of these balances and basis of the 
loss allowance, we are unable to comment on the 
management estimate for loss allowance amounting 
to INR 329.90 crores and recoverability of carrying 
value of net receivables amounting to INR 76.36 
crores in the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements.
4. 
As depicted in Note No. 4(a), the intangible assets 
developed amounting to INR 44.55 crores, were 
capitalized during the current year. However, the 
management has on the basis of internal evaluation 
made a loss allowance of INR 21.93 crores in the 
current 昀椀nancial year. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and 
appropriate audit evidence, we are unable to comment 
on the management estimate for loss allowance 
amounting to INR 21.93 crores and recoverability of 
balance carrying value amounting to INR 17.33 crores 
in the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements.
5. 
As depicted in Note No. 18, in the current 昀椀nancial 
year, the Company has presented all the legacy 
outstanding balances of its receivable of INR 76.36 
crores, investments of INR 812.77 crores and payable 
of INR 1080.97 crores relating to its wholly owned 
subsidiaries as a single line item in the Balance 
Sheet of INR 191.84 crores under “Legacy related 
liabilities and assets.” We are unable to comment 
on the appropriateness of the presentation of 
these receivables/investments and payables in the 
standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements.
MANAGEMENT’S 
RESPONSIBILITY 
FOR 
THE 
STANDALONE IND AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with 
respect to the preparation of these standalone Ind AS 
昀椀nancial statements that give a true and fair view of the 
昀椀nancial position, 昀椀nancial performance, including total 
comprehensive loss, changes in equity and cash 昀氀ows of 
the Company in accordance with the standalone Ind AS 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
137
and other accounting principles generally accepted in India. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal 昀椀nancial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements that give a 
true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements by the directors of the company, as aforesaid. 
In preparing the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing 
the Company’s 昀椀nancial reporting process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF 
THE STANDALONE IND AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our responsibility is to conduct an audit of the 
standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements in accordance with 
Standards on Auditing and to issue an auditor’s report. 
However, because of the matter described in the Basis 
for Disclaimer of Opinion section of our report, we were 
not able to obtain suf昀椀cient appropriate audit evidence to 
provide a basis for an audit opinion on these standalone 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements. 
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics and provisions of the Act that are relevant to 
our audit of the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements in 
India under the Act, and we have ful昀椀lled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with the Code of Ethics and 
the requirements under the Act.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
1. 
As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central 
Government in terms of section 143 (11) of the Act, 
and except for the possible effects, of the matter 
described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 
section, we give in the “Annexure A”, a statement on 
the matters speci昀椀ed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 
Order, to the extent applicable.
2. 
(A) As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based 
on our audit we report that: 
a) 
As described in the Basis for Disclaimer of 
Opinion section, we sought but were unable 
to obtain all the information and explanations 
which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit. 
b) 
Due to the effects/possible effects of the 
matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section and for the matters stated 
in the paragraph 2(B) (vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g), we are unable to state 
whether proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so 
far as it appears from our examination of 
those books. We are unable to comment 
if the back-up of the books of account and 
other relevant books and papers in electronic 
mode has been kept on servers physically 
located in India on a daily basis during the 
period from April 01, 2023 till March 31, 
2024.
c) 
The company has a branch of昀椀ce, although 
no 
separate 
昀椀nancial 
statements 
are 
prepared by the Branch and hence section 
143(8) does not apply to the company.
d) 
Due to the effects/possible effects of the 
matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section, we are unable to 
state whether the Balance Sheet, the 
Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss including 
Other Comprehensive loss, the Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Statement of 
Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
e) 
Due to the effects/possible effects of the 
matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section, we are unable to state 
whether the 昀椀nancial statements comply 
with the Indian Accounting Standards 
speci昀椀ed under section 133 of the Act read 
with rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014.
f) 
The matter described in the Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion section above, in our 
opinion, may have an adverse effect on the 
functioning of the company.
g) 
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 
31, 2024, taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors are 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
138
disquali昀椀ed as on March 31, 2024, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164 (2) of the Act. 
h) 
The reservation relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in the Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion section above.
i) 
With respect to adequacy of internal 昀椀nancial 
controls over 昀椀nancial reporting of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls, refer to our separate report 
in “Annexure B”. Our report expresses a 
Disclaimer of Opinion on the adequacy and 
operating effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal 昀椀nancial controls over 昀椀nancial 
reporting.
j) 
With respect to the other matters to 
be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with the requirements of section 
197(16) of the Act, as amended:
 
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
the remuneration paid by the company to its 
directors during the year is in accordance with the 
provisions of section 197 of the Act.
 
(B) In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
we report as under with respect to the other 
matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our 
opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
(i) 
Except for the possible effects of the matter 
described in the Basis for Disclaimer of 
opinion section, the Company has disclosed 
the impact of pending litigations on its 
昀椀nancial position as referred to Note No. 31 
to the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statement.
(ii) 
Except for the possible effects of the matter 
described in the Basis for Disclaimer of 
opinion section, the Company has made 
provision, in the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements as required under the applicable 
law or accounting standard, for material 
foreseeable losses if any, on long term 
contracts including derivative contracts.
(iii) There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts which were required to be 
transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company.
 
 
(iv) (a) 
The Management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to or 
in any other person or entity, including 
foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identi昀椀ed in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (“Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Bene昀椀ciaries;
 
 
 
(b) The Management has represented, 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, no funds (which are material 
either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been received by the Company 
from any person or entity, including 
foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identi昀椀ed in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries; and;
 
 
 
(c) 
Based on the audit procedures that 
have 
been 
considered 
reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (a) 
and (b) of Rule 11(e), as provided under 
(a) and (b) above, contain any material 
misstatement.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
139
(v) 
The Company has not declared or paid 
any dividend during the year, therefore the 
provisions of section 123 of the Act is not 
applicable.
(vi) Based on our examination which included 
test checks, except for the instances 
mentioned below, the Company has used 
accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account, which have a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility, however the 
same has not operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
respective software but only from July 01, 
2023.
 
Further, from July 01, 2023 where audit trail 
(edit log) facility was enabled and operated, 
we did not come across any instance of 
the audit trail feature being tampered with 
during the course of our audit.
(vii) As Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from 
April 01, 2023, reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 on preservation of audit trail as per 
statutory requirements for record retention 
is not applicable for the 昀椀nancial year ended 
March 31, 2024.
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 103429W
CA Madhu Jain
Partner
Place: Mumbai  
M. No.: 155537
Date: May 30, 2024  
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
140
ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the members 
of “The Company” of even date)
To the best of our information and according to the 
explanations provided to us by the Company and the books 
of account and records examined by us in the normal course 
of audit, we state that:
i. 
In respect of the company’s Property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets:
 
a. 
A. 
The 
company 
has 
maintained 
proper 
records showing full particulars including 
quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment and relevant details of 
right-of-use assets.
 
 
B. 
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
b. 
The Company has a program of physical 
veri昀椀cation of Property, Plant and Equipment and 
right-of-use assets so to cover all the assets in a 
phased manner which, in our opinion, is reasonable 
having regard to the size of the Company and the 
nature of its assets. Pursuant to the program, 
certain Property, Plant and Equipment were due 
for veri昀椀cation during the year and were physically 
veri昀椀ed by the Management during the year. 
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, no material discrepancies were 
noticed on such veri昀椀cation. 
c. 
Based on our examination of the documents 
provided to us, we report that the title deeds/
agreements of immovable properties with respect 
to the leasehold properties at Vashi are held in 
the name of the Company (other than properties 
where the company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
lessee) as at the balance sheet date.
d. 
The Company has not revalued any of its Property, 
Plant and Equipment (including right- of-use 
assets) and intangible assets during the year.
e. 
No proceedings have been initiated during the 
year or are pending against the Company as at 
March 31, 2024 for holding any benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules made 
thereunder.
ii  
a. 
As the Company is a service company, primarily 
rendering software services, it did not hold any 
physical inventories during the year. Accordingly, 
paragraph 3(ii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
 
b. 
The Company has been sanctioned working 
capital limits (Overdraft against FDR) in excess of 
INR 5 crores in aggregate from the banks on the 
basis of security of current assets (FDRs) but no 
returns 昀椀ling is required against the same, hence 
reporting under clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable. There are no limits outstanding at the 
year end.
iii 
a. 
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination 
of the records of the Company, the Company has 
not provided any guarantee or security or granted 
any advances in the nature of loans, secured or 
unsecured, to companies, 昀椀rms, limited liability 
partnership or any other parties during the year 
and the Company has not provided any secured 
loans, to companies, 昀椀rms, limited liability 
partnership or any other parties during the year. 
However, the Company has made investments 
in companies and granted unsecured loans to 
companies, in respect of which the requisite 
information is as below. The Company has not 
made any investments in or granted any loans, 
secured or unsecured, to 昀椀rms and limited liability 
partnership.
 
 
(A) Based on the audit procedures carried 
on by us and as per the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has 
provided unsecured loans to the subsidiaries 
as below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amount In INR Crores
Particulars
Loan 
Amount
Aggregate amount during the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
1.90
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet 
date – March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
42.73
b. 
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on the audit procedures 
conducted by us, in our opinion the investments 
made and the terms and conditions of the grant of 
unsecured loans are, prima facie, not prejudicial to 
the interest of the Company.
c. 
Since the company has granted unsecured loan 
which is either repayable on demand or without 
specifying any terms or period of repayment, 
reporting under clause 3(iii)(c) to 3(iii)(e) of the 
Order is not applicable.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
141
d 
The Company has granted unsecured loans to related parties which is either repayable on demand or without 
specifying any terms or period of repayment, in respect of which the requisite information is as below. However, the 
company has not granted any advances in the nature of loans to related parties or loans or advances in the nature of 
loans to promoters either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
Amount In INR Crores
Particulars
Amount
Percentage of Total Loans
Aggregate amount granted during the year ended March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
1.90
4.45%
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date – March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
42.73
100.00%
iv. 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has advanced a loan in 
compliance with the provisions of Section 185 of the Act. It has not provided any guarantee and security. The Company has 
complied with the provisions of Section 186 of the Act to the extent applicable, with respect to the loans and investments 
made, guarantees given and security provided. 
v.  
The Company has not accepted deposits from public within the meaning of directives issued by RBI (Reserve Bank of 
India) and Sections 73 to 76 or any other relevant provisions of the Act and rules framed there under. 
vi.  The Central Government has not prescribed the maintenance of cost records under Section 148 (1) of the Companies Act 
2013, for any of the services rendered by the Company. Accordingly, paragraph 3(vi) of the Order is not applicable.
vii.  In respect of statutory dues:
a. 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of examination of records of the Company, 
no undisputed amounts payable in respect of provident fund, Employees’ State insurance, income tax, goods and 
service tax, duty of customs, cess and other material statutory dues were in arrears as at March 31, 2024 for a period 
of more than six months from the date they became payable.
b. 
According to the books of accounts and records as produced and examined by us in accordance with the generally 
accepted auditing practices in India, as at March 31, 2024, the following are the particulars of the dues that have not 
been deposited on the account of dispute.
Amount In INR Crores
Name of Statute
Nature of 
Demand
Period to which amount Relates
Amount 
of Dispute
Forum where dispute is pending
AP VAT Act, 2005 Sales Tax Financial Year 2009-10 and 2010-11
0.68 
Appellate deputy Commissioner
Income Tax Act 
1961
Income 
Tax
Assessment Year 2002-03
3.65
High Court (Judicature at Bombay)
Assessment Year 2003-04
0.58
High Court (Judicature at Bombay)
Assessment year 2004-05
0.20
High Court (Judicature at Bombay)
Assessment year 2006-07
41.03
High Court (Judicature at Bombay)
Assessment year 2008-09
28.22 
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
Assessment year 2009-10
5.04
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
Assessment year 2011-12
5.18
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal 
Assessment year 2013-14
14.14
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
Finance Act, 
1994
Service 
Tax
FY 04-05 to FY 10-11
9.68 
Supreme Court
FY 04-05 to FY 11-12
50.15
Supreme Court
FY 2012-13
1.58 
Customs Excise and Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal
Financial Year 2004-05 & 2005-06
0.16 
Commissioner of Service Tax
viii. There were no transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that have been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).
ix. 
a. 
The Company has taken loans from banks, there are no default in repayment of dues to any lender.
 
b. 
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or 昀椀nancial institution or government or any 
government authority.
ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
142
c. 
The Company has not taken any term loan during 
the year and there are no outstanding term loans 
at the beginning of the year and hence, reporting 
under clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
d. 
On an overall examination of the 昀椀nancial 
statements of the Company, funds raised on short- 
term basis have, prima facie, not been used during 
the year for long-term purposes by the Company.
e. 
On an overall examination of the 昀椀nancial 
statements of the Company, the Company has 
not taken any funds from any entity or person 
on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries. 
f. 
The Company has not raised any loans during 
the year on the pledge of securities held in 
subsidiaries or joint ventures and hence reporting 
on clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable.
x. 
a. 
The Company has not raised moneys by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year and hence 
reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable.
b. 
During the year, the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or convertible debentures (fully or partly or 
optionally) and hence reporting under clause 3(x)
(b) of the Order is not applicable.
xi. 
a. 
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, we have neither 
come across any instance of fraud by or on the 
Company by its of昀椀cers or employees, noticed 
or reported during the year, nor have we been 
informed of such case by the management. 
However, the Board of Directors of the Company 
at its meeting held on January 31, 2024, decided 
to initiate Forensic Audit for legacy issues, the 
completion of which is still pending.
b. 
No report under sub-section (12) of section 143 
of the Companies Act has been 昀椀led in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government, during the year.
c. 
We are informed that no whistle blower 
complaints were received by the Company during 
the year.
xii. According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Therefore, 
the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
xiii. According to information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, all transactions with the related parties are 
in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of Companies 
Act, 2013 and details of such transactions have been 
disclosed in the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements 
as required by Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures 
speci昀椀ed under section 133 of the Act read with the 
relevant rules issued thereunder. Refer Note No. 32 to 
the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements. 
xiv. a. 
In our opinion the Company has an adequate 
internal audit system commensurate with the size 
and the nature of its business.
b. 
We have considered, the internal audit reports for 
the year under audit, issued to the Company in 
determining the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures.
xv. According to information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of records of the 
Company, the company has not entered into any non-
cash transactions with directors or persons connected 
with him. Accordingly, paragraph 3 (xv) of the Order is 
not applicable.
xvi. a. 
The Company is not required to be registered 
under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934. Hence, reporting under clause 3(xvi)(a), 
(b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable.
b. 
In our opinion, the group has no core investment 
company (as de昀椀ned in the Core Investment 
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) and 
accordingly reporting under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the 
Order is not applicable.
xvii. In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us, the Company has 
incurred cash losses of INR 54.24 crores in the current 
昀椀nancial year and earned cash pro昀椀t in the immediately 
preceding year. Unquanti昀椀ed impact in the Basis of 
Disclaimer of Opinion section in audit report has not 
been taken into consideration for the purpose of making 
comments in respect of this clause.
xviii. There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
of the Company during the year.
xix. On the basis of the 昀椀nancial ratios, ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of 昀椀nancial assets and payment of 
昀椀nancial liabilities, other information accompanying 
the 昀椀nancial statements and our knowledge of the 
Board of Directors and Management plans and based 
on our examination of the evidence supporting the 
ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
143
assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which 
causes us to believe that any material uncertainty 
exists as on the date of the audit report indicating 
that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities 
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they 
fall due within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We 
further state that our reporting is based on the facts up 
to the date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling 
due within a period of one year from the balance sheet 
date, will get discharged by the Company as and when 
they fall due.
xx. According to information and explanation given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, section 135 is applicable to the company 
but due to past losses the liability for the expenditure 
does not arise and hence reporting under clause 3(xx)
(a) and (xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable for the 
year.
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 103429W
CA Madhu Jain
Partner
Place: Mumbai  
M. No.: 155537
Date: May 30, 2024  
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
144
ANNEXURE ‘B’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2(i) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the Members 
of 3i Infotech Limited of even date)
REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
UNDER CLAUSE (I) OF SUB-SECTION 3 OF SECTION 
143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE ACT”)
We were engaged to audit the internal 昀椀nancial controls over 
昀椀nancial reporting of “3i Infotech Limited” (“the Company”) 
as of March 31, 2024, in conjunction with our audit of the 
standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements of the Company for 
the year ended on that date. 
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal 昀椀nancial controls based on the 
internal control over 昀椀nancial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal 昀椀nancial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and ef昀椀cient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable 昀椀nancial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013. 
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal 昀椀nancial controls over 昀椀nancial reporting based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards 
on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed 
under section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal 昀椀nancial controls, 
both applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls 
and both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India.
Because of the matter described in the Disclaimer of 
Opinion section below, we were not able to obtain suf昀椀cient 
appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit 
opinion on internal 昀椀nancial controls with reference to the 
standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements of the Company. 
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS OVER 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
A company’s internal 昀椀nancial control over 昀椀nancial 
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of 昀椀nancial reporting and 
the preparation of standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal 昀椀nancial 
control over 昀椀nancial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that 
(1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly re昀氀ect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; 
(2)  provide 
reasonable 
assurance 
that 
transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
standalone 昀椀nancial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the company are being 
made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and 
(3)  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could have 
a material effect on the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements. 
DISCLAIMER OF OPINION 
Consequent to the matters described in the “Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion” section of our Independent Auditor’s 
Report of even date on the standalone Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements of the Company, we are unable to determine if 
the Company has established adequate internal 昀椀nancial 
controls with reference to 昀椀nancial statements and whether 
they were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024. 
Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the internal 
昀椀nancial controls with reference to 昀椀nancial statements.
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 103429W
CA Madhu Jain
Partner
Place: Mumbai  
M. No.: 155537
Date: May 30, 2024  
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
145
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2024
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
(1)  Non-Current Assets
 
(a)  
Property, Plant and Equipment
3 (a)
2.19
3.58
 
(b)  
Right-of-Use Assets
3 (b)
140.12
165.49
 
(c) 
Other Intangible Assets
4 (a)
20.52
-
 
(d) 
Intangible Assets Under Development
4 (b)
6.28
41.81
 
(e) 
Financial Assets
 
 
(i) 
Investments
5 (a)
107.93
1,320.79
 
 
(ii) 
Loans
5 (b)
1.90
40.83
 
 
(iii) 
Other Financial Assets
5 (c )
6.08
13.11
 
(f) 
Deferred Tax Asset (Net)
9
-
-
 
(g) 
Income Tax Asset (Net)
9 (a)
56.76
56.76
 
(h) 
Other Non-Current Assets
8
2.78
7.23
344.56
1,649.60
(2)  Current Assets
 
(a)  
Financial Assets
 
 
(i) 
Trade Receivables
6
72.54
416.17
 
 
(ii) 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
7
28.75
40.51
 
 
(iii) 
Other Financial Assets
5 (c )
33.00
69.63
 
(b) 
Income Tax Assets (Net)
9 (a)
12.90
2.16
 
(c) 
Other Current Assets
8
5.70
13.51
152.89
541.98
TOTAL ASSETS
497.45
2,191.58
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a) 
Equity Share Capital
10
169.23
168.47
(b) 
Other Equity
11
(81.97)
735.67
87.26
904.14
Liabilities
(1) 
Non Current Liabilities
 
(a) 
Financial Liabilities
 
 
(i) 
Borrowings
12
38.79
27.14
 
 
(ia) 
Lease Liabilities
17
19.24
41.83
 
 
(ii) 
Other Financial Liabilities
13
5.00
5.00
 
(b) 
Provisions
16
14.04
10.23
77.07
84.19
(2) 
Current Liabilities
 
(a) 
Financial Liabilities
 
 
(i) 
Borrowings
12
-
7.25
 
 
(ia) 
Lease Liabilities
17
12.76
14.20
 
 
(ii) 
Trade Payables
14
(A) 
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises
9.67
1.49
(B) 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and 
Small Enterprises
82.92
93.60
 
 
(iii) 
Other Financial Liabilities
13
23.25
1,076.26
 
(b) 
Legacy Related Liabilities & Assets
18
191.84
-
 
(c) 
Other Current Liabilities
15
8.76
6.77
 
(d) 
Provisions
16
3.92
3.67
333.12
1,203.25
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
497.45
2,191.58
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Material Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of the  
                                         1-51
Standalone Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
146
Material Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of the  
                                      1-51
Standalone Financial Statements
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT & LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Notes 
No.
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
REVENUE
(I) 
Revenue from Operations
19
357.33
276.24
(II) 
Other Income
20
61.18
114.96
(III) Total Income (I+II)
418.51
391.20
(IV) EXPENSES
Employee Bene昀椀ts Expense
21
186.09
149.97
Cost of Third Party Products and Services
22
158.16
121.15
Finance Costs
23
8.72
9.00
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
24
24.82
21.20
Other Expenses
25
434.75
52.11
Total Expenses (IV)
812.54
353.43
(V) Pro昀椀t/(loss) before exceptional items and tax from continuing 
operations (III-IV)
(394.03)
37.77
 
Exceptional Items
27
424.60
(14.48)
 
Total Exceptional Items (VI)
424.60
(14.48)
(VII) Pro昀椀t/(loss) before tax from continuing operations
(818.63)
52.25
(VIII) Tax expense:
Current Tax
9
-
-
Deferred Tax
9
-
-
(IX) Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the period from continuing operations  
(VII-VIII)
(818.63)
52.25
(X) Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the period
(818.63)
52.25
(XI) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
A.  Items that will not be reclassi昀椀ed to pro昀椀t and loss in 
subsequent periods:
 
Remeasurement of gains (losses) on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans
(1.74)
(0.62)
 
Income tax effect
-
-
B.  Items that will be reclassi昀椀ed to pro昀椀t and loss in 
subsequent periods
-
-
 
Total Other Comprehensive income/(loss)
(1.74)
(0.62)
(XIII) Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (XI+XII)
(820.37)
51.63
Earnings per equity share for pro昀椀t from continuing operations 
attributable to equity shareholders
Basic EPS
28
(48.52)
3.10
Diluted EPS
28
(48.52)
3.05
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
147
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Pro昀椀t/(Loss) before income tax from:
Continuing operations
(818.63)
52.25
Pro昀椀t before income tax
(818.63)
52.25
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
24.82
21.20
Employee share-based payment expense
2.62
5.08
Allowance for doubtful debts
340.27
1.52
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(0.06)
1.32
(Gain)/Loss on modi昀椀cation of leased assets
(2.32)
0.32
Provision for Impairment of Investment
435.94
7.36
Provision for intangible assets impairment
21.93
-
Interest Income on Financial Assets at Amortised Cost
(27.31)
(25.21)
Interest income classi昀椀ed as investing cash 昀氀ows
(5.82)
(6.97)
Finance costs
8.72
9.00
Net foreign exchange differences
(25.41)
(79.28)
Change in operating assets and liabilities:
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
14.70
57.00
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
12.08
24.69
(Increase)/decrease in other 昀椀nancial assets
14.17
(13.34)
(Increase)/decrease in other non-current assets
4.45
3.35
(Increase)/decrease in other current assets
7.81
59.32
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
2.32
(0.22)
Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities
15.07
(38.79)
Cash generated from operations
25.37
78.60
Less: Income taxes paid/(refunds)
10.74
(29.40)
Net cash in昀氀ow from operating activities
14.63
108.00
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Intangible assets under development
(12.78)
(33.76)
Payments for property, plant and equipment
(0.24)
(85.18)
Interest Received
2.63
3.26
Disposal /sale of Assets
0.06
10.57
Investments in subsidiaries
(0.01)
(0.03)
Net cash in昀氀ow/(out昀氀ow) from investing activities
(10.34)
(105.15)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Payment of Lease Liabilities
(18.34)
(17.77)
Loan from Related party
40.42
-
Loan to Related party
(1.90)
-
Repayment of borrowings
(36.02)
(29.77)
Interest paid
(1.10)
(1.29)
Proceed from issue of shares
0.88
0.34
Net cash in昀氀ow/(out昀氀ow) from 昀椀nancing activities 
(16.05)
(48.49)
Annual Report 2023-24
148
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(11.76)
(45.63)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the 昀椀nancial year
40.51
86.15
Cash and Cash Equivalents at end of the year
28.75
40.51
Cash and Cash Equivalents as per above comprise of the following:
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Balances with banks:
- On current accounts
5.03
1.72
- On deposit accounts
23.72
38.79
Cash on hand
-
-
Balances as per statement of cash 昀氀ows
28.75
40.51
Movement in borrowings
Particular
Change in Liabilities arising from 昀椀nancing activities
Non Current Borrowings
Current Borrowings
Total
Borrowings as at March 31, 2022
44.65
37.02
81.67
Cash Flow
-
(29.77)
(29.77)
Other non cash movements
(17.51)
-
(17.51)
Total Borrowings as at March 31, 2023
27.14
7.25
34.39
Cash Flow
9.75
(7.25)
2.49
Other non cash movements
1.90
-
1.90
Total Borrowings as at March 31, 2024
38.79
-
38.79
Notes : 
1.  
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the 'Indirect Method' as set out in Ind AS 7 on "Statement of 
Cash Flows" noti昀椀ed by the Companies Act, 2013. 
2. 
Previous year's 昀椀gures have been regrouped / rearranged wherever necessary to conform to the current year's 
presentation. 
Material Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements 
1 to 51
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
149
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
Equity Share Capital
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Balance at the Beginning of 
the current reporting period
Changes in Equity share 
capital during the current year
Balance at the end of the 
current reporting period
March 31, 2024
Numbers
16,84,66,042
7,64,800
16,92,30,842
Amount
168.47
0.76
169.23
March 31, 2023
Numbers
16,79,42,657
5,23,385
16,84,66,042
Amount
167.94
0.52
168.47
Other Equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Share 
Application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Redemp-
tion  
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Share 
Based 
Payment 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Property, 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Reserve
Total
As at April 01, 2022
0.20
0.07
321.00
896.18
15.43
(595.83)
42.11
679.15
Pro昀椀t for the year
-
-
-
-
-
52.25
-
52.25
Other comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
(0.62)
-
(0.62)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year
0.20
0.07
321.00
896.18
15.43
51.63
42.11
51.63
Share Application Money Pending 
Allotment
(0.20)
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.20)
Share Based Payment Expense
-
-
-
-
5.08
-
-
5.08
Amortisation Of Revaluation 
Reserve
-
-
-
-
-
(60.90)
60.90
-
Transfer To Retained Earnings
-
-
-
-
(13.18)
13.18
-
-
As at April 01, 2023
(0.00)
0.07
321.00
896.18
7.33
(591.92)
103.01
735.67
Pro昀椀t for the year
-
-
-
-
(818.63)
-
(818.63)
Other comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
(1.74)
-
(1.74)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year
-
-
-
-
-
(820.38)
-
(820.38)
Share Application Money Pending 
Allotment
0.12
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.12
Share Based Payment Expense
-
-
-
-
2.62
-
-
2.62
Amortisation of Revaluation 
Reserve
-
-
-
-
-
2.36
(2.36)
-
Transfer To Retained Earnings
-
-
-
-
(0.64)
0.64
-
-
Transfer To Securities Premium
-
-
-
3.15
(3.15)
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
0.12
0.07
321.00
899.33
6.16 (1,409.30)
100.64
(81.97)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
150
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
3i Infotech Limited (referred to as “The Company”) is a 
Global Information Technology Company committed to 
Empowering Business Transformation. The business 
activities of the Company are broadly divided into two 
categories, viz. IT Solutions and Transaction Services. The 
IT Solutions business comprises of Cloud Computing, 
Application-Automation-Analytics 
(AAA), 
Platform 
Solutions, Infrastructure Management Services, Application 
Development, Digital Transformation Consulting and 
NextGen Business services while Transaction Services 
comprise of BPS and KPO services covering management of 
back of昀椀ce operations. 
 
The Company is a public limited Company incorporated and 
domiciled in India and has a branch of昀椀ce at Sharjah. Its 
shares are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange and National 
Stock Exchange in India. The address of its registered of昀椀ce 
is International Infotech Park, Tower No.5, 3rd to 6th 昀氀oors, 
Vashi, Navi Mumbai-400 703.
The 昀椀nancial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 
were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on May 30, 2024.
2.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
a) 
Statement of compliance 
 
 
The Standalone 昀椀nancial statements which comprises 
of Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the 
Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss for the year ended March 
31, 2024, the Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
ended March 31, 2024 and the Statement of Changes 
in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(together hereinafter referred to as ‘Standalone 
Financial Statements’) and have been prepared in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed under Section 133 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with The Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from 
time to time.
b) 
Basis of preparation 
 
 
These 昀椀nancial statements have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis, except for certain 昀椀nancial 
instruments which are measured at fair values at 
the end of each reporting period, as explained in the 
accounting policies below. Historical cost is generally 
based on the fair value of the consideration given in 
exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the 
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid 
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.
c) 
Critical accounting estimates and judgments
 
The preparation of these 昀椀nancial statements in 
conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires the management of the 
Company to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported balances of assets and liabilities, 
disclosures relating to contingent liabilities as at the 
date of the 昀椀nancial statements and the reported 
amounts of income and expense for the periods 
presented. 
 
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimates are 
revised and future periods are affected.
 
Key sources of estimation of uncertainty at the date of 
the 昀椀nancial statements, which may cause a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next 昀椀nancial year, are in respect of 
following: 
(i) 
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 
 
The Company reviews its carrying value of 
investments carried at cost / amortised cost 
annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication for impairment. If the recoverable 
amount is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is accounted for in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss. 
(ii) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment 
and Intangible Assets 
 
The Company reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment and intangible asset at the 
end of each reporting period. This reassessment 
may result in change in depreciation and 
amortisation expense in future periods. 
(iii) Provision for Income Tax and Deferred Tax 
Assets 
 
The Company uses estimates and judgements 
based on the relevant rulings in the areas 
of allocation of revenue, costs, allowances 
and disallowances which is exercised while 
determining the provision for income tax. A 
deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that future taxable pro昀椀t will be 
available against which the deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Accordingly, the 
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
151
company exercises its judgement to reassess the 
carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end 
of each reporting period. 
(iv) Provisions, 
Contingent 
liabilities 
and 
Contingent Assets 
 
A provision is recognised when the Company 
has a present obligation as a result of past event 
and it is probable that an out昀氀ow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. 
Provisions (excluding retirement bene昀椀ts and 
compensated absences) are not discounted to 
its present value unless the effect of time value 
of money is material and are determined based 
on best estimate required to settle the obligation 
at the Standalone Balance sheet date. These are 
reviewed at each Standalone Balance sheet date 
and adjusted to re昀氀ect the current best estimates. 
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the 
昀椀nancial statements. A contingent asset is neither 
recognised nor disclosed in the Standalone 
昀椀nancial statements. 
(v) Revenue recognition 
 
The Company’s contracts with customers include 
promises to transfer multiple products and services 
to a customer. Revenues from customer contracts 
are considered for recognition and measurement 
when the contract has been approved, in writing, 
by the parties to the contract, the parties to 
contract are committed to perform their respective 
obligations under the contract, and the contract 
is legally enforceable. The Company assesses 
the services promised in a contract and identi昀椀es 
distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identi昀椀cation of distinct performance obligations 
to determine the deliverables and the ability of 
the customer to bene昀椀t independently from such 
deliverables, and allocation of transaction price to 
these distinct performance obligations involves 
signi昀椀cant judgement. 
 
Fixed-price maintenance revenue is recognised 
rateably on a straight-line basis when services 
are performed through an inde昀椀nite number 
of repetitive acts over a speci昀椀ed period. 
Revenue from 昀椀xed-price maintenance contract 
is recognised rateably using a percentage of 
completion method when the pattern of bene昀椀ts 
from the services rendered to the customer and 
the Company’s costs to ful昀椀l the contract is not 
even through the period of the contract because 
the services are generally discrete in nature and 
not repetitive. The use of method to recognise the 
maintenance revenues requires judgment and is 
based on the promises in the contract and nature 
of the deliverables. 
 
The Company uses the percentage-of-completion 
method in accounting for other 昀椀xed-price 
contracts. Use of the percentage-of-completion 
method requires the Company to determine the 
actual efforts or costs expended to date as a 
proportion of the estimated total efforts or costs to 
be incurred. Efforts or costs expended have been 
used to measure progress towards completion 
as there is a direct relationship between input 
and productivity. The estimation of total efforts 
or costs involves signi昀椀cant judgement and is 
assessed throughout the period of the contract to 
re昀氀ect any changes based on the latest available 
information. 
 
Contracts with customers include subcontractor 
services 
or 
third-party 
vendor 
equipment 
or software in certain integrated services 
arrangements. In these types of arrangements, 
revenue from sales of third-party vendor products 
or services is recorded net of costs when the 
Company is acting as an agent between the 
customer and the vendor, and gross when the 
Company is the principal for the transaction. In 
doing so, the Company 昀椀rst evaluates whether it 
controls the good or service before it is transferred 
to the customer. The Company considers whether 
it has the primary obligation to ful昀椀l the contract, 
inventory risk, pricing discretion and other factors 
to determine whether it controls the goods or 
service and therefore, is acting as a principal or an 
agent. 
 
Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on 
incomplete contracts are recorded in the period 
in which such losses become probable, based 
on the estimated efforts or costs to complete the 
contract. 
(vi) Fair 
value 
measurement 
of 
昀椀nancial 
instruments 
 
When the fair value of 昀椀nancial assets and 
昀椀nancial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 
cannot be measured based on quoted prices in 
active markets, their fair value is measured using 
valuation techniques including the Discounted 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
152
Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are 
taken from observable markets where possible, 
but where this is not feasible, a degree of 
judgement is required in establishing fair values. 
Judgements include considerations of inputs such 
as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of 昀椀nancial instruments. 
(vii) Impairment of 昀椀nancial assets (other than at 
fair value) 
 
Measurement 
of 
impairment 
of 
昀椀nancial 
assets require use of estimates, which have 
been explained in the note on 昀椀nancial assets, 
昀椀nancial liabilities and equity instruments, under 
impairment of 昀椀nancial assets (other than at fair 
value). 
(viii) Employee bene昀椀ts 
 
The accounting of employee bene昀椀t plans in the 
nature of de昀椀ned bene昀椀t requires the Company to 
use assumptions. These assumptions have been 
explained under employee bene昀椀ts note. 
d) 
Revenue Recognition 
 
 
The Company earns primarily from providing services of 
Information Technology (IT) solutions and Transaction 
services. 
- 
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control 
of promised products or services to customers in 
an amount that re昀氀ects the consideration which 
the Company expects to receive in exchange for 
those products or services. Revenue towards sat-
isfaction of a performance obligation is measured 
at the amount of transaction price (net of variable 
consideration) allocated to that performance obli-
gation. The transaction price of services rendered 
is net of variable consideration on account of dis-
counts and schemes offered by the company as a 
part of the contract.
 
Revenue from time and material and job contracts 
is recognised on output basis measured by 
units delivered, efforts expended, number of 
transactions processed, etc.
 
Revenue related to 昀椀xed price maintenance and 
support services contracts where the Company is 
standing ready to provide services is recognised 
based on time elapsed mode and revenue is 
straight lined over the period of performance.
 
Revenue from software development and related 
services have been recognised basis guidelines 
of Ind AS 115 – “Revenue from contract with 
customers”, by applying the revenue recognition 
criteria for each distinct performance obligation 
based on the contractual arrangement in 
conjunction with the Company’s accounting 
policies.
 
Revenue from the sale of and Cost of, distinct third 
party hardware is recognised upon performance 
of the contractual obligation.
 
The Company recognises revenue in terms of 
the contracts with its customers, combined with 
its accounting policies. Revenue is measured 
based on the transaction price, which is the 
consideration, adjusted for volume discounts, 
service level credits, performance bonuses, price 
concessions and incentives, if any, as speci昀椀ed 
in the contract with the customer. Revenue also 
excludes taxes collected from customers.
 
Revenue recognition for 昀椀xed priced development 
contracts is based on percentage completion 
method. Invoicing to the client is based on 
milestones as stipulated in the contract.
 
Revenue from transaction services and other 
service 
contracts 
is 
recognised 
based 
on 
transactions processed or manpower deployed.
 
Revenue from sharing of infrastructure facilities is 
recognised based on usage of facilities.
 
Revenue recognised over and above the billings 
on a customer is classi昀椀ed as unbilled revenue.
 
Invoicing in excess of earnings are classi昀椀ed as 
unearned revenue.
 
Performance 
Obligation 
and 
remaining 
performance obligation
 
The 
remaining 
performance 
obligations 
disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the 
transaction price yet to be recognised as at the 
end of the reporting period and an explanation 
as to when the entity expects to recognise these 
amounts in revenue. Applying the practical 
expedient as given in Ind AS 115, the entity 
has not disclosed the remaining performance 
obligation-related 
disclosures 
for 
contracts 
where the revenue recognised corresponds 
directly with the value to the customer of the 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
153
entity’s performance completed to date, typically 
those contracts where invoicing is on time and 
material basis or 昀椀xed price basis. Remaining 
performance obligation estimates are subject 
to change and are affected by several factors, 
including terminations, changes in the scope 
of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustment 
for revenue that has not materialised and 
adjustments for currency.
e) 
Interest / Dividend Income 
 
 
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive 
payment is established. Interest income is recognised 
using the effective interest method. 
 
f) 
Leases 
 
 
The Company evaluates if an arrangement quali昀椀es 
to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identi昀椀cation of a lease requires signi昀椀cant judgment. 
The Company uses signi昀椀cant judgement in assessing 
the lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the 
applicable discount rate. The Company determines the 
lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease 
adjusted with any option to extend or terminate the 
lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The 
Company makes an assessment on the expected lease 
term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses 
whether it is reasonably certain that any options to 
extend or terminate the contract will be exercised. 
In evaluating the lease term, the Company considers 
all relevant facts and circumstances that create an 
economic incentive for the Company to exercise the 
option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option 
to terminate the lease. The Company revises the lease 
term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period 
of a lease. The discount rate is generally based on 
the incremental borrowing rate speci昀椀c to the lease 
being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics (Refer note 38). 
 
 
Leases Accounting policy 
 
 
The Company as a lessee 
 
 
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist of 
leases for buildings. The Company assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A 
contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identi昀椀ed asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess 
whether a contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identi昀椀ed asset, the Company assesses whether 
: (i) the contract involves the use of an identi昀椀ed asset 
(ii) the Company has substantially all of the economic 
bene昀椀ts from use of the asset through the period of the 
lease and (iii) the Company has the right to direct the 
use of the asset. 
 
 
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognises a right-of-use (ROU) asset and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of 
12 months or less (short-term leases) and low value 
leases. For these short-term and low-value leases, 
the Company recognises the lease payments as an 
operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. 
 
 
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to 
extend or terminate the lease before the end of the 
lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes 
these options when it is reasonably certain that they 
will be exercised. 
 
 
The ROU assets are initially recognised at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.  
 
ROU assets are depreciated from the commencement 
date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the 
lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. 
ROU assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount 
(i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset 
basis unless the asset does not generate cash 昀氀ows 
that are largely independent of those from other assets. 
In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined 
for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset 
belongs.  
 
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised 
cost at the present value of the future lease payments. 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, 
using the incremental borrowing rates in the country 
of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are 
remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to 
the related ROU asset if the Company changes its 
assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or 
a termination option. 
 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
154
 
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Standalone Balance Sheet. 
g) 
Cost recognition 
 
 
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and 
have been classi昀椀ed according to their nature.
 
The costs of the Company are broadly categorised 
in employee bene昀椀t expenses, cost of third party 
products and services, 昀椀nance costs, depreciation and 
amortisation and other expenses. Employee bene昀椀t 
expenses include employee compensation, allowances 
paid, contribution to various funds and staff welfare 
expenses. Cost of third party products and services 
mainly include purchase of software licenses and 
products, fees to external consultants, cost of running 
its facilities, cost of equipment and other operating 
expenses. Finance cost includes interest and other 
borrowing cost. Other expenses is an aggregation of 
costs such as commission and brokerage, printing 
and stationery, legal and professional charges, 
communication, repairs and maintenance, etc. 
h) 
Foreign currency 
 
 
The functional currency of the Company is Indian rupee 
(`).  
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at year end exchange rates are generally recognised in 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss. A monetary item for which 
settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the 
foreseeable future is considered as a part of the entity’s 
net investment in that foreign operation. 
 
Non monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in foreign currencies are not 
retranslated.
 
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in 
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
i) 
Income taxes  
 
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred 
income tax. Income tax expense is recognised in net 
pro昀椀t in the Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss, except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised directly 
in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity or 
other comprehensive income. Current income tax for 
current and prior periods is recognised at the amount 
expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax 
authorities, using the tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance 
Sheet date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are recognised for all temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and 
their carrying amounts in the 昀椀nancial statements.
 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting 
date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that the related tax bene昀椀t will be realised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured 
using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. 
These are expected to apply to taxable income in 
the years in which those temporary differences are 
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of 
changes in tax rates on deferred income tax assets 
and liabilities is recognised as income or expense 
in the period that includes the enactment or the 
substantive enactment date. A deferred income tax 
asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable pro昀椀t will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences and tax losses can be 
utilised. Deferred income taxes are not provided on the 
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and branches 
where it is expected that the earnings of the subsidiary 
or branch will not be distributed in the foreseeable 
future. The Company offsets current tax assets and 
current tax liabilities; deferred tax assets and deferred 
tax liabilities; where it has a legally enforceable right 
to set off the recognised amounts and where it intends 
either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset 
and settle the liability simultaneously. Tax bene昀椀ts 
of deductions earned on exercise of employee share 
options in excess of compensation charged to income 
are credited to equity. 
 
j) 
Financial instruments 
 
 
A 昀椀nancial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a 昀椀nancial asset of one entity and a 昀椀nancial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity. 
 
(i) 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 
The Company considers all highly liquid 昀椀nancial 
instruments, which are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash that are subject to an 
insigni昀椀cant risk of change in value and having 
original maturities of three months or less from 
the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. Cash 
and cash equivalents consist of balances with 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
155
banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage. 
 
(ii) Financial assets 
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
 
All 昀椀nancial assets are recognised initially at 
fair value plus, in the case of 昀椀nancial assets 
not recorded at fair value through pro昀椀t and 
loss, transaction costs that are attributable to 
the acquisition of the 昀椀nancial asset. However, 
trade receivables that do not contain a signi昀椀cant 
昀椀nancing component are measured at transaction 
price. Purchases or sales of 昀椀nancial assets that 
require delivery of assets within a time frame 
established by regulation or convention in the 
market place (regular way trades) are recognised 
on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Company 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
 
 
Subsequent measurement 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
昀椀nancial 
assets 
are 
classi昀椀ed 
in 
four 
categories: 
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
a)  
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash 昀氀ows, and
b)  
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
speci昀椀ed dates to cash 昀氀ows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on 
the principal amount outstanding.
 
After initial measurement, such 昀椀nancial assets 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees 
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The 
EIR amortisation is included in other income in the 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognised in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss. This category generally applies 
to trade and other receivables.
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is classi昀椀ed as at the FVTOCI 
if both of the following criteria are met:
(a)  The objective of the business model is 
achieved both by collecting contractual cash 
昀氀ows and selling the 昀椀nancial assets, and
(b)  The asset’s contractual cash 昀氀ows represent 
SPPI.
 
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
are recognised in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI). However, the Company recognises interest 
income, impairment losses & reversals and 
foreign exchange gain or loss in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss. On derecognition of the asset, 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
OCI is reclassi昀椀ed from the equity to Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss. Interest earned whilst holding 
FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest 
income using the EIR method.
 
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. 
Any debt instrument, which does not meet the 
criteria for categorisation as at amortised cost or 
as FVTOCI, is classi昀椀ed as at FVTPL.
 
In addition, the Company may elect to designate 
a debt instrument, which otherwise meets 
amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. 
However, such election is allowed only if 
doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement 
or recognition inconsistency (referred to as 
‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has not 
designated any debt instrument as at FVTPL.
 
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognised in the Statement of Pro昀椀t and 
Loss.
 
Equity investments 
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 
are measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading and contingent 
consideration recognised by an acquirer in a 
business combination to which Ind AS 103 
applies are classi昀椀ed as at FVTPL. For all other 
equity instruments, the Company may make 
an irrevocable election to present in other 
comprehensive income subsequent changes in 
the fair value. The Company makes such election 
on an instrument by- instrument basis. The 
classi昀椀cation is made on initial recognition and is 
irrevocable.
 
If the Company decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value 
changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
156
are recognised in the OCI. There is no recycling of 
the amounts from OCI to statement of pro昀椀t and 
loss, even on sale of investment. However, the 
Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss 
within equity.
 
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and 
loss.
 
Interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures are accounted at cost.
 
Derecognition 
 
A 昀椀nancial asset (or, where applicable, a part 
of a 昀椀nancial asset or part of a group of similar 
昀椀nancial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. 
removed from the Company’s standalone balance 
sheet) when: 
-  
The rights to receive cash 昀氀ows from the 
asset have expired, or 
- 
The Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash 昀氀ows from the asset or has 
assumed an obligation to pay the received 
cash 昀氀ows in full without material delay 
to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ 
arrangement; and either (a) the Company 
has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset. 
 
(iii) Financial liabilities 
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
 
Financial liabilities are classi昀椀ed, at initial 
recognition, as 昀椀nancial liabilities at fair value 
through pro昀椀t and loss, loans and borrowings or 
payables as appropriate. 
 
All 昀椀nancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs. 
 
The Company’s 昀椀nancial liabilities include trade 
and other payables, loans and borrowings 
including bank overdrafts and 昀椀nancial guarantee 
contracts. 
 
Subsequent measurement 
 
The measurement of 昀椀nancial liabilities depends 
on their classi昀椀cation, as described below: 
- 
Financial Liabilities at fair value through 
pro昀椀t and loss
 
Financial liabilities at fair value through pro昀椀t 
and loss include 昀椀nancial liabilities held for 
trading and 昀椀nancial liabilities designated 
upon initial recognition as at fair value 
through pro昀椀t and loss. Financial liabilities 
are classi昀椀ed as held for trading if they are 
incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in 
the near term.
 
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading 
are recognised in the Statement of Pro昀椀t and 
Loss.
 
Financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition at fair value through pro昀椀t and 
loss are designated as such at the initial 
date of recognition, and only if the criteria 
in Ind AS 109 are satis昀椀ed. These gains / 
loss are not subsequently transferred to 
Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss. However, the 
Company may transfer the cumulative gain 
or loss within equity. All other changes in fair 
value of such liability are recognised in the 
Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss. The Company 
has not designated any 昀椀nancial liability as 
at FVTPL.
- 
Loans and borrowings
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the 
EIR 
method. 
Gains 
and 
losses 
are 
recognised in statement of pro昀椀t and loss 
when the liabilities are derecognised as 
well as through the EIR amortisation 
process.
 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation 
is included as 昀椀nance costs in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
157
- 
Financial guarantee contracts
 
Financial guarantee contracts issued by 
the Company are those contracts that 
require a payment to be made to reimburse 
the holder for a loss it incurs because the 
speci昀椀ed debtor fails to make a payment 
when due in accordance with the terms 
of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee 
contracts are recognised initially as a liability 
at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs 
that are directly attributable to the issuance 
of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is 
measured at the higher of the amount of loss 
allowance determined as per impairment 
requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount 
recognised less cumulative amortisation.
 
Derecognition 
 
A 昀椀nancial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing 昀椀nancial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modi昀椀ed, 
such an exchange or modi昀椀cation is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss. 
 
(iv) Reclassi昀椀cation of 昀椀nancial assets 
 
The 
Company 
determines 
classi昀椀cation 
of 
昀椀nancial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. 
After initial recognition, no reclassi昀椀cation is made 
for 昀椀nancial assets which are equity instruments 
and 昀椀nancial liabilities. For 昀椀nancial assets which 
are debt instruments, a reclassi昀椀cation is made 
only if there is a change in the business model 
for managing those assets. Changes to the 
business model are expected to be infrequent. 
The Company’s senior management determines 
change in the business model as a result of external 
or internal changes which are signi昀椀cant to the 
Company’s operations. Such changes are evident 
to external parties. A change in the business 
model occurs when the Company either begins 
or ceases to perform an activity that is signi昀椀cant 
to its operations. If the Company reclassi昀椀es 
昀椀nancial assets, it applies the reclassi昀椀cation 
prospectively from the reclassi昀椀cation date which 
is the 昀椀rst day of the immediately next reporting 
period following the change in business model. 
The Company does not restate any previously 
recognised gains, losses (including impairment 
gains or losses) or interest. 
 
(v) Offsetting of 昀椀nancial instruments 
 
Financial assets and 昀椀nancial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the standalone 
balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable 
legal right to offset the recognised amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, 
to realise the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously. 
k) 
Investments in subsidiaries  
 
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
impairment. 
 
l) 
Property, plant and equipment 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Costs 
directly attributable to acquisition are capitalised until 
the property, plant and equipment are ready for use, 
as intended by the Management. The charge in respect 
of periodic depreciation is derived at after determining 
an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and 
the expected residual value at the end of its life. The 
Company depreciates property, plant and equipment 
over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line 
method.  
 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic bene昀椀ts associated with the item will 昀氀ow to 
the Company and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. The carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is derecognised 
when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance 
are charged to statement of pro昀椀t and loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.  
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:
Category of Assets
Useful lives 
adopted by 
Company
Useful Lives 
prescribed 
under 
Schedule II 
of the Act
Computers
5 years
3-6 years
Plant and Machinery, 
Electrical Installation
5 years
15 years
Of昀椀ce Equipment
5 years
5 years
Furniture and Fixtures
5 years
10 years
Vehicles
5 years
10 years
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
158
 
Based on technical evaluation, the Management 
believes that the useful lives, as given above, best 
represent the period over which the Management 
expects to use these assets. Hence, the useful lives 
for these assets are different from the useful lives 
as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the 
Companies Act 2013. Depreciation methods, useful 
lives and residual values are reviewed periodically, 
including at each 昀椀nancial year end. The useful lives 
are based on historical experience with similar assets 
as well as anticipation of future events, which may 
impact their life, such as changes in technology. 
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each Balance 
Sheet date is classi昀椀ed as capital advances under other 
non-current assets. The cost of assets not ready to use 
before such date are disclosed under ‘Capital work-
in-progress’. Subsequent expenditures relating to 
property, plant and equipment is capitalised only when 
it is probable that future economic bene昀椀ts associated 
with these will 昀氀ow to the Company and the cost of 
the item can be measured reliably. The cost and related 
accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the 
昀椀nancial statements upon sale or retirement of the 
asset. Gains and losses on disposals are determined 
by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These 
are included in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss.
m) Intangible assets
 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Subsequently, following 
initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
 
Intangible assets are amortised over the useful life 
and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. 
The amortisation period and the amortisation method 
for an intangible asset with a 昀椀nite useful life are 
reviewed at least at the end of each reporting year. 
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected 
pattern of consumption of future economic bene昀椀ts 
embodied in the asset are considered to modify the 
amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and 
are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The 
amortisation expense on intangible assets with 昀椀nite 
lives is recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss.
 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an 
intangible asset are measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss when the asset is derecognised.
 
i) 
Intangible Assets Under Development
 
After the technical feasibility of in-house 
developed products has been demonstrated, 
the company starts to capitalise the related 
development costs until the product is ready 
for market launch. However, there can be no 
guarantee that such products will complete the 
development phase or will be commercialised, 
or that market conditions will not change in the 
future, requiring a revision of management’s 
assessment of future cash 昀氀ows related to those 
products. Such changes could lead to additional 
amortisation and impairment charges.
 
ii) 
Research & Development Cost
 
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure, on an individual 
project, is recognised as an intangible asset when 
the Company can demonstrate:
• 
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available 
for use or sale
• 
Its intention to complete and its ability and 
intention to use or sell the asset
• 
How the asset will generate future economic 
bene昀椀ts
• 
The availability of resources to complete the 
asset
• 
The 
ability 
to 
measure 
reliably 
the 
expenditure during development
 
Subsequently, following initial recognition of the 
development expenditure as an asset, the cost model 
is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins 
when development is complete and the asset is 
available for use. It is amortised over the period of 
expected future bene昀椀t. Amortisation expense is 
recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss. During 
the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually.
 
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: 
Category of 
Assets
Useful lives 
adopted by 
Company
Useful Lives 
prescribed under 
Schedule II of the Act
Softwares
5 years
5 years
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
159
n) 
Impairment
 
(i) 
Financial assets (other than at fair value)
 
The Company assesses at each date of 
Standalone Balance sheet whether a 昀椀nancial 
asset or a group of 昀椀nancial assets is impaired. 
Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses to 
be measured through a loss allowance. The 
Company recognises lifetime expected losses for 
all contract assets and/or all trade receivables that 
do not constitute a 昀椀nancing transaction. For all 
other 昀椀nancial assets, expected credit losses are 
measured at an amount equal to the 12 month 
expected credit losses or at an amount equal to 
the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk 
or the 昀椀nancial asset has increased signi昀椀cantly 
since initial recognition.
 
(ii) Non-昀椀nancial assets
 
As at the end of each 昀椀nancial year, the carrying 
amounts of Property, Plant and Equipment, 
Intangible assets and Investments in Subsidiaries 
and Joint Ventures are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may not 
be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher 
of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-
in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis 
unless the asset does not generate cash 昀氀ows 
that are largely independent of those from other 
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to 
which the asset belongs.
 
The amount of value-in-use is determined as the 
present value of estimated future cash 昀氀ows from 
the continuing use of an asset, which may vary 
based on the future performance of the Company 
and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. 
For this purpose, the discount rate (pre-tax) is 
determined based on the weighted average cost 
of capital of the company suitably adjusted for 
risks speci昀椀ed to the estimated cash 昀氀ows of the 
asset.
 
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the 
impairment to be recognised in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss is measured by the amount by 
which the carrying value of the assets exceeds 
the estimated recoverable amount of the asset. 
An impairment loss is reversed in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable 
amount. The carrying amount of the asset is 
increased to its revised recoverable amount, 
provided that this amount does not exceed 
the carrying amount that would have been 
determined (net of any accumulated depreciation) 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the 
asset in prior years.
o) 
Employee bene昀椀ts
 
(i)  Short-term obligations
 
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary bene昀椀ts that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognised in respect of employees’ 
services up to the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amounts expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. These liabilities are 
presented as current liabilities in the standalone 
balance sheet.
 
(ii) Other long-term employee bene昀椀t obligations
 
The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave 
are not expected to be settled wholly within 
12 months after the end of the period in which 
the employees render the related service. They 
are therefore measured as the present value of 
expected future payments to be made in respect 
of services provided by employees up to the end 
of the reporting period using the projected unit 
credit method. The bene昀椀ts are discounted using 
the market yields at the end of the reporting period 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
 
The obligations are presented as current liabilities 
in the standalone balance sheet if the entity 
does not have an unconditional right to defer 
settlement for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period, regardless of when the actual 
settlement is expected to occur.
 
(iii) Post-employment obligations
 
The Company operates the following post-
employment schemes:
(a) 
de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans such as gratuity; and
(b)  de昀椀ned contribution plans such as provident 
fund.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
160
- 
Gratuity obligations
 
The liability or asset recognised in the 
standalone balance sheet in respect of 
de昀椀ned bene昀椀t pension and gratuity plans 
is the present value of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
obligation at the end of the reporting period 
less the fair value of plan assets. The de昀椀ned 
bene昀椀t obligation is calculated annually 
by actuaries using the projected unit credit 
method.
 
The present value of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
obligation denominated in ` is determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash 
out昀氀ows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government 
bonds that have terms approximating to 
the terms of the related obligation. The 
bene昀椀ts which are denominated in currency 
other than `, the cash 昀氀ows are discounted 
using market yields determined by reference 
to high-quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the 
bene昀椀ts will be paid, and that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related 
obligation.
 
The net interest cost is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net balance 
of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation and the fair 
value of plan assets. This cost is included in 
employee bene昀椀t expense in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss.
 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the 
period in which they occur, directly in OCI. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the 
standalone balance sheet.
 
Changes in the present value of the de昀椀ned 
bene昀椀t 
obligation 
resulting 
from 
plan 
amendments or curtailments are recognised 
immediately in statement of pro昀椀t and loss 
as past service cost.
- 
De昀椀ned contribution plans
 
The 
Company 
pays 
provident 
fund 
contributions 
to 
publicly 
administered 
provident funds as per local regulations. The 
Company has no further payment obligations 
once the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are accounted for as de昀椀ned 
contribution plans and the contributions are 
recognised as employee bene昀椀t expense 
when they are due. Prepaid contributions 
are recognised as an asset to the extent that 
a cash refund or a reduction in the future 
payments is available.
 
(iv) Employee Bene昀椀ts in Foreign Branch
 
In respect of employees in foreign branch, 
necessary provisions are made based on 
the applicable local laws. Gratuity and leave 
encashment / entitlement as applicable for 
employees in foreign branch are provided on 
the basis of actuarial valuation and based on 
estimates.
 
(v)  Share-based payments
 
Share-based compensation bene昀椀ts are provided 
to employees via the Employee Option Plan.
 
 
Employee option Plan
 
The fair value of options granted under the 
Employee Option Plan is recognised as an 
employee bene昀椀ts expense with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The total amount to be 
expensed is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted:
-  
including any market performance conditions
-  
excluding the impact of any service and non-
market performance vesting conditions, and
- 
including the impact of any non-vesting 
conditions.
 
The total expense is recognised over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the 
speci昀椀ed vesting conditions are to be satis昀椀ed. 
At the end of each period, the entity revises 
its estimates of the number of options that are 
expected to vest based on the non-market vesting 
and service conditions. It recognises the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity.
p) 
Trade and other payables
 
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Company prior to the end 
of 昀椀nancial year which are unpaid. Trade and other 
payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
161
payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period.
q) 
Provisions
 
General
 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of a past event, it is probable that an out昀氀ow 
of resources embodying economic bene昀椀ts will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation. When 
the Company expects some or all of a provision to be 
reimbursed, for example, under an insurance contract, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, 
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. 
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss net of any reimbursement.
 
Expected Credit Losses (ECL)
 
As per Para 5.5.17 of Ind AS 109 an entity shall measure 
expected credit losses of a 昀椀nancial instrument in a 
way that re昀氀ects:
a)  
an unbiased and probability-weighted amount 
that is determined by evaluating a range of 
possible outcomes.
b)  
the time value of money; and
c)  
reasonable and supportable information that 
is available without undue cost or effort at 
the reporting date about past events, current 
conditions, and forecasts of future economic 
conditions.
 
Ind-AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be 
measured through a loss allowance. Accordingly, 
the Company recognises loss allowances using the 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for the 昀椀nancial 
assets which are not fair valued through pro昀椀t or loss. 
Expected credit losses are measured at an amount 
equal to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a 
signi昀椀cant increase in credit risk from initial recognition 
in which case those are measured at lifetime ECL. Loss 
allowances for trade receivables are always measured 
at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. 
The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) that 
is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting 
date to the amount that is required to be recognised is 
recorded as an impairment gain or loss in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss.
 
The Company determines the allowance for credit losses 
based on historical loss experience adjusted to re昀氀ect 
current and estimated future economic conditions. The 
Company considered current and anticipated future 
economic conditions relating to industries the Company 
deals with and the countries where it operates. While 
assessing the recoverability of receivables including 
unbilled receivables, the Company has considered 
internal and external information up to the date of 
approval of these standalone 昀椀nancial statements 
including credit reports and economic forecasts. The 
Company expects to recover the carrying amount of 
these assets.
 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that re昀氀ects, when appropriate, the risks speci昀椀c to the 
liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a 
昀椀nance cost.
r) 
Contributed equity
 
Equity shares are classi昀椀ed as equity. Incremental 
costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or 
options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds.
s) 
Dividends
 
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of 
the reporting period.
t) 
Earnings per share
 
(i) 
Basic earnings per share
 
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
- 
the pro昀椀t attributable to owners of the 
Company
- 
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the 昀椀nancial 
year, adjusted for bonus elements in equity 
shares issued during the year and excluding 
treasury shares
 
(ii) Diluted earnings per share
 
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the 昀椀gures 
used in the determination of basic earnings per 
share to take into account:
- 
the after income tax effect of interest and 
other 昀椀nancing costs associated with dilutive 
potential equity
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
162
- 
the weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been 
outstanding assuming the conversion of all 
dilutive potential equity shares.
u) 
Current/non current classi昀椀cation
 
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the 
standalone balance sheet based on current/ non-
current classi昀椀cation. An asset is treated as current 
when it is:
- 
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
- 
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
- 
Expected to be realised within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
- 
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period
 
All other assets are classi昀椀ed as non-current.
 
A liability is current when:
- 
It is expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle
- 
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
- 
It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
- 
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
 
The Company classi昀椀es all other liabilities as non-
current.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classi昀椀ed as non-
current assets and liabilities.
 
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash 
and cash equivalents. The Company has identi昀椀ed 
twelve months as its operating cycle.
v) 
Cash Flows
 
Cash Flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby pro昀椀t before tax is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and item of income or expenses associated 
with investing or 昀椀nancing cash 昀氀ows. The cash 昀氀ows 
from operating, investing and 昀椀nancing activities of the 
company are segregated. The company considers all 
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash to be cash equivalents.
w) RBI Application Under FEMA Act, 1999
 
The company has long outstanding receivables and 
payable balances from/to its foreign subsidiaries. 
The company has made RBI Application for seeking 
approval for set-off of Trade Receivables from its 
100% foreign subsidiaries against Trade Payables to its 
100% foreign subsidiaries under the Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999, and regulations thereunder.
 
The subsidiaries receivables were accrued pursuant 
to the software development services provided by 
the company to the above mentioned subsidiaries. 
The subsidiaries were unable to generate enough 
business for payment of dues to the company. Due to 
this reason the management has applied for set off 
of intercompany receivables and payables to reserve 
bank of India under FEMA regulations.
x) 
Recent accounting pronouncements:
 
Application of new and amended standards :
(A) Amendments to existing Standards (w.e.f. April 
01, 2023) the Company has adopted, with 
effect from April 01, 2023, the following new 
and revised standards and interpretations. Their 
adoption has not had any signi昀椀cant impact on the 
amounts reported in the 昀椀nancial statements.
1.  
Ind AS 1- Presentation of Financials 
Statements 
- 
modi昀椀cation 
relating 
to 
disclosure of ‘material accounting policy 
information’ in place of ‘signi昀椀cant accounting 
policies’.
2.  
Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Change 
in Accounting Estimates and Errors - 
modi昀椀cation of de昀椀nition of ‘accounting 
estimate’ and application of changes in 
accounting estimates.
3.  
Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes - The amendment 
clari昀椀es application of initial recognition 
exemption to transactions such as leases 
and decommissioning obligations.
(B)  Standards noti昀椀ed but not yet effective No new 
standards have been noti昀椀ed during the year 
ended March 31, 2024.
y) 
Rounding of amounts
 
All amounts disclosed in the 昀椀nancial statements and 
notes have been rounded off to the nearest crore as 
per the requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise 
stated.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
163
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
3.
(A). PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Plant and 
Equip-
ments
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Of昀椀ce 
Equipments
Computer 
Hardwares
Leasehold 
Improve-
ments
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01, 2022
0.71
1.55
0.05
2.26
8.42
3.07
16.07
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
Additions
0.03
0.54
-
0.23
0.75
-
1.55
Disposals
(0.07)
(1.65)
(0.03)
(0.28)
(0.17)
(0.78)
(2.99)
As at March 31, 2023
0.67
0.44
0.01
2.20
8.99
2.29
14.63
Additions
0.03
0.04
0.04
0.05
0.08
-
0.24
Disposals
(0.05)
(0.04)
(0.02)
(0.19)
(0.26)
(1.09)
(1.64)
As at March 31, 2024
0.66
0.45
0.03
2.07
8.81
1.20
13.23
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION/
IMPAIRMENT
As at April 01, 2022
0.45
0.38
0.05
1.64
5.54
2.58
10.63
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION/
IMPAIRMENT
Depreciation for the year
0.09
0.39
-
0.28
1.14
0.17
2.07
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
(0.07)
(0.42)
(0.03)
(0.26)
(0.17)
(0.70)
(1.65)
As at March 31, 2023
0.47
0.35
0.02
1.66
6.50
2.05
11.05
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION/
IMPAIRMENT
Depreciation for the year
0.10
0.07
0.01
0.27
1.07
0.12
1.63
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
(0.05)
(0.04)
(0.02)
(0.18)
(0.26)
(1.09)
(1.64)
As at March 31, 2024
0.52
0.38
0.00
1.75
7.31
1.07
11.04
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
0.14
0.07
0.03
0.32
1.50
0.13
2.19
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2023
0.20
0.09
(0.00)
0.55
2.49
0.25
3.58
Annual Report 2023-24
164
3.
(B). RIGHT-OF-USE-ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Buildings
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01, 2022
133.45
Additions
98.67
Disposals
(1.93)
As at March 31, 2023
230.19
Additions
1.82
Disposals
(9.86)
As at March 31, 2024
222.15
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION/IMPAIRMENT
As at April 01, 2022
30.84
Depreciation for the year
33.85
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
-
As at March 31, 2023
64.69
Depreciation for the year
17.34
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
-
As at March 31, 2024
82.03
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
140.12
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2023
165.49
Notes:
i.  
The Company has acquired certain Building under a lease arrangement for a period of sixty years at a premium of ` 0.50 
Crores starting from December 04, 2000, 15.62 Crores starting from March 13, 2000 and ` 5.05 Crores starting from 
March 01, 2003 and the same has been reclassi昀椀ed as ROU assets and amortised over the lease period.
ii.  
Property, Plant and Equipment pledged as security against borrowings by the Company
 
Refer to Note 36 for information on property, plant and equipment pledge as security by the Company, if any.
iii.  Contractual Obligations
 
Refer to Note 31 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
iv. 
Pursuant to the business transfer agreement between the 3i Group and the Azentio Group, immovable property of 3i 
Group was to be transferred to Azentio Group against a receivable of ` 50 Crores in the FY 2020-2021. In the FY 2021-
22, this agreement was rescinded and consequently, the property remained with the Group. The counterparty, Azentio 
Group is released from its obligation to pay the consideration. The property, which was earlier transferred by way of a 
slump sale in the FY 2020-2021, is recognised in the books of 3i Infotech Limited in the FY 2022-23, and has resulted in 
an exceptional gain of ` 23.09 Crores. The retrospective depreciation for the same is ` 15.64 Crores for the FY 2021-22 
which has been charged in the FY 2022-23.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
165
4.
(A). INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Software
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01, 2023
Additions
48.31
48.31
Deletions
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
48.31
48.31
As at April 01, 2023
Amortisation for the year
5.85
5.85
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
-
-
Provision for Impairment*
21.93
21.93
As at March 31, 2024
27.78
27.78
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
20.52
20.52
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2023
-
-
i.  
Signi昀椀cant Estimate : Useful life of Intangible Assets
 
Refer to sub note (m) of Note 2 ‘Material Accounting Policies’.
*Based on valuation report for certain products and internal evaluation for the balance products, a provision for impairment 
of ` 21.93 Crores has been provided for and the balance recoverable amount of ` 20.52 Crores has been carried forward.
4.
(B) INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Intangible Asset 
under development
Total
NET CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01, 2022
8.05
8.05
Additions
33.76
33.76
Capitalised
-
-
As at March 31, 2023
41.81
41.81
Additions
12.78
12.78
Capitalised
(48.31)
(48.31)
As at March 31, 2024
6.28
6.28
i. 
Signi昀椀cant Estimate : Useful life of Intangible Assets
 
Refer to sub note (m) of Note 2 ‘Material Accounting Policies’.
 
Intangible Assets under Development ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
Amount in Intangible Assets under Development as at March 31, 2024
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Project in Progress
3.81
2.48
-
-
6.28
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
3.81
2.48
-
-
6.28
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
166
 
Intangible assets under development, whose completion schedule is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan:-
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
GIG Workforce Management
2.65
-
-
-
2.65
Total
2.65
-
-
-
2.65
 
Intangible Assets under Development ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
Amount in Intangible Assets under Development as at March 31, 2023
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Project in Progress
33.76
8.05
-
-
41.81
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
33.76
8.05
-
-
41.81
 
Intangible assets under development, whose completion schedule is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan:- 
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
In FY 2022-23, the Company has started the concept of “Build” project, wherein it has planned a model of development 
of software / applications such as cloud, Arti昀椀cial intelligence, BPAAS/KPAAS, etc. These projects are typically expected 
to be ready in a period of 1 to 3 years. The management has considered that these products have an immediate market / 
economic value. The expenditure incurred are considered as “ Development “ Phase as it has already passed the research 
phase.
5.
FINANCIAL ASSETS
5 (a) Investments
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
(1)  Investments carried at fair value through Pro昀椀t and Loss
 
Unquoted
 
(a)  Investments in Equity Instruments
200,000 Equity shares of Sri Lankan Rupee 10 each fully paid up of 
First Capital Asset Management Co. Limited, Sri Lanka
0.10
0.10
(as at March 31, 2023 - 200,000 Shares)
(as at March 31, 2024 - 200,000 Shares)
55,000 equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up of Vashi Railway 
Station Commercial Complex Limited
0.06
0.06
(as at March 31, 2023 - 55,000 Shares)
(as at March 31, 2024 - 55,000 Shares)
0.16
0.16
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
167
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(2)  Investments carried at Amortised Cost
 
Unquoted
Investments in Preference Shares of a Subsidiary
Investments in Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares of 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
(i)  
891,631,605 Series A - Zero Coupon Redeemable Convertible 
Preference Shares of MUR 1 each fully paid up
173.11
165.35
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 891,631,605 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 891,631,605 Shares)
(ii)  1,780,361,142 Series C - Zero Coupon Redeemable Convertible 
Preference Shares of MUR 1 each fully paid up
532.21
504.45
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 1,780,361,142 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 1,780,361,142 Shares)
(iii)  21,878,720 Series D - Zero Coupon Redeemable Convertible 
Preference Shares of MUR 1 each fully paid up
6.42
6.08
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 21,878,720 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 21,878,720 Shares)
711.73
675.89
 
Less : Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and assets*
(711.73)
-
(3)  Investments carried at Cost
Unquoted
Investments in Equity Instruments
Wholly Owned Subsidiaries
(i)  
5,346,202 Equity shares of no par value of 3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte 
Limited., Singapore **
22.12
22.12
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 5,346,202 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 5,346,202 Shares)
 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance**
(4.20)
(4.20)
(ii)  3,226,308 Equity shares of GBP 1 each fully paid up of 3i Infotech 
(UK) Limited
355.73
355.73
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 3,226,308 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 3,226,308 Shares)
 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
(355.73)
(355.73)
 
(iii) (a)  6,258,371,598 Ordinary Shares of MUR 1 each fully paid up of 
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
992.74
992.74
 
 
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 6,258,371,598 Shares)
 
 
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 6,258,371,598 Shares)
 
 
 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance**
(891.70)
(470.00)
 
 
 
Less : Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and 
assets*
(101.04)
-
 
(iii)  (b) Fair valuation of 6,258,371,598 Ordinary Shares of MUR 1 each 
fully paid up of 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
309.32
309.32
 
 
 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance**
(309.32)
(309.32)
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
168
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(iv)  500 Shares of SAR 1,000 each fully paid up of 3i Infotech Saudi 
Arabia LLC **
3.16
3.16
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 500 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 500 Shares)
 
 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance**
(3.16)
(3.16)
(v)  100,000 Equity shares of 10 each fully paid of 3i Infotech BPO 
Limited
66.71
66.71
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 100,000 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 100,000 Shares)
 
Less : Impairment Loss Allowance**
(14.24)
-
(vi)  4,805,211 Equity shares of 10 each fully paid of 3i Infotech 
Consultancy Services Limited
37.34
37.34
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 4,805,211 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 4,805,211 Shares)
(vii) Elegon Infotech Limited, China
11.81
11.81
 
Less: Impairment Loss Allowance
(11.81)
(11.81)
(viii) NuRe Edgetech Private Limited
0.01
0.01
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 10,000 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 10,000 Shares)
(ix)  NuRe Future tech Private Limited
0.01
0.01
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 10,000 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 10,000 Shares)
(x)  NuRe Campus Lab Private Limited
0.01
0.01
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 10,000 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 10,000 Shares)
(xi)  NuRe Mediatech Limited
0.01
-
 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 10,000 Shares)
 
(as at March 31, 2024 - 10,000 Shares)
107.77
644.74
Total
107.93
1,320.79
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
-
-
Market value of quoted investments
-
-
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
920.69
1,320.79
(Includes ` 812.77 Crores (FY 22-23 - NIL) presented in Note no 18 Legacy 
related liabilities and assets)
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
(1,590.15)
(1,154.21)
Investments carried at amortised cost
711.73
675.89
Investments carried at fair value through pro昀椀t and loss
0.16
0.16
Investments carried at cost
208.81
644.74
The Company had held Series A, C and D Zero Coupon Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares in 3i Infotech Holdings 
Private Limited (together the ‘Preference Shares’), which matured in 2017-18. The said Preference Shares have then been 
renewed with same terms and are now having maturity date as March 24, 2025.
*During the FY 2023-24, the Investment in equity shares (` 101.04 Crores) and preference shares (` 711.73 Crores) of 3i 
infotech Holding Private Limited, Maruitius aggregating to ` 812.77 Crores have been presented in Note no 18 Legacy related 
liabilities and assets.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
169
** During FY 2023-24 the company has made a provision for impairment of ` 421.70 Crores on the basis of internal evaluation 
on its Investment in 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius and ` 14.24 Crores on the basis of valuation report in 3i 
Infotech Digital BPS Limited.
In the FY 2022-23, the Company has made a provision for impairment of ` 3.16 Crores and ` 4.19 Crores on the basis of 
valuation reports on its investment in 3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC and 3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited respectively.
5(b) Loans
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated
Loans to Related Parties***
42.73
40.83
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and assets
(40.83)
-
Total
1.90
40.83
*** Refer note no 32.
5 (c) Other Financial Assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
Security Deposits
7.86
13.22
Less: Loss Allowances
(1.78)
(0.11)
Total
6.08
13.11
Current
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
Security Deposits
11.64
8.07
Less: Loss Allowances
(2.81)
-
Unbilled Revenue#
22.39
30.30
Interest Accrued but not due
1.66
2.68
Other 昀椀nancial assets#
32.79
28.58
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and assets
(32.66)
-
Total
33.00
69.63
# Refer note no 32
(Amount in ` Crores)
Type of Requirement
Amount of loans & advance in the nature of loan outstanding
Percentage to 
the total Loans & 
advances in the 
nature of loans
Particulars
Opening 
Balance
During the 
year given
During the year 
repayment 
received
Closing 
balance
Promoters
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Directors
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Related Parties
3I Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
40.83
-
-
40.83
96%
NuRe Bharat Network Limited
-
1.90
-
1.90
4%
Total
40.83
1.90
-
42.73
100%
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
170
6.
TRADE RECEIVABLES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Trade Receivables
424.72
428.56
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and assets*
(2.86)
-
Less: Allowance for expected credit Losses
(349.31)
(12.39)
Total
72.54
416.17
Trade or Other Receivable due from directors or other of昀椀cers of the company either severally or jointly with any other person 
amounted to ` Nil (Previous year ` Nil).
During the FY 2023-24 there is Allowance for expected credit Losses on amount owed by related parties is ` 335.55 Crores 
(March 31, 2023: NIL).
*During the 昀椀nancial year 2023-24 the company has presented Trade Receivable from Related Parties to Legacy related 
liabilites and assets the details of which are stated below:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Party Name
Amount
3i Infotech UK Limited
0.08
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
0.09
3I Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
2.26
3i Infotech Thailand Limited
0.30
3I Infotech Holdings Private Limited (MAURITIUS)
0.10
3I Infotech Middle East FZLLC-Foreign Company Branch
0.01
3i Infotech (South Africa) Proprietary Limited
0.01
3I Infotech Netherlands B.V (` 17,077/-)
0.00
Total
2.86
Trade or Other Receivable due from 昀椀rms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a 
member amounted to ` Nil (FY 2022-23 - ` Nil).
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Outstanding for the following periods as on March 31, 2024
Less than 
6 months
6months 
- 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) Undisputed trade receivables – considered good
57.47
18.77
11.44
17.65
319.39
424.72
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related 
liabilities and assets
-
(0.02)
(2.63)
(0.19)
(0.03)
(2.86)
Sub Total
57.47
18.75
8.81
17.46
319.36
421.86
Less: Allowance for expected credit Losses
(349.31)
Total
72.54
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Outstanding for the following periods as on March 31, 2023
Less than 
6 months
6months 
- 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) Undisputed trade receivables – considered good
49.72
11.46
33.42
54.88
279.08
428.56
Sub Total
49.72
11.46
33.42
54.88
279.08
428.56
Less: Allowance for expected credit Losses
(12.39)
Total
416.17
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
171
7.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balances with banks:
- On current accounts
5.03
1.72
Other Balances with Banks:
- Margin Money with banks*
23.72
38.79
28.75
40.51
* Refer Note 36 (Assets pledged as security).
8.
OTHER ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Capital Advances
0.08
0.09
Others
- Prepaid expenses
0.77
5.23
- Balances with Statutory, Government Authorities
1.93
1.91
Total
2.78
7.23
Current
Advances other than Capital advances
- Advances to creditors
0.36
1.45
- Other Advances
0.17
0.36
Others
- Prepaid expenses
3.35
3.37
- Balances with Statutory, Government Authorities
1.49
7.15
- Other receivables
0.33
1.18
Total
5.70
13.51
9.  INCOME TAX
Deferred Tax
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) relates to the following:
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
(0.08)
(3.47)
Provision for employee bene昀椀ts
8.53
7.16
Provision/loss allowance on 昀椀nancial assets
564.37
290.51
Unwinding of discount under Ind AS 109 on Investment in Preference Shares
(12.52)
(26.05)
Carried forward unabsorbed depreciation
489.43
489.43
Carried forward Business Loss
22.94
2.80
Right-To-Use Assets
(9.30)
(17.21)
Lease Liabilities
11.18
19.58
Net Deferred Tax Assets / (Liabilities)
1,074.55
762.75
As at March 31, 2024, the Company has net deferred tax assets of ` 1,074.55 Crores (` 762.75 Crores as at March 31, 2023). 
The company has not recognized deferred tax assets (DTAs) for the current reporting period as it is not probable that future 
taxable pro昀椀ts will be available to utilise these assets. Despite the presence of carry forward losses that could potentially 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
172
result in DTAs, the current 昀椀nancial forecasts and business conditions do not support the expectation of future taxable pro昀椀ts 
necessary to realize these bene昀椀ts.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Deductible temporary differences
562.18
270.51
Unrecognised tax losses
512.37
492.23
Major Components of income tax expense for the years ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 are as follows: 
i. Income tax recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current income tax charge
-
-
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year
-
-
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
-
-
Income tax expense recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
-
-
ii. Income tax recognised in OCI
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Net loss/(gain) on remeasurements of de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans
-
-
Income tax expense recognised in OCI
-
-
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting pro昀椀t multiplied by income tax rate for March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Accounting pro昀椀t before income tax
(820.38)
51.63
Enacted tax rate in India
34.94%
34.94%
Income tax on accounting pro昀椀ts
(286.67)
18.04
Effect of
Accounting Income not assessable for tax purpose
(30.56)
(10.88)
Accounting expenses not deductible for tax purpose
297.10
(9.01)
Tax loss for which no defered tax asset created
20.14
1.85
Tax at effective income tax rate
-
-
9 (a). Income Tax Assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
(a) Income Tax Assets (Net)
56.76
56.76
Total
56.76
56.76
Current
(b) Income Tax Assets (Net)
12.90
2.16
Total
12.90
2.16
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
173
10. SHARE CAPITAL
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
AS AT March 31, 2024
AS AT March 31, 2023
No. of shares
Rupees
No. of shares
Rupees
(a)  Authorised Capital
Equity Shares (` 10 Each)
2,20,00,00,000
2,200.00
2,20,00,00,000
2,200.00
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Shares (Class A) (` 5 Each)
20,00,00,000
100.00
20,00,00,000
100.00
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Share (Class B) (` 5 Each)
1,50,00,00,000
750.00
1,50,00,00,000
750.00
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Share (Class C) (` 1 Each)
1,05,00,00,000
105.00
1,05,00,00,000
105.00
(b)  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid up
Equity Shares (Rs 10 Each)
16,92,30,842
169.23
16,84,66,042
168.47
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Shares (Class A) (` 5 Each)
-
-
-
-
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Share (Class B) (` 5 Each)
-
-
-
-
i) 
Terms / rights attached to equity shares
 
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 each. Each shareholder has right to vote in 
respect of such share, on every resolution placed before the Company and his voting right on a poll shall be in proportion 
to his share of the paid up equity capital of the Company. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are entitled to 
receive the remaining assets of the Company after payments of preferential amounts in proportion to their shareholding.
ii) 
Shares held by holding / ultimate holding company and / or their subsidiaries / associates
 
The Company does not have a holding company or ultimate holding company. 
iii) 
Reconcilation of the Share outstanding at the beginging and at the end of the year
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Opening Balance
Issued during the year
Closing Balance
Equity shares
Year ended March 31, 2024
- Number of shares
16,84,66,042
7,64,800
16,92,30,842
- Amount (`)
168.47
0.76
169.23
Year ended March 31, 2023
- Number of shares
16,79,42,657
5,23,385
16,84,66,042
- Amount (`)
167.94
0.52
168.47
iv) 
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
(Amount in ` Crores)
Name of the shareholder
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number
% holding
Number
% holding
Equity shares of ` 10/- each fully paid
SREI Multiple Asset Investment Trust (SMAIT)
1,76,52,011
10.43
1,76,52,011
10.48
v) 
Aggregate number of equity shares issued as bonus, shares issued for consideration other than cash and shares bought 
back during the period of 昀椀ve years immediately preceding the reporting date are Nil.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
174
vi) 
 Shares reserved for issue under options
 
For details of shares reserved for issue under the Share based payment plan of the Company, please refer note 30.
vii) Shares held by the promoters for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Promoters name
No of Shares
% of total shares
% Change 
during the year
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
 
Shares held by the promoters for the year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Promoters name
No of Shares
% of total shares
% Change 
during the year
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
11. OTHER EQUITY
i. Reserves and Surplus
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Capital Reserve
0.07
0.07
Capital Redemption Reserve
321.00
321.00
Securities Premium Account
899.33
896.18
Share Based Payment Reserve
6.16
7.33
Retained Earnings
(1,409.30)
(591.92)
Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve
100.64
103.01
(82.09)
735.67
(a)  Capital Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
0.07
0.07
Add/(Less):
-
-
Closing balance
0.07
0.07
Capital Reserve was created in accordance with provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
(b)  Capital Redemption Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
321.00
321.00
Add/(Less):
-
-
Closing balance
321.00
321.00
Capital Redemption Reserve was created for redemption of preference shares.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
175
(c)  Securities Premium Account
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
896.18
896.18
Add/(Less):
Transfer from Share based payment Reserve
3.15
-
Closing balance
899.33
896.18
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Share Premium Reserve. This is not 
available for distribution of dividend but can be utilised for issuing bonus shares.
(d)   Share Based Payment Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
7.33
15.43
Add/(Less):
Employee Stock Option Expense recognised
2.62
5.08
Transfer to Retained Earning
(0.64)
(13.18)
Transfer to Securities Premium
(3.15)
-
Closing balance
6.16
7.33
The Company has two share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the company’s shares have been 
granted to certain executives and senior employees.
The Share based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of equity settled share based payments provided to 
employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to Note 30 for further details of 
these plans.
(e)  Retained Earnings
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
(591.92)
(595.83)
Net Pro昀椀t/(Loss) for the year
(820.38)
51.63
Add/(Less):
Transfer (from/to) PPE Reserve
2.36
(60.90)
Transfer from Share based payment reserve
0.64
13.18
Closing balance
(1,409.30)
(591.92)
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Company as on the balance sheet date.
(f)  Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
103.01
42.11
Add/(Less):
Transfer from Retained Earnings
(2.36)
60.90
Closing balance
100.64
103.01
Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve represents reserve created on revaluation of Leasehold Building and it is a non 
distributable reserve.
Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve transferred to retained earnings in FY 2020-21 has been reinstated in FY 2022 
-23 due to non transfer of asset.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
176
ii. Other Components of Equity
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share Application money pending allotment
0.12
-
Total
0.12
-
(a)  Share Application money pending allotment
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
-
0.20
Add/(Less):
0.12
(0.20)
Closing balance
0.12
-
12. BORROWINGS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current Borrowings
 
Secured
 
(a)  Term Loans
-
-
 
Unsecured
 
(a)  Loans from Related Parties
38.79
27.14
(A)
38.79
27.14
Current Maturity of Non Current Borrowings
 
Secured
-
-
 
Unsecured
-
-
(B)
-
-
Total (A)-(B)
38.79
27.14
Current Borrowings
 
Secured
 
(a)  Bank Overdraft
-
7.25
Total
-
7.25
The company has taken overdraft facility against Fixed Deposit from banks of ` NIL (FY 2022-23 ` 7.25 Crores).
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Coupon / Interest Rate
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current Borrowings
 
Unsecured
 
(a)  Loans from Related Parties
10.00%
38.79
27.14
Gross Borrowings
38.79
27.14
Less: Current maturity
-
-
Net Borrowings (as per Balance sheet)
38.79
27.14
Loan from Related Parties as re昀氀ected under Non Current Borrowings are due for repayment in FY 2025-26 and carries a rate 
of interest @ 10% p.a.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
177
13. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost
Deposits Payable
5.00
5.00
Total
5.00
5.00
Current
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost
Interest accrued and not due on borrowings
0.60
0.30
Dues to employees
20.00
6.92
Payable to step down subsidiary towards IPR purchase*
1,066.39
1,066.39
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and assets
(1,066.39)
-
Others
Other Payables
2.65
2.65
Total
23.25
1,076.26
*During the FY 2023-24 the company has presented the payable to Step down subsidiary towards IPR Purchase of ` 1,066.39 
Crores to legacy related liabilities and assets.
14. TRADE PAYABLES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises
9.67
1.49
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises
97.51
93.60
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related liabilities and assets
(14.58)
-
Total
92.59
95.09
Terms and conditions of the above 昀椀nancial liabilities:
1. 
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60-day terms as at relevent period.
2.  
For terms and conditions with related parties, refer note 32.
15. OTHER LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Unearned Revenue
4.16
2.71
Others
Statutory Dues
4.03
3.48
Other payables
0.57
0.58
Total
8.76
6.77
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
178
Trade payable ageing schedule for the year ended as on March 31, 2024 as follow :-
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars*
Outstanding for following periods
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 to 2 years
2 to 3 years
More than 
3 years
(i)
MSME
9.06
0.60
0.01
-
9.67
(ii)
Others
57.38
25.38
0.02
0.14
82.92
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total Trade Payable
66.44
25.99
0.03
0.14
92.59
Trade payable ageing schedule for the year ended as on March 31, 2023 as follow :-
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars*
Outstanding for following periods
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 to 2 years
2 to 3 years
More than 
3 years
(i)
MSME
0.67
0.77
0.06
-
1.49
(ii)
Others
65.00
5.97
1.90
20.72
93.60
(iii)
Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)
Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total Trade Payable
65.67
6.74
1.96
20.72
95.09
* It includes accruals.
16. PROVISIONS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Provision for employee bene昀椀ts
Gratuity
12.08
8.93
Leave encashment
1.95
1.30
Total
14.04
10.23
Current
Provision for employee bene昀椀ts
Gratuity
3.24
3.01
Leave encashment
0.68
0.66
Total
3.92
3.67
17. LEASE LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars*
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current Lease Liabilities (Refer Note no 38)
19.24
41.83
Current Lease Liabilities
12.76
14.20
Total
32.00
56.03
*During the FY 2023-24, the company has terminated the Lease agreements of two properties - Mahape (Mumbai) & Bangalore.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
179
18. LEGACY RELATED ASSET AND LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Payable to step down subsidiary towards IPR purchase (Refer note no 13)
1,066.39
-
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises - 
(Refer note no 14)
14.58
-
Loans to Related Parties (Refer note no 5(b))
(40.83)
-
Other 昀椀nancial assets (Refer note no 5(c))
(32.66)
-
Investment - 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius (Net of Impairment) 
-(Refer note no 5 (a))
(i)  
Investments in Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares of 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
(711.73)
-
(ii)  6,258,371,598 Ordinary Shares of MUR 1 each fully paid up of 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
(101.04)
-
-
Trade Receivables (Refer note no 6)
(2.86)
-
Total (A-B)
191.84
-
There are long outstanding assets and liabilities. The Board had set up a Legacy Committee as a Sub – Committee of the 
Audit Committee, to evaluate and address all long outstanding legacy related matters. After evaluating the reports of Sub 
Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on January 31, 2024, decided to initiate Forensic Audit 
for legacy issues, the completion of which is still pending. The current status and its accounting impact is as under:
A. The Company has an outstanding liability payable towards purchase of Intellectual property rights (IPR), since 2012 to its 
MEA branch/3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC amounting to ` 1,066.38 Crores. The liability towards purchase of IPR was not 
settled by the Company within the time limit prescribed under FEMA Regulations and the company had approached Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) in 2013 through authorized dealer to extend the timeline for repayment of the aforesaid liability till March 
31, 2017.
Not being able to settle the liability even by 2017, the Company had thereafter made an application to the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI), through its authorized dealer vide letter dated March 05, 2019 and subsequently on October 23, 2020, for set – off 
of the liability/ payables to MEA branch/ 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC of ` 1,066.38 Crores against its trade receivables then 
due from 3i Infotech Inc, 3i Saudi Arabia and 3i Africa of ` 392.33 Crores, ` 113.47 Crores and ` 30.46 Crores respectively The 
Company has not received the RBI approval as at the balance sheet date.
B.The Company is also carrying certain long outstanding receivables from various foreign subsidiaries amounting to ` 406.27 
Crores as at March 31, 2024. During the current 昀椀nancial year, considering the current market scenario and low operations 
in many of the subsidiaries, and even though the Company has a net payable position with respect to the receivables and 
payables balances of its subsidiaries, the Company has recognized a loss allowance amounting to ` 329.90 Crores in the 
current 昀椀nancial year on the basis of internal evaluation, on a conservative and prudent basis. The net balance outstanding 
from subsidiaries (net off provisions) is ` 76.36 Crores.
C.The Company had made investments in Equity and Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares of 3i Infotech Holdings 
Private Limited in Mauritius between 2006-07 to 2011-12. During the current 昀椀nancial year, on the basis of internal evaluation, 
the Company recognized a provision for diminution in value of investments of ` 421.70 Crores. The net outstanding balance of 
investment in this subsidiary is ` 812.77 Crores.
The Company had not been able to meet its obligation of payment of ` 1,066.38 Crores to its MEA branch/3i Infotech (Middle 
East) FZ LLC, consequently leading to a cascading effect of 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZLLC not being able to payback amount 
due to 3i Infotech Inc. and 3i Infotech Holdings Pvt Ltd in Mauritius. Further, it has had a cascading effect of 3i Infotech Inc. not 
being able to redeem the preference shares issued by it to 3i Infotech Holdings Pvt Limited In view of the non-realisation of 
the preference shares in 3i Infotech Inc and the loan to 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZLLC, 3i Infotech Holdings Pvt Ltd has not 
been able to redeem the preference shares of 3i Infotech Limited. Thus, effectively non-payment of the obligation of ` 1,066.38 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
180
Crores by the Company/ MEA branch to 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC has led to the non-realisation of the preference shares 
invested in by the Company in 3i Infotech Holdings Pvt Limited There is no major change in the quantum of investments/
receivables and payables from/to these subsidiaries since 2012. It has always been the intention to settle the receivables and 
payables on a net basis, subject to the legal and the regulatory approvals. During the year FY 2023-24, impairment provisions 
have been made against receivables and investments on a prudent and conservative basis in view of the delay in obtaining 
the legal and regulatory approvals. As and when such approvals are received in future, the estimate of the recoverable and 
payable amounts will be suitably revised.
To re昀氀ect a more appropriate and a true and fair presentation of the balances on the balance sheet,in line with para 19 of 
Ind AS 1, the Company has presented all the legacy outstanding balances of its receivables of ` 76.36 Crores, payables of 
` 1,080.97 Crores and investments of ` 812.77 Crores relating to these wholly owned subsidiaries as a single line item of ` 
191.84 Crores ‘Legacy related liabilities and assets’ in its balance sheet. The net balance would re昀氀ect the substance that had 
the Company been able to pay off its liabilities to its wholly owned subsidiaries, it would have received such amounts back 
as recovery of its receivables/ investments in such subsidiaries. The amounts in the comparative year ended March 31, 2023 
continue at their gross values.
If the legacy outstanding balances of receivables and investments relating to these wholly owned subsidiaries had not been 
presented as a single line item, as mentioned above, then the investments, receivables and payables would be higher by ` 
812.77 Crores, ` 76.36 Crores and ` 1,080.97 Crores, respectively.
19. REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Sale of Services
IT Solutions
282.34
204.12
Transaction service
31.95
29.30
Other Operating Revenues
Corporate charges
43.04
42.82
Total
357.33
276.24
No Single customer represents 10% or more of the entity’s total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023.
Disaggregate revenue information
The disaggregated revenue from customers by geographic area based on location in customer is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
In India
288.04
205.82
Outside India
69.29
70.43
Total
357.33
276.24
Timing of Revenue Recognition
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
For Contractual obligations rendered at a point in time
-
-
For Contractual obligations rendered over a period of time
357.33
276.24
Total
357.33
276.24
The aggregate value of performance obligations that are unsatis昀椀ed as at March 31, 2024 other than those meeting the 
exclusion criteria mentioned in note 2(d) is ` 53.60 Crores (` 74.23 Crores as at March 31, 2023). Out of this the company 
expects to recognise revenue of around 58% (57% in March 31, 2023) within the next one year and remaining thereafter. This 
includes contracts that can be terminated for convenience without a substantive penalty since based on current assessment, 
the occurence of the same is expected to be remote.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
181
Summary of Contract Balances
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables
72.54
416.17
Contract assets*
22.39
30.30
Contract liabilities**
4.16
2.71
*Contract assets represents revenue accrued and not billed and unbilled revenues. Contract Liabilities represents Billing in 
excess of revenue.
*Contract assets :
The below table discloses the movement in the balance of contract assets: 
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Year Ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
30.30
23.81
Addition due to revenue recognised during the year
244.53
145.06
Invoices raised during the year
(246.61)
(137.58)
Reversal against Loss allowance
(5.83)
(0.99)
Balance as at end of the year
22.39
30.30
**Contract liabilities:
The below table discloses the movement in the balance of contract liabilities: 
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Year Ended
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance as at beginning of the year
2.71
1.88
Additional amounts billed but not recognised as revenue
34.85
8.79
Deduction on account of revenues recognised during the year
(33.40)
(7.97)
Balance as at end of the year
4.16
2.71
20. OTHER INCOME
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Interest income on
Bank 昀椀xed deposits
1.60
2.89
Loans to related parties
4.22
4.08
Financial assets at amortised cost*
27.31
25.21
Others
-
2.30
Other Non Operating Income
Foreign Exchange Fluctuation Gain
25.41
79.28
Others
Miscellaneous Income
2.64
1.19
61.18
114.96
*Represents unwinding of discount under Ind AS 109 on Investment in Preference Shares.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
182
21. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Salaries, wages and bonus
177.81
148.96
Contribution to provident and other funds
6.73
6.01
Staff welfare expenses
3.66
2.72
Recruitment and training expenses
1.62
3.11
Share based payments to employees
2.62
5.08
Gratuity Expense
3.17
2.85
Total (A)
195.62
168.73
Less: Transfer to CWIP
(7.75)
(16.31)
Less: Reimbursement of costs by subsidiary companies
(1.77)
(2.46)
Total (B)
(9.53)
(18.76)
Total (A+B)
186.09
149.97
22. COST OF THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cost of third party products / outsourced services
For service delivery to clients
161.85
131.44
Total (A)
161.85
131.44
Less: Reimbursement of costs by subsidiary companies
(1.51)
(1.93)
Less: Transfer to CWIP
(2.19)
(8.36)
Total (B)
(3.69)
(10.29)
Total (A+B)
158.16
121.15
23. FINANCE COST
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Interest expense on debts and borrowings
3.80
3.26
Interest Expense - Lease Liabilities
4.66
5.41
Total Interest Expense
8.46
8.68
Other borrowing costs
Others
0.26
0.32
8.72
9.00
24. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Depreciation on tangible assets
1.63
2.07
Depreciation on right of use assets
17.34
19.13
Amortisation on intangible assets
5.85
-
24.82
21.20
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
183
25. OTHER EXPENSES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Power and Fuel
3.61
3.39
Repairs and maintenance
-Building
1.75
1.38
-Others
2.81
1.29
Directors sitting fees
1.20
1.00
Insurance
1.65
1.28
Legal and professional fees
20.06
18.80
Payments to auditors (Refer note below)
0.55
0.85
Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(0.06)
1.32
Rates and taxes
1.37
0.30
Rent
3.29
1.89
Hire Charges
4.93
3.78
Telephone and internet expenses
1.58
1.71
Travelling & conveyance expenses
6.01
5.73
Security Charges
1.89
1.41
Of昀椀ce Expenses
2.00
1.92
Miscellaneous expenses
3.35
3.47
Allowance for expected credit losses
339.85
1.52
Provision for intangible assets impairment
21.93
-
Provision for impairment on Investment
14.24
7.36
Provision for Deposits
4.47
-
Total (A)
436.49
58.39
Less: Transfer to CWIP
(1.74)
(6.28)
Total (B)
(1.74)
(6.28)
Total (A+B)
434.75
52.11
Notes: 
(a)  Details of Payments to auditors
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
As auditor
Audit Fee
0.45
0.62
Tax Audit Fee
0.05
0.05
In other capacity
Other services (certi昀椀cation fees)
0.03
0.16
Reimbursement of expenses
0.02
0.02
0.55
0.85
(b)  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
 
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company meets the applicability threshold. However there is no 
payment obligation due to carry forward losses.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
184
26. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
Amount charged to pro昀椀t or loss during the year ended March 31, 2024 ` Nil (March 31, 2023: NIL).
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i.  
On Revenue Account
-
-
ii.  
On Capital Account
12.78
33.76
Total Research and Development Expenditure ( i + ii )
12.78
33.76
27. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Gain on Reinstatement of Property
-
(23.09)
Litigation claim expenses
2.90
8.61
Diminution of value of investment in equity shares of foreign subsidiary
421.70
-
424.60
(14.48)
28. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr. No. Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
[1]
Basic earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company (Amount in `)
From continuing operations
(48.52)
3.10
[2]
Diluted earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company (Amount in `)
From continuing operations
(48.52)
3.05
Impact of Anti - Dilution: The diluted EPS calculation excludes stock 
options that are anti - dilutive, meaning they would not decrease EPS or 
would increase it if included.
[3]
Face Value per share (Amount in `)
10.00
10.00
[4]
Reconciliations of earnings used in calculating earnings per share
[4] a)
Pro昀椀t attributable to the equity holders of the company used in 
calculating basic earnings per share
From continuing operations
(818.63)
52.25
[4] b)
Pro昀椀t attributable to the equity holders of the company used in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
From continuing operations
(818.63)
52.25
[5]
Weighted average number of shares used as the denominator
[5] (a)
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in 
calculating basic earnings per share
16,86,49,783
16,83,63,169
[5] (b)
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in 
calculating Diluted earnings per share
16,86,49,783
16,83,63,169
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
Options
12,94,195
31,06,907
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator 
in calculating diluted earnings per share
16,99,43,979
17,14,70,076
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
185
29. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Non Current
Total
Current
Non Current
Total
Leave Encashment
0.68
1.95
2.63
0.66
1.30
1.96
Gratuity
3.24
12.08
15.32
3.01
8.93
11.95
Total Employee Bene昀椀t Obligation
3.92
14.04
17.96
3.67
10.23
13.91
(i) Leave Encashment
The leave obligations cover the company’s liability for sick and earned leave.
The amount of the provision of ` 0.68 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 0.66 Crores) is presented as current, since the Company does 
not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations.
(ii) Post Employment obligations
(a)  De昀椀ned bene昀椀t plan - Gratuity
 
The company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are 
in continuous service for a period of 昀椀ve years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/ 
termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied 
by number of years of service upto 10 years and 26 days salary multiplied by number of years of service beyond 11 years.
 
The gratuity plan is a unfunded plan and the Company makes contributions to recognised funds in India. The Company 
does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on 
estimations of expected gratuity payments.
The amount recognised in the standalone balance sheet and the movement in the net de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation 
over the period are as follows
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Present value of 
obligation
Fair value of plan 
assets
Net amount
As at April 01, 2022
12.20
12.20
Current service cost
2.28
-
2.28
Interest expense/(income)
0.71
-
0.71
2.99
2.99
Total amount recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
Remeasurements
Return of plan assets, excluding amount included in 
interest (income)
-
-
-
(Gain)/Loss from change in demographic assumptions
(0.00)
-
-
(Gain)/Loss from change in 昀椀nancial assumptions
(0.82)
-
(0.82)
Experience (gains)/losses
1.45
-
1.45
0.62
0.62
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
Employer contributions
-
-
-
Bene昀椀t payments
(3.86)
-
(3.86)
As at March 31, 2023
11.95
-
11.95
Current service cost
2.35
-
2.35
Interest expense/(income)
0.83
-
0.83
3.18
-
3.18
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
186
Particulars
Present value of 
obligation
Fair value of plan 
assets
Net amount
Total amount recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
Remeasurements
Return of plan assets, excluding amount included in 
interest (income)
-
-
(Gain)/Loss from change in demographic assumptions
0.23
-
0.23
(Gain)/Loss from change in 昀椀nancial assumptions
(0.02)
-
(0.02)
Experience (gains)/losses
1.53
-
1.53
1.74
-
1.74
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
Employer contributions
-
-
-
Bene昀椀t payments
(1.56)
-
(1.56)
As at March 31, 2024
15.32
-
15.32
 
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded and unfunded plans are as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Present value of unfunded obligations
15.32
11.95
Fair value of plan assets
-
-
De昀椀cit of unfunded gratuity plan
15.32
11.95
 
The signi昀椀cant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
7.15%
7.25%
Expected return on plan assets
Salary growth rate
For 昀椀rst 3 years
4.00%
4.00%
After 3 years
4.00%
4.00%
Withdrawal rate
Upto 4 years
19.00%
28.00%
5 years and above
20.00%
24.00%
Mortality rate
100.00%
100.00%
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for signi昀椀cant assumption as at March 31, 2024 is shown below:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Assumptions
Discount rate
Salary growth rate
Attrition rate
Sensitivity Level
1% 
increase
1% 
decrease
1% 
increase
1% 
decrease
50% 
increase
50% 
decrease
March 31, 2024
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
13.11
14.27
14.28
13.09
13.58
13.27
% Impact
-4.10%
4.40%
4.50%
-4.20%
-0.60%
-2.90%
March 31, 2023
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
10.01
10.79
10.80
10.00
10.10
10.63
% Impact
-3.60%
3.90%
4.00%
-3.80%
-2.80%
2.30%
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
187
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for signi昀椀cant assumption as at March 31, 2024 is shown below:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Assumptions
Mortality rate
Sensitivity Level
10% increase
10% decrease
March 31, 2024
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
13.67
13.66
% Impact
0.00%
0.00%
March 31, 2023
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
10.39
10.58
% Impact
0.00%
0.00%
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The Company’s best estimate of future cash 昀氀ows during the next 12 months is ` 15.78 crore (as at March 31, 2023 : ` 
11.93 crore).
The average duration of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 4 years (March 31, 2023: 
4 years).
Expected cash 昀氀ows over the next (valued on undiscounted basis)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1 year
2.78
2.58
2 to 5 years
8.77
6.74
6 to 10 years
5.18
3.60
More than 10 years
2.27
1.21
(iii) De昀椀ned contribution plans
The Company also has de昀椀ned contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at the 
rate of 12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by the 
government. The obligation of the Company is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any 
contructive obligation. The expense recognised during the year towards de昀椀ned contribution plan is ` 6.68 Crores (March 31, 
2023: ` 6.00 Crores).
30. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
(a) Employee option plan
The Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes are applicable to “Eligible Employees” as de昀椀ned in the scheme which 
includes directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Currently, the Company has 2 schemes, ESOS 2007 
and ESOS 2018 (as amended). ESOS Scheme 2007 provides for issue of equity options up to 25% of the paid-up equity capital 
to eligible employees and ESOS Scheme 2018 provide for issue of equity options up to 15% of the paid-up equity capital to 
eligible employees.
The options granted under ESOS 2018 vest in a graded manner over a three year period, with 33%, 33% and 34% of the 
grants vesting in each year, commencing one year from the date of the grant and the same can be exercised within 5 years from 
the date of vesting. One Stock option if exercised will be equivalent to one equity share.
During the year ended March 31, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Company approved ESOS Plan -2013 under the existing 
scheme ESOS 2007. The plan consist of variations in certain terms with regard to vesting and certain other related matters in 
ESOS 2007. The options granted are convertible and one option is equivalent to one equity share each. This plan is applicable 
to all the new options granted to eligible employees for the year ended March 31, 2014.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company approved ESOS Plan-2015 under the existing 
scheme ESOS 2007. The plan consists of variations in certain terms with regard to vesting and certain other related matters in 
ESOS 2007. The options granted are convertible and one option is equivalent to one equity share each. This plan is applicable 
to all the new options granted to eligible employees for the year ended March 31, 2015.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
188
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved ESOS Plan-2015 under the existing 
scheme ESOS 2007. The plan consists of variations in certain terms with regard to vesting and certain other related matters in 
ESOS 2007. The options granted are convertible and one option is equivalent to one equity share each. This plan is applicable 
to all the new options granted to eligible employees for the year ended March 31, 2016.
The option granted under ESOS Plan -2013 under ESOS Plan-2014 and ESOS Plan-2015 Vesting Criteria for ESOS plan 
2013 and 2014 under ESOS Scheme 2007 is in the ratio of 33%, 33% and 34% vesting in each year, commencing one year 
from the date of grant.Vesting Criteria for ESOS plan 2015 under ESOS Scheme 2007 is in the ratio of 50%, 25% and 25% 
vesting in each year, commencing one year from the date of grant.
The existing options (other than those granted under ESOS plan-2013, ESOS plan-2014 & ESOS plan-2015) would continue 
to be governed by the existing terms.
During the year ended March 31, 2024, NIL Stock Options were granted (21,36,500 Options granted for the year ended March 
31, 2023).
During previous year, the Board of Directors of the Company have approved the ESOP scheme 2023 on February 02, 2023 and 
subsequently the shareholders have approved the same by postal ballot on June 25, 2023.
The options which will be granted under ESOS 2023, vest in a graded manner over a three year period, with 33%, 33% and 
34% of grants vesting in each year, commencing one year from the date of grant. The options which are due for vesting as per 
schedule shall vest as per individual performace rating as detailed in table below:
Rating#
5
4
3
2
1
Grant*
100%
100%
100%
0%
0%
Vesting**
100%
100%
75%
50%
0%
#Rating scale: 5 rating will be higher and 1 being lower.
*year of grant shall take rating eligibility as 3 and above - rating shall be drawn from previous year appraisal or mid-year 
appraisal, whichever period preceeds granting of options.
**Vesting of granted options for the year of vesting shall be in line with performace level for the previous year of appraisal.
Note on transitioned employees :-
Under the employee stock options scheme 2007 – Plan 2013, Plan 2014, Plan 2015 and Plan 2018 the employees shall 
be permitted to exercise until January 17, 2022 any employee stock options that have already been vested on or prior to the 
Transfer Date for the employees which are transferred under the Business Transfer Agreement.
In case the employee stock options issued to employee under the employee stock options scheme 2018 – Plan 2018 are 
due for vesting on January 18, 2022, then such options shall stand automatically vested to employee on the Transfer Date 
(“Accelerated Options”) and such Accelerated Options may be exercised by employee in the period from 18 January 2022 to 
17 April 2022.
Movement during the period
The number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of the options and movement during the period is as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Number of options
WAEP
Number of options
WAEP
Opening balance
42,35,050
10.00
29,65,180
10.00
Granted during the period*
-
-
21,36,500
10.00
Exercised during the period
(7,87,800)
10.00
(3,15,385)
10.00
Forfeited/lapsed during the period
(9,80,200)
-
(5,51,245)
-
Expired during the period
-
-
-
Closing balance**
24,67,050
10.00
42,35,050
10.00
Vested and exercisable
10,17,655
10.00
9,46,150
10.00
During the year ended March 31, 2024 NIL options were granted to Key Management Personnel (for the year ended March 
31, 2023 5,50,000 Options).
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
189
The following table summarise information about option granted to Key Management Personnel
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
No of Options
Employee name
ESOP Scheme
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Harish Shenoy
2018
-
2,50,000
Sanjay Janardhan Rawa
2018
-
1,50,000
Thompson Gnanam
2018
-
-
Varika Rastogi
2018
-
1,50,000
Total
-
5,50,000
The following tables summarise information about outstanding stock options:  : 
As at March 31, 2024
Amount in ` Crores)
Range of exercise price
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Weighted average 
remaining life (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
` 10
24,67,050
6.74
10
 
As at March 31, 2023
Amount in ` Crores)
Range of exercise price
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Weighted average 
remaining life (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
` 10
42,35,050
7.69
10
The valuation has been prepared as per Black-Scholes model and which takes into consideration the key inputs such as 
Historical Volatility, Exercise Price and Expected Dividends Yield. The inputs has been assessed using public market data and 
documents provided by the key management of the company, including the 3i Infotech Employee Stock Option Scheme and 
historic 昀椀nancial data.
(b) Expense arising from share based payment transactions
Total expenses arising from share based payment transactions recognised in pro昀椀t or loss as part of employee bene昀椀t expense 
were as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Employee stock option expense
2.62
5.08
Total employee share-based payment expense
2.62
5.08
31. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
A. Commitments
i.  
Capital Commitments
 
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not recognised as liabilities is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Property, plant and equipment
-
-
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
190
B. Contingent Liabilities
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i.  
Claim against the company not acknowledged as debt
-  
Disputed income tax matters
98.04
98.04
-  
Disputed service tax matters (excluding interest as applicable)
61.57
81.77
-  
Disputed sales tax matters
0.68
0.68
-  
Customer claims
6.69
4.61
-  
Others *
3.25
1.95
ii.  
Outstanding bank guarantees
22.82
33.24
* Includes claim in respect of legal cases relating to Registrar and Transfer Services, which are reimbursable by the Principal 
to the extent of ` 3.25 Crores (as at March 31, 2023 - ` 1.95 Crores).
The Company’s pending litigation is in respect of proceedings pending with Tax Authorities and customer claims with various 
courts. The Company has reviewed all its pending litigations and proceedings and has made adequate provisions, wherever 
required and disclosed the contingent liabilities, wherever applicable, in its 昀椀nancial statements. The Company does not expect 
the outcome of these proceedings to have a material impact on its 昀椀nancial statements.
C.  Financial Guarantees
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Corporate Guarantees to Lenders of Subsidiaries
-
-
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
(i) List of related parties as per the requirements of Ind-AS 24 - Related Party Disclosures
Name of Related Party
Name of Holding 
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Nature of 
Relationship
Percentage of Holding
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Foreign Subsidiaries/Step Down Subsidiaries:
3i Infotech Inc.
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
USA
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
3i Infotech Limited
Singapore
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech SDN BHD
3i Infotech Asia 
Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Malaysia
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (UK) Limited
3i Infotech Limited
UK
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
3i Infotech Asia 
Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Thailand
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Holdings Private 
Limited
3i Infotech Limited
Mauritius
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC
3i Infotech Limited
Saudi Arabia
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
3i Infotech (Middle 
East) FZ LLC
Kenya
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
UAE
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
191
Name of Related Party
Name of Holding 
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Nature of 
Relationship
Percentage of Holding
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
3i Infotech (South Africa) (Pty) 
Limited
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
Republic of 
South Africa
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
Rhyme Systems Limited
3i Infotech 
(Western Europe) 
Group Limited
UK
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Holdings Limited
3i Infotech (UK) 
Limited
UK
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Group Limited
3i Infotech 
(Western Europe) 
Holdings Limited
UK
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Cyprus) Limited 
(formerly known as Black-Barret 
Holdings Limited)
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
Cyprus
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Software Solutions LLC
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
Dubai
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe Digital SDN BHD
3i Infotech Asia 
Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Malaysia
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech (Canada) Inc.
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
Canada
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
Nigeria
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
3i Infotech 
Holdings Private 
Limited
Netherlands
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte. Ltd. 
(incorporated on March 15, 2023)
3i Infotech Limited
Singapore
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe Edge Tech Inc. (incorporated 
on March 28, 2023)
NuRe Infotech 
Solutions Pte. Ltd.
USA
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
Process Central Limited
3i infotech Middle 
East FZ LLC
Nigeria
Joint Venture
47.50%
47.50%
Indian Subsidiaries / Step Down Subsidiaries:
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited 
(formerly known as 3i Infotech 
BPO Limited)
3i Infotech Limited
India
Subsidiary
100%
100%
3i Infotech Consultancy Services 
Limited
3i Infotech Limited
India
Subsidiary
100%
100%
Professional Access Software 
Development Private Limited
3i Infotech 
(Cyprus) Limited
India
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
Versares Digital Technology 
Service Private Limited 
(incorporated on October 12, 
2022) (formerly known as Versares 
BPS Private Limited)
3i Infotech Digital 
BPS Limited 
(formerly known 
as 3i Infotech BPO 
Limited)
India
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
192
Name of Related Party
Name of Holding 
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Nature of 
Relationship
Percentage of Holding
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
NuRe EdgeTech Private Limited 
(incorporated on November 28, 
2022)
3i Infotech Limited
India
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe FutureTech Private Limited 
(incorporated on December 12, 
2022)
3i Infotech Limited
India
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe CampusLabs Private Limited 
(incorporated on December 20, 
2022)
3i Infotech Limited
India
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe MediaTech Limited 
(incorporated on March 23, 2023)
3i Infotech Limited
India
Subsidiary
100%
100%
NuRe Bharat Network Limited 
(incorporated on April 21, 2023)
NuRe MediaTech 
Limited
India
Step Down 
Subsidiary
100%
-
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) :
Name of Related Party
Designation / Details
Remarks
1.  
Ms. Varika Rastogi
Company Secretary
Appointed on December 15, 2021
2.  
Mr. Harish Shenoy
Chief Operating Of昀椀cer Professional 
Services and Chief Risk Of昀椀cer
Designated as KMP on August 10, 
2021. Designated as CFO from 
February 09, 2022 till May 09, 2022**
3.  
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Appointed on May 09, 2022
4.  
Mr. Ashok Shah
Chairperson
Mr. 
Ashok 
Shah 
ceased 
to 
be 
Chairperson, 
Independent 
Director 
w.e.f. December 10, 2023
5.  
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Independent Director
Appointed on March 24, 2020
6.  
Mr. Thompson P. Gnanam
Managing Director and Global CEO
Mr. Thompson P. Gnanam will cease to 
be the Managing Director and Global 
CEO w.e.f. May 31, 2024.
7.  
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Appointed on April 1, 2021
8.  
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan ceased to 
be the Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 
January 26, 2024.
9.  
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive Director
Appointed on February 01, 2022
10.  CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Independent Director
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal has 
been re-designated as Chairman, 
Independent Director of the Company 
with effect from December 10, 2023.
11. Mr. Umesh Mehta
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Umesh Mehta has been appointed 
as Non-Executive Director effective 
from March 22, 2024
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
193
(ii) Transactions with related parties
The following transactions occurred with related parties:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Nature of Transaction
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
3i Infotech Inc.
Income
36.49
38.41
Reimbursement of Expenses
1.76
1.31
3i Infotech (UK) Limited and its 
subsidiaries
Income
0.02
0.14
Reimbursement of Expenses
0.04
0.06
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
Income
20.31
20.27
Reimbursement of Expenses
1.33
1.32
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC
Income
1.86
3.02
Reimbursement of Expenses
0.05
0.06
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Ltd
Income
0.03
0.08
Reimbursement of Expenses
0.66
0.43
3i Infotech Consultancy Services Limited
Purchase of Services
116.33
94.07
Income
1.50
1.47
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited
Income
26.79
21.90
Income from Infrastructure & Facility 
Management Services
1.56
1.56
Purchase of Services
1.63
3.55
Interest Expense
3.26
2.54
3i Infotech SDN BHD
Income
0.04
0.08
Reimbursement of Expenses
0.09
0.05
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
Income
0.32
0.44
Reimbursement of Expenses
0.07
0.60
3i Infotech Software Solution LLC
Income
9.72
7.67
Reimbursement of Expenses
2.90
2.78
NuRe CampusLabs Private Limited
Reimbursement of Expenses
0.38
-
During FY 2023-24 the company has impaired its Investment in 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius and 3i Infotech 
Digital BPS Limited to the extent of ` 421.70 Crores and ` 14.24 Crores. In the 昀椀nancial year 2022-23, the Company has 
impaired its investment in 3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC and 3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited to the extent of ` 3.16 Crores 
and ` 4.19 Crores.
(iii) Outstanding balances arising from sales/purchases of goods and services
(Amount in ` Crores)
Name
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables
3i Infotech Inc
92.15
104.80
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
0.10
0.10
3i Infotech (UK) Limited and its subsidiaries
1.11
1.02
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
19.89
-
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC
138.27
142.29
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Ltd
13.11
12.92
3i Infotech SDN BHD
23.61
23.47
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
15.20
16.75
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
194
Name
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
49.79
50.86
3i Infotech (South Africa) (Pty) Limited
0.01
0.01
3i Infotech Netherlands B. V.
0.90
0.88
3i Infotech Software Solution LLC
3.36
18.63
NuRe Campuslabs Private Limited
0.62
-
NuRe Mediatech Limited
0.00
-
NuRe Futuretech Private Limited
2.56
-
NuRe Bharat Network Limited
1.34
-
Trade Payables
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
-
12.19
3i Infotech Consultancy Services Limited
46.39
40.86
3i Infotech Inc
-
1.31
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited, Mauritius
14.58
14.58
NuRe Campuslabs Private Limited
0.37
-
Unbilled Revenue
3i Infotech Inc
1.16
4.92
IPR Payables
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
1,066.39
1,066.39
Allowance for expected credit Losses
3i Infotech (UK) Limited and its subsidiaries
0.98
-
3i Infotech Inc
93.25
-
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Ltd
12.55
-
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC
136.63
-
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
49.75
-
3i Infotech SDN BHD
23.61
-
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
14.53
-
3i Infotech Software Solution LLC
3.36
-
3i Infotech Netherlands B. V.
0.90
-
Earnest Money Deposit
3i Infotech Consultancy Services Limited
5.00
5.00
(iv) Loans to and Interest Receivable from related parties :
(Amount in ` Crores)
Name
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Loans to related parties:
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ 
LLC
Subsidiary
Beginning of the year
40.83
40.83
End of the year
40.83
40.83
NuRe Bharat Network 
Limited
Subsidiary
Beginning of the year
-
-
Addition during the year
1.90
-
End of the year
1.90
-
Interest Receivable from related parties:
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ 
LLC
Subsidiary
Beginning of the year
28.58
24.50
Interest income recognised
4.08
4.08
End of the year
32.66
28.58
NuRe Bharat Network 
Limited
Subsidiary
Beginning of the year
-
-
Interest income recognised
0.12
-
End of the year
0.12
-
(Amount in ` Crores)
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
195
(v) Loans from and Interest Payable to related parties :
Name
Nature of Relationship
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Loans from related parties:
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited
Subsidiary
Beginning of the year
27.14
31.44
Loan Repaid
(28.77)
(4.30)
Loans taken
40.42
-
End of the year
38.79
27.14
Interest Payable to related parties:
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited
Subsidiary
Beginning of the year
0.30
0.47
Adjusted Against Interest 
Receivable
(2.66)
(2.45)
Interest charged
3.26
2.54
TDS Deducted
(0.33)
(0.25)
End of the year
0.57
0.30
Investments in Subsidiary Companies:
NuRe Campuslabs Private 
Limited
Subsidiary
Investments in Subsidiary
-
0.01
NuRe Mediatech Limited
Subsidiary
Investments in Subsidiary
0.01
-
NuRe Futuretech Private 
Limited
Subsidiary
Investments in Subsidiary
-
0.01
NuRe Edgetech Private Limited
Subsidiary
Investments in Subsidiary
-
0.01
(vi) Key management personnel compensation
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Short term employee bene昀椀ts
Salaries and other employee bene昀椀ts to Whole-time directors and executive 
of昀椀cers*
5.73
5.30
Commission and other bene昀椀ts to non-executive / independent directors
1.20
1.00
Total
6.93
6.30
The amounts of Post employement bene昀椀ts, Long term employee bene昀椀ts and Employee share based payment cannot be 
seperately identi昀椀ed from the composite amount advised by the actuary / valuer.
(vii) Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest bearing and settlement occurs in cash. The allowance for 
expected credit Losses on amount owed by related parties is ` 335.55 Crores (March 31, 2023: NIL). The assessment for loss 
allowance is undertaken at each 昀椀nancial year through examining the 昀椀nancial position of the related party and market in 
which the related party operates.
(viii) There are no Commitments with Related parties.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
196
33. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
i. Financial Instruments by Category
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Amortised cost
Investments in Preference Shares
711.73
675.89
711.73
675.89
Trade Receivables
75.41
416.17
75.41
416.17
Loans
42.73
40.83
42.73
40.83
Cash and Cash Equivalents
28.75
40.51
28.75
40.51
Other Bank Balances
-
-
-
-
Other Financial Assets
71.75
82.74
71.75
82.74
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related 
liabilities and assets
(788.09)
-
(788.09)
-
Net Financial Assets
142.27
1,256.14
142.27
1,256.14
FVTPL
Investment in Equity Instruments
0.16
0.16
0.16
0.16
Total
142.43
1,256.30
142.43
1,256.30
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Amortised cost
Borrowings
38.79
34.39
38.79
34.39
Trade Payables
107.18
95.09
107.18
95.09
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
1,094.64
1,081.26
1,094.64
1,081.26
Lease Liability
32.00
56.03
32.00
56.03
Less: Presented in Note no 18 Legacy related 
liabilities and assets
(1,080.97)
-
(1,080.97)
-
Total
191.64
1,266.78
191.64
1,266.78
The management assessed that the fair value of cash and cash equivalent, trade receivables, trade payables, and other current 
昀椀nancial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments.
Financial instruments with 昀椀xed and variable interest rates are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as 
interest rates and individual credit worthiness of the counterparty. Accordingly, fair value of such instruments is not materially 
different from their carrying amounts.
The fair values for loans, security deposits and investments in preference shares were calculated based on cash 昀氀ows 
discounted using a current lending rate. They are classi昀椀ed as level 3 fair values in the Fair value hierarchy due to the inclusion 
of unobservable inputs including counterparty credit risk.
The fair values of non current borrowings are based on discounted cash 昀氀ows using a current borrowing rate. They are classi昀椀ed 
as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of unobservable inputs, including own credit risk.
The fair values of Preference Shares are based on discounted cash 昀氀ows method. They are classi昀椀ed as level 3 fair values in 
the fair value hierarchy due to the use of unobservable inputs, including own credit risk.
ii. Fair Value Hierarchy
This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the 昀椀nancial instruments that are 
measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the 昀椀nancial statements. To provide an indication about 
the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classi昀椀ed its 昀椀nancial instruments into three levels 
prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table:
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
197
Fair value measurement hierarchy
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Fair value measurement using
Fair value measurement using
Carrying 
Amount
Quoted 
prices 
in active 
markets 
(Level 1)
Signi昀椀cant 
Observa-
ble 
Inputs 
(Level 2)
Signi昀椀cant 
Unobserv-
able 
Inputs 
(Level 3)
Carrying 
Amount
Quoted 
prices 
in active 
markets 
(Level 1)
Signi昀椀cant 
Observa-
ble 
Inputs 
(Level 2)
Signi昀椀cant 
Unobserv-
able 
Inputs 
(Level 3)
Financial Assets
At Amortised cost
Investment in Preference 
Shares*
711.73
-
-
-
675.89
-
-
-
Loans
42.73
-
-
-
40.83
-
-
-
Deposits
71.75
-
-
-
82.74
-
-
-
Trade receivables
75.41
-
-
-
416.17
-
-
-
Cash and Cash Equivalents
28.75
-
-
-
40.51
-
-
-
Less: Presented in Note no 
18 Legacy related liabilities 
and assets
(788.09)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
At FVTPL
-
Investment in Equity Shares*
0.16
-
-
0.16
0.16
-
-
0.16
Total
142.43
-
-
0.16
1,256.30
-
-
0.16
Financial Liabilities
At Amortised cost
Borrowings
38.79
-
-
-
34.39
-
-
-
Trade Payables
107.18
-
-
-
95.09
-
-
-
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
1,094.64
-
-
-
1,081.26
-
-
-
Lease Liability
32.00
-
-
-
56.03
-
-
-
Less: Presented in Note no 
18 Legacy related liabilities 
and assets
(1,080.97)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
191.64
-
-
-
1,266.77
-
-
-
* Exclude Group Company investments ` 208.81 Crores (FY 2022-23 ` 644.75 Crores) measured at cost (Refer Note 5a).
The Fair value of Preference shares carried at amortised cost has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of ` 8.53 Crores (FY 2022-
23 ` 50.12 Crores) and Interest income on the same amounts to of ` 27.31 Crores (FY 2022-23 ` 25.21 Crores). It has been 
recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss.
The 昀椀nancial instruments are categorised into three levels based on the inputs used to arrive at fair value measurements 
as described below:
Level 1 - Level 1 hierarchy includes Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Inputs other than the quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
or indirectly; and
Level 3 - If one or more of the signi昀椀cant inputs are not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 
3. This is the case for unlisted equity shares included in level 3.
iii. Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Speci昀椀c Valuation techniques used to value 昀椀nancial instruments include:
- the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments
- the fair value of the remaining 昀椀nancial instruments is determined using discounted cash 昀氀ow analysis
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
198
iv. Valuation processes
The 昀椀nance department of the Company includes a team that assesses the valuation of 昀椀nancial assets and liabilities required 
for 昀椀nancial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values. Wherever required, valuation reports from Professional Entities 
are being considered at frequent intervals.
34. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company is exposed primarily to 昀氀uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risk, 
which may adversely impact the fair value of its 昀椀nancial instruments. The Company has a risk management policy which 
covers risks associated with the 昀椀nancial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by Board of Directors. 
The focus of the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the 昀椀nancial environment and to mitigate 
potential adverse effects on the 昀椀nancial performance of the Company.
(i) Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or the future cash 昀氀ows of a 昀椀nancial instrument will 昀氀uctuate because of the change 
in market prices. Such changes in the value of 昀椀nancial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of 
foreign currency exchange rate risk.
(a)  Foreign currency exchange rate risk
The 昀氀uctuation in foreign currency exchange rate may have potential impact on the statement of pro昀椀t and loss and 
the other comprehensive income and equity, where any transaction reference more than one currency or where assets/
liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company.
Considering the countries and the economic environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to 
risk arising from 昀氀uctuations in exchange rates in those countries. The risks primarily relates to 昀氀uctuations in US Dollar, 
Great Britain Pound and Euro against the functional currency of the Company.
The Company, as per its current risk management policy, does not use any derivatives instruments to hedge foreign 
exchange. Further, any movement in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company against major 
foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenue in international business.
The Company evaluates the impact of the foreign exchange rate 昀氀uctuation by assessing its exposure to exchange rate 
risks. Apart from exposures of foreign currency payables and receivables, which partially are naturally hedged against 
each other, the Company does not use any hedging instruments to hedge its foreign currency exposures; in line with the 
current risk management policies.
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and 
a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rate shift of all the currencies by 1% against the functional currency of the 
Company.
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures of the Company as of the date of Balance Sheet 
which could affect the statement of pro昀椀t and loss and the other comprehensive income and equity. 
The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
US$
GBP
EUR
AED
SGD
Total
Total 昀椀nancial assets
992.23
-
179.90
1.04
-
1,173.16
Total 昀椀nancial liabilities
(15.48)
-
-
(6.74)
-
(22.21)
Total
976.75
-
179.90
(5.70)
-
1,150.95
Appreciation/depreciation @1%
9.77
-
1.80
(0.06)
-
11.51
1% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Company 
would result in decrease /increase in the Company ‘s pro昀椀t before tax and other equity by approximately ` 11.51 Crores 
for the year ended March 31, 2024.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
199
 
The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
Particulars
US$
GBP
EUR
AED
SGD
Total
Total 昀椀nancial assets
996.92
1.02
178.73
0.72
-
1,177.38
Total 昀椀nancial liabilities
(27.92)
-
-
(3.18)
-
(31.10)
Total
969.00
1.02
178.73
(2.47)
-
1,146.28
Appreciation/depreciation @1%
9.69
0.01
1.79
(0.02)
-
11.46
1% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Company 
would result in decrease /increase in the Company ‘s pro昀椀t before tax and other equity by approximately ` 11.46 Crores 
for the year ended March 31, 2023.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Company’s 昀椀xed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk as 
de昀椀ned in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash 昀氀ows will 昀氀uctuate because of a change in 
market.
(ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will not meet its obligations leading to a 昀椀nancial loss. Credit risk arises from cash 
and cash equivalents, investments carried at amortised cost and deposits with banks and 昀椀nancial institutions, as well as credit 
exposures to customers including outstanding receivables and unbilled revenues.
(1)  Credit risk management
 
- Trade receivables and Unbilled revenues
The credit risk has always been managed by the group through an assessment of the companies 昀椀nancials , market 
intelligence and customers credibility.
The Company makes provisions for Debtors and Unbilled based on a critical assessment of the amount in relation to 
the ageing combined with the historical trend observed in the respective geography, the past history of the client and 
comparison with similar projects to determine the recoverability of the receivables.
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its 
trade receivables and unbilled revenue. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the 
expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical 
observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed.
 
- Other Financial Assets
The company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a signi昀椀cant 
increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a signi昀椀cant 
increase in credit risk the company compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date with the 
risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking 
information.
A default on a 昀椀nancial asset is when the counterparty fails to make contractual payments when they fall due. This 
de昀椀nition of default is determined by considering the business environment in which entity operates and other macro-
economic factors.
(2)  Credit risk exposure
 
- Trade receivables and Unbilled revenues
The carrying amount of trade receivables and unbilled revenues represents the maximum credit exposure from customers. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk from customers is ` 447.11 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 458.85 Crores). The lifetime 
expected credit loss on customer balance for the year ended March 31, 2024 is ` 349.31 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 18.21 
Crores).
 
The company has a credit policy of 0-60 days.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
200
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - Trade receivables and Unbilled revenue
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning
18.21
16.69
Impairment loss recognised/reversed
331.10
1.52
Balance at the end
349.31
18.21
- Other Financial Assets
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, investments carried at amortised cost, deposits with banks and 
昀椀nancial institutions and other 昀椀nancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk is ` 763.65 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 809.78 Crores). The lifetime expected credit loss on these 昀椀nancial assets for 
the year ended March 31, 2024 is ` 4.58 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 0.11 Crores).
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - other 昀椀nancial assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
life-time expected 
losses
life-time expected 
losses
Balance at the beginning
0.11
0.11
Add(Less): Changes in loss allowances due to
-
-
Changes in risk parameters
4.47
-
Balance at the end
4.58
0.11
(iii) Liquidity risks
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its 昀椀nancial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management 
is to maintain suf昀椀cient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements.
The Company consistently generated suf昀椀cient cash 昀氀ow from operations to meet its 昀椀nancial obligation as and when they 
fall due.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of signi昀椀cant 昀椀nancial liabilities as at :
March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Due in 1 year
Due in 1-2 year
Due in 2-5 year Due after 5 years
Total
Non-derivative 昀椀nancial liabilities :
Trade and other payables
92.59
-
-
-
92.59
Borrowings including Interest thereon
-
38.79
-
-
38.79
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities*
1,094.64
-
-
-
1,094.64
Lease Liability (Gross)
11.90
21.56
3.70
-
37.15
Total
1,199.13
60.35
3.70
- 1,263.18
 *includes INR 1066.39 Crores presented in Legacy related liabilities & assets.
March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Due in 1 year
Due in 1-2 year
Due in 2-5 year Due after 5 years
Total
Non-derivative 昀椀nancial liabilities :
Trade and other payables
95.09
-
-
-
95.09
Borrowings including Interest thereon
-
34.39
-
-
34.39
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
1,081.26
-
-
-
1,081.26
Lease Liability (Gross)
18.86
32.12
16.02
-
66.99
Total
1,195.21
66.51
16.02
- 1,277.73
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
201
35. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
For the purpose of the company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, convertible instruments, share 
premium and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders. The primary objective of the Company’s capital 
management is to maximise the shareholder value.
The company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the 
requirements of the 昀椀nancial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the company may adjust the dividend 
payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The company monitors capital using a gearing 
ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Company includes within debt, interest bearing loans and 
borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents.
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Borrowings
38.79
27.14
Lease Liabilities
32.00
56.03
Less: Cash and Cash equivalents
(28.75)
(40.51)
Net Debt
42.04
42.66
Equity Share Capital
169.23
168.47
Other Equity
(81.97)
735.67
Total Equity
87.26
904.14
Capital and net debt
129.31
946.79
Gearing ratio
0.33
0.05
36. ASSETS PLEDGED AS SECURITY
The carrying amount of assets pledged as security:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
CURRENT ASSETS
i. Financial Assets
*Margin Money with banks
23.72
38.79
Total current assets pledged as security
23.72
38.79
*Margin Money includes 昀椀xed deposits of INR 23.72 crores (FY 22-23 INR 38.79 crores) which is pledged against overdraft 
facility of INR NIL (FY 22-23 INR 8.20 crores), bank guarantee INR 21.77 crores (FY 22-23 INR 27.67 crores) and counter 
guarantee INR 1.05 crores (FY 22-23 INR 2.92 crores).
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
37. OFFSETTING FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
The following table presents the recognised 昀椀nancial instruments that are offset and other agreements but not offset, as at 
March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. The column ‘net amount’ shows the impact on the company’s standalone balance sheet 
if all set-off rights were exercised.
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Effects of offsetting on the standalone balance sheet
Related amounts not offset
 Gross amount  Gross amounts 
set off in the 
balance sheet 
 Net amount 
presented in the 
balance sheet 
 Financial 
instruments 
collateral 
 Net amount 
March 31, 2024
Financial assets
Investments
920.69
-
920.69
-
920.69
Cash and cash equivalents
28.75
-
28.75
(23.72)
5.03
Bank Balances Other than above
-
-
-
-
-
Trade receivables
167.81
(92.40)
75.41
-
75.41
Loans
65.76
(23.03)
42.73
-
42.73
Annual Report 2023-24
202
Particulars
Effects of offsetting on the standalone balance sheet
Related amounts not offset
 Gross amount  Gross amounts 
set off in the 
balance sheet 
 Net amount 
presented in the 
balance sheet 
 Financial 
instruments 
collateral 
 Net amount 
Other 昀椀nancial assets
71.75
-
71.75
-
71.75
Less: Presented in Note no 18 
Legacy related liabilities and assets
(889.13)
-
(889.13)
-
(889.13)
Total
365.63
(115.43)
250.20
(23.72)
226.48
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
23.18
84.00
107.18
-
107.18
Less: Presented in Note no 18 
Legacy related liabilities and assets
(14.58)
(14.58)
(14.58)
Borrowings
10.02
28.77
38.79
38.79
Lease Liabilities
32.00
-
32.00
-
32.00
Other 昀椀nancial Liabilities
1,091.97
2.66
1,094.64
-
1,094.64
Less: Presented in Note no 18 
Legacy related liabilities and assets
(1,066.39)
-
(1,066.39)
-
(1,066.39)
Total
191.64
115.43
307.07
-
307.07
March 31, 2023
Financial assets
Investments
1,320.79
-
1,320.79
-
1,320.79
Cash and cash equivalents
40.51
-
40.51
(38.79)
1.72
Bank Balances Other than above
40.51
-
40.51
-
40.51
Trade receivables
546.31
(130.14)
416.17
-
416.17
Loans
40.83
-
40.83
-
40.83
Other 昀椀nancial assets
82.73
-
82.73
-
82.73
Total
2,071.70
(130.14)
1,941.55
(38.79)
1,902.76
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
(10.18)
105.28
95.09
-
95.09
Borrowings
11.98
22.41
34.39
-
34.39
Lease Liabilities
56.03
-
56.03
-
56.03
Other 昀椀nancial Liabilities
1,078.80
2.45
1,081.26
-
1,081.26
Total
1,136.63
130.14
1,266.77
-
1,266.77
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
38. LEASES
The changes in the carrying value of ROU assets for the year ended March 31, 2024 are as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Category of ROU Asset
Buildings
Balance as at April 01, 2022
102.61
Additions
98.67
Deletion
(1.93)
Depreciation
(33.85)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
165.49
Additions
1.82
Deletion
(9.86)
Depreciation
(17.34)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
140.12
The aggregate depreciation expense on ROU assets is included under depreciation and amortisation expense in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
203
The break-up of current and non-current lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current Lease Liabilities
12.76
14.20
Non-Current Lease Liabilities
19.24
41.83
Total
32.00
56.03
The movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning
56.03
59.14
Additions
1.82
10.86
Finance cost accrued during the period
4.66
5.41
Deletions
(12.18)
(1.61)
Payment of lease liabilities
(18.34)
(17.77)
Translation difference
-
-
Balance at the end
32.00
56.03
The details of the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 on an undiscounted basis are as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Less than one year
11.90
18.86
One to 昀椀ve years
25.25
48.13
More than 昀椀ve years
-
-
Total
37.15
66.99
The Company does not face a signi昀椀cant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are suf昀椀cient to 
meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases and low value assets was ` 8.22 Crores for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
` 5.67 Crores for the year ended March 31, 2023.
Rental income on assets given on operating lease to subsidiaries was ` NIL Crores for the year ended March 31, 2024.
The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country of domicile of these leases.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
39. RATIO ANALYSIS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr 
No.
Particulars
As At 
March 31, 2024
As At
March 31, 2023
% change from 
March 31, 2023 to 
March 31,2024
1
Current ratio
0.46
0.45
1.89%
2
Debt- Equity Ratio
0.81
0.10
711.16%
3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
-20.78
-0.56
3588.02%
4
Return on Equity Ratio
-165.15%
5.97%
-2867.38%
5
Trade Receivable Turnover Ratio
1.46
0.64
129.56%
6
Trade Payable Turnover Ratio
2.26
2.18
4.04%
7
Net Capital Turnover Ratio
-1.98
-0.42
374.61%
8
Net Pro昀椀t Ratio
-229.10%
18.92%
-1311.16%
9
Return on Capital Employed
-512.59%
6.13%
-8466.41%
10
Return on Investment*
7.97%
6.95%
14.64%
*Return on Investment does not include Investment in Group Companies and Non income bearing securities.
Annual Report 2023-24
204
B. Components of Ratio
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr 
No.
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
As At March 31, 2024
As At March 31, 2023
Numerator Denominator
Numerator Denominator
1
Current Ratio
Current Asset
Current Liabilities
152.89
333.12
541.98
1,203.25
2
Debt – Equity 
ratio
Debt
Equity
70.79
87.26
90.42
904.14
3
Debt service 
coverage ratio
Earning for 
Debt Service
Debt Service
(459.95)
22.13
(11.85)
21.03
4
Return on Equity 
(ROE)
Net Pro昀椀t After 
tax
Average 
Shareholder Equity
(818.63)
495.70
52.25
875.61
5
Trade 
Receivables 
turnover ratio
Net credit sales
Avg Accounts 
Receivables
357.33
244.36
276.24
433.65
6
Trade Payables 
turnover ratio
Net Credit 
Purchase
Average Trade 
Payable
212.41
93.84
164.37
75.56
7
Net capital 
turnover ratio
Net sales
working capital
357.33
(180.23)
276.24
(661.28)
8
Net pro昀椀t ratio
Net Pro昀椀t
Net Sales
(818.63)
357.33
52.25
276.24
9
Return on Capital 
Employed (ROCE)
Earning before 
interest and tax
Capital Employed*
(810.18)
158.06
60.93
994.56
10
Return on 
Investment
Other income
Average Cash & 
Cash equivalents 
& other Marketable 
Securities
5.82
73.03
6.97
100.27
*Capital Employed = Tangible Networth includes Intangible Assets & Intangible Assets under Development. 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
C. Reasons for variance of more than 25% in above ratios for FY 2023-24
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr No. Particulars
As At March 31, 2024
1
Debt- Equity Ratio
Decrease in Networth mainly due to dimunition in value of investments & allowance for 
expected credit losses during current year
2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio Due to inadequate earnings available for Debt Service.
3
Return on Equity Ratio
Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments & increase in allowance for expected 
credit losses during current year.
4
Trade Receivable Turnover 
Ratio
Due to increase in allowance for expected credit losses as compared to previous year.
5
Net Capital Turnover Ratio
Due to increase in Net working capital & Sales as compared to previous year.
6
Net Pro昀椀t Ratio
Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments & allowance for expected credit losses.
7
Return on Capital Employed Mainly due to Dimunition in Value of Investments & allowance for expected credit losses.
C. Reasons for variance of more than 25% in above ratios for FY 2022-23
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr No. Particulars
March 31, 2023
1
Debt – Equity ratio
The Bank Borrowings (Bank Overdraft) has reduced in Current year as compared 
to Last year
2
Debt service coverage ratio
Pro昀椀t has increased and there is no Borrowings
3
Trade Receivables turnover ratio
Better collection from Receivables has led to improvement in Ratio
4
Trade Payables turnover ratio
Delay in Payment as comparision to previous year
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
205
40. DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES AS DEFINED UNDER MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM 
ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT ACT, 2006 (MSMED ACT, 2006)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Principal amount due to suppliers under MSMED Act, 2006*
9.67
1.49
Interest accrued and due to suppliers under MSMED Act, on the above amount
-
-
Payment made to suppliers ( other than interest ) beyond the appointed day, 
during the year
-
-
Interest paid to suppliers under MSMED Act, ( other than Section 16 )
-
-
Interest paid to suppliers under MSMED Act, ( Section 16 )
-
-
Interest due and payable to suppliers under MSMED Act, for payment already 
made
-
-
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the year to suppliers under 
MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
-
-
* Amount includes due and unpaid of ` 9.67 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 1.49 Crores)
The information has been given in respect of such vendors to the extent they could be identi昀椀ed as “Micro and Small” enterprises 
on the basis of information available with the Company.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
41. DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 186(4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
(Amount in ` Crores)
Name of the Party
Nature
Rate of interest
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
Loan given consequent to DRS
10%
40.83
40.83
NuRe Bharat Network Limited
Loan given
7.23%
1.90
-
Total
42.73
40.83
42. DETAILS OF BENAMI PROPERTY HELD
The Company do not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for 
holding any Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
43. WILFUL DEFAULTER
The company has not been declared as a wilful Defaulter by any Financial Institution or bank as at the date of Standalone 
Balance Sheet.
44. RELATIONSHIP WITH STRUCK OFF COMPANIES
The Company has not identi昀椀ed any transactions or balances in any reporting periods with companies whose name is struck 
off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956.
45. REGISTRATION OF CHARGES OR SATISFACTION WITH REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES (ROC)
The company has no pending charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the ROC beyond the Statutory period.
46. COMPLIANCE WITH NUMBER OF LAYERS OF COMPANIES
The company has complied with the provision of the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
Annual Report 2023-24
206
47. COMPLIANCE WITH APPROVED SCHEME(S) OF ARRANGEMENTS
There are no Schemes of Arrangements has been approved by the Competent Authority in terms of sections 230 to 237 of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
48. UTILISATION OF BORROWED FUNDS
The company has used the borrowings from banks for the speci昀椀c purpose for which it was taken at the standalone balance 
sheet date. There are no discrepancy in utilisation of borrowings.
Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
(A)  The company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries).
(B)  the company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party).
The company have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall:
a)  
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identi昀椀ed in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
company (Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries); or
b)  
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries;
The Company have not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
a)  
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identi昀椀ed in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries) or;
b)  
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries.
49. SEGMENT INFORMATION
As per Ind AS 108- “Operating Segment”, segment information has been provided under the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
50. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Undisclosed income
The Company has no transaction that is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant 
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
The company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency.
51. Previous year’s 昀椀gures have been regrouped / rearranged wherever necessary to con昀椀rm to the current year’s presentation.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QH9743
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
207
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
To the Members of 
3I Infotech Limited  
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED IND 
AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Disclaimer of Opinion
We were engaged to audit the accompanying consolidated 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements of  3I INFOTECH LIMITED 
(“the Company”) and its subsidiaries and joint venture (the 
Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture together referred 
as “the Group”) which comprise the consolidated Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the consolidated Statement of 
Pro昀椀t and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), 
the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended, 
and notes to 昀椀nancial statements, including a summary 
of Material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as the “the consolidated 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements”).
We do not express an opinion on the accompanying 
consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements of the Group. 
Because of the signi昀椀cance of the matter described in the 
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section of our report, we 
have not been able to obtain suf昀椀cient appropriate audit 
evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these 
consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements.
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion
1. 
We have not received the audited 昀椀nancial statements 
of material subsidiaries i.e. 3i Infotech Holdings 
Private Limited and 3i Infotech Middle East FZ LLC. 
In the absence of these audited 昀椀nancial statements, 
we are unable to assess the impact of this matter on 
consolidated 昀椀nancial statements and therefore unable 
to express an opinion on the consolidated 昀椀nancial 
statements.
2. 
As depicted in Note No. 42 (b), the Company’s Board 
had set up a Legacy Committee as a Sub – Committee 
of the Audit Committee, to evaluate and address 
all long outstanding legacy related matters, after 
evaluating the reports of Sub Committee, the Board 
of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on 
January 31, 2024, decided to initiate Forensic Audit 
for legacy issues, of which completion is still pending. 
In the absence of outcome of the Forensic Audit, we 
are unable to comment on the possible consequential 
effects thereof, if any, on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
3. 
As depicted in Note No. 4, the intangible assets 
developed amounting to INR 44.55 crores, were 
capitalized during the current year. However, the 
Company’s management has on the basis of internal 
evaluation made a loss allowance of INR 21.93 
crores in the current 昀椀nancial year. In the absence 
of suf昀椀cient and appropriate audit evidence, we are 
unable to comment on the management estimate for 
loss allowance amounting to INR 21.93 crores and 
recoverability of balance carrying value amounting 
to INR 17.33 crores in the consolidated 昀椀nancial 
statements. 
4. 
The standalone 昀椀nancial statements of the subsidiary, 
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited (Mauritius) for 
the previous 昀椀nancial year ended as on March 31, 
2023, wherein the component auditor has quali昀椀ed 
the opinion on the basis that while the presentation 
currency of the subsidiary is Mauritian Rupees, the 
foreign exchange gains / losses arising on translation 
from functional to presentation currency, have been 
recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss and 
retained earnings rather than in Other Comprehensive 
Income (“OCI”) and Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserves (“FCTR”). This constitutes a departure from 
IAS 21. In the absence of suf昀椀cient and appropriate 
audit evidence about the carrying amount of FCTR 
and the amount that should have been recorded in 
OCI, the component auditor was unable to determine 
the adjustments needed to those items. Consequently, 
we are unable to determine the possible impact on 
the consolidated 昀椀nancial statements of the Group in 
respect of this matter.
Material Uncertainty regarding Going Concern
1. 
3i 
Infotech 
(Thailand) 
Limited 
has 
signi昀椀cant 
accumulated losses which has resulted in complete 
erosion of its net worth. This matter along with the 
other events and conditions give rise to material 
uncertainties that may cast a signi昀椀cant doubt on 3i 
Infotech (Thailand) Limited’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. However, the 昀椀nancial statements of 3i 
Infotech (Thailand) Limited have been prepared on a 
going concern basis for the reasons stated in the said 
note.
2. 
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited, for which audit 
昀椀nancials statements of 昀椀nancial year March 31, 2023, 
the auditor has given material uncertainty for going 
concern paragraph which states that the subsidiary has 
accumulated losses resulting into complete erosion 
of its net worth. It has also recorded a negative cash 
out昀氀ow from its operating activities. The above events 
and conditions along with the other matters as set 
forth in the note of subsidiary 昀椀nancial statements 
indicates that a material uncertainty exists that may 
cast a signi昀椀cant doubt on 3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c 
Annual Report 2023-24
208
Pte Limited’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
However, the 昀椀nancial statements of 3i Infotech Asia 
Paci昀椀c Pte Limited have been prepared on a going 
concern basis for the reasons stated in the said note.
MANAGEMENT’S 
RESPONSIBILITY 
FOR 
THE 
CONSOLIDATED IND AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect 
to the preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements that give a true and fair view 
of the consolidated 昀椀nancial position, consolidated 昀椀nancial 
performance 
including 
other 
comprehensive 
income, 
consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash 
昀氀ows of the Group in accordance with the Ind AS and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in India. The 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal 昀椀nancial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have 
been used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
昀椀nancial statements by the Directors of the Company, as 
aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for assessing the ability of the 
respective entities to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using 
the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective 
Board of Directors either intends to liquidate their respective 
entities or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative 
but to do so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
昀椀nancial reporting process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF 
THE CONSOLIDATED IND AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our responsibility is to conduct an audit of the consolidated 
Ind AS 昀椀nancial statements in accordance with Standards 
on Auditing and to issue an auditor’s report. However, 
because of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section of our report, we were not able to obtain 
suf昀椀cient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for 
an audit opinion on these consolidated 昀椀nancial statements.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics and provisions of the Act that are relevant 
to our audit of the consolidated 昀椀nancial statements in 
India under the Act, and we have ful昀椀lled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with the Code of Ethics and 
the requirements under the Act.
OTHER MATTER
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Financial 
Statements of 7 subsidiaries whose 昀椀nancial information 
re昀氀ect Group’s share of total assets of INR 127.28 crores 
as at March 31, 2024, Group’s share of total revenue of 
INR 213.26 crores, Group’s share of total net pro昀椀t/(loss) 
after tax of INR 5.97 crores and Group’s share of total 
comprehensive income/(de昀椀cit) of INR 7.00 crores and net 
cash in昀氀ow/(out昀氀ow) of INR 4.12 crores for the year ended 
March 31, 2024, which have been audited by us.
The consolidated Financial Statements include the audited 
Financial Statements of 2 subsidiaries, whose 昀椀nancial 
information re昀氀ect Group’s share of total assets of INR 
825.37 crores as at March 31, 2024, Group’s share of total 
revenue of INR 375.85 crores and Group’s share of total 
net pro昀椀t/(loss) after tax of INR (73.48) crores and Group’s 
share of total comprehensive income / (de昀椀cit) of INR 
(73.48) crores and net cash in昀氀ow/(out昀氀ow) of INR 2.09 
crores for the year ended March 31, 2024 as considered in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been 
audited by their respective independent auditors. The 
independent auditors’ reports on 昀椀nancial information of 
these entities have been furnished to us and our opinion on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates 
to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these 
entities, is based solely on the report of such auditors and 
the procedures performed by us are as stated in paragraph 
above.
Certain of these subsidiaries are located outside India whose 
昀椀nancial information have been prepared in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in their 
respective countries and which have been audited by other 
auditor’s under generally accepted auditing standards 
applicable in their respective countries. The Company‘s 
management has converted the 昀椀nancial statements of 
such subsidiaries located outside India from accounting 
principles generally accepted in their respective countries 
to accounting principles generally accepted in India. Our 
opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of 
such subsidiaries and joint ventures located outside India is 
based on the reports of other auditors and the conversion 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
209
adjustments prepared by the management of the Company.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the 
unaudited Financial Statements of 21 subsidiaries and 1 
joint venture, whose 昀椀nancial information re昀氀ect Group’s 
share of total assets of INR 2,707.24 crores at March 31, 
2024, Group’s share of total revenue of INR 83.80 crores, 
Group’s share of total net pro昀椀t / (loss) after tax of INR 
(138.37) crores and Group’s share of total comprehensive 
income / (de昀椀cit) of INR (138.18) crores for the year 
ended March 31, 2024 and net cash in昀氀ow / (out昀氀ow) of 
INR (11.61) crores for the year ended March 31, 2024, 
as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
These unaudited 昀椀nancial information have been furnished 
to us by the Board of Directors and our opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates 
to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of 
these subsidiaries and a joint venture is based solely 
on such unaudited 昀椀nancial information. In our opinion 
and according to the information and explanations given 
to us by the Board of Directors, some of these Financial 
Statements as mentioned in para 1 of ‘Basis of Disclaimer 
of Opinion’ are material to the Group.
Our report is modi昀椀ed for the Financial Statements / 昀椀nancial 
information certi昀椀ed by the Board of Directors for material 
subsidiaries as stated in para 1 of ‘Basis of Disclaimer 
of Opinion’. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is not modi昀椀ed in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the 
reports of the other auditors and the 昀椀nancial statements 
/ 昀椀nancial information certi昀椀ed by the board of directors for 
balance immaterial subsidiaries.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
1. 
(A) As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based 
on our audit we report that: 
a) 
As described in the Basis for Disclaimer of 
Opinion section, we sought but were unable 
to obtain all the information and explanations 
which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit. 
b) 
Due to the effects / possible effects of the 
matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section and for the matters stated 
in the paragraph 2(B) (vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g), we are unable to state 
whether proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Group so far 
as it appears from our examination of those 
books. We are unable to comment for the 
companies incorporated in India that the 
back-up of the books of account and other 
relevant books and papers in electronic 
mode has been kept on servers physically 
located in India on a daily basis during the 
period from April 01, 2023 till March 31, 
2024.
c) 
The Company has a branch of昀椀ce, although 
no 
separate 
昀椀nancial 
statements 
are 
prepared by the Branch and hence section 
143(8) does not apply to the company.
d) 
Due to the effects / possible effects of the 
matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section, we are unable to state 
whether the Consolidated Balance Sheet, 
the Consolidated Statement of Pro昀椀t and 
Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
e) 
Due to the effects/possible effects of the 
matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 
of Opinion section, we are unable to state 
whether the 昀椀nancial statements comply 
with the Indian Accounting Standards 
speci昀椀ed under section 133 of the Act read 
with rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014. 
f) 
The matter described in the Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion section above, in our 
opinion, may have an adverse effect on the 
functioning of the Group.
g) 
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Company 
as on March 31, 2024, taken on record by 
the Board of Directors and reports of the 
statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies 
incorporated in India, none of the directors of 
the Group companies incorporated in India 
are disquali昀椀ed as on March 31, 2024, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164 (2) of the Act. 
h) 
The reservation relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in the Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion section above.
i) 
With respect to adequacy of internal 
昀椀nancial controls over 昀椀nancial reporting of 
the Group and the operating effectiveness 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
210
of such controls, refer to our separate report 
in “Annexure A”. Our report expresses 
a Disclaimer of Opinion on the adequacy 
and operating effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal 昀椀nancial controls over 昀椀nancial 
reporting.
j) 
With respect to the other matters to 
be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with the requirements of section 
197(16) of the Act, as amended:
 
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
the remuneration paid by the Company to its 
directors during the year is in accordance with the 
provisions of section 197 of the Act.
 
(B) In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
we report as under with respect to the other 
matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in 
accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our 
opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
(i) 
Except for the possible effects of the matter 
described in the Basis for Disclaimer of opinion 
section, the consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements disclose the impact of pending 
litigations on its 昀椀nancial position as referred to 
Note No. 31 to the Consolidated 昀椀nancial position 
of the group.
(ii) 
Except for the possible effects of the matter 
described in the Basis for Disclaimer of opinion 
section, provisions have been made in the 
consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial statement, as 
required under the applicable law or accounting 
standard, for material foreseeable laws if any, on 
long term contracts including derivative contracts.
(iii) There has been no delay in transferring amounts 
which were required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Company and its subsidiary companies 
incorporated in India.
 
(iv) a. 
The respective management of the Company 
and its subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India, 
whose 
昀椀nancial 
statements have been audited under the 
Act, have represented to us that, to the best 
of their knowledge and belief, no funds 
(which are material either individually or in 
aggregate) have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the company or any 
of such subsidiaries to or in any other 
persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identi昀椀ed in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the company or any of 
such subsidiaries (“Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries; 
 
 
b. 
The respective management of the Company 
and its subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India, 
whose 
昀椀nancial 
statements have been audited under the Act, 
have represented, that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, no funds (which are 
material either individually or in aggregate) 
have been received by the company from any 
persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the company or any of such subsidiaries 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identi昀椀ed 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries; and
 
 
c. 
Based on audit procedures which we 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances performed by us on the 
Company and its Subsidiaries which are 
companies incorporated in India, whose 
昀椀nancial statements have been audited 
under the Act, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (a.) and 
(b.) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and 
(b) above, contain any material misstatement.
(v) 
The company or any of such subsidiaries have 
not declared or paid any dividend during the year, 
therefore the provisions of section 123 of the Act 
is not applicable.
(vi) Based on our examination which included test 
checks, except for the instances mentioned below, 
the Company and its subsidiaries incorporated 
in India have used accounting softwares for 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
211
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 103429W
CA Madhu Jain
Partner
Place: Mumbai  
M. No.: 155537
Date: May 30, 2024  
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
maintaining its books of account, which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, however the same 
has not operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the respective software but only from 
July 01, 2023. 
 
Further, from July 01, 2023 where audit trail (edit log) facility was enabled and operated, we did not come across 
any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with during the course of our audit .
(vii) As Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 01, 2023, reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as per statutory 
requirements for record retention is not applicable for the 昀椀nancial year ended March 31, 2024.
2) 
With respect to the matters speci昀椀ed in clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s 
Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO”/ “the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, our 
observations are as follows:
(i) 
According to the information and explanations given to us, in respect of the following companies incorporated in 
India and included in the consolidated 昀椀nancial statements, the CARO report relating to them have not been made 
available to us till date of this principal auditor’s report:
Name of the company
CIN
Relationship
NuRe MediaTech Limited
U62099MH2023PLC399503
Subsidiary
NuRe Bharat Network Limited
U62099MH2023PLC401316
Step Down Subsidiary
(ii) 
According to the information and explanations given to us, and based on the CARO reports issued by us for the 
subsidiaries incorporated in India included in the Consolidated Financial Statements to which reporting under CARO 
is applicable, we report that in respect of those companies where audits have been completed under section 143 of 
the Act. There are certain remarks by us in the CARO reports of the following companies included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements:
Name of the Company
CIN
Nature of 
Relationship
Clause number of the 
CARO report which is 
quali昀椀ed or adverse
3i Infotech Limited
L67120MH1993PLC074411
Parent
Clause iii, vii, xvii
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited
U74899MH1990PLC412657
Subsidiary
Clause vii
3i Infotech Consultancy Services Limited
U72900MH2007PLC176323
Subsidiary
Clause vii
Professional Access Software 
Development Private Limited
U72200TN2002PTC048799 
Subsidiary
Clause vii
Versares Digital Technology BPS Private 
Limited
U72900MH2022PTC391946
Step Down 
Subsidiary
Clause xvii
NuRe EdgeTech Private Limited
U72900MH2022PTC394215
Subsidiary
Clause xvii
NuRe FutureTech Private Limited
U72900MH2022PTC395002
Subsidiary
Clause xvii
NuRe CampusLabs Private Limited
U72900MH2022PTC395694
Subsidiary
Clause xvii
Annual Report 2023-24
212
ANNEXURE ‘A’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1(i) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the Members 
of 3i Infotech Limited of even date)
REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
UNDER CLAUSE (I) OF SUB-SECTION 3 OF SECTION 
143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE ACT”) 
We were engaged to audit the internal 昀椀nancial controls 
with reference to the consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements of “3i Infotech Limited” (hereinafter referred 
to as “the Company”) and its subsidiaries (Company and 
its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which 
are companies incorporated in India, as of March 31, 2024, 
in conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 昀椀nancial 
statements of the Company for the year ended on that date. 
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
The respective company’s management and the board of 
directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal 昀椀nancial controls based on the internal control over 
昀椀nancial reporting criteria established by the respective 
Companies considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the ICAI’). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal 昀椀nancial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and ef昀椀cient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to respective Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its 
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable 昀椀nancial information, 
as required under the Companies Act, 2013. 
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
昀椀nancial controls over 昀椀nancial reporting of the Company 
and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated 
in India, based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance 
Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and 
deemed to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal 昀椀nancial controls. 
Because of the matters described in the Disclaimer of 
Opinion paragraph below and after considering the audit 
evidence of the other auditors in terms of their reports 
referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, we were 
not able to obtain suf昀椀cient appropriate audit evidence to 
provide a basis for an audit opinion on internal 昀椀nancial 
controls with reference to the consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements of the Company.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS OVER 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
A Group’s internal 昀椀nancial control over 昀椀nancial reporting 
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of 昀椀nancial reporting and the 
preparation of 昀椀nancial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
Company’s internal 昀椀nancial control over 昀椀nancial reporting 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly re昀氀ect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of consolidated 昀椀nancial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are 
being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the Consolidated Ind As 昀椀nancial statements. 
DISCLAIMER OF OPINION
Consequent to the matters described in the “Basis for 
Disclaimer of Opinion” section of our Independent Auditor’s 
Report of even date on the consolidated Ind AS 昀椀nancial 
statements of the Company, we are unable to determine 
if the Group has established adequate internal 昀椀nancial 
controls with reference to 昀椀nancial statements and whether 
they were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024. 
Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the internal 
昀椀nancial controls with reference to 昀椀nancial statements. 
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 103429W
CA Madhu Jain
Partner
Place: Mumbai  
M. No.: 155537
Date: May 30, 2024  
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
213
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2024
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Note 
No.
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
(a)  
Property, Plant and Equipment
3
3.12 
4.36 
(b)  
Right of Use Asset
3
149.86 
170.38 
(c)  
Goodwill
4
71.39 
304.06 
(d)  
Other Intangible Assets
4
20.53 
- 
(e)  
Intangible Assets Under Development
4
6.28 
41.81 
(f)  
Financial Assets
(i)  
Investments
5 (a)
2.24 
2.21 
(ii)  
Other Financial Assets
5 (b)
10.00 
16.70 
(g)  
Deferred Tax Asset (Net)
10A
0.56 
1.74 
(h) 
Income Tax Asset
10
52.58 
54.01 
(i)  
Other Non-Current Assets
9
12.82 
17.22 
Total Non-Current Assets
329.38 
612.49 
Current Assets
(a)  
Financial Assets
(i)  
Trade Receivables
6
156.83 
134.76 
(ii)  
Cash and Cash Equivalents
7
49.53 
60.60 
(iii)  Bank Balances Other than (ii) above
8
4.99 
6.13 
(iv)  Other Financial Assets
5 (c)
72.41 
94.13 
(b)  
Income Tax Assets
10
9.11 
- 
(c)  
Other Current Assets
9
41.75 
63.56 
Total Current Assets
334.62 
359.18 
TOTAL ASSETS
664.00 
971.67 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
(a)  
Equity Share Capital
11
169.23 
168.47 
(b)  
Other Equity
12
124.21 
474.35 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
293.44 
642.82 
Non Controlling Interest
- 
- 
Total Equity
293.44 
642.82 
LIABILITIES
Non Current Liabilities
(a)  
Financial Liabilities
(i)  
Borrowings
13
- 
0.19 
(ii)  
Lease Liabilities
18
27.56 
46.10 
(b)  
Provisions
17
24.53 
20.04 
Total Non-Current Liabilities
52.09 
66.33 
Current Liabilities
(a)  
Financial Liabilities
(i)  
Borrowings
13
41.86 
37.90 
(ii)  
Lease Liabilities
18
15.07 
15.05 
(iii)  Trade Payables
15
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
10.80 
1.58 
 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
82.05 
69.63 
(iv)  Other Financial Liabilities
14
101.92 
73.09 
(b)  
Other Current Liabilities
16
48.58 
45.96 
(c)  
Provisions
17
6.23 
5.79 
(d)  
Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
19
11.96 
13.52 
Total Current Liabilities
318.47 
262.52 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
664.00 
971.67
Material Accounting Policies and notes forming part of the  
                                         1-46
Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
214
Material Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of the  
                                      1-46
Consolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT & LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Notes 
No.
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
INCOME
I 
Revenue from operations
20
813.88 
729.11 
II 
Other Income
21
52.82 
79.94 
III 
Total Income
866.70 
809.05 
IV 
EXPENSES
 
Employee bene昀椀ts expense
22
576.90 
559.79 
 
Cost of third party products and services
23
173.08 
115.33 
 
Finance costs
24
10.10 
9.29 
 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
25
27.16 
22.80 
 
Other expenses
26
126.80 
92.45 
 
Total Expenses
914.04 
799.66 
V 
Pro昀椀t/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV)
(47.34)
9.39 
VI 
Exceptional Items
27
(236.62)
(5.01)
VII Pro昀椀t/(loss) before tax (V+VI)
(283.96)
4.38 
VIII Tax expense:
 
Current tax 
6.65 
2.68 
 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
6.84 
(0.28)
 
Deferred tax
0.82 
0.61 
IX 
Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the year (VII-VIII)
(298.27)
1.37 
X 
Other comprehensive income
 
A. 
Other Comprehensive Income not to be reclassi昀椀ed to 
pro昀椀t and loss in subsequent periods:
Remeasurement of gains/(losses) on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans
(0.17)
(0.21)
Income tax effect
(0.36)
0.13 
 
B. 
Other Comprehensive Income to be reclassi昀椀ed to pro昀椀t 
and loss in subsequent periods:
 
 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
(50.68)
(64.69)
 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss)
(51.21)
(64.77)
XI 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
(349.48)
(63.40)
 
Pro昀椀t/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
(298.27)
1.37 
 
Non-controlling interests
- 
- 
 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
(51.21)
(64.77)
 
Non-controlling interests
- 
- 
 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
(349.48)
(63.40)
 
Non-controlling interests
- 
- 
 
Earnings per share for pro昀椀t attributable to equity shareholders
 
Basic EPS
28
(17.69)
0.08 
 
Diluted EPS
28
(17.69)
0.08
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
215
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Pro昀椀t before income tax from continued operations
(283.96)
4.38 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
27.16 
22.80 
Finance costs
9.10 
8.12 
Employee share-based payment expense
2.62 
5.08 
Bad Debts written off
2.55 
3.27 
Allowance for doubtful debts
5.18 
0.94 
Interest income classi昀椀ed as investing cash 昀氀ows
(1.64)
(2.90)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(2.37)
1.58 
Net foreign exchange differences (Gain)/Loss
1.19 
(6.45)
Other income
- 
(0.58)
Provision for intangible assets impairment
21.93 
- 
Goodwill impaired
232.66 
- 
Change in operating assets and liabilities:
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables
(40.71)
(25.44)
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables
21.66 
40.08 
(Increase)/decrease in other 昀椀nancial assets
25.55 
(11.00)
(Increase)/decrease in other non-current assets
4.38 
3.82 
(Increase)/decrease in other current assets
21.81 
21.98 
Increase/(decrease) in other 昀椀nancial liability
28.80 
18.71 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
4.40 
2.34 
Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities
2.63 
31.08 
Cash generated from operations
82.93 
117.81 
Less: Income taxes paid / (Refund) 
(9.78)
26.93 
Net cash in昀氀ow from operating activities
73.15 
144.74 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Payments for property, plant and equipment
(0.71)
(75.46)
Intangible assets under development
(12.77)
(33.76)
Proceeds from property, plant and equipment
2.37 
- 
Proceeds from deposits matured
1.11 
0.32 
Interest received
1.64 
2.90 
Net cash in昀氀ow/(out昀氀ow) from investing activities
(8.36)
(106.00)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from issue of shares
0.88
0.53 
Payment of Lease Liabilities
(22.88)
(20.00)
Proceeds from / (Repayment of) borrowings
3.76 
(16.30)
Interest paid
(3.55)
(2.40)
Others
(3.40)
(3.03)
Net cash in昀氀ow/ (out昀氀ow) from 昀椀nancing activities
(25.18)
(41.20)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
39.61 
(2.46)
Annual Report 2023-24
216
 (Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
Effect due to the changes in foreign currency
(50.68)
(64.69)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the 昀椀nancial year
60.60 
127.75 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at end of the year
49.53 
60.60 
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents as per the cash 昀氀ow statement:
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of the following:
Balances with banks: 
-On current accounts 
25.17 
21.20 
-On deposit accounts 
24.33 
39.40 
Cash on hand 
0.03 
- 
Balances as per statement of cash 昀氀ows
49.53
60.60
Particulars
 Change in Liabilities arising from 昀椀nancing activities
Non Current Borrowings
Current Borrowings
Total
Borrowings as at March 31, 2022
54.39
 - 
 54.39 
Cash Flow
 (16.30)
 - 
 (16.30)
Other non cash movements
 (37.90)
 37.90 
 - 
Total Borrowings as at March 31, 2023
 0.19 
 37.90 
 38.09 
Cash Flow
 - 
 3.76 
 3.76 
Other non cash movements
 (0.19)
 0.20 
 0.01 
Total Borrowings as at March 31, 2024
-
 41.86 
41.86
Notes : 
1.  
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in Ind AS 7 on “Statement of 
Cash Flows” noti昀椀ed by the Companies Act, 2013.
2.  
Previous year’s 昀椀gures have been regrouped / rearranged wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Material Accounting Policies and notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1 to 46
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
217
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
Equity Share Capital
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Balance at the Beginning of the year
Changes in Equity share capital during the year
Balance at the end of the year
March 31, 2023
Numbers
 16,79,42,657 
 5,23,385 
 16,84,66,042 
Amount
 167.94 
 0.52 
 168.47 
March 31, 2024
Numbers
 16,84,66,042 
 7,64,800 
 16,92,30,842 
Amount
 168.47 
 0.76 
 169.23 
Other Equity
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Share 
Suspense 
account 
- Equity 
Shares
Share 
Application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Resemption 
Reserve
Total other 
equity 
attributable 
to parent
Total 
Other 
Equity
Securities 
Premium
Share 
Based 
Payment 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Property, 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Reserve
As at April 01, 2022
896.18 
15.43 
(742.53)
42.11 
3.24 
0.20 
- 
0.07 
321.00 
535.70 
535.69 
Pro昀椀t for the year
- 
- 
1.37 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1.37 
1.37 
Other comprehensive income
- 
- 
(0.08)
- 
- 
- 
(64.69)
- 
- 
(64.77)
(64.77)
Total comprehensive income for the year
- 
- 
1.29 
- 
- 
- 
(64.69)
- 
- 
(63.40)
(63.40)
Amortisation of Revaluation Reserve
- 
- 
(60.90)
60.90 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Transfer to retained earnings
- 
(13.18)
13.18 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Others
- 
- 
(0.20)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(0.20)
(0.20)
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Share based payment expense
- 
5.08 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5.08 
5.08 
Share Application money pending 
allotment
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(0.20)
- 
- 
- 
(0.20)
(0.20)
Share Suspense Account
- 
- 
- 
- 
(2.63)
- 
- 
- 
- 
(2.63)
(2.63)
As at March 31, 2023
896.18 
7.33 
(789.16)
103.01 
0.61 
- 
(64.69)
0.07 
321.00 
474.35 
474.35 
Annual Report 2023-24
218
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Share 
Suspense 
account 
- Equity 
Shares
Share 
Application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Foreign 
Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Capital 
Resemption 
Reserve
Total other 
equity 
attributable 
to parent
Total 
Other 
Equity
Securities 
Premium
Share 
Based 
Payment 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Property, 
Plant and 
Equipment 
Reserve
Pro昀椀t for the year
- 
- 
(298.27)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
(298.27) (298.27)
Other comprehensive income
- 
- 
(0.53)
- 
- 
- 
(50.68)
- 
- 
(51.21)
(51.21)
Total comprehensive income for the year
- 
- 
(298.80)
- 
- 
- 
(50.68)
- 
- 
(349.48) (349.48)
Amortisation of Revaluation Reserve
- 
- 
2.37 
(2.37)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Transfer to retained earnings
- 
(0.64)
0.64 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Transfer to Securities Premium
3.15 
(3.15)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Others
- 
- 
(2.79)
- 
(0.61)
- 
- 
- 
- 
(3.40)
(3.40)
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Share based payment expense
- 
2.62 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2.62 
2.62 
Share Application money pending 
allotment
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.12 
- 
- 
- 
0.12 
0.12 
Share Suspense Account
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
As at March 31, 2024
899.33 
6.16 (1,087.74)
100.64 
- 
0.12 
(115.37)
0.07 
321.00 
124.21 
124.21 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
Material Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of the  
                                      1-46
Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
219
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
3i Infotech Limited (referred to as “The Company”) is a 
Global 
Information 
Technology 
Company 
committed 
to Empowering Business Transformation.The business 
activities of the Company are broadly divided into two 
categories, viz. IT Solutions and Transaction Services. The 
IT Solutions business comprises of Cloud Computing, 
Application-Automation-Analytics 
(AAA), 
Platform 
Solutions , Infrastructure Management Services, Application 
Development, Digital Transformation Consulting and 
NextGen Business services while Transaction Services 
comprise of BPS and KPO services covering management of 
back of昀椀ce operations. 
The Company is a public limited Company incorporated and 
domiciled in India and has a branch of昀椀ce at Sharjah. Its 
shares are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange and National 
Stock Exchange in India. The address of its registered of昀椀ce 
is International Infotech Park, Tower No.5, 3rd to 6th 昀氀oors, 
Vashi, Navi Mumbai-400 703. 
The 昀椀nancial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 
were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on May 30, 2024.
2.
MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
a) 
Statement of compliance
 
The Consolidated 昀椀nancial statements which comprises 
of Consolidation Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, 
the Consolidated Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss for 
the year ended March 31, 2024, the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended March 
31, 2024 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(together hereinafter referred to as ‘Consolidation 
Financial Statements’) and have been prepared in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards 
(referred to as “Ind AS”) prescribed under Section 133 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with The Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from 
time to time.
b) 
Basis of preparation
 
These 昀椀nancial statements have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis, except for certain 昀椀nancial 
instruments which are measured at fair values at 
the end of each reporting period, as explained in the 
accounting policies below. Historical cost is generally 
based on the fair value of the consideration given in 
exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the 
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid 
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.
c)  
Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
(i)  Subsidiaries
 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured 
entities) over which the Group has control. The 
Group controls an entity when the Group is 
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power to direct 
the relevant activities of the entity. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
 
The acquisition method of accounting is used to 
account for business combinations by the Group.
 
The Group combines the 昀椀nancial statements of 
the parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding 
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income and expenses. Intercompany transactions, 
balances and unrealised gains on transactions 
between Group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the 
transaction provides evidence of an impairment 
of the transferred asset. Accounting policies of 
subsidiaries have been changed where necessary 
to ensure consistency with the policies adopted 
by the Group.
 
The 昀椀nancial statements of all entities used for the 
purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same 
reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., 
year ended on March 31, 2024. When the end 
of the reporting period of the parent is different 
from that of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, 
for consolidation purposes, additional 昀椀nancial 
information as of the same date as the 昀椀nancial 
statements of the parent to enable the parent 
to consolidate the 昀椀nancial information of the 
subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
 
Non-controlling interests in the results and 
equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in 
the consolidated statement of pro昀椀t and loss, 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and 
balance sheet respectively.
Annual Report 2023-24
220
(ii)  Associates
 
Associates are all entities over which the Group 
has signi昀椀cant in昀氀uence but not control or joint 
control. Investments in associates are accounted 
for using the equity method of accounting, after 
initially being recognised at cost.
(iii)  Joint arrangements
 
Under 
Ind 
AS 
111 
Joint 
Arrangements, 
investments in joint arrangements are classi昀椀ed 
as either joint operations or joint ventures. The 
classi昀椀cation depends on the contractual rights 
and obligations of each investor, rather than the 
legal structure of the joint arrangement. The 
Group has 1 joint venture.
(iv) Joint ventures
 
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using 
the equity method (see (iv) below), after initially 
being recognised at cost in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
(v)  Equity method
 
Under the equity method of accounting, the 
investments are initially recognised at cost and 
adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share 
of the post-acquisition pro昀椀ts or losses of the 
investee in pro昀椀t and loss, and the Group’s share 
of other comprehensive income of the investee in 
other comprehensive income. Dividends received 
or receivable from associates and joint ventures 
are recognised as a reduction in the carrying 
amount of the investment.
 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the 
Group and its associates and joint ventures are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in these entities. Unrealised losses are also 
eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Accounting policies of equity accounted investees 
have been changed where necessary to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the 
Group.
 
When the Group’s share of losses in an equity-
accounted 
investment 
equals 
or 
exceeds 
its interest in the entity, including any other 
unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does 
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the 
other entity.
 
The carrying amount of equity accounted 
investments are tested for impairment in 
accordance with the policy described in below.
(vi)  Changes in ownership interests
 
The 
Group 
treats 
transactions 
with 
non-
controlling interests that do not result in a loss of 
control as transactions with equity owners of the 
Group. A change in ownership interest results in 
an adjustment between the carrying amounts of 
the controlling and non-controlling interests to 
re昀氀ect their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any 
difference between the amount of the adjustment 
to non-controlling interests and any consideration 
paid or received is recognised within equity.
 
When the Group ceases to consolidate or equity 
account for an investment because of a loss of 
control, joint control or signi昀椀cant in昀氀uence, any 
retained interest in the entity is remeasured to 
its fair value with the change in carrying amount 
recognised in pro昀椀t or loss. This fair value becomes 
the initial carrying amount for the purposes of 
subsequently accounting for the retained interest 
as an associate, joint venture or 昀椀nancial asset. 
In addition, any amounts previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income in respect of that 
entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly 
disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This 
may mean that amounts previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income are reclassi昀椀ed to 
pro昀椀t or loss.
 
If the ownership interest in a joint venture or an 
associate is reduced but joint control or signi昀椀cant 
in昀氀uence is retained, only a proportionate share 
of the amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassi昀椀ed to pro昀椀t or 
loss where appropriate.
d)  Business combinations and goodwill
 
Business combinations are accounted for using 
the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred measured at acquisition date fair value 
and the amount of any non controlling interests in the 
acquiree. For each business combination, the Group 
elects whether to measure the non controlling interests 
in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share 
of the acquiree’s identi昀椀able net assets. Acquisition-
related costs are expensed as incurred.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
221
 
At the acquisition date, the identi昀椀able assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised 
at their acquisition date fair values. For this purpose, 
the liabilities assumed include contingent liabilities 
representing present obligation and they are measured 
at their acquisition fair values irrespective of the 
fact that out昀氀ow of resources embodying economic 
bene昀椀ts is not probable. However, the following assets 
and liabilities acquired in a business combination are 
measured at the basis indicated below:
-  
Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the 
assets or liabilities related to employee bene昀椀t 
arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with Ind AS 12 Income Tax and Ind 
AS 19 Employee Bene昀椀ts respectively.
-  
Liabilities or equity instruments related to share 
based payment arrangements of the acquiree or 
share based payments arrangements of the Group 
entered into to replace share-based payment 
arrangements of the acquiree are measured 
in accordance with Ind AS 102 Share-based 
Payments at the acquisition date.
-  
Assets (or disposal Groups) that are classi昀椀ed as 
held for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-
current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations are measured in accordance with that 
standard.
-  
Reacquired rights are measured at a value 
determined on the basis of the remaining 
contractual term of the related contract. Such 
valuation does not consider potential renewal of 
the reacquired right.
 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the 
昀椀nancial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate 
classi昀椀cation and designation in accordance with 
the contractual terms, economic circumstances and 
pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This 
includes the separation of embedded derivatives in 
host contracts by the acquiree.
 
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any 
previously held equity interest is re-measured at its 
acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss 
is recognised in pro昀椀t or loss or Other Comprehensive 
Income (OCI), as appropriate.
 
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the 
acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Contingent consideration classi昀椀ed as an asset or 
liability that is a 昀椀nancial instrument and within the scope 
of Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair 
value with changes in fair value recognised in pro昀椀t or 
loss. If the contingent consideration is not within the 
scope of Ind AS 109, it is measured in accordance with 
the appropriate Ind AS. Contingent consideration that 
is classi昀椀ed as equity is not re-measured at subsequent 
reporting dates and subsequent its settlement is 
accounted for within equity.
 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess 
of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and 
the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, 
and any previous interest held, over the net identi昀椀able 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair value 
of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate 
consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses 
whether it has correctly identi昀椀ed all of the assets 
acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews 
the procedures used to measure the amounts to be 
recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment 
still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets 
acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, 
then the gain is recognised in OCI and accumulated in 
equity as capital reserve. However, if there is no clear 
evidence of bargain purchase, the entity recognises 
the gain directly in equity as capital reserve, without 
routing the same through OCI.
 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in 
a business combination is, from the acquisition date, 
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units 
that are expected to bene昀椀t from the combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 
acquiree are assigned to those units.
 
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been 
allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated 昀椀rst to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit 
and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata based 
on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any 
impairment loss for goodwill is recognised in pro昀椀t or 
loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not 
reversed in subsequent periods.
 
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that 
unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
222
disposed operation is included in the carrying amount 
of the operation when determining the gain or loss on 
disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is 
measured based on the relative values of the disposed 
operation and the portion of the cash- generating unit 
retained.
 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is 
incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which 
the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional 
amounts for the items for which the accounting is 
incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
through goodwill during the measurement period, 
or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to 
re昀氀ect new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, 
if known, would have affected the amounts recognised 
at that date. These adjustments are called as 
measurement period adjustments. The measurement 
period does not exceed one year from the acquisition 
date.
e) 
Translation of 昀椀nancial statements of foreign 
entities
 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign 
operations are translated into ` (Indian Rupees) at 
the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date 
and their statements of pro昀椀t and loss are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. For practical reasons, the Group uses an 
average rate to translate income and expense items, if 
the average rate approximates the exchange rates at 
the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences 
arising on translation for consolidation are recognised 
in Consolidated Statement of OCI. On disposal of 
a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating 
to that particular foreign operation is reclassi昀椀ed to 
Consolidated Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss.
f)  
Critical accounting estimates and judgement
 
The preparation of these 昀椀nancial statements in 
conformity with the recognition and measurement 
principles of Ind AS requires the management of 
the Group to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported balances of assets and liabilities, 
disclosures relating to contingent liabilities as at the 
date of the 昀椀nancial statements and the reported 
amounts of income and expense for the periods 
presented.
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimates are 
revised and future periods are affected.
 
Key sources of estimation of uncertainty at the date of 
the 昀椀nancial statements, which may cause a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next 昀椀nancial year, are in respect of 
following:
(i) 
Impairment of investments in Subsidiaries
 
The Group reviews its carrying value of 
investments carried at cost / amortised cost 
annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication for impairment. If the recoverable 
amount is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is accounted for in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss.
(ii) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment 
and Intangible Assets
 
The Group reviews the useful life of property, plant 
and equipment and intangible asset at the end of 
each reporting period. This reassessment may 
result in change in depreciation and amortisation 
expense in future periods.
(iii) Provision for Income Tax and Deferred Tax 
Assets
 
The Group uses estimates and judgements based 
on the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation 
of revenue, costs, allowances and disallowances 
which is exercised while determining the 
provision for income tax. A deferred tax asset is 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable pro昀椀t will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised. Accordingly, the group exercises its 
judgement to reassess the carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting 
period.
(iv) Provisions, 
Contingent 
liabilities 
and 
Contingent Assets
 
A provision is recognised when the Group has a 
present obligation as a result of past event and 
it is probable that an out昀氀ow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation, in respect of 
which a reliable estimate can be made. Provisions 
(excluding retirement bene昀椀ts and compensated 
absences) are not discounted to its present 
value unless the effect of time value of money 
is material and are determined based on best 
estimate required to settle the obligation at the 
Consolidated Balance sheet date. These are 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
223
reviewed at each Consolidated Balance sheet date 
and adjusted to re昀氀ect the current best estimates. 
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the 
昀椀nancial statements. A contingent asset is neither 
recognised nor disclosed in the Consolidated 
昀椀nancial statements. 
(v) Revenue recognition
 
The Group’s contracts with customers include 
promises to transfer multiple products and services 
to a customer. Revenues from customer contracts 
are considered for recognition and measurement 
when the contract has been approved, in writing, 
by the parties to the contract, the parties to 
contract are committed to perform their respective 
obligations under the contract, and the contract 
is legally enforceable. The Group assesses the 
services promised in a contract and identi昀椀es 
distinct performance obligations in the contract. 
Identi昀椀cation of distinct performance obligations 
to determine the deliverables and the ability of 
the customer to bene昀椀t independently from such 
deliverables, and allocation of transaction price to 
these distinct performance obligations involves 
signi昀椀cant judgement.
 
Fixed-price maintenance revenue is recognised 
rateably on a straight-line basis when services 
are performed through an inde昀椀nite number 
of repetitive acts over a speci昀椀ed period. 
Revenue from 昀椀xed-price maintenance contract 
is recognised rateably using a percentage of 
completion method when the pattern of bene昀椀ts 
from the services rendered to the customer and 
the Group’s costs to ful昀椀ll the contract is not even 
through the period of the contract because the 
services are generally discrete in nature and not 
repetitive. The use of method to recognise the 
maintenance revenues requires judgment and is 
based on the promises in the contract and nature 
of the deliverables.
 
The Group uses the percentage-of-completion 
method in accounting for other 昀椀xed-price 
contracts. Use of the percentage-of-completion 
method requires the Group to determine the 
actual efforts or costs expended to date as a 
proportion of the estimated total efforts or costs to 
be incurred. Efforts or costs expended have been 
used to measure progress towards completion 
as there is a direct relationship between input 
and productivity. The estimation of total efforts 
or costs involves signi昀椀cant judgement and is 
assessed throughout the period of the contract to 
re昀氀ect any changes based on the latest available 
information
 
Contracts with customers include subcontractor 
services 
or 
third-party 
vendor 
equipment 
or software in certain integrated services 
arrangements. In these types of arrangements, 
revenue from sales of third-party vendor products 
or services is recorded net of costs when the 
Group is acting as an agent between the customer 
and the vendor, and gross when the Group is 
the principal for the transaction. In doing so, the 
Group 昀椀rst evaluates whether it controls the good 
or service before it is transferred to the customer. 
The Group considers whether it has the primary 
obligation to ful昀椀ll the contract, inventory risk, 
pricing discretion and other factors to determine 
whether it controls the goods or service and 
therefore, is acting as a principal or an agent.
 
Provisions for estimated losses, if any, on 
incomplete contracts are recorded in the period 
in which such losses become probable, based 
on the estimated efforts or costs to complete the 
contract.
(vi) Fair value measurement of 昀椀nancial instruments
 
When the fair value of 昀椀nancial assets and 
昀椀nancial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 
cannot be measured based on quoted prices in 
active markets, their fair value is measured using 
valuation techniques including the Discounted 
Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are 
taken from observable markets where possible, 
but where this is not feasible, a degree of 
judgement is required in establishing fair values. 
Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 
Changes in assumptions about these factors 
could affect the reported fair value of 昀椀nancial 
instruments.
(vii) Impairment of 昀椀nancial assets (other than at 
fair value)
 
Measurement 
of 
impairment 
of 
昀椀nancial 
assets require use of estimates, which have 
been explained in the note on 昀椀nancial assets, 
昀椀nancial liabilities and equity instruments, under 
impairment of 昀椀nancial assets (other than at fair 
value).
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
224
(viii) Employee bene昀椀ts
 
The accounting of employee bene昀椀t plans in the 
nature of de昀椀ned bene昀椀t requires the Group to 
use assumptions. These assumptions have been 
explained under employee bene昀椀ts note.
g) 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of 
promised products or services to customers in an 
amount that re昀氀ects the consideration which the 
Group expects to receive in exchange for those 
products or services. Revenue towards satisfaction of 
a performance obligation is measured at the amount 
of transaction price (net of variable consideration) 
allocated 
to 
that 
performance 
obligation. 
The 
transaction price of services rendered is net of variable 
consideration on account of discounts and schemes 
offered by the Group as an part of the contract.
 
Revenue from time and material and job contracts 
is recognised on output basis measured by units 
delivered, efforts expended, number of transactions 
processed, etc. 
 
Revenue related to 昀椀xed price maintenance and 
support services contracts where the Group is standing 
ready to provide services is recognised based on time 
elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over the 
period of performance.
 
Revenue from software development and related 
services have been recognised basis guidelines of Ind 
AS 115 – “Revenue from contract with customers”, 
by applying the revenue recognition criteria for 
each distinct performance obligation based on the 
contractual arrangement in conjunction with the 
Group’s accounting policies.
 
Revenue from the sale of and Cost of, distinct third 
party hardware is recognised upon performance of the 
contractual obligation.
 
The Group recognises revenue in terms of the contracts 
with its customers, combined with its accounting 
policies. Revenue is measured based on the transaction 
price, which is the consideration, adjusted for volume 
discounts, service level credits, performance bonuses, 
price concessions and incentives, if any, as speci昀椀ed in 
the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes 
taxes collected from customers. 
 
Revenue recognition for 昀椀xed priced development 
contracts is based on percentage completion method. 
Invoicing to the client is based on milestones as 
stipulated in the contract. 
 
Revenue from transaction services and other service 
contracts 
is 
recognised 
based 
on 
transactions 
processed or manpower deployed.
 
Revenue from sharing of infrastructure facilities is 
recognised based on usage of facilities.
 
Revenue recognised over and above the billings on a 
customer is classi昀椀ed as unbilled revenue. 
 
Invoicing in excess of earnings are classi昀椀ed as 
unearned revenue.
 
Performance Obligation and remaining performance 
obligation 
 
The remaining performance obligations disclosure 
provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price 
yet to be recognised as at the end of the reporting period 
and an explanation as to when the Group expects 
to recognise these amounts in revenue. Applying 
the practical expedient as given in Ind AS 115, the 
Group has not disclosed the remaining performance 
obligation-related disclosures for contracts where the 
revenue recognised corresponds directly with the value 
to the customer of the entity’s performance completed 
to date, typically those contracts where invoicing is on 
time and material basis or 昀椀xed price basis. Remaining 
performance obligation estimates are subject to 
change and are affected by several factors, including 
terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, 
periodic revalidations, adjustment for revenue that has 
not materialised and adjustments for currency.
h) 
Interest / Dividend Income
 
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive 
payment is established. Interest income is recognised 
using the effective interest method.
i) 
Leases
 
The Group evaluates if an arrangement quali昀椀es to 
be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116. 
Identi昀椀cation of a lease requires signi昀椀cant judgment. 
The Group uses signi昀椀cant judgement in assessing the 
lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the 
applicable discount rate. The Group determines the 
lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease 
adjusted with any option to extend or terminate the 
lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. 
The Group makes an assessment on the expected 
lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby 
assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any 
options to extend or terminate the contract will be 
exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Group 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
225
considers all relevant facts and circumstances that 
create an economic incentive for the Group to excericise 
the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the 
option to terminate the lease. The Group revises the 
lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable 
period of a lease. The discount rate is generally based 
on the incremental borrowing rate speci昀椀c to the lease 
being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics (Refer note 38).
 
Leases Accounting policy 
 
The Group as a lessee 
 
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist of 
leases for buildings. The Group assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A 
contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identi昀椀ed asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess 
whether a contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identi昀椀ed asset, the Group assesses whether : (i) 
the contract involves the use of an identi昀椀ed asset 
(ii)  the Group has substantially all of the economic 
bene昀椀ts from use of the asset through the period 
of the lease and 
(iii)  the Group has the right to direct the use of the 
asset.
 
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognises a right-of-use (ROU) asset and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of 
12 months or less (short-term leases) and low value 
leases. For these short-term and low-value leases, the 
Group recognises the lease payments as an operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease.
 
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to 
extend or terminate the lease before the end of the 
lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes 
these options when it is reasonably certain that they 
will be exercised.
 
The ROU assets are initially recognised at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses. 
 
ROU assets are depreciated from the commencement 
date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the 
lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. 
ROU assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount 
(i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and 
the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset 
basis unless the asset does not generate cash 昀氀ows 
that are largely independent of those from other assets. 
In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined 
for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset 
belongs. 
 
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised 
cost at the present value of the future lease payments. 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, 
using the incremental borrowing rates in the country 
of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are 
remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to the 
related ROU asset if the Group changes its assessment 
of whether it will exercise an extension or a termination 
option.ROU asset if the Group changes its assessment 
of whether it will exercise an extension or a termination 
option.
 
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
j) 
Cost recognition
 
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and 
have been classi昀椀ed according to their nature.
 
The costs of the Group are broadly categorised 
in employee bene昀椀t expenses, cost of third party 
products and services, 昀椀nance costs ,depreciation 
and amortisation and other expenses. Employee 
bene昀椀t expenses include employee compensation, 
allowances paid, contribution to various funds and 
staff welfare expenses. Cost of third party products 
and services mainly include purchase of software 
licenses and products ,fees to external consultants 
,cost of running its facilities, cost of equipment and 
other operating expenses. Finance cost includes 
interest and other borrowing cost. Other expenses 
is an aggregation of costs such as commission 
and brokerage, printing and stationery, legal and 
professional charges, communication, repairs and 
maintenance etc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
226
k) 
Foreign currency
 
The functional currency of the Group is Indian rupee (`).
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at year end exchange rates are generally recognised in 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss. A monetary item for which 
settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the 
foreseeable future is considered as a part of the entity’s 
net investment in that foreign operation. 
 
Non monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in foreign currencies are not 
retranslated.
 
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in 
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the date when the fair value was determined
l)  
Income taxes
 
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred 
income tax. Income tax expense is recognised in net 
pro昀椀t in the Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss, except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised directly 
in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity or 
other comprehensive income. Current income tax for 
current and prior periods is recognised at the amount 
expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax 
authorities, using the tax rates and tax laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance 
Sheet date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are recognised for all temporary differences arising 
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and 
their carrying amounts in the 昀椀nancial statements. 
 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting 
date and are reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related tax bene昀椀t will be 
realised. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are measured using tax rates and tax laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
Balance Sheet date. These are expected to apply to 
taxable income in the years in which those temporary 
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. 
The effect of changes in tax rates on deferred income 
tax assets and liabilities is recognised as income or 
expense in the period that includes the enactment or 
the substantive enactment date. A deferred income 
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable pro昀椀t will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and tax 
losses can be utilised. Deferred income taxes are not 
provided on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
and branches where it is expected that the earnings 
of the subsidiary or branch will not be distributed 
in the foreseeable future. The Group offsets current 
tax assets and current tax liabilities; deferred tax 
assets and deferred tax liabilities; where it has a 
legally enforceable right to set off the recognised 
amounts and where it intends either to settle on a net 
basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. Tax bene昀椀ts of deductions earned 
on exercise of employee share options in excess of 
compensation charged to income are credited to 
equity.
m) Financial instruments
 
A 昀椀nancial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a 昀椀nancial asset of one entity and a 昀椀nancial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity.
(i) 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
The Group considers all highly liquid 昀椀nancial 
instruments, which are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash that are subject to an 
insigni昀椀cant risk of change in value and having 
original maturities of three months or less from 
the date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. Cash 
and cash equivalents consist of balances with 
banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and 
usage.
(ii) Financial assets
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
All 昀椀nancial assets are recognised initially at 
fair value plus, in the case of 昀椀nancial assets 
not recorded at fair value through pro昀椀t and 
loss, transaction costs that are attributable to 
the acquisition of the 昀椀nancial asset. However, 
trade receivables that do not contain a signi昀椀cant 
昀椀nancing component are measured at transaction 
price. Purchases or sales of 昀椀nancial assets that 
require delivery of assets within a time frame 
established by regulation or convention in the 
market place (regular way trades) are recognised 
on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
227
 
Subsequent measurement
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
昀椀nancial assets are classi昀椀ed in four categories:
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
a)  
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash 昀氀ows, and
b)  
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
speci昀椀ed dates to cash 昀氀ows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on 
the principal amount outstanding.
 
After initial measurement, such 昀椀nancial assets 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees 
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The 
EIR amortisation is included in other income in the 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognised in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss. This category generally applies 
to trade and other receivables.
 
A ‘debt instrument’ is classi昀椀ed as at the FVTOCI 
if both of the following criteria are met:
(a)  The objective of the business model is 
achieved both by collecting contractual cash 
昀氀ows and selling the 昀椀nancial assets, and
(b)  The asset’s contractual cash 昀氀ows represent 
SPPI.
 
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI 
category are measured initially as well as at each 
reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements 
are recognised in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI). However, the Group recognises interest 
income, impairment losses & reversals and 
foreign exchange gain or loss in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss. On derecognition of the asset, 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
OCI is reclassi昀椀ed from the equity to Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss. Interest earned whilst holding 
FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest 
income using the EIR method.
 
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. 
Any debt instrument, which does not meet the 
criteria for categorisation as at amortised cost or 
as FVTOCI, is classi昀椀ed as at FVTPL.
 
In addition, the Group may elect to designate 
a debt instrument, which otherwise meets 
amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. 
However, such election is allowed only if 
doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement 
or recognition inconsistency (referred to as 
‘accounting mismatch’). The Group has not 
designated any debt instrument as at FVTPL.
 
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognised in the Statement of Pro昀椀t and 
Loss.
 
Equity investments
 
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 
are measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading and contingent 
consideration recognised by an acquirer in a 
business combination to which Ind AS103 applies 
are classi昀椀ed as at FVTPL. For all other equity 
instruments, the Group may make an irrevocable 
election to present in other comprehensive 
income subsequent changes in the fair value. The 
Group makes such election on an instrument by- 
instrument basis. The classi昀椀cation is made on 
initial recognition and is irrevocable.
 
If the Group decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value 
changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, 
are recognised in the OCI. There is no recycling of 
the amounts from OCI to statement of pro昀椀t and 
loss, even on sale of investment. However, the 
Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss 
within equity.
 
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and 
loss.
 
Interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures are accounted at cost.
 
Derecognition
 
A 昀椀nancial asset (or, where applicable, a part 
of a 昀椀nancial asset or part of a group of similar 
昀椀nancial assets) is primarily derecognised (i.e. 
removed from the Group’s consolidated balance 
sheet) when:
-  
The rights to receive cash 昀氀ows from the 
asset have expired, or
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
228
- 
The Group has transferred its rights to 
receive cash 昀氀ows from the asset or has 
assumed an obligation to pay the received 
cash 昀氀ows in full without material delay 
to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ 
arrangement; and either (a) the Group has 
transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
(iii) Financial liabilities 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
Financial liabilities are classi昀椀ed, at initial 
recognition, as 昀椀nancial liabilities at fair value 
through pro昀椀t and loss, loans and borrowings or 
payables as appropriate.
 
All 昀椀nancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction 
costs.
 
The Group’s 昀椀nancial liabilities include trade and 
other payables, loans and borrowings including 
bank overdrafts and 昀椀nancial guarantee contracts.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
The measurement of 昀椀nancial liabilities depends 
on their classi昀椀cation, as described below:
- 
Financial Liabilities at fair value through 
pro昀椀t and loss
 
Financial liabilities at fair value through pro昀椀t 
and loss include 昀椀nancial liabilities held for 
trading and 昀椀nancial liabilities designated 
upon initial recognition as at fair value 
through pro昀椀t and loss. Financial liabilities 
are classi昀椀ed as held for trading if they are 
incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in 
the near term. 
 
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading 
are recognised in the Statement of Pro昀椀t and 
Loss.
 
Financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition at fair value through pro昀椀t and 
loss are designated as such at the initial 
date of recognition, and only if the criteria 
in Ind AS 109 are satis昀椀ed. These gains / 
loss are not subsequently transferred to 
Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss. However, the 
Group may transfer the cumulative gain or 
loss within equity. All other changes in fair 
value of such liability are recognised in the 
Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss. The Group has 
not designated any 昀椀nancial liability as at 
FVTPL.
- 
Loans and borrowings
 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR 
method. Gains and losses are recognised 
in statement of pro昀椀t and loss when the 
liabilities are derecognised as well as 
through the EIR amortisation process.
 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation 
is included as 昀椀nance costs in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss.
- 
Financial guarantee contracts
 
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Group are those contracts that require a 
payment to be made to reimburse the holder 
for a loss it incurs because the speci昀椀ed 
debtor fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt 
instrument. Financial guarantee contracts 
are recognised initially as a liability at fair 
value, adjusted for transaction costs that 
are directly attributable to the issuance of 
the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is 
measured at the higher of the amount of loss 
allowance determined as per impairment 
requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount 
recognised less cumulative amortisation.
 
Derecognition
 
A 昀椀nancial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing 昀椀nancial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the 
terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modi昀椀ed, such an exchange or modi昀椀cation 
is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
229
(iv) Reclassi昀椀cation of 昀椀nancial assets
 
The Group determines classi昀椀cation of 昀椀nancial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After 
initial recognition, no reclassi昀椀cation is made for 
昀椀nancial assets which are equity instruments and 
昀椀nancial liabilities. For 昀椀nancial assets which are 
debt instruments, a reclassi昀椀cation is made only 
if there is a change in the business model for 
managing those assets. Changes to the business 
model are expected to be infrequent. The Group’s 
senior management determines change in the 
business model as a result of external or internal 
changes which are signi昀椀cant to the Group’s 
operations. Such changes are evident to external 
parties. A change in the business model occurs 
when the Group either begins or ceases to perform 
an activity that is signi昀椀cant to its operations. If 
the Group reclassi昀椀es 昀椀nancial assets, it applies 
the 
reclassi昀椀cation 
prospectively 
from 
the 
reclassi昀椀cation date which is the 昀椀rst day of the 
immediately next reporting period following the 
change in business model. The Group does not 
restate any previously recognised gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
(v) Offsetting of 昀椀nancial instruments
 
Financial assets and 昀椀nancial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the consolidated 
balance sheet if there is an enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
n) 
Investments in subsidiaries
 
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
impairment.
o) 
Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any. Costs 
directly attributable to acquisition are capitalised until 
the property, plant and equipment are ready for use, 
as intended by the Management. The charge in respect 
of periodic depreciation is derived at after determining 
an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life and the 
expected residual value at the end of its life. The Group 
depreciates property, plant and equipment over their 
estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.
 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic bene昀椀ts associated with the item will 昀氀ow 
to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. The carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is derecognised 
when replaced. All other repairs and maintenance 
are charged to statement of pro昀椀t and loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
 
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: 
Category of Assets
Useful lives 
adopted by 
Group
Useful Lives 
prescribed 
under 
Schedule II 
of the Act
Computers
5 years
3-6 years
Plant and Machinery, 
Electrical Installation
5 years
15 years
Of昀椀ce Equipment
5 years
5 years
Furniture and Fixtures
5 years
10 years
Vehicles
5 years
10 years
 
Based on technical evaluation, the Management 
believes that the useful lives, as given above, best 
represent the period over which the Management 
expects to use these assets. Hence, the useful lives 
for these assets are different from the useful lives 
as prescribed under Part C of Schedule II of the 
Companies Act 2013. Depreciation methods, useful 
lives and residual values are reviewed periodically, 
including at each 昀椀nancial year end. The useful lives 
are based on historical experience with similar assets 
as well as anticipation of future events, which may 
impact their life, such as changes in technology. 
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each Balance 
Sheet date is classi昀椀ed as capital advances under 
other non-current assets. The cost of assets not ready 
to use before such date are disclosed under ‘Capital 
work-in-progress’. Subsequent expenditures relating 
to property, plant and equipment is capitalised only 
when it is probable that future economic bene昀椀ts 
associated with these will 昀氀ow to the Company 
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
The cost and related accumulated depreciation are 
eliminated from the 昀椀nancial statements upon sale or 
retirement of the asset. Gains and losses on disposals 
are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying 
amount. These are included in the statement of pro昀椀t 
and loss.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
230
p) 
Intangible assets
 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Subsequently, following 
initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
 
Intangible assets are amortised over the useful life 
and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. 
The amortisation period and the amortisation method 
for an intangible asset with a 昀椀nite useful life are 
reviewed at least at the end of each reporting year. 
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected 
pattern of consumption of future economic bene昀椀ts 
embodied in the asset are considered to modify the 
amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and 
are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The 
amortisation expense on intangible assets with 昀椀nite 
lives is recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss.
 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an 
intangible asset are measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss when the asset is derecognised.
i) 
Intangible Assets Under Development
 
After the technical feasibility of in-house 
developed products has been demonstrated, the 
group starts to capitalise the related development 
costs until the product is ready for market launch. 
However, there can be no guarantee that such 
products will complete the development phase or 
will be commercialised, or that market conditions 
will not change in the future, requiring a revision 
of management’s assessment of future cash 昀氀ows 
related to those products. Such changes could 
lead to additional amortisation and impairment 
charges.
ii) 
Research & Development Cost
 
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditure, on an individual 
project, is recognised as an intangible asset when 
the Group can demonstrate:
• 
The technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available 
for use or sale
• 
Its intention to complete and its ability and 
intention to use or sell the asset
• 
How the asset will generate future economic 
bene昀椀ts
• 
The availability of resources to complete the 
asset
• 
The 
ability 
to 
measure 
reliably 
the 
expenditure during development
 
Subsequently, following initial recognition of the 
development expenditure as an asset, the cost model 
is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins 
when development is complete and the asset is 
available for use. It is amortised over the period of 
expected future bene昀椀t. Amortisation expense is 
recognised in the statement of pro昀椀t and loss. During 
the period of development, the asset is tested for 
impairment annually.
 
The estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: 
Category of 
Assets
Useful lives 
adopted by 
Company
Useful Lives 
prescribed under 
Schedule II of the Act
Softwares
5 years
5 years
q) 
Impairment
(i) 
Financial assets (other than at fair value)
 
The Group assesses at each date of Consolidated 
Balance sheet whether a 昀椀nancial asset or a 
group of 昀椀nancial assets is impaired. Ind AS 109 
requires expected credit losses to be measured 
through a loss allowance. The Group recognises 
lifetime expected losses for all contract assets 
and/or all trade receivables that do not constitute a 
昀椀nancing transaction. For all other 昀椀nancial assets, 
expected credit losses are measured at an amount 
equal to the 12 month expected credit losses or at 
an amount equal to the life time expected credit 
losses if the credit risk or the 昀椀nancial asset has 
increased signi昀椀cantly since initial recognition.
(ii) Non-昀椀nancial assets
 
As at the end of each 昀椀nancial year, the carrying 
amounts of Property, Plant and Equipment, 
Intangible assets and Investments in Subsidiaries 
and Joint Ventures are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may not 
be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
231
of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-
in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis 
unless the asset does not generate cash 昀氀ows 
that are largely independent of those from other 
assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to 
which the asset belongs.
 
The amount of value-in-use is determined as the 
present value of estimated future cash 昀氀ows from 
the continuing use of an asset, which may vary 
based on the future performance of the Group 
and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. 
For this purpose, the discount rate (pre-tax) is 
determined based on the weighted average cost 
of capital of the group suitably adjusted for risks 
speci昀椀ed to the estimated cash 昀氀ows of the asset. 
 
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the 
impairment to be recognised in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss is measured by the amount by 
which the carrying value of the assets exceeds 
the estimated recoverable amount of the asset. 
An impairment loss is reversed in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable 
amount. The carrying amount of the asset is 
increased to its revised recoverable amount, 
provided that this amount does not exceed 
the carrying amount that would have been 
determined (net of any accumulated depreciation) 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the 
asset in prior years.
r) 
Employee bene昀椀ts
(i)  Short-term obligations
 
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary bene昀椀ts that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognised in respect of employees’ 
services up to the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amounts expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. These liabilities are 
presented as current liabilities in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
(ii)  Other long-term employee bene昀椀t obligations
 
The liabilities for earned leave and sick leave 
are not expected to be settled wholly within 
12 months after the end of the period in which 
the employees render the related service. They 
are therefore measured as the present value of 
expected future payments to be made in respect 
of services provided by employees up to the end 
of the reporting period using the projected unit 
credit method. The bene昀椀ts are discounted using 
the market yields at the end of the reporting period 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
 
The obligations are presented as current liabilities 
in the consolidated balance sheet if the entity 
does not have an unconditional right to defer 
settlement for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period, regardless of when the actual 
settlement is expected to occur.
(iii)  Post-employment obligations
 
The 
Group 
operates 
the 
following 
post-
employment schemes:
(a)  de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans such as gratuity; and
(b)  de昀椀ned contribution plans such as provident 
fund.
 
- 
Gratuity obligations
 
The liability or asset recognised in the 
consolidated balance sheet in respect of 
de昀椀ned bene昀椀t pension and gratuity plans 
is the present value of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
obligation at the end of the reporting period 
less the fair value of plan assets. The de昀椀ned 
bene昀椀t obligation is calculated annually 
by actuaries using the projected unit credit 
method.
 
The present value of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
obligation denominated in ` is determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash 
out昀氀ows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government 
bonds that have terms approximating to 
the terms of the related obligation. The 
bene昀椀ts which are denominated in currency 
other than `, the cash 昀氀ows are discounted 
using market yields determined by reference 
to high-quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the 
bene昀椀ts will be paid, and that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related 
obligation.
 
The net interest cost is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net balance 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
232
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation and the fair 
value of plan assets. This cost is included in 
employee bene昀椀t expense in the statement 
of pro昀椀t and loss.
 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the 
period in which they occur, directly in OCI. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the 
consolidated balance sheet.
 
Changes in the present value of the de昀椀ned 
bene昀椀t 
obligation 
resulting 
from 
plan 
amendments or curtailments are recognised 
immediately in statement of pro昀椀t and loss 
as past service cost.
- 
De昀椀ned contribution plans
 
The Group pays provident fund contributions 
to publicly administered provident funds 
as per local regulations. The Group has 
no 
further 
payment 
obligations 
once 
the contributions have been paid. The 
contributions are accounted for as de昀椀ned 
contribution plans and the contributions are 
recognised as employee bene昀椀t expense 
when they are due. Prepaid contributions 
are recognised as an asset to the extent that 
a cash refund or a reduction in the future 
payments are available.
(iv)  Employee Bene昀椀ts in Foreign Branch
 
In respect of employees in foreign branch, 
necessary provisions are made based on 
the applicable local laws. Gratuity and leave 
encashment / entitlement as applicable for 
employees in foreign branch are provided on 
the basis of actuarial valuation and based on 
estimates.
(v)  Share-based payments
 
Share-based compensation bene昀椀ts are provided 
to employees via the Employee Option Plan.
 
Employee option Plan
 
The fair value of options granted under the 
Employee Option Plan is recognised as an 
employee bene昀椀ts expense with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The total amount to be 
expensed is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted:
-  
including any market performance conditions
-  
excluding the impact of any service and non-
market performance vesting conditions, and
-  
including the impact of any non-vesting 
conditions.
 
The total expense is recognised over the vesting 
period, which is the period over which all of the 
speci昀椀ed vesting conditions are to be satis昀椀ed. 
At the end of each period, the entity revises 
its estimates of the number of options that are 
expected to vest based on the non-market vesting 
and service conditions. It recognises the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in 
statement of pro昀椀t and loss, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity.
s) 
Trade and other payables
 
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Group prior to the end of 
昀椀nancial year which are unpaid. Trade and other 
payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period.
t) 
Provisions
 
General
 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of 
a past event, it is probable that an out昀氀ow of resources 
embodying economic bene昀椀ts will be required to settle 
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. When the Group expects 
some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, 
under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is 
recognised as a separate asset, but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense 
relating to a provision is presented in the statement of 
pro昀椀t and loss net of any reimbursement.
 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that re昀氀ects, when appropriate, the risks speci昀椀c to the 
liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a 
昀椀nance cost.
 
Expected Credit Losses (ECL)
 
As per Para 5.5.17 of IndAs 109 an entity shall measure 
expected credit losses of a 昀椀nancial instrument in a 
way that re昀氀ects:
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
233
a)  
an unbiased and probability-weighted amount 
that is determined by evaluating a range of 
possible outcomes. 
b)  
the time value of money; and 
c)  
reasonable and supportable information that 
is available without undue cost or effort at 
the reporting date about past events, current 
conditions, and forecasts of future economic 
conditions.
 
Ind-AS 109 requires expected credit losses to be 
measured through a loss allowance. Accordingly, the 
group recognises loss allowances using the expected 
credit loss (ECL) model for the 昀椀nancial assets which 
are not fair valued through pro昀椀t or loss. Expected 
credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 
12-month ECL, unless there has been a signi昀椀cant 
increase in credit risk from initial recognition in 
which case those are measured at lifetime ECL. Loss 
allowances for trade receivables are always measured 
at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. 
The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) that 
is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting 
date to the amount that is required to be recognised is 
recorded as an impairment gain or loss in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss.
 
The Group determines the allowance for credit losses 
based on historical loss experience adjusted to re昀氀ect 
current and estimated future economic conditions. 
The group considered current and anticipated future 
economic conditions relating to industries the group 
deals with and the countries where it operates. While 
assessing the recoverability of receivables including 
unbilled receivables, the group has considered internal 
and external information up to the date of approval 
of these consolidated 昀椀nancial statements including 
credit reports and economic forecasts. The group 
expects to recover the carrying amount of these assets.
 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate 
that re昀氀ects, when appropriate, the risks speci昀椀c to the 
liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a 
昀椀nance cost.
u) 
Contingent liabilities recognised in a business 
combination
 
A contingent liability recognised in a business 
combination is initially measured at its fair value. 
Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of the 
amount that would be recognised in accordance with 
the requirements for provisions above or the amount 
initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative 
amortisation recognised in accordance with the 
requirements for revenue recognition.
v) 
Contributed equity
 
Equity shares are classi昀椀ed as equity. Incremental 
costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or 
options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds.
w) Dividends
 
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of 
the reporting period.
x) 
Earnings per share
 
(i) 
Basic earnings per share
 
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
-  
the pro昀椀t attributable to owners of the 
Company
-  
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the 昀椀nancial 
year, adjusted for bonus elements in equity 
shares issued during the year and excluding 
treasury shares
 
(ii) Diluted earnings per share
 
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the 昀椀gures 
used in the determination of basic earnings per 
share to take into account:
-  
the after income tax effect of interest and 
other 昀椀nancing costs associated with dilutive 
potential equity
-  
the weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been 
outstanding assuming the conversion of all 
dilutive potential equity shares.
y) 
Current/non current classi昀椀cation
 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
consolidated balance sheet based on current/ non-
current classi昀椀cation. An asset is treated as current 
when it is:
-  
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
234
- 
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
-  
Expected to be realised within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
-  
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period
 
All other assets are classi昀椀ed as non-current.
 
A liability is current when:
-  
It is expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle
-  
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
-  
It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
-  
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
 
The Group classi昀椀es all other liabilities as non-current.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classi昀椀ed as non-
current assets and liabilities.
 
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash 
and cash equivalents. The Group has identi昀椀ed twelve 
months as its operating cycle.
z) 
Cash Flows
 
Cash Flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby pro昀椀t before tax is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and item of income or expenses associated 
with investing or 昀椀nancing cash 昀氀ows. The cash 昀氀ows 
from operating, investing and 昀椀nancing activities of 
the group are segregated. The group considers all 
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash to be cash equivalents.
aa) RBI Application Under FEMA Act, 1999
 
The group has long outstanding receivables and 
payable balances from/to its foreign subsidiaries. The 
group has made RBI Application for seeking approval 
for set-off of Trade Receivables from its 100% foreign 
subsidiaries against Trade Payables to its 100% foreign 
subsidiaries under the Foreign Exchange Management 
Act, 1999, and regulations thereunder. 
 
The subsidiaries receivables were accrued pursuant 
to the software development services provided by 
the group to the above mentioned subsidiaries. The 
subsidiaries were unable to generate enough business 
for payment of dues to the group. Due to this reason the 
management has applied for set off of intercompany 
receivables and payables to reserve bank of India 
under FEMA regulations.
ab) Recent accounting pronouncements:
 
Application of new and amended standards : 
(A)  Amendments to existing Standards (w.e.f. April 
01, 2023) the Group has adopted, with effect from 
April 01, 2023, the following new and revised 
standards and interpretations. Their adoption has 
not had any signi昀椀cant impact on the amounts 
reported in the 昀椀nancial statements.
1.  
Ind AS 1- Presentation of Financials 
Statements 
- 
modi昀椀cation 
relating 
to 
disclosure of ‘material accounting policy 
information’ in place of ‘signi昀椀cant accounting 
policies. 
2.  
Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Change 
in Accounting Estimates and Errors - 
modi昀椀cation of de昀椀nition of ‘accounting 
estimate’ and application of changes in 
accounting estimates.
3.  
Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes - The amendment 
clari昀椀es application of initial recognition 
exemption to transactions such as leases 
and decommissioning obligations.
(B)  Standards noti昀椀ed but not yet effective No 
new standards have been noti昀椀ed during the year 
ended March 31, 2024.
ac) Rounding of amounts
 
All amounts disclosed in the 昀椀nancial statements and 
notes have been rounded off to the nearest crore as 
per the requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise 
stated.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
235
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
3.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND RIGHT OF USE ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Plant and 
Equipments
Furniture and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Of昀椀ce 
Equipments
Computer 
Hardwares
Leasehold 
Improvements
Total
Right of 
Use Assets 
Building
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01, 2022
0.75
2.62
0.04
2.32
14.46
0.22
20.41
130.90
Additions
0.04
0.55
0.34
0.31
0.89
-
2.13
103.83
Disposals
(0.07)
(1.65)
-
(1.63)
(0.20)
(0.77)
(4.31)
(8.29)
As at March 31, 2023
0.72
1.52
0.38
1.00
15.15
(0.55)
18.23
226.45
Additions
0.03
0.43
0.04
0.06
0.15
-
0.71
8.65
Disposals
(0.05)
(0.04)
(0.02)
(0.19)
(0.26)
(1.09)
(1.65)
(9.86)
As at March 31, 2024
0.70
1.92
0.40
0.87
15.04
(1.64)
17.29
225.24
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION / IMPAIRMENT
As at April 01, 2022
0.51
1.43
0.04
1.62
11.21
(0.30)
14.51
24.34
Depreciation for the year
0.10
0.40
0.02
0.29
1.36
0.17
2.35
20.45
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
(0.07)
(0.43)
-
(1.60)
(0.20)
(0.70)
(3.00)
11.51
Exchange differences
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.23)
As at March 31, 2023
0.54
1.40
0.06
0.31
12.37
(0.83)
13.86
56.07
Depreciation for the year
0.10
0.07
0.05
0.30
1.29
0.14
1.95
19.36
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
(0.05)
(0.04)
(0.02)
(0.18)
(0.26)
(1.09)
(1.64)
-
Exchange differences
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.05)
As at March 31, 2024
0.59
1.44
0.08
0.43
13.41
(1.78)
14.17
75.38
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
0.11
0.48
0.32
0.44
1.63
0.14
3.12
149.86
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2023
0.18
0.12
0.32
0.69
2.78
0.28
4.37
170.38
Annual Report 2023-24
236
i.  
The Group has acquired certain Building under a lease arrangement for a period of sixty years at a premium of ` 0.50 
Crores starting from December 04, 2000, ` 15.62 Crores starting from March 13, 2000 and ` 5.05 Crores starting from 
March 01, 2003 and the same has been reclassi昀椀ed as ROU assets and amortised over the lease period.
ii.  
Property, Plant and Equipment pledged as security against borrowings by the Group
 
Refer to Note 39 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Group.
iii.  Contractual Obligations
 
Refer to Note 31 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
iv.  
Pursuant to the business transfer agreement between the 3i Group and the Azentio Group, immovable property of 3i 
Group was to be transferred to Azentio Group against a receivable of ` 50 Crores in the 昀椀nancial year 2020-2021. In 
the Financial year 2021-22, this agreement was rescinded and consequently, the property remained with the Group. 
The counterparty, Azentio Group is released from its obligation to pay the consideration. The property, which was earlier 
transferred by way of a slump sale in the 昀椀nancial year 2020-2021, is recognised in the books of 3i Infotech Limited in the 
Financial year 2022-23, and has resulted in an exceptional gain of ` 23.09 Crores. The retrospective depreciation for the 
same is ` 15.64 Crores for the year 2021-22 which has been charged in the Previous year.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
4.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Goodwill
Software
Intangible assets 
under development
Total
GROSS CARRYING VALUE
As at April 01, 2022
676.87
67.36
8.05
752.28
Additions
-
-
33.76
33.76
Deletions/Capitalisation
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2023
676.87
67.36
41.81
786.04
As at April 01, 2023
676.87
67.36
41.81
792.52
Additions
-
48.31
12.78
61.09
Deletions/Capitalisation
-
-
(48.31)
(48.31)
As at March 31, 2024
676.87
115.67
6.28
805.30
ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND 
IMPAIRMENT
As at April 01, 2022
372.81
67.36
-
440.17
Amortisation for the year
-
-
-
-
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2023
372.81
67.36
-
440.17
As at April 01, 2023
372.81
67.36
-
446.65
Amortisation for the year
-
5.85
-
5.85
Deductions\Adjustments during the period
-
-
-
-
Impairment loss for the year*
232.66
21.93
-
254.59
As at March 31, 2024
605.47
95.14
-
707.09
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2024
71.39
20.53
6.28
98.21
Net Carrying value as at March 31, 2023
304.06
-
41.81
345.87
i.  Signi昀椀cant Estimate : Useful life of Intangible Assets
Refer to sub note (p) of Note 2 ‘Material Accounting policies
*Based on valuation report for certain products and internal evaluation for the balance products, a provision for impairment of 
` 21.93 Crores has been provided for and the balance recoverable amount of ` 20.52 Crores has been carried forward.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
237
iii. Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with inde昀椀nite lives
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to the operations of below mentioned subsidiaries 
in which the businesses were acquired, which are considered as CGUs for impairment testing :
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the CGUs:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Allocation to CGUs
- BPO Services
-
53.00
- US Geography Services
71.39
251.06
71.39
304.06
The Group tests whether goodwill has impaired periodically. The recoverable amount of a cash generating unit (CGU) 
is determined based on value in use calculations which require the use of assumptions. The calculations use cash 昀氀ow 
projections based on 昀椀nancial budgets approved by management covering a 昀椀ve-year period.
The recoverable amounts of CGUs based on value in use as at December 31, 2023 is 761.46 Crores (December 31, 2022 
is 1,102.92 Crores). The recoverable amounts represent the present value of the monetary bene昀椀ts expected to 昀氀ow to 
the owners of the business. The excess of carrying value over recoverable value has been impaired in the FY 2023-24.
 
The key assumptions used in the calculation of the recoverable value are as follows:
a.  
Financial projections: For a period of three to 昀椀ve years from the valuation date
b.  
Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) used for calcualtion of terminal value: 2% to 10%
c.  
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) to discount future cash 昀氀ows: 12.76% to 17.5%
However, having regard to the complexities involved and uncertainties envisaged with respect to the businesses of 
subsidiaries, the management; as a prudent measure has been writing down the goodwill amounts and has re昀氀ected 
these at carrying values, which have been lower than the aggregate recoverable amounts derived from respective Value 
in Use of these subsidiary companies.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
 
i. Intangible Assets under Development ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
Amount in Intangible Assets under Development as at March 31, 2024
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in Progress
3.81
2.48
-
-
6.28
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
3.81
2.48
-
-
6.28
 
Intangible assets under development, whose completion schedule is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan:-
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
GIG Workforce Management
2.65
2.65
Total
2.65
-
-
-
2.65
Annual Report 2023-24
238
ii) Intangible Assets under Development ageing schedule for the year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
Amount in Intangible Assets under Development as at March 31, 2023
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in Progress
33.76
8.05
-
-
41.81
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
33.76
8.05
-
-
41.81
 
Intangible assets under development, whose completion schedule is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to 
its original plan:-
(Amount in ` Crores)
Intangible Assets under Development
To be completed in
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
In Financial year 2022-23, the Group has started the concept of “Build” project, wherein it has planned a model of 
development of software / applications such as cloud, Arti昀椀cial intelligence, BPAAS/KPAAS etc. These projects are 
typically expected to be ready in a period of 1 to 3 years. The management has considered that these products have an 
immediate market / economic value. The expenditure incurred are considered as “ Development “ Phase as it has already 
passed the research phase.
5.
FINANCIAL ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
5 (a) INVESTMENTS
Non Current
Investments carried at fair value through Pro昀椀t and Loss
Unquoted
Investments in Equity Instruments
200,000 Equity Shares of Sri Lankan Rupee 10 each fully paid up of First 
Capital Asset Management Co.Ltd.(as at March 31, 2023 - 200,000 shares)
0.10
0.10
55,000 equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up of Vashi Railway Station 
Commercial Complex Limited. ( as at March 31, 2023 - 55,000 shares)
0.06
0.06
37,500 Equity Shares of Egyptian Pounds 100 each fully paid up of Nile 
Information Technology (as at March 31, 2023 - 37,500 shares)
2.91
2.91
Less: Impairment Allowance
(2.91)
(2.91)
8% holding in Four Seasons Software LLC, a 'S' corporation, Connecticut, 
USA.
2.10
2.10
Less: Impairment Allowance
(2.10)
(2.10)
54,538 Equity shares of USD 0.0001 each fully paid up of Exium Inc 
(as at March 31, 2023 - 54,538 shares)
2.08
2.05
Total
2.24
2.21
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
-
-
Market value of quoted investments
-
-
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
7.25
7.22
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
239
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
(5.01)
(5.01)
Investments carried at amortised cost
-
-
Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income
-
-
Investments carried at fair value through pro昀椀t and loss
2.24
2.21
Investments carried at cost
-
-
5 (b) OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non Current
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
Security Deposits
11.78
16.81
Less: Loss Allowances
(1.78)
(0.11)
Total
10.00
16.70
5 (c)  OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
Current
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
Security Deposits
11.90
8.34
Less: Loss Allowances deposits
(3.00)
(0.19)
Unbilled Revenue
60.61
89.57
Less: Loss Allowances unbilled revenue
(0.12)
(7.65)
Interest Accrued but not due
1.56
2.68
Advances against salary
1.46
1.38
Total
72.41
94.13
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
6.
TRADE RECEIVABLES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables
174.34
150.36
Less :- Allowance for expected credit Losses
(17.51)
(15.60)
Total
156.83
134.76
Trade or Other Receivable due from directors or other of昀椀cers of the group either severally or jointly with any other person 
amounted to ` NIL (Previous year ` NIL).
Trade or Other Receivable due from 昀椀rms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director or a 
member amounted to ` NIL (Previous year ` NIL).
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Outstanding for the following periods as on March 31, 2024
Less than 
6 months
6months 
- 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed trade receivables – considered good
 139.39 
 7.99 
 6.17 
 7.18 
 13.61 
 174.34 
Sub Total
 139.39 
 7.99 
 6.17 
 7.18 
 13.61 
 174.34 
Less :- Allowance for expected credit Losses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (17.51)
Total
 156.83 
Annual Report 2023-24
240
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Outstanding for the following periods as on March 31, 2023
Less than 
6 months
6months 
- 1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed trade receivables – considered good
 118.16 
 6.44 
 7.97 
 8.25 
 9.52 
 150.36 
Sub Total
 118.16 
 6.44 
 7.97 
 8.25 
 9.52 
 150.36 
Less :- Allowance for expected credit Losses
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (15.60)
Total
 134.76 
7.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balances with banks:
- On current accounts
25.17
21.20
Cash on hand
0.03
-
Other Balances with Banks:
- Margin money with banks*
24.33
39.40
Total
49.53
60.60
* Refer Note 39 (Assets pledged as security).
8.
 OTHER BANK BALANCES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Deposits with banks to the extent held as margin money
4.99
6.13
Total
4.99
6.13
9.
OTHER ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Capital Advances
2.82
2.84
Others
- Prepaid expenses
0.81
5.28
- Balances with Statutory, Government Authorities
9.19
9.10
Total
12.82
17.22
Current
Advances other than Capital advances
- Advances to creditors
2.47
6.10
- Other Advances
2.84
3.65
Others
- Prepaid expenses
5.04
5.49
- Balances with Statutory, Government Authorities
2.34
13.67
- Other current assets
29.06
34.65
Total
41.75
63.56
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
241
10. INCOME TAX ASSETS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Income Tax Asset (Current)
9.11
-
Income Tax Asset (Non-current)
52.58
54.01
Total
61.69
54.01
10.  A. DEFERRED TAX
Deferred Tax
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) relates to the following:
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
(0.05)
(3.44)
Provision for employee bene昀椀ts
0.88
2.07
Right-To-Use Assets
(10.78)
(17.21)
Lease Liabilities
1.56
Other Ind AS adjustments
(0.61)
(0.53)
Provision/loss allowance on 昀椀nancial assets
0.18
0.17
Deductible temporary differences
9.38
20.68
Net Deferred Tax Assets / (Liabilities)
0.56
1.74
Movement in deferred tax liabilities/assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance as on April 01
1.74
2.22
Tax income/(expense) during the period recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
(0.82)
(0.61)
Tax income/(expense) during the period recognised in OCI
(0.36)
0.13
Foreign exchange 昀氀uctuation loss
-
-
Closing balance as on March 31
0.56
1.74
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deductible temporary differences
574.70
296.56
Unrecognised tax losses
512.37
492.23
Unrecognised Tax Assets are subject to compliance with the Tax Laws of respective countries.
Major Components of income tax expense for the years ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 are as follows: 
i. Income tax recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current income tax charge
6.65
2.68
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year
6.84
(0.28)
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
0.82
0.61
Income tax expense recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
14.31
3.01
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
242
ii. Income tax recognised in OCI
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Net loss/(gain) on remeasurements of de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans
0.36
(0.13)
Net loss/(gain) on revaluation of cash昀氀ow hedges
-
-
Income tax expense recognised in OCI
0.36
(0.13)
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting pro昀椀t multiplied by income tax rate for March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Accounting pro昀椀t before income tax
(283.96)
4.38
Enacted tax rate in India
34.94%
34.94%
Income tax on accounting pro昀椀ts
(99.23)
1.53
Effect of
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax lossses
-
-
Deferred tax not created on current year losses
32.05
17.21
Tax loss for which no defered tax asset created
20.14
4.37
Accounting Income not assessable for tax purpose
(30.87)
(7.85)
Others
8.60
0.63
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes:
Accounting expenses not deductible for tax purpose
297.48
(15.17)
Allowable expenses for tax purposes:
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous year
-
(0.59)
Effect of differential tax rate
213.86
2.89
Tax at effective income tax rate
14.31
3.01
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
11. SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised Share Capital
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of shares
Rupees
No. of shares
Rupees
(a)  Authorised Capital
 
Equity Shares (` 10 Each)
2,20,00,00,000
2,200.00
2,20,00,00,000
2,200.00
 
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Shares (Class A) (` 5 Each)
20,00,00,000
100.00
20,00,00,000
100.00
 
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Share (Class B) (` 5 Each)
1,50,00,00,000
750.00
1,50,00,00,000
750.00
 
Non Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preference 
Share (Class C) (` 1 Each)
1,05,00,00,000
105.00
1,05,00,00,000
105.00
(b)  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid up
 
Equity Shares (` 10 Each)
16,92,30,842
169.23
16,84,66,042
168.47
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
243
i) 
Terms / rights attached to equity shares
 
The holding company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 each. Each shareholder has right to 
vote in respect of such share, on every resolution placed before the Company and his voting right on a poll shall be in 
proportion to his share of the paid up equity capital of the Company. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders 
are entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Company after payments of preferential amounts in proportion to their 
shareholding..
ii) 
Shares held by holding/ ultimate holding company and / or their subsidiaries / associates
 
The holding company does not have a holding company or ultimate holding company.
iii) 
Reconcilation of the shares outstanding at the beginging and at the end of the year
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Opening Balance
Issued during the year
Closing Balance
Equity shares
Year ended March 31, 2024
- Number of shares
16,84,66,042
7,64,800
16,92,30,842
- Amount (`)
168.47
0.76
169.23
Year ended March 31, 2023
- Number of shares
16,79,42,657
5,23,385
16,84,66,042
- Amount (`)
167.94
0.52
168.47
iv) 
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
(Amount in ` Crores)
Name of the shareholder
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number
% holding
Number
% holding
Equity shares of ` 10/- each fully paid
SREI Multiple Asset Investment Trust (SMAIT)
1,76,52,011
10.43%
1,76,52,011
10.48%
v) 
Aggregate number of equity shares issued as bonus, shares issued for consideration other than cash and shares 
bought back during the period of 昀椀ve years immediately preceding the reporting date are Nil.
vi) 
Shares reserved for issue under options
 
For details of shares reserved for issue under the Share based payment plan of the Company, please refer note 30.
vii) Shares held by the promoters the end of March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Promoters name
No of Shares
% of total shares
% Change 
during the year
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
 
Shares held by the promoters for the year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Promoters name
No of Shares
% of total shares
% Change 
during the year
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
244
12. OTHER EQUITY
i. Reserves and Surplus
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Capital Reserve
0.07
0.07
Capital Redemption Reserve
321.00
321.00
Securities Premium Reserve
899.33
896.18
Share Based Payment Reserve
6.16
7.33
Retained Earnings
(1,087.74)
(789.16)
Property, Plant Equipment Reserve
100.64
103.01
Total
239.46
538.43
(a)  Capital Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
0.07
0.07
Add/(Less):
-
-
Closing balance
0.07
0.07
Capital Reserve was created in accordance with provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
(b)  Capital Redemption Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
321.00
321.00
Add/(Less):
-
-
Closing balance
321.00
321.00
Capital Redemption Reserve was created for redemption of preference shares.
(c)  Securities Premium Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Securities Premium Reserve
896.18
896.18
Add/(Less):
Transfer from Share based payment Reserve
3.15
-
Closing balance
899.33
896.18
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Share Premium Reserve. This is not 
available for distribution of dividend but can be utilised for issuing bonus shares.
(d)   Share Based Payment Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
7.33
15.43
Add/(Less):
Transfer to Retained Earnings
(0.64)
(13.18)
Transfer to Securities Premium
(3.15)
-
Employee Stock Option Expense recognised
2.62
5.08
Closing balance
6.16
7.33
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
245
The Company has three share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been 
granted to certain executives and senior employees.
The Share based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of equity settled share based payments provided to 
employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to Note 30 for further details of 
these plans.
(e)  Retained Earnings
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
(789.16)
(742.53)
Net Pro昀椀t/(Loss) for the period
(298.27)
1.37
Add/(Less):
Transfer from PPE Reserve
2.37
(60.90)
Transfer from Share Based Payment Reserve
0.64
13.18
Others
(2.79)
(0.20)
Remeasurement of post employment bene昀椀t obligation, net of tax
(0.53)
(0.08)
Closing balance
(1,087.74)
(789.16)
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Company as on the balance sheet date.
(f)  Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
103.01
42.11
Add/(Less):
Transferred to Retained Earnings
(2.37)
60.90
Closing balance
100.64
103.01
Note:
1.  
Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve represents reserve created on revaluation of Leasehold Building and it is a 
non distributable reserve.
2.  
Property, Plant and Equipment Reserve transferred to retained earnings in earlier F.Y. 2020-21 has been reinstated 
in Financial year 2022 -23 due to non transfer of asset.
ii. Other Components of Equity
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share Application money pending allotment
0.12
-
Share Suspense account - Equity Shares
-
0.61
Closing balance
0.12
0.61
Share Application Money Pending Allotment
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share Application money pending allotment
0.12
-
Share Suspense account - Equity Shares
-
0.61
Closing balance
0.12
0.61
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
246
Share Suspense account - Equity Shares 
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
 0.61 
 3.24 
Add/(Less):
 (0.61)
 (2.63)
Closing balance
 - 
 0.61 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
(64.69)
-
Add/(Less):
Exchange differences on translating 昀椀nancial statements of foreign operations
(50.68)
(64.69)
Closing balance
(115.37)
(64.69)
13. BORROWINGS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current Borrowings
Secured
(a)  Term Loans
 
From Banks
-
0.23
(A)
-
0.23
 
Current Maturity of Non Current Borrowings
 
Secured
(a)  Term Loans
 
From Banks
-
0.04
(B)
-
0.04
Total (A-B)
-
0.19
Current Borrowings
Secured
(a)  Current Maturity of Non Current Borrowings
0.14
0.04
(b)  Loans repayable on demand From Banks
41.72
37.86
Total
41.86
37.90
The group has taken overdraft facility against Fixed deposit from banks of `. NIL (Previous year `. 7.25 Crores).
Other loans are secured against trade receivables and unbilled balances and the vehicle loan is secured against the vehicle 
asset.
The interest rate applicable to group on current borrowings range from 8.35% - 9.50% (Previous year 8.35% - 8.50%)
The carrying amounts of 昀椀nancial and non-昀椀nancial assets pledged as security for current and non current borrowings are 
disclosed in Note 39.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
247
14. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Financial Liabilities at amortised cost
Interest accrued and not due on borrowings
0.03
-
Dues to employees
96.93
65.51
Deposits Payable
0.01
0.06
Current
Other Payables
4.95
7.52
Total
101.92
73.09
15. TRADE PAYABLES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises
10.80
1.58
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises
82.05
69.63
Total
92.85
71.21
Terms and conditions of the above 昀椀nancial liabilities:
1. 
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60-day terms.
2.  
For terms and conditions with related parties, refer note 34.
16. OTHER LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Unearned Revenue
8.67
5.20
Advance received from Customers
2.56
4.71
Others
Statutory Liabilities
36.69
37.66
Others
0.66
(1.61)
Total
48.58
45.96
17. PROVISIONS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current
Provision for employee bene昀椀ts (Refer Note 29)
Gratuity
20.84
17.19
Leave encashment
3.69
2.85
Total
24.53
20.04
Current
Provision for employee bene昀椀ts (Refer Note 29)
Gratuity
4.63
4.30
Leave encashment
1.60
1.49
Total
6.23
5.79
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
248
18. LEASE LIABILITIES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Non Current Lease Liabilities (Refer Note 41)
27.56
46.10
Current Lease Liabilities
15.07
15.05
Total
42.63
61.15
During the 昀椀nancial year 2023-24, the Company has terminated the Lease agreements of two properties - Mahape (Mumbai) 
& Bangalore.
19. CURRENT TAX LIABILITY (NET)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
11.96
13.52
Closing Balance
11.96
13.52
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr 
No
Particulars*
Outstanding for following periods
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
i
MSME
9.73
0.99
0.08
-
10.80
ii
Others
14.91
66.23
0.28
0.63
82.05
iii
Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
iv
Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total Trade Payable
24.64
67.22
0.36
0.63
92.85
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr 
No
Particulars*
Outstanding for following periods
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
i
MSME
0.75
0.77
0.06
-
1.58
ii
Others
61.59
5.19
0.90
1.95
69.63
iii
Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
iv
Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
Total Trade Payable
62.34
5.96
0.95
1.95
71.21
*Includes accruals.
20. REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
IT Solutions
710.35
634.10
Transaction services
103.53
95.01
Total
813.88
729.11
No Single customer represents 10% or more of the entity’s total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
249
Timing of Revenue Recognition
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
For Contractual obligations rendered at a point in time
-
-
For Contractual obligations rendered over a period of time
813.88
729.11
Total
813.88
729.11
Summary of Contract Balances
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Trade receivables
156.83
134.76
Contract assets*
60.49
81.92
Contract liabilities**
8.67
5.20
*Contract assets represents revenue accrued and not billed and unbilled revenues. Contract Liabilities represents Billing in 
excess of revenue.
Contract assets*
The below table discloses the movement in the balance of contract Assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
81.93
80.63
Addition due to revenue recognised during the year
1,305.49
793.33
Invoices raised during the year
(1,321.14)
(791.24)
Reversal against Loss allowance
(4.12)
(0.80)
Reversal due to Write off
(1.67)
-
Balance as at end of the year
60.49
81.92
**Contract liabilities:
The below table discloses the movement in the balance of contract liabilities
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance as at the beginning of the year
5.20
2.88
Additional amounts billed but not recognised as revenue
47.73
19.33
Deduction on account of revenues recognised during the year
(44.27)
(17.01)
Balance as at the end of the year
8.67
5.20
The aggregate value of performance obligations that are unsatis昀椀ed as at March 31, 2024 other than those meeting the 
exclusion criteria mentioned in note 2(g) is ` 107.54 Crores (Previous year - ` 112.17 Crores). Out of this, the Company 
expects to recognise revenue of around 74% (Previous year - 71%) within the next one year and remaining thereafter. This 
includes contracts that can be terminated for convenience without a substantive penalty since based on current assessment, 
the occurence of the same is expected to be remote.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
250
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
21. OTHER INCOME
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Interest income on
Bank Fixed Deposits
1.64
2.90
Income Tax Refund
0.20
2.44
Other Non Operating Income
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment
2.37
-
Foreign Exchange Fluctuation Gain
49.50
71.12
Others
Provision reversal for doubtful advances
-
0.81
Provision for expenses written back
-
0.58
Miscellaneous Income
(0.89)
2.09
Total
52.82
79.94
22. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Salaries, wages and bonus
545.75
539.16
Contribution to provident and other funds
18.54
19.45
Staff welfare expenses
8.04
5.44
Recruitment and training expenses
4.04
3.79
Share based payments expenses
2.62
5.08
Gratuity Expenses
5.66
3.18
584.65
576.10
Less :- Transfer to CWIP
(7.75)
(16.31)
Total
576.90
559.79
23. COST OF THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cost of third party products / outsourced services
For service delivery to clients
175.27
123.69
175.27
123.69
Less :- Transfer to CWIP
(2.19)
(8.36)
Total
173.08
115.33
24. FINANCE COST
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Interest Expenses
Interest expense on debts and borrowings
3.58
2.40
Interest Expense - Lease Liabilities
5.52
5.72
Other borrowing costs
Others
1.00
1.17
Total
10.10
9.29
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
251
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
25. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Depreciation on tangible assets
1.95
2.35
Amortisation of intangible assets
5.85
-
Amortisation of right of use assets
19.36
20.45
Total
27.16
22.80
26. OTHER EXPENSES
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Power and fuel
3.71
3.58
Repairs:
-  Building
1.75
1.38
-  Others
2.69
1.49
Commission
3.76
10.71
Insurance
4.62
6.23
Legal and professional fees
37.85
33.08
Auditor's remuneration
0.65
0.93
Rates and taxes
2.96
1.80
Rent
4.27
3.47
Hire Charges
6.46
5.64
Telephone and internet expenses
2.46
2.61
Travelling and conveyance expenses
10.95
10.62
Bad Debts written off
2.55
3.27
Allowance for expected credit losses
5.18
0.95
Of昀椀ce expenses
2.20
2.54
Impairment loss on intangible assets
21.93
-
Security Charges
1.90
1.42
Miscellaneous expenses
11.45
6.39
Directors sitting fees
1.20
1.04
Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
-
1.58
128.54
98.73
Less :- Transfer to CWIP
(1.74)
(6.28)
Total
126.80
92.45
(a)  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
 
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company meets the applicability threshold. However there is no 
payment obligation due to carry forward losses.
(b)  Research And Development Costs 
 
Amount charged to pro昀椀t or loss during the year ended March 31, 2024 ` Nil (March 31, 2023: NIL)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i. On Revenue Account :
-
-
ii. On Capital Account
12.78
33.76
Total Research and Development Expenditure ( i + ii )
12.78
33.76
Annual Report 2023-24
252
27. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Goodwill written off *
232.66
-
Gain or Loss on Sale of Business
-
0.70
Settlement of legal claim
2.90
-
Property related exceptional items
-
(14.48)
Tax related exceptional items
1.06
18.79
Total
236.62
5.01
* Goodwill written off
The excess of carrying value over recoverable value of US Geography and BPO Services has been impaired in the F.Y. 2023-24 
(Refer note 4)
28. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr. No. Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
[1]
Basic earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company (Amount in `)
From continuing operations
(17.69)
0.08
(17.69)
0.08
[2]
Diluted earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company (Amount in `)
From continuing operations*
(17.69)
0.08
(17.69)
0.08
* The anti-dilutive effect of potentially convertible shares has been 
ignored in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
[3]
Face Value per share (Amount in `)
10.00
10.00
[4]
Reconciliations of earnings used in calculating earnings per share
[4] a)
Pro昀椀t attributable to the equity holders of the Company used in 
calculating basic earnings per share
From continuing operations
(298.27)
1.37
(298.27)
1.37
[4] b)
Pro昀椀t attributable to the equity holders of the Company used in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
From continuing operations
(298.27)
1.37
(298.27)
1.37
[5]
Weighted average number of shares used as the denominator
[5] (a)
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator 
in calculating basic earnings per share
16,86,49,783
16,83,63,169
[5] (b)
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator 
in calculating diulted earnings per share
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in 
calculating basic earnings per share
16,86,49,783
16,83,63,169
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
i. Options
12,94,195
31,06,907
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
16,99,43,979
17,14,70,076
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
253
29. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current
Non Current
Total
Current
Non Current
Total
Leave encashment
1.60
3.69
5.29
1.49
2.85
4.34
Gratuity
4.63
20.84
25.47
4.30
17.19
21.49
Total Employee Bene昀椀t Obligation
6.22
24.53
30.75
5.79
20.04
25.83
(i) Leave Encashment
The leave obligations cover the Company’s liability for sick and earned leave.
The amount of the provision of ` 1.60 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 1.49 Crores) is presented as current, since the Company does 
not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations.
(ii) Post Employement obligations
(a)  De昀椀ned bene昀椀t plan - Gratuity
 
The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are 
in continuous service for a period of 昀椀ve years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/ 
termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied 
by number of years of service.
 
The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Group makes contributions to recognised funds in India. The Group does not 
fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimations 
of expected gratuity payments.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet and the movement in the net de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation over the 
period are as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Present value of 
obligation
Fair value of plan 
assets
Net amount
As at April 01, 2022
20.38
-
20.38
Products Division impact
-
Forex on Translation
0.36
-
0.36
Current service cost
4.44
-
4.44
Interest expense/(income)
1.17
-
1.17
Total amount recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
5.97
-
5.97
Remeasurements
-
Return of plan assets, excluding amount included in 
interest (income)
-
(Gain)/Loss from change in demographic assumptions
0.53
-
0.53
(Gain)/Loss from change in 昀椀nancial assumptions
(1.71)
-
(1.71)
Experience (gains)/losses
1.39
-
1.39
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
0.21
-
0.21
Employer contributions
-
Bene昀椀t payments
(5.07)
-
(5.07)
As at March 31, 2023
21.49
-
21.49
Products Division impact
-
Forex on Translation
0.07
-
0.07
Current service cost
5.01
-
5.01
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
254
Particulars
Present value of 
obligation
Fair value of plan 
assets
Net amount
Interest expense/(income)
1.55
-
1.55
Total amount recognised in pro昀椀t or loss
6.63
-
6.63
Remeasurements
-
Return of plan assets, excluding amount included in 
interest (income)
-
-
(Gain)/Loss from change in demographic assumptions
0.23
-
0.23
(Gain)/Loss from change in 昀椀nancial assumptions
(0.13)
-
(0.13)
Experience (gains)/losses
(0.02)
-
(0.02)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
0.08
-
0.08
Employer contributions
-
-
Bene昀椀t payments
(2.74)
-
(2.74)
As at March 31, 2024
25.47
-
25.47
 
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded and unfunded plans are as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Present value of funded obligations
25.47
21.49
Fair value of plan assets
-
-
De昀椀cit of funded plan
25.47
21.49
Unfunded plans
-
-
De昀椀cit of gratuity plan
25.47
21.49
The following table shows a breakdown of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation and plan assets by Geography:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Gratuity
Gratuity
India
Mearc
India
Mearc
Present value of obligations
22.55
2.92
19.21
2.28
Fair value of plan assets
-
-
-
-
22.55
2.92
19.21
2.28
Asset Ceiling
-
-
-
-
Total Liability
22.55
2.92
19.21
2.28
 
The signi昀椀cant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
5.04% - 7.15%
4.15% - 7.30%
Expected return on plan assets
Salary growth rate
For 昀椀rst 3 years
4.00% - 5.00%
4.00% - 5.00%
After 3 years
4.00% - 5.00%
4.00% - 5.00%
Withdrawal rate
Less than 5 years
28% - 47%
28% - 47%
Equal and above 5 years
0% - 26%
0% - 26%
Mortality rate
75%-100%
75%-100%
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
255
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for signi昀椀cant assumption as at March 31, 2024 is shown below:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Assumptions
Discount rate
Salary growth rate
Attrition rate
Sensitivity Level
1% 
decrease
1% 
increase
1% 
decrease
1% 
increase
50% 
decrease
50% 
increase
March 31, 2024
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
27.05
23.90
23.85
27.07
25.54
24.67
March 31, 2023
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
22.88
20.31
20.27
22.90
22.13
21.15
(Amount in ` Crores)
Assumptions
Mortality rate
Sensitivity Level
10% increase
10% decrease
March 31, 2024
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
25.38
25.38
March 31, 2023
Impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t obligation
21.51
21.51
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t 
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occuring at the end of the reporting period.
The Group’s best estimate of future cash 昀氀ows during the next 12 months is ` 15.78 Crores (as at March 31, 2023 ` 
11.92 Crores).
The average duration of the de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 3-22 years (as at March 
31, 2023: 3-16 years).
Expected cash 昀氀ows over the next (valued on undiscounted basis)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1 year
4.52
4.33
2 to 5 years
13.00
10.98
6 to 10 years
9.09
7.48
More than 10 years
14.63
11.83
(b)  De昀椀ned contribution plans
The Group also has de昀椀ned contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at the 
rate of 12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by 
the government. The obligation of the Group is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor 
any constructive obligation. The expense recognised during the year towards de昀椀ned contribution plan is ` 18.54 Crores 
(March 31, 2023: ` 19.45 Crores).
30. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
(a) Employee option plan
The Company’s Employee Stock Option Schemes are applicable to “Eligible Employees” as de昀椀ned in the scheme which 
includes directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Currently, the Company has 2 schemes, ESOS 2007 
and ESOS 2018 (as amended). ESOS Scheme 2007 provides for issue of equity options up to 25% of the paid-up equity capital 
to eligible employees and ESOS Scheme 2018 provide for issue of equity options up to 15% of the paid-up equity capital to 
eligible employees.
The options granted under ESOS 2018 vest in a graded manner over a three year period, with 33%, 33% and 34% of the 
grants vesting in each year, commencing one year from the date of the grant and the same can be exercised within 5 years from 
the date of vesting. One Stock option if exercised will be equivalent to one equity share.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
256
During the year ended March 31, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Company approved ESOS Plan -2013 under the existing 
scheme ESOS 2007. The plan consist of variations in certain terms with regard to vesting and certain other related matters in 
ESOS 2007. The options granted are convertible and one option is equivalent to one equity share each. This plan is applicable 
to all the new options granted to eligible employees for the year ended March 31, 2014.
During the year ended March 31, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company approved ESOS Plan-2014 under the existing 
scheme ESOS 2007. The plan consists of variations in certain terms with regard to vesting and certain other related matters in 
ESOS 2007. The options granted are convertible and one option is equivalent to one equity share each. This plan is applicable 
to all the new options granted to eligible employees for the year ended March 31, 2015.
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved ESOS Plan-2015 under the existing 
scheme ESOS 2007. The plan consists of variations in certain terms with regard to vesting and certain other related matters in 
ESOS 2007. The options granted are convertible and one option is equivalent to one equity share each. This plan is applicable 
to all the new options granted to eligible employees for the year ended March 31, 2016.
The option granted under ESOS Plan -2013 under ESOS Plan-2014 and ESOS Plan-2015 Vesting Criteria for ESOS plan 
2013 and 2014 under ESOS Scheme 2007 is in the ratio of 33%, 33% and 34% vesting in each year, commencing one year 
from the date of grant.Vesting Criteria for ESOS plan 2015 under ESOS Scheme 2007 is in the ratio of 50%, 25% and 25% 
vesting in each year, commencing one year from the date of grant.
The existing options (other than those granted under ESOS plan-2013, ESOS plan-2014 & ESOS plan-2015) would continue 
to be governed by the existing terms.
During the year ended March 31, 2024,NIL Stock Options were granted ( 21,36,500 Options granted for the year ended March 
31, 2023). 
During previous year, the Board of Directors of the Company have approved the ESOP scheme 2023 on February 02, 2023 and 
subsequently the shareholders have approved the same by postal ballot on June 25, 2023.
The options which will be granted under ESOS 2023, vest in a graded manner over a three year period, with 33%, 33% and 
34% of grants vesting in each year, commencing one year from the date of grant. The options which are due for vesting as per 
schedule shall vest as per individual performace rating as detailed in table below:
Rating#
5
4
3
2
1
Grant*
100%
100%
100%
0%
0%
Vesting**
100%
100%
75%
50%
0%
#Rating scale: 5 rating will be higher and 1 being lower
*year of grant shall take rating eligibility as 3 and above- rating shall be drawn from previous year appraisal or mid-year 
appraisal, whichever period preceeds granting of options.
**Vesting of granted options for the year of vesting shall be in line with performace level for the previous year of appraisal.
Note on transitioned employees :-
Under the employee stock options scheme 2007 – Plan 2013, Plan 2014, Plan 2015 and Plan 2018 the employees shall 
be permitted to exercise until January 17, 2022 any employee stock options that have already been vested on or prior to the 
Transfer Date for the employees which are transferred under the Business Transfer Agreement.
In case the employee stock options issued to employee under the employee stock options scheme 2018 – Plan 2018 are 
due for vesting on January 18, 2022, then such options shall stand automatically vested to employee on the Transfer Date 
(“Accelerated Options”) and such Accelerated Options may be exercised by employee in the period from January 18, 2022 to 
April 17, 2022.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
257
Movement during the year
The number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of the options and movement during the period is as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Number of options
WAEP
Number of options
WAEP
Opening balance
42,35,050
10.00
29,65,180
10.00
Granted during the period*
-
-
21,36,500
10.00
Exercised during the period
7,87,800
10.00
3,15,385
10.00
Forfeited during the period
9,80,200
-
5,51,245
-
Expired during the period
-
-
-
-
Closing balance**
24,67,050
10.00
42,35,050
10.00
Vested and exercisable
10,17,655
10.00
9,46,150
10.00
During the year ended March 31, 2024 NIL options were granted to Key Management Personnel (for the year ended March 
31, 2023; 5,50,000 Options).
The following table summarises the options granted to Key Management Personnel:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Employee name
ESOP Scheme
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Mr. Harish Shenoy
2018
-
2,50,000
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
2018
-
1,50,000
Mr. Thompson P. Gnanam
2018
-
-
Mrs. Varika Rastogi
2018
-
1,50,000
Total
-
5,50,000
The following tables summarise information about outstanding stock options:
As at March 31, 2024
Amount in ` Crores)
Range of exercise price
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Weighted average 
remaining life (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
` 10
24,67,050
6.74
10
 
As at March 31, 2023
Amount in ` Crores)
Range of exercise price
Number of shares 
arising out of 
options
Weighted average 
remaining life (in 
years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
` 10
42,35,050
7.69
10
The valuation has been prepared as per Black-Scholes Model and which takes into consideration the key inputs such as 
historical volatility, exercise price and expected dividend yield. The input has been assessed using public market data and 
documents provided by the management of the Company, including the Employee Stock Option Scheme and historic 昀椀nancial 
data. 
(b) Expense arising from share based payment transactions
Total expenses arising from share based payment transactions recognised in pro昀椀t or loss as part of employee bene昀椀t expense 
were as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Employee stock option expense
2.62
5.08
Total employee share-based payment expense
2.62
5.08
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
258
31. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
A. Commitments
i.  
Capital Commitments
 
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting year but not recognised as liabilities is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Property, plant and equipment
-
-
B. Contingent Liabilities
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
i.  
Claim against the Company not acknowledged as debt
-  
Disputed income tax matters
101.50
98.04
-  
Disputed service tax matters (excluding interest as applicable)
61.57
81.77
-  
Disputed sales tax matters
0.68
0.68
-  
Customer claims
6.69
4.61
-  
Others*
3.25
1.95
ii.  
Outstanding bank guarantees
28.00
32.78
* Includes claim in respect of legal cases relating to Registrar and Transfer Services, which are reimbursable by the Principal 
to the extent of ` 3.25 Crores (as at March 31, 2023 - ` 1.95 Crores).
The Group’s pending litigation is in respect of proceedings pending with Tax Authorities and customer claims with various 
courts. The Group has reviewed all its pending litigations and proceedings and has made adequate provisions, wherever 
required and disclosed the contingent liabilities, wherever applicable, in its 昀椀nancial statements. The Group does not expect 
the outcome of these proceedings to have a material impact on its 昀椀nancial statements.
C. Financial Guarantees
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Outstanding corporate guarantees
-
-
32. INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURE
The Group has 47.50% (47.50% in FY 2022-23) interest in Process Central Limited, Joint Venture in Nigeria – Jointly Controlled 
Entity. The aggregate amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses related to the Group’s share in Process Central 
Limited (Joint venture in Nigeria) are as under:
Assets & Liabilities in Joint venture
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Assets
Sundry Debtors outstanding more than six months
0.02
0.02
Cash on hand
-
-
Current Accounts with Banks
0.23
0.23
Liabilities
Accounts Payable - Revenue Expenses
(0.18)
(0.18)
Miscellaneous Liabilities
(0.02)
(0.02)
1.  
Interests in joint ventures is accounted using the equity method, after initially being recognised at cost in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
2.  
There are no Income & Expense of Joint venture during the year and there are no Contingent Liabilities/ Capital 
Commitments.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
259
33. DISCLOSURE OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE PARENT COMPANY, SUBSIDIARIES AND 
ASSOCIATES AS PER SCHEDULE III OF COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (CONTD.)
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr 
No
Name of the Entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. 
Total Assets minus 
Total Liabilities
Share in Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income (OCI)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive 
Income (TCI)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Net 
Assets
Net 
Assets
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Pro昀椀t/
(Loss)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
OCI
OCI
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
TCI
TCI
A]
Parent
30%
87.26
274%
(818.63)
3.40%
(1.74)
235%
(820.38)
B]
Subsidiaries
1
Indian:
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited, 
(India)
19%
55.20
(1%)
2.00
0%
0.01
(1%)
2.01
3i Infotech Consultancy 
Services Limited, (India)
12%
36.58
(2%)
5.58
(2%)
1.01
(2%)
6.60
Professional Access Software 
Development Private Limited, 
(India)
0%
(0.00)
0%
(1.16)
0%
-
0%
(1.16)
Versares Digital Technology 
Private Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe Edgetech Private Limited
0%
(0.01)
0%
(0.00)
0%
-
0%
(0.00)
NuRe FutureTech Private 
Limited
(1%)
(3.91)
1%
(2.63)
0%
-
1%
(2.63)
NuRe CampusLabs Private 
Limited
0%
(0.53)
0%
(0.14)
0%
-
0%
(0.14)
NuRe MediaTech Limited
0%
(0.00)
0%
(0.00)
0%
-
0%
(0.00)
 NuRe Bharat Network Limited
(1%)
(3.91)
1%
(3.91)
0%
-
1%
(3.91)
2
Foreign:
3i Infotech Inc., (USA)
(14%)
(42.39)
14%
(40.43)
63%
-
12%
(40.43)
3i Infotech Holdings Private 
Limited, (Mauritius)
136%
399.53
41%
(122.21)
0%
-
35%
(122.21)
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte. 
Limited
7%
20.15
(1%)
1.92
0%
-
(1%)
1.92
3i Infotech SDN BHD
17%
48.59
(1%)
2.13
5%
-
(1%)
2.13
3i Infotech Thailand Limited
(4%)
(12.28)
0%
(1.36)
(1%)
-
0%
(1.36)
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC., 
(Saudi Arabia)
(33%)
(98.11)
2%
(5.83)
3%
0.11
2%
(5.72)
3i infotech South Africa (Pty) 
Limited
0%
0.09
0%
(0.01)
0%
-
0%
(0.01)
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited, 
(Kenya)
(19%)
(54.45)
0%
0.50
0%
-
0%
0.50
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
260
Sr 
No
Name of the Entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. 
Total Assets minus 
Total Liabilities
Share in Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income (OCI)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive 
Income (TCI)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Net 
Assets
Net 
Assets
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Pro昀椀t/
(Loss)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
OCI
OCI
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
TCI
TCI
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ 
LLC., (UAE)
(1%)
(2.22)
3%
(8.39)
29%
0.07
2%
(8.32)
3i Infotech Software Solution 
LLC
1%
1.89
0%
1.06
0%
0.01
0%
1.07
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited
(1%)
(1.84)
1%
(1.70)
0%
-
0%
(1.70)
3i Infotech (UK) Limited, (UK) 
(Consolidated)
(4%)
(12.03)
3%
(8.40)
0%
-
2%
(8.40)
3i Infotech (Canada) INC
(1%)
(2.38)
0%
(0.10)
0%
-
0%
(0.10)
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
(2%)
(4.84)
0%
(0.09)
0%
-
0%
(0.09)
Black Barret Holdings Limited 
(Cyprus)
(1%)
(2.00)
1%
(1.73)
0%
-
0%
(1.73)
NuRe Digital Sdn. Bhd. 
(Incorporated on February 17, 
2022)
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Group Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Holdings Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Rhyme Systems Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte 
Ltd
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe Edge Tech Inc
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
C]
Consolidation adjustments 
and Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve (FCTR)
(39%)
(115.02)
(236%)
705.28
99%
(50.68)
(187%)
654.60
D]
Non Controlling Interest in 
all Subsidiaries
1
Indian
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
2
Foreign
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
E]
Joint Ventures/Associates
1
Indian
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
2
Foreign:
Process Central Limited, 
(Nigeria)
0%
0.05
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
100%
293.44
100%
(298.27)
199%
(51.21)
100%
(349.48)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
(Amount in ` Crores)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
261
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Sr 
No
Name of the Entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. 
Total Assets minus 
Total Liabilities
Share in Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income (OCI)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive 
Income (TCI)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Net 
Assets
Net 
Assets
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Pro昀椀t/
(Loss)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
OCI
OCI
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
TCI
TCI
A]
Parent
141%
904.13
3802%
52.25
0.96%
(0.62)
(81%)
51.63
B]
Subsidiaries
1
Indian:
3i Infotech Digital BPS Limited, 
(India)
8%
53.19
198%
2.72
1%
(0.36)
(4%)
2.37
3i Infotech Consultancy 
Services Limited, (India)
5%
29.99
247%
3.39
0%
(0.03)
(5%)
3.36
Professional Access Software 
Development Private Limited, 
(India)
0%
1.16
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Versares Digital Technology 
Private Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe Edgetech Private Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe FutureTech Private 
Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe CampusLabs Private 
Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe MediaTech Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
2
Foreign:
3i Infotech Inc., (USA)
10%
65.36
(2619%)
(35.99)
37%
-
57%
(35.99)
3i Infotech Holdings Private 
Limited, (Mauritius)
82%
524.62
(388%)
(5.34)
0%
-
8%
(5.34)
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte. 
Limited
3%
18.24
79%
1.08
(2%)
-
(2%)
1.08
3i Infotech SDN BHD
8%
49.00
193%
2.65
 (3%)
-
(4%)
2.65
3i Infotech Thailand Limited
(2%)
(11.45)
(134%)
(1.84)
1%
-
3%
(1.84)
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC., 
(Saudi Arabia)
(14%)
(90.98)
(1276%)
(17.53)
0%
0.79
26%
(16.75)
3i infotech South Africa (Pty) 
Limited
0%
0.11
40%
0.56
0%
-
(1%)
0.56
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited, 
(Kenya)
(8%)
(53.82)
(184%)
(2.53)
0%
-
4%
(2.53)
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ 
LLC., (UAE)
3%
21.17
(1171%)
(16.09)
66%
0.03
25%
(16.06)
Annual Report 2023-24
262
Sr 
No
Name of the Entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. 
Total Assets minus 
Total Liabilities
Share in Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive 
Income (OCI)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive 
Income (TCI)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Net 
Assets
Net 
Assets
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
Pro昀椀t or 
Loss
Pro昀椀t/
(Loss)
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
OCI
OCI
As % of 
Consol-
idated 
TCI
TCI
3i Infotech Software Solution 
LLC
0%
0.80
(12%)
(0.16)
0%
0.12
0%
(0.04)
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited
0%
0.10
180%
2.48
0%
-
(4%)
2.48
3i Infotech (UK) Limited, (UK) 
(Consolidated)
(1%)
(3.53)
(135%)
(1.85)
0%
-
3%
(1.85)
3i Infotech (Canada) INC
0%
(2.24)
(17%)
(0.23)
0%
-
0%
(0.23)
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
(1%)
(4.72)
(49%)
(0.67)
0%
-
1%
(0.67)
Black Barret Holdings Limited 
(Cyprus)
0%
(0.03)
105%
1.44
0%
-
(2%)
1.44
NuRe Digital Sdn. Bhd. 
(Incorporated on February 17, 
2022)
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Group Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Holdings Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Rhyme Systems Limited
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte 
Ltd
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
NuRe Edge Tech Inc
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
C]
Consolidation adjustments 
and Foreign Currency 
Translation Reserve (FCTR)
(134%)
(858.30)
1240%
17.03
100%
(64.69)
75%
(47.66)
D]
Non Controlling Interest in 
all Subsidiaries
1
Indian
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
2
Foreign
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
E]
Joint Ventures/Associates
1
Indian
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
2
Foreign:
Process Central Limited, 
(Nigeria)
0%
0.05
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
100%
642.82
100%
1.37
201%
(64.77)
100%
(63.40)
(Amount in ` Crores)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
263
34. GROUP INFORMATION AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Parent Company’s Subsidiaries /Joint ventures are listed below :
SN Name of Subsidiaries
Percentage of holding 
March 31, 2024
Percentage of holding 
March 31, 2023
Country of Incorporation
1
3i Infotech Holdings Private 
Limited
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
Mauritius
2
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Middle East) FZ LLC
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Middle East) FZ LLC
Kenya
3
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ 
LLC
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
UAE
4
3i Infotech (Thailand) 
Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Thailand
5
3i Infotech (UK) Limited
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
UK
6
3i Infotech (Western 
Europe) Group Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Western Europe) Holdings 
Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Western Europe) Holdings 
Limited
UK
7
3i Infotech (Western 
Europe) Holdings Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(UK) Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(UK) Limited
UK
8
Rhyme Systems Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Western Europe) Group 
Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Western Europe) Group 
Limited
UK
9
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte 
Limited
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
Singapore
10
3i Infotech Inc
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
USA
11
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC 100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
12
3i Infotech SDN BHD
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Malaysia
13
3i Infotech (Cyprus) Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
Cyprus
14
3i Infotech Services SDN 
BHD (Struck off on 12 
September 2022)
- 100% held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
Malaysia
15
3i Infotech (South Africa) 
(Pty) Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
Republic of South Africa
16
Professional Access 
Software Development 
Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Cyprus) Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
(Cyprus) Limited
India
17
3i Infotech Digital BPS 
Limited (Formerly know as 
3i Infotech BPO Limited)
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
India
18
3i Infotech Consultancy 
Services Limited
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
India
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
264
SN Name of Subsidiaries
Percentage of holding 
March 31, 2024
Percentage of holding 
March 31, 2023
Country of Incorporation
19
3i Infotech Software 
Solutions LLC
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
UAE
20
3i Infotech (Canada) Inc.
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
Canada
21
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
Nigeria
22
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Holdings Private Limited
Netherlands
23
NuRe Digital Sdn. Bhd. 
(Incorporated on February 
17, 2022)
100 % held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte. Ltd.
100 % held by 3i Infotech 
Asia Paci昀椀c Pte. Ltd.
Singapore
24
NuRe Edgetech Private 
Limited (incorporated on 
November 28, 2022)
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
India
25
NuRe FutureTech Private 
Limited (incorporated on 
December 12, 2022)
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
India
26
NuRe CampusLabs Private 
Limited (incorporated on 
December 20, 2022)
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
India
27
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte 
Ltd (incorporated on March 
15, 2023)
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
Singapore
28
NuRe MediaTech Limited 
(incorporated on March 23, 
2023)
100% held by Parent 
Company
100% held by Parent 
Company
India
29
Versares BPS Private 
Limited (incorporated on 
October 12, 2022)
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Digital BPS Limited
100% held by 3i Infotech 
Digital BPS Limited
India
30
NuRe Edge Tech Inc 
(incorporated on March 28, 
2023)
100% held by NuRe 
Infotech Solutions Pte Ltd
100% held by NuRe 
Infotech Solutions Pte Ltd
USA
31
NuRe Bharat Network 
Limited (Incorporated on 
April 21, 2024
100% held by NuRe 
MediaTech Limited
NA
India
The details of our investment in the joint venture is listed below:
SN Name of Joint Venture
Percentage of holding 
March 31, 2024
Percentage of holding 
March 31, 2023
Country of Incorporation
1
Process Central Limited
47.50% held by 3i Infotech 
(Middle East) FZ LLC
47.50% held by 3i Infotech 
(Middle East) FZ LLC
Nigeria
As on March 31, 2024, the number of subsidiaries are 30 (thirty) (3i Infotech Services SDN BHD - Struck off on 12 September 
2022).
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
265
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and their relatives :
SN
Name of Related Party
Designation / Details
Remarks
1
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Chairman and Independent Director
Redesignated as Chairman, 
Independent Director with effect from 
December 10, 2023
2
Mr. Harish Shenoy
Chief Operating Of昀椀cer Professional 
Services and Chief Risk Of昀椀cer
Designated as KMP on August 10, 
2021. Designated as CFO from 
February 09, 2022 till May 09, 2022 *
3
Mr. Sanjay Rawa
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Appointed on May 09, 2022
4
Mrs. Varika Rastogi
Company Secretary
Appointed on December 15, 2021
5
Ms. Zohra Chatterji
Independent Director
Appointed on March 24, 2020
6
Mr. Avtar Singh Monga
Independent Director
Appointed on April 01, 2021
7
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Non-Executive Director
Appointed on February 01, 2022
8
Mr. Umesh Mehta
Non-Executive Director
Appointed on March 22, 2024
9
Mr. Thompson P. Gnanam
Managing Director and Global CEO*** Will cease to be MD and Global CEO 
with effect from May 31, 2024
10
Mrs.Hazel Priscilla Thompson
Relatives of Managing Director
-
11
Mr. Sriram Venkataramanan
Non-Executive Director
Ceased to be non-executive director 
with effect from January 26, 2024
12
Mr. Ashok Shah
Chairperson
Ceased to be Chairperson with efferct 
from December 10, 2023
Related Party Transactions
Key management personnel and their relative compensation
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Short term employee bene昀椀ts
Salaries and other employee bene昀椀ts to Whole-time directors and executive 
of昀椀cers and their relatives*
5.78
5.30
Commission and other bene昀椀ts to non-executive / independent directors
1.20
1.00
Post-employment bene昀椀ts
-
-
Long term employee bene昀椀ts
-
-
Employee share based payment
-
-
6.99
6.30
*The amounts of post employement bene昀椀ts, long term employee bene昀椀ts and employee share based payment cannot be 
separately identi昀椀ed from the composite amount advised by the actuary/valuer.
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest bearing and settlement occurs in cash. The Provision for Bad 
and Doubtful debts on amount owed by related parties is 335.55 Crores (March 31, 2023: NIL). The assessment for loss 
allowance is undertaken at each 昀椀nancial year through examining the 昀椀nancial position of the related party and market in 
which the related party operates.
There are no Commitments with Related parties.
Annual Report 2023-24
266
35. SEGMENT REPORTING
The Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) is the Chief Executive Of昀椀cer and Managing Director. CODM monitors 
the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on pro昀椀t or loss and is measured consistently with pro昀椀t 
or loss in the standalone 昀椀nancial statements. Also, the Company’s 昀椀nancing (including 昀椀nance costs and 昀椀nance income) and 
income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments. 
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
A. For management purposes, the Company is organised into business units based on its products and services and has 
three reportable segments, as follows:
The group performance on the basis of its business units and has identi昀椀ed Enterprise Services (ES) (Digital IT Infrastructure 
Services , Business Process Outsourcing and e-Governance Consulting Services), Professional Services (PS) (Staff Augmentation 
Services) and Value Business Unit (VBU) (Private/ Public cloud services) as primary segments. The segment results have been 
arrived at before allocating certain expenses which are un-allocable in nature and are disclosed separately.
Year ended March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Enterpris 
Service (ES)
Professional 
Services (PS)
Value 
Business Unit 
(VBU)
Total 
segments
Adjustments 
and 
eliminations
Consolidated
Revenue
External customers
248.01
338.02
227.85
813.88
-
813.88
Inter-segment
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total revenue
248.01
338.02
227.85
813.88
-
813.88
Income/(Expenses)
210.98
320.86
241.56
773.40
-
773.40
Segment results
37.03
17.16
(13.71)
40.48
-
40.48
Total assets
-
-
-
-
-
664.00
Total liabilities
-
-
-
-
-
664.00
Year ended March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Enterpris 
Service (ES)
Professional 
Services (PS)
Value 
Business Unit 
(VBU)
Total 
segments
Adjustments 
and 
eliminations
Consolidated
Revenue
External customers
191.30
375.66
162.16
729.11
-
729.11
Inter-segment
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total revenue
191.30
375.66
162.16
729.11
-
729.11
Income/(Expenses)
174.53
335.29
179.06
688.87
-
688.87
Segment results
16.77
40.37
(16.90)
40.24
-
40.24
Total assets
-
-
-
-
-
971.67
Total liabilities
-
-
-
-
-
971.67
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated upon consolidated and re昀氀ected in the ‘adjustments and eliminations’ column. All other 
adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliaitons presented further below.
Considering the nature of the Group’s Business, the assets and liabilities cannot be identi昀椀ed to any speci昀椀c business segment.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
267
Adjustments and eliminations
Finance income and costs, and fair value gains and losses on 昀椀nancial assets are not allocated to individual segments as the 
underlying instruments are managed on a group basis.
Current taxes, deferred taxes and certain 昀椀nancial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those segments as they are also 
managed on a group basis.
B. Reconciliations to amounts re昀氀ected in 昀椀nancial statements
Reconciliation of pro昀椀t
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Segment results
40.48
40.24
Less:
Finance cost
10.10
9.29
Unallocable expenditure net of unallocable income
77.71
21.56
Exceptional Item
236.63
5.01
Pro昀椀t before tax
(283.96)
4.38
Income tax expense
14.31
3.01
Net pro昀椀t
(298.27)
1.37
Disclosure of details of geographic segments are as under:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Segment Revenue
2023-24
2022-23
Emerging Markets
460.43
357.66
Developed Markets
353.45
371.45
813.88
729.11
Emerging Markets :India, South Asia, Asia Paci昀椀c, Middle East and Africa Geography entities
Developed Markets : U.S. and U.K. Geography entities
(Amount in ` Crores)
Segment Revenue
2023-24
2022-23
In India
352.94
267.29
Outside India
460.94
461.82
US and UK Geography entities
353.45
371.45
Middle East and Africa Geography entities
80.69
69.36
South Asia and Asia Paci昀椀c Geography entities
26.80
21.01
813.88
729.11
Information about major customers
No Single customer represents 10% or more of the group’s total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
268
36. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
i. Financial Instruments by Category
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Amortised cost
Trade Receivables
156.83
134.76
156.83
134.76
Cash and Cash Equivalents
49.53
60.60
49.53
60.60
Other Bank Balances
4.99
6.13
4.99
6.13
Other Financial Assets
82.41
110.83
82.41
110.83
FVTPL
Investment in Equity Instruments
2.24
2.21
2.24
2.21
Total
296.00
314.53
296.00
314.53
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Amortised cost
Borrowings
41.86
38.09
41.86
38.09
Lease Liability
42.63
61.15
42.63
61.15
Trade Payables
92.85
71.21
92.85
71.21
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
101.92
73.09
101.92
73.09
Total
279.26
243.54
279.26
243.54
The management assessed that the fair value of cash and cash equivalent, trade receivables, trade payables, and other current 
昀椀nancial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments.
Financial instruments with 昀椀xed and variable interest rates are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as 
interest rates and individual credit worthiness of the counterparty. Accordingly, fair value of such instruments is not materially 
different from their carrying amounts.
The fair values for loans and security deposits were calculated based on cash 昀氀ows discounted using a current lending rate. 
They are classi昀椀ed as level 3 fair values in the Fair value hierarchy due to the inclusion of unobservable inputs including 
counterparty credit risk.
The fair values of non current borrowings are based on discounted cash 昀氀ows using a current borrowing rate. They are classi昀椀ed 
as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the use of unobservable inputs, including own credit risk.
ii. Fair Value Hierarchy
This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the 昀椀nancial instruments that are 
measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the 昀椀nancial statements. To provide an indication about 
the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classi昀椀ed its 昀椀nancial instruments into three levels 
prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table:
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
269
Assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the 昀椀nancial statements:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Fair value measurement using
Carrying Amount
Quoted prices in 
active markets 
(Level 1)
Signi昀椀cant 
Observable Inputs 
(Level 2)
Signi昀椀cant 
Unobservable 
Inputs (Level 3)
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Amortised cost
Trade Receivables
156.83
-
-
-
Cash and Cash Equivalents
49.53
-
-
-
Other Bank Balances
4.99
-
-
-
Other Financial Assets
82.41
-
-
-
FVTPL
Investment in Equity Instruments
2.24
-
-
2.24
Total Financial Assets
296.00
-
-
2.24
Financial Liabilities
-
Amortised cost
Borrowings
41.86
-
-
-
Lease Liability
42.63
-
-
-
Trade Payables
92.85
-
-
-
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
101.92
-
-
-
Total Financial Liabilities
279.26
-
-
-
Assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the 昀椀nancial statements:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2023
Fair value measurement using
Carrying Amount
Quoted prices in 
active markets 
(Level 1)
Signi昀椀cant 
Observable Inputs 
(Level 2)
Signi昀椀cant 
Unobservable 
Inputs (Level 3)
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Amortised cost
Trade Receivables
134.76
-
-
-
Cash and Cash Equivalents
60.60
-
-
-
Other Bank Balances
6.13
-
-
-
Other Financial Assets
110.83
-
-
-
FVTPL
Investment in Equity Instruments
2.21
-
-
2.21
Total Financial Assets
314.53
-
-
2.21
Financial Liabilities
Amortised cost
Borrowings
38.09
-
-
-
Lease Liability
61.15
-
-
-
Trade Payables
71.21
-
-
-
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
73.09
-
-
-
Total Financial Liabilities
243.54
-
-
-
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
270
There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year.
Level 1 - Level 1 hierarchy includes Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Inputs other than the quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly; and
Level 3 - If one or more of the signi昀椀cant inputs are not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 
3. This is the case for unlisted equity shares and preference shares included in level 3.
(iii) Valuation technique used to determine fair value
 
Speci昀椀c Valuation techniques used to value 昀椀nancial instruments include:
 
- the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments
 
- the fair value of the remaining 昀椀nancial instruments is determined using discounted cash 昀氀ow analysis.
(iv) Valuation processes
 
The 昀椀nance department of the Group includes a team that assesses the valuation of 昀椀nancial assets and liabilities required 
for 昀椀nancial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values. Wherever required, valuation reports from Professional 
Entities are being considered at frequent intervals.
37. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group is exposed primarily to 昀氀uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risk, which 
may adversely impact the fair value of its 昀椀nancial instruments. The Group has a risk management policy which covers risks 
associated with the 昀椀nancial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by Board of Directors. The focus of 
the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the 昀椀nancial environment and to mitigate potential adverse 
effects on the 昀椀nancial performance of the Group.
(i) Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or the future cash 昀氀ows of a 昀椀nancial instrument will 昀氀uctuate because of the change 
in market prices. Such changes in the value of 昀椀nancial instruments may result from changes in the foreign currency exchange, 
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of foreign 
currency exchange rate risk.
(a)  Foreign currency exchange rate risk
The 昀氀uctuation in foreign currency exchange rate may have potential impact on the statement of pro昀椀t and loss and 
the other comprehensive income and equity ,where any transaction reference more than one currency or where assets/
liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group.
Considering the countries and the economic environment in which the Group operates, its operations are subject to risk 
arising from 昀氀uctuations in exchange rates in those countries. The risks primarily relates to 昀氀uctuations in US Dollar and 
Great Britain Pound against the functional currency of the Group.
The Group, as per its current risk management policy, does not use any derivatives instruments to hedge foreign exchange. 
Further, any movement in the functional currency of the various operations of the Group against major foreign currencies 
may impact the Group’s revenue in international business.
The Group evaluates the impact of the foreign exchange rate 昀氀uctuation by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. 
Apart from exposures of foreign currency payables and receivables, which partially are naturally hedged against each 
other, the Group does not use any hedging instruments to hedge its foreign currency exposures; in line with the current 
risk management policies.
The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure and a 
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rate shift of all the currencies by 1% against the functional currency of the Group.
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures of the Group as on the date of Balance Sheet 
which could affect the statement of pro昀椀t and loss and the other comprehensive income and equity.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
271
The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure as at March 31,2024:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
US$
SAR
AED
SGD
Total
Total 昀椀nancial assets
-
4.74
9.96
0.41
15.11
Total 昀椀nancial liabilities
(7.34)
-
-
-
(7.34)
1% appreciation/ depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Group would 
result in decrease/ increase in the Group’s pro昀椀t before tax by approximately ` 2.25 Crores for the year ended March 
31,2024.
 
The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure as at March 31,2023:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
US$
SAR
AED
SGD
Total
Total 昀椀nancial assets
7.50
0.26
2.10
0.03
9.89
Total 昀椀nancial liabilities
0.04
-
-
-
0.04
1% appreciation/ depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Group would 
result in decrease/ increase in the Group’s pro昀椀t before tax by approximately ` 6.68 Crores for the year ended March 
31,2023.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s 昀椀xed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk as 
de昀椀ned in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash 昀氀ows will 昀氀uctuate because of a change in 
market.
(ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will not meet its obligations leading to a 昀椀nancial loss. Credit risk arises from cash 
and cash equivalents, investments carried at amortised cost and deposits with banks and 昀椀nancial institutions, as well as credit 
exposures to customers including outstanding receivables and unbilled revenues.
(a)  Credit risk management
 
Trade receivables and Unbilled revenue
The credit risk has always been managed by the group through an assessment of the companies 昀椀nancials , market 
intelligence and customers credibility.
The Group makes provisions for Debtors and Unbilled based on a critical assessment of the amount in relation to the 
ageing combined with the historical trend observed in the respective geography, the past history of the client and 
comparison with similar projects to determine the recoverability of the receivables.
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its 
trade receivables and unbilled revenue. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the 
expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical 
observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed.
Other Financials Assets
The group considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a signi昀椀cant 
increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a signi昀椀cant 
increase in credit risk the Company compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date with the 
risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking 
information.
A default on a 昀椀nancial asset is when the counterparty fails to make contractual payments when they fall due. This 
de昀椀nition of default is determined by considering the business environment in which entity operates and other macro-
economic factors..
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
272
(b)  Credit risk exposure
 
Trade receivables and Unbilled revenue
The carrying amount of trade receivables and unbilled revenues represents the maximum credit exposure from customers. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk from customers is ` 217.44 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 224.33 Crores). The lifetime 
expected credit loss on customer balance for the year ended March 31, 2024 is ` 17.63 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 23.25 
Crores).
 
The group has a credit policy of 0-60 days.
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - Trade receivables and Unbilled revenue
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning
23.25
21.91
Changes during the year
(3.07)
4.61
Bad debts written off
(2.55)
(3.27)
Balance at the end
17.63
23.25
Other Financial Assets
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, investments carried at amortised cost, deposits with banks and 
昀椀nancial institutions and other 昀椀nancial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk is ` 81.22 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 95.94 Crores). The lifetime expected credit loss on these 昀椀nancial assets for the 
year ended March 31, 2024 is ` 4.78 Crores (March 31, 2023: ` 0.30 Crores).
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - other 昀椀nancial assets
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Life-time expected 
losses
Life-time expected 
losses
Balance at the beginning
0.30
0.30
Add/(Less): Changes in loss allowances due to changes in risk parameters
4.48
-
Balance at the end
4.78
0.30
(iii) Liquidity risks
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its 昀椀nancial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management 
is to maintain suf昀椀cient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements.
The Company consistently generated suf昀椀cient cash 昀氀ow from operations to meet its 昀椀nancial obligation as and when they 
fall due.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of signi昀椀cant 昀椀nancial liabilities as at :
March 31, 2024
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Due in 1 year
Due in 1-2 year
Due in 2-5 year Due after 5 years
Total
Non-derivative 昀椀nancial liabilities:
Trade and other payables
92.85
-
-
-
92.85
Borrowings including Interest thereon
41.86
-
-
-
41.86
Lease Liabilities
14.83
29.97
5.17
-
49.97
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
101.92
-
-
-
101.92
Total
251.46
29.97
5.17
-
286.60
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
273
38. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
For the purpose of the group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, convertible instruments, share 
premium and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity holders. The primary objective of the Group’s capital 
management is to maximise the shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the 
requirements of the 昀椀nancial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment 
to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which 
is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group includes within debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, less 
cash and cash equivalents.
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Borrowings
41.86
38.09
Lease Liabilities
42.63
61.15
Less: Cash and Cash equivalents and Other Bank Balances
(54.52)
(66.73)
Net Debt
29.97
32.51
Equity Share Capital
169.23
168.47
Other Equity
124.21
474.35
Total Equity
293.44
642.82
Capital and net debt
323.41
675.33
Gearing ratio
0.09
0.05
39. ASSETS PLEDGED AS SECURITY
The carrying amount of assets pledged as security for current and non current borrowings are:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
CURRENT ASSETS
i. Financial Assets
Trade Receivable**
70.62
55.48
Margin Money with banks*
23.72
38.79
Unbilled Revenue**
24.95
38.55
Total current assets pledged as security
119.29
132.81
*Margin Money includes 昀椀xed deposits of ` 29.33 Crores (FY 2022-23 `. 44.32 Crores) which is pledged against overdraft 
facility of ` Nil (FY 2022-23 ` 8.20 Crores), bank guarantee ` 26.94 Crores (FY 2022-23 ` 32.77 Crores) and counter guarantee 
` 1.06 Crores (FY 2022-23 ` 2.93 Crores).
**Trade receivable and Unbilled revenue against which overdraft has been sanctioned .
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
March 31, 2023
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Due in 1 year
Due in 1-2 year
Due in 2-5 year Due after 5 years
Total
Non-derivative 昀椀nancial liabilities:
Trade and other payables
71.21
-
-
-
71.21
Borrowings including Interest thereon
37.90
0.19
-
-
38.09
Lease Liabilities
20.15
49.42
3.74
0.11
73.42
Other 昀椀nancial liabilities
73.09
-
-
-
73.09
Total
202.35
49.61
3.74
0.11
255.81
Annual Report 2023-24
274
40. OFFSETTING FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
The following table presents the recognised 昀椀nancial instruments that are offset and other agreements but not offset, as at 
March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. The column ‘net amount’ shows the impact on the group’s balance sheet if all set-off 
rights were exercised.
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Effects of offsetting on the balance sheet
Related amounts not offset
Gross amount
Gross 
amounts set 
off in the 
balance sheet
Net amount 
presented in 
the balance 
sheet
Financial 
instruments 
collateral
Net amount
March 31, 2024
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
49.53
49.53
(23.72)
25.81
Bank Balances Other than above
4.99
4.99
-
4.99
Trade receivables
156.83
156.83
(70.62)
86.21
Other 昀椀nancial assets
72.41
72.41
(24.95)
47.46
Total
283.76
-
283.76
(119.29)
164.47
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
92.85
92.85
-
92.85
Borrowings
41.86
41.86
(95.57)
(53.71)
Lease Liabilities
42.63
42.63
-
42.63
Other Financial Liabilities
101.92
101.92
-
101.92
Total
279.26
-
279.26
(95.57)
183.69
March 31, 2023
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
60.60
60.60
(38.79)
21.81
Bank Balances Other than above
6.13
6.13
-
6.13
Trade receivables
134.76
134.76
(55.48)
79.28
Other 昀椀nancial assets
94.13
94.13
(38.55)
55.58
Total
295.62
-
295.62
(132.81)
162.81
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
71.21
71.21
-
71.21
Borrowings
38.09
38.09
(94.02)
(55.93)
Lease Liabilities
61.15
61.15
-
61.15
Other Financial Liabilities
73.09
73.09
-
73.09
Total
243.54
-
243.54
(94.02)
149.52
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
275
41. LEASES
The changes in the carrying value of ROU assets for the year ended March 31, 2024 are as follows :
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
Category of ROU Asset (Building)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning
170.38
91.82
Additions
8.65
103.83
Deletion
(9.86)
(5.06)
Depreciation
(19.36)
(20.45)
Translation difference
0.05
0.23
Balance at the end
149.86
170.38
The aggregate depreciation expense on ROU assets is included under depreciation and amortization expense in the Statement 
of Pro昀椀t and Loss.
The break-up of current and non-current lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Current Lease Liabilities
15.07
15.05
Non-Current Lease Liabilities
27.56
46.10
Total
42.63
61.15
The movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning
61.15
64.25
Additions
8.65
16.01
Finance cost accrued during the period
5.52
5.72
Deletions
(12.18)
(5.76)
Payment of lease liabilities
(20.59)
(19.38)
Translation difference
0.10
0.30
Balance at the end
42.63
61.15
The details of the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 on an undiscounted basis are as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Less than one year
14.83
20.15
One to two years
29.97
49.42
Two to 昀椀ve years
5.17
3.74
More than 昀椀ve years
-
0.11
Total
49.97
73.42
The Company does not face a signi昀椀cant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are suf昀椀cient to 
meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases and low value assets was ` 4.27 Crores for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
` 3.47 Crores for the year ended March 31, 2023.
Rental income on assets given on operating lease to subsidiaries was ` Nil Crores for the year ended March 31, 2024.
The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
incremental borrowing rates in the country of domicile of these leases.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
276
The movement in the net investment in sublease in ROU asset during the year ended March 31, 2024 is as follows:
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the period
0.62
1.02
Interest income accrued during the period
0.03
0.05
Lease receipts
0.32
0.31
Translation difference
0.01
(0.14)
Balance at the end of the period
0.34
0.62
The details of the contractual maturities of net investment in sublease of ROU asset as at March 31, 2024 on an undiscounted 
basis are as follows :
(Amount in ` Crores)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Less than one year
0.33
0.32
One to 昀椀ve years
0.03
0.35
More than 昀椀ve years
-
-
Total
0.36
0.67
42.
42(a). The Company has an outstanding liability payable towards purchase of Intellectual property rights (IPR), since 2012 to 
its MEA branch/3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC amounting to ` 1,066.38 Crores. The liability towards purchase of IPR was not 
settled by the Company within the time limit prescribed under FEMA Regulations and the Company had approached Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) in 2013 through authorised dealer to extend the timeline for repayment of the aforesaid liability till March 
31, 2017.
Not being able to settle the liability even by 2017, the Company had thereafter made an application to the Reserve Bank of 
India (RBI), through its authorised dealer vide letter dated March 05, 2019 and subsequently on October 23, 2020, for set – off 
of the liability/ payables to MEA branch/ 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC of ` 1,066.38 Crores against its trade receivables then 
due from 3i Infotech Inc, 3i Saudi Arabia and 3i Africa of ` 392.33 Crores, ` 113.47 Crores and ` 30.46 Crores respectively. The 
Company has not received the RBI approval as at the balance sheet date.
42(b). There are long outstanding assets and liabilities. The Board had set up a Legacy Committee as a Sub – Committee of 
the Audit Committee, to evaluate and address all long outstanding legacy related matters. After evaluating the reports of Sub 
Committee, the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on January 31, 2024, decided to initiate Forensic Audit 
for legacy issues, the completion of which is still pending.
43. CHANGE IN FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the management evaluated that there was a change in the functional currency of 
its subsidiaries, from Indian Rupees (`) to the currencies in which respective entities are located. The management used 
its judgement to determine the functional currency that most faithfully represents the economic effects of the underlying 
transactions, events and conditions of the foreign subsidiaries.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Indian Rupees at the exchange rate 
prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of pro昀椀t and loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates 
of the transactions. The Group uses an average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates 
the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are 
recognised in Consolidated Statement of OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that 
particular foreign operation will be reclassi昀椀ed to Consolidated Statement of Pro昀椀t and Loss.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
277
Group companies with change in functional currency:
Name of Subsidiary
Effective date of change
3i Infotech Inc
April 01, 2022
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia Limited
July 01, 2022
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ L.L.C.
July 01, 2022
3i Infotech Software Solutions L.L.C.
July 01, 2022
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
July 01, 2022
3i Infotech Sdn Bhd
July 01, 2022
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
July 01, 2022
44. ADDITIONAL REGULATORY INFORMATION
Details of Benami Property held
The group company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against The 
group company for holding any Benami property under the Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules 
made thereunder.
Details of Loans and advances
Loans and advances granted to promoters, directors, key managerial personnel (KMPs) and the related parties which are 
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
Type of borrower
Amount of loan or advance in the 
nature of loan outstanding
Percentage to the total loans and 
advances in the nature of loans
Promoters
-
-
Directors
-
-
KMPs
-
-
Related Party
-
-
Wilful Defaulter
The group company has not been declared as a wilful Defaulter by any Financial Institution or bank as at the date of Balance 
Sheet.
Relationship with Struck off Companies
The holding company and its indian subsidaries has not identi昀椀ed any transactions or balances in any reporting periods with 
companies whose name is struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956.
Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies (ROC)
The holding company and its indian subsidaries has no pending charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the 
ROC beyond the Statutory period.
Compliance with number of layers of companies
The group has complied with the provision of the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
Compliance with approved Scheme(s) of Arrangements
There are no Schemes of Arrangements has been approved by the Competent Authority in terms of sections 230 to 237 of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
Utilisation of borrowed funds
The group has used the borrowings from banks and 昀椀nancial institutions for the speci昀椀c purpose for which it was taken at the 
balance sheet date. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Annual Report 2023-24
278
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 (Contd.)
Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
(A)  The group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds (either borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Intermediaries).
(B)  The group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party).
The group have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall:
a)  
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identi昀椀ed in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of The 
group (Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries); or
b) 
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries;
The group have not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that The group shall:
a)  
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identi昀椀ed in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries) or;
b)  
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Bene昀椀ciaries.
45. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Undisclosed income
The group has no transaction that is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant 
provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
The group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency.
46. Previous year’s 昀椀gures have been regrouped / rearranged wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s presentation.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the board
For GMJ & Co
Chartered Accountants
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
F.R.No.: 103429W
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
CA Madhu Jain
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Partner
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
M.No.: 155537
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
UDIN: 241555 37BKCR QI5934
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Date: May 30, 2024
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
279
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALS STATEMENTS 
IN US DOLLARS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2024
USD million
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
(a)  Property, Plant and Equipment
0.37
0.53
(b)  Right of Use Asset
17.97
20.74
(c)  Goodwill
8.56
37.01
(d)  Other Intangible Assets
2.46
-
(e)  Intangible Assets Under Development
0.75
5.09
(f)  Financial Assets
-
-
 
(i)  
Investments
0.27
0.27
(ii)  Other Financial Assets
1.20
2.03
(g)  Deferred Tax Asset (Net)
0.07
0.21
(h) Income Tax Asset
6.31
6.57
(i)  
Other Non-Current Assets
1.54
2.10
Total Non Current Assets
39.50
74.55
Current assets
(a)  Financial Assets
(i)  
Trade Receivables
18.81
16.40
(ii)  Cash and Cash Equivalents
5.94
7.38
(iii)  Bank Balances Other than (iii) above
0.60
0.75
(iv)  Other Financial Assets
8.68
11.46
(b)  Income Tax Assets
1.09
-
(c)  Other Current Assets
5.01
7.74
Total Current Assets
40.13
43.72
Total Asset
79.63
118.27
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a)  Equity Share capital
20.30
20.50
(b)  Other Equity
14.90
57.74
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
35.20
78.24
Non Controlling Interest
-
-
Total Equity
35.20
78.24
Liabilities
Non Current Liabilities
(a)  Financial Liabilities
(i)  
Borrowings
-
0.02
(ii)  Lease Liabilities
3.31
5.61
(b)  Provisions
2.94
2.44
Total Non Current Liabilities
6.25
8.07
Current Liabilities
(a)  Financial Liabilities
(i)  
Borrowings
5.02
4.61
(ii)  Lease Liabilities
1.81
1.83
(iii)  Trade Payables
11.14
8.67
(iv)  Other Financial Liabilities 
12.22
8.90
(b)  Other Current Liabilities
5.83
5.59
(c)   Provisions
0.75
0.70
(d)  Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
1.43
1.65
Total Current Liabilities
38.19
31.95
TOTAL
79.63
118.27
Note
The above Balance Sheet is just the conversion of Consolidated Balance Sheet of 3i Infotech Limited (prepared as per IndAS) 
Amount in ` Crores. The conversion has been done at exchange rate of ` 83.34 for the year ended March 31, 2024 and ` 82.16 
for the year ended March 31, 2023.
Annual Report 2023-24
280
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
USD million
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
REVENUE
I 
Revenue from operations (net)
98.00
90.89
II 
Other income
6.36
9.96
III 
Total Revenue (I + II)
104.36
100.85
IV EXPENSES
 
Employee bene昀椀ts expense
69.47
69.78
 
Cost of third party products and services
20.84
14.38
 
Finance costs
1.22
1.16
 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
3.27
2.84
 
Other expenses
15.27
11.52
 
Total Expenses
110.06
99.68
V 
Pro昀椀t/(loss) before exceptional items and tax from continuing 
operm (III - IV)
(5.70)
1.17
VI Exceptional Items
(28.49)
(0.62)
VII Pro昀椀t/(loss) before tax for the year ( V+VI )
(34.19)
0.55
VIII Tax expense
 
Current tax
0.80
0.33
 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
0.82
(0.03)
 
Deferred tax
0.10
0.08
IX Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the year (VII-VIII)
(35.92)
0.17
 
Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the period from discontinued operations
-
-
X 
Pro昀椀t/(loss) for the year
(35.92)
0.17
 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
A.  Other Comprehensive income not to be reclassi昀椀ed to pro昀椀t 
and loss in subsequent periods:
 
Remeasurement of gains (losses) on de昀椀ned bene昀椀t plans
(0.02)
(0.03)
 
Income tax effect
(0.04)
0.02
B. Other Comprehensive income to be reclassi昀椀ed to pro昀椀t 
and loss in subsequent periods:
 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
(6.10)
(8.06)
 
Other Comprehensive income for the year
(6.17)
(8.07)
 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR
(42.08)
(7.90)
 
Pro昀椀t for the year attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
(35.92)
0.17
 
Non-controlling interests
-
-
 
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
(6.17)
(8.07)
 
Non-controlling interests
-
-
 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
 
Equity holders of the parent
(42.08)
(7.90)
 
Non-controlling interests
-
-
Note
The above statement of Pro昀椀t & Loss is just the conversion of Consolidated Statement of Pro昀椀t & Loss of 3i Infotech Limited 
(prepared as per IndAS) amount in ` Crores. The conversion has been done at exchange rate of ` 83.05 for the year ended 
March 31,2024 and ` 80.22 for the year ended March 31,2023.
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
281
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO FIRST PROVISO TO SUB-SECTION (3) OF SECTION 129 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2013 
READ WITH RULE 5 OF COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES, 2014 IN THE PRESCRIBED FORM AOC-1 RELATING TO 
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES / JOINT VENTURE
(Amount in ` Crores)
SN
Name of Entities
Financial year of 
Entities ended on
Extent of interest of 3i 
Infotech Limited in the 
capital of the Entity
1
3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
2
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited
March 31, 2024
@100%
3
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC
March 31, 2024
$100%
4
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited
March 31, 2024
*100%
5
3i Infotech (UK) Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
6
3i Infotech (Western Europe) Group Limited
March 31, 2024
$$100%
7
3i Infotech (Western Europe) Holdings Limited
March 31, 2024
##100%
8
Rhyme Systems Limited
March 31, 2024
*$100%
9
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
10
3i Infotech Inc
March 31, 2024
$100%
11
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC
March 31, 2024
100%
12
3i Infotech SDN BHD
March 31, 2024
*100%
13
3i Infotech (Cyprus) Limited 
(formerly known as Black-Barret Holdings Limited)
March 31, 2024
$100%
14
3i Infotech (South Africa) (Pty) Limited
March 31, 2024
$100%
15
Professional Access Software Development Private Limited
March 31, 2024
#100%
16
3i Infotech BPO Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
17
3i Infotech Consultancy Services Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
18
3i Infotech Software Solutions LLC
March 31, 2024
$100%
19
3i Infotech (Canada) Inc.
March 31, 2024
$100%
20
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited
March 31, 2024
$100%
21
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
March 31, 2024
$100%
22
Process Central Limited++(Nigeria)
March 31, 2024
@47.50%
23
NuRe Edgetech Private Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
24
NuRe FutureTech Private Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
25
NuRe CampusLabs Private Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
26
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte Ltd
March 31, 2024
100%
27
NuRe MediaTech Limited
March 31, 2024
100%
28
Versarses BPS Private Limited
March 31, 2024
**100%
29
NuRe Edge Tech Inc
March 31, 2024
***100%
30
NuRe Bharat Network Limited (Incorporated on April 21, 2024
March 31, 2024
*'***100%
$ Held by 3i Infotech Holdings Private Limited (Mauritius)
* Held by 3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte Ltd (Singapore)
# Held by 3i Infotech (Cyprus) Limited (formerly known as Black-Barret Holdings Limited)
##Held by 3i Infotech (UK) Limited (UK)
$$Held by 3i Infotech (Western Europe) Holdings Limited (UK)
*$ Held by 3i Infotech (Western Europe) Group Limited (UK)
@Held by 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZLLC (UAE)
++ Joint Venture of 3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC with Soft Solutions Ltd, Skye Bank PLC and Unity Bank PLC
** Held by 3i Digital BPS Limited
*** Held by NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte Ltd
**** Held by NuRe MediaTech Limited
Annual Report 2023-24
282
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO FIRST PROVISO TO SUB-SECTION (3) OF SECTION 129 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2013, READ WITH RULE 5 OF COMPANIES ( ACCOUNTS) 
RULES , 2014 IN THE PRESCRIBED FORM AOC-1 RELATING TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES / JOINT VENTURE (PART A & PART B)
(Amount in ` Crores)
SN Entity
Country of 
Incorporation
Reporting 
Currency
Exchange 
Rate
% of 
Shareholdings
Issued and 
Subscribed 
Share 
Capital
Reserves
Total 
Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Pro昀椀t / 
(Loss) 
before 
Tax
Provision 
for 
Taxation
Pro昀椀t / 
(Loss) 
after 
Tax
Proposed 
Dividend
1
3i Infotech Inc (USA)
USA
USD
83.34
100%
445.76
(841.01)
116.26
116.26
2.08
354.42
(39.28)
(1.30)
(40.57)
-
2
3i Infotech Holdings Private 
Limited (Mauritius)
Mauritius
USD
83.34
100%
1,821.35
(802.83) 1,777.90 1,777.90
1,778.41
- (122.63)
(0.01) (122.64)
-
3
3i Infotech (Africa) Limited (Kenya) Kenya
KES
0.63
100%
0.01
(54.99)
1.03
1.03
-
-
0.53
-
0.53
-
4
Black-Barret Holdings Limited 
(Cyprus)
Cyprus
USD
83.34
100%
0.02
(0.28)
0.03
0.03
0.00
-
(1.73)
-
(1.73)
-
5
Professional Access Software 
Development Pvt Limited (India)
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.86
272.73
272.73
-
-
-
(1.16)
-
(1.16)
-
6
3i Infotech Asia Paci昀椀c Pte. Ltd. 
(Singapore)
Singapore
SGD
61.80
100%
33.04
(14.80)
4.90
4.90
-
1.73
1.91
-
1.91
-
7
3i Infotech SDN BHD (Malaysia)
Malaysia
MYR
17.64
100%
8.82
37.64
0.27
0.27
-
2.40
2.14
-
2.14
-
8
3i Infotech (Thailand) Limited 
(Thailand)
Thailand
THB
2.29
100%
2.29
(13.22)
14.54
14.54
-
22.52
(1.35)
-
(1.35)
-
9
3i Infotech (Middle East) FZ LLC 
(UAE)
UAE
AED
22.69
100%
104.76
169.21
14.31
14.31
0.01
25.34
(8.42)
-
(8.42)
-
10
3i Infotech (UK) Limited (UK)
UK
GBP
105.23
100%
33.95
(37.60)
(3.01)
(3.01)
-
0.25
(8.38)
-
(8.38)
-
11
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Holdings Limited (UK)
UK
GBP
105.23
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12
3i Infotech (Western Europe) 
Group Limited (UK)
UK
GBP
105.23
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
13
Rhyme Systems Limited (UK)
UK
GBP
105.23
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
14
3i Infotech BPO Limited (India)
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.10
53.09
35.38
0.01
-
95.50
3.60
(1.60)
2.00
-
15
3i Infotech Saudi Arabia LLC 
(Kingdom of Saudi Arabia)
Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia
SAR
22.21
100%
1.11
(93.48)
15.25
15.25
-
36.26
2.70
(8.54)
(5.84)
-
16
3i Infotech Consultancy Services 
Limited (India)
India
INR
1.00
100%
4.81
25.18
3.94
3.94
-
117.72
8.44
(2.86)
5.58
-
17
3i infotech South Africa (PTY) Ltd.
Republic of 
South Africa
ZAR
4.47
100%
0.00
0.11
0.13
0.13
-
-
(0.01)
-
(0.01)
-
18
Process Central Limited (Nigeria) - 
Joint Venture
Nigeria
NGN
0.06
47.5%
0.08
(0.07)
0.02
0.02
-
-
-
-
-
-
19
3i Infotech Nigeria Limited (Nigeria) Nigeria
NGN
0.06
100%
0.06
(0.03)
0.61
0.61
-
-
(1.84)
(0.03)
(1.87)
-
20
3i Infotech Netherlands B.V.
Netherlands
EUR
89.95
100%
0.00
(4.75)
0.07
0.07
-
-
(0.09)
-
(0.09)
-
21
3i Infotech (Canada) Inc.
Canada
CAD
61.58
100%
-
(2.27)
0.30
0.30
-
-
(0.10)
-
(0.10)
-
Financial Statements
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
283
SN Entity
Country of 
Incorporation
Reporting 
Currency
Exchange 
Rate
% of 
Shareholdings
Issued and 
Subscribed 
Share 
Capital
Reserves
Total 
Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover
Pro昀椀t / 
(Loss) 
before 
Tax
Provision 
for 
Taxation
Pro昀椀t / 
(Loss) 
after 
Tax
Proposed 
Dividend
22
3i Infotech Software Solutions LLC UAE
AED
22.69
100%
0.68
0.13
7.62
7.62
-
18.19
1.07
-
1.07
-
23
NuRe Edgetech Private Limited
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.01
(0.01)
0.01
0.01
(0.00)
(0.00)
24
NuRe FutureTech Private Limited
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.01
(3.91)
0.02
0.02
-
(3.91)
-
(3.91)
-
25
NuRe CampusLabs Private Limited India
INR
1.00
100%
0.01
(0.53)
0.45
0.45
0.04
(0.53)
-
(0.53)
-
26
NuRe Infotech Solutions Pte Ltd
Singapore
SGD
61.80
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
27
NuRe Bharat Network Limited
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.01
(3.71)
0.19
0.19
-
0.14
(3.71)
-
(3.71)
-
28
NuRe MediaTech Limited
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.01
(0.00)
0.00
0.00
0.01
(0.00)
-
(0.00)
-
29
Versarses BPS Private Limited
India
INR
1.00
100%
0.01
(0.00)
0.01
0.01
-
-
(0.00)
-
(0.00)
-
30
NuRe Edge Tech Inc
USA
USD
83.34
100%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Details of Subsidiaries sold and struck off:
1)  
3i Infotech Services SDN BHD was struck off on 12 September 2022
$ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 USD = 83.3363
S$ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 SGD = 61.7974
£ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 GBP = 105.2310
* 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 MYR = 17.6414
** 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 THB = 2.2938
# 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 SAR = 22.2126
$$ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 AED = 22.6880
& 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 KES = 0.6294
¤ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 CNY = 11.7375
++ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 NGN = 0.0600
+++ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 ZAR = 4.4696
++++ 
Converted to Indian Rupees at the Exchange rate, 1 EUR = 89.9480
For and on behalf of the board
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
CA Uttam Prakash Agarwal
Avtar Singh Monga
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Dr. Madan Gosavi
Chairman & Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director
(DIN: 00272983)
(DIN:00418477)
(DIN: 06515361)
(DIN:10303662)
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Sd/-
Umesh Mehta
Zohra Chatterji
Sanjay Rawa
Varika Rastogi
Non-Executive Director
Independent Director
Chief Financial Of昀椀cer
Company Secretary
(DIN:09244647)
(DIN: 01382511)
(M.No.: F7864)
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: May 30, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
284
NOTICE
3i INFOTECH LIMITED 
Corporate Identi昀椀cation Number (CIN): L67120MH1993PLC074411 
Registered Of昀椀ce: Tower # 5, International Infotech Park,  
Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400 703, Maharashtra, India 
Tel: 022-7123 8000 E-mail: investors@3i-infotech.com Website: www.3i-infotech.com
Notice is hereby given that Thirty-昀椀rst Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of 3i Infotech Limited 
(the “Company”) will be held on Monday, September 
30, 2024 at 11.30 a.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”) / Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) to transact 
the business as mentioned below. The venue of the 
AGM shall be deemed to be the Registered Of昀椀ce of the 
Company.
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial 
Statements (including Audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements) of the Company for the 昀椀nancial year 
ended March 31, 2024, together with the Reports of 
the Board of Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2. 
To appoint a director in place of Dr. Aruna Sharma 
(DIN – 06515361), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers herself for re-appointment.
 
To consider and if thought 昀椀t, to pass the following 
resolution, with or without modi昀椀cation(s) as an 
ordinary resolution:
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provision of Section 
152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, Dr. Aruna Sharma (DIN – 06515361), who 
retires by rotation, be and is hereby re-appointed as a 
director liable to retire by rotation.”
Registered Of昀椀ce:
Tower # 5,
International Infotech Park,
Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400 703 
Maharashtra
By the Order of the Board
For 3i Infotech Limited
Sd/-
Varika Rastogi
Company Secretary 
Date: August 14, 2024
Place: Navi Mumbai
NOTES:
1. 
General instructions for accessing and participating 
in the Meeting through VC/OAVM Facility and voting 
through electronic means including remote e-voting
a) 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government 
of India (“MCA”) vide its General Circular No. 
11/2022 dated December 28, 2022, General 
Circular No. 2/2022 dated May 5, 2022 read with 
circulars dated December 31, 2020, September 
28, 2020, June 15, 2020, April 13, 2020 and April 
8, 2020 (collectively referred as “MCA Circulars”) 
and the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(“SEBI”) vide circulars dated January 5, 2023, 
May 13, 2022, January 15, 2021 and May 12, 
2020 (collectively referred as “SEBI Circulars”) 
permitted the Companies to convene the AGM 
without physical presence of the Members at a 
common venue, subject to compliance of various 
conditions mentioned therein. In compliance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
(the “Act”) and SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“Listing Regulations”), 31st AGM of the Company 
is being held through VC/OAVM. The deemed 
venue for the AGM shall be the Registered Of昀椀ce 
of the Company.
b) 
Only registered equity shareholders of the 
Company may attend (either in person or by 
authorised representative) at the said AGM 
through VC / OAVM facility.
 
The authorised representative of a body corporate, 
who is a Member of the Company may attend 
the AGM provided that a certi昀椀ed true copy of 
the resolution or the authority letter or power of 
attorney issued by the board of directors or other 
governing body of the body corporate authorising 
such representative to attend and vote at the AGM 
285
is e-mailed to the Scrutiniser at sapnachourasia@
sapcorpllp.com with a copy marked to evoting@
nsdl.com not later than 48 hours before the 
scheduled time of the commencement of the 
Meeting or can also upload their Board Resolution 
/ Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by 
clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority 
Letter” displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their 
login.
c) 
Since, the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM 
facility, the route map, proxy form as well as the 
attendance slip are not annexed to this Notice. 
d) 
Copy of all the documents referred in the notice 
of the AGM and the explanatory statement shall 
be available for inspection at the Company’s 
website i.e. www.3i-infotech.com from the date 
of dispatch of the Notice up to the last date of 
e-Voting i.e. Sunday, September 29, 2024. A 
recorded transcript of the AGM shall also be made 
available on the website of the Company as soon 
as possible.
e) 
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) 
will be providing facility through remote e-voting 
and e-voting in respect of the business to be 
transacted at and during the 31st AGM.
f) 
Members may join the AGM through VC/OAVM 
facility by following the procedure as mentioned 
below which shall be kept open for the Members 
from 11:15 a.m. (IST) i.e. 15 minutes before 
the time scheduled to start the AGM and the 
Company may close the window for joining VC/
OAVM facility 15 minutes after the scheduled 
time to start the AGM.
g) 
Members may note that the VC/OAVM facility, 
provided by NSDL, allows participation of at least 
1,000 Members on a 昀椀rst come-昀椀rst served basis. 
The large shareholders (i.e. shareholders holding 
2% or more shareholding), promoters, institutional 
investors, directors, key managerial personnel, the 
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. can attend 
the AGM without any restriction on account of 昀椀rst 
come-昀椀rst served principle.
h) 
Attendance of the Members participating in the 
AGM through VC/OAVM facility shall be counted 
for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Act.
i) 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of 
the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), Secretarial Standard on General 
Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) and 
Regulation 44 of Listing Regulations read with 
the MCA circulars, the Company is providing 
remote e-voting facility to its Members in respect 
of the business to be transacted at the AGM and 
facility for those Members participating in the 
AGM to cast vote through e-voting system during 
the AGM.
j) 
Members are informed that in case of joint holders 
attending the AGM, only such joint holder whose 
name stands 昀椀rst in the Register of Members of 
the Company / Register of bene昀椀cial owners as 
on cut-off date as received from NSDL / Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) 
(collectively referred to as “Depositories”) in 
respect of such joint holding will be entitled to 
vote.
k) 
In terms of the MCA Circulars, since the AGM 
has been convened through VC / OAVM facility, 
physical attendance of Members has been 
dispensed with and there is no requirement of 
appointment of proxies. Accordingly, the facility 
of appointment of proxies by Members under 
Section 105 of the Act will not be available for 
the AGM. However, in pursuance of Section 112 
and Section 113 of the Act, representatives of the 
Members may be appointed for the purpose of 
voting through remote e-voting, for participation in 
the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-voting 
during the AGM.
l) 
The Company is a SEBI registered, Category I 
Share Transfer Agent and handles all Registrar 
and Transfer Agents’ work in-house. The 
Company has adequate infrastructure to service 
its shareholders.
m) 
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password con昀椀dential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon 
昀椀ve unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct 
password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details / Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option available 
on https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ to reset the 
password.
n) 
To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are 
advised to exercise due diligence and notify the 
Company of any change in address or demise of 
any Member as soon as possible. Members are 
also advised not to leave their demat account(s) 
dormant for long. Periodic statement of holdings 
should be obtained from the concerned Depository 
Annual Report 2023-24
286
Participant and holdings should be veri昀椀ed from 
time to time.
o) 
Pursuant to the Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 
8, 2020, issued by the MCA, the facility to appoint 
proxy to attend and cast vote for the Members is 
not available for this AGM. However, the body 
corporates are entitled to appoint authorised 
representatives to attend the AGM through VC/
OAVM and participate there at and cast their 
votes through e-voting.
2. 
Instructions for Members for Remote e-voting are as 
under:-
a. 
The remote e-voting period will commence 
at 9:00 a.m. (IST) on Friday, September 27, 
2024 and end at 5:00 p.m. (IST) on Sunday, 
September 29, 2024. During this period, 
Members of the Company, holding shares either in 
physical form or in dematerialised form, as on the 
cut-off date i.e. Monday, September 23, 2024 
may cast their vote by remote e-voting. The voting 
right of Members shall be in proportion to their 
share in the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as on the cut-off date, being Monday, 
September 23, 2024. The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 
thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution is cast 
by a Member, the Member shall not be allowed to 
change it subsequently.
b. 
A person who is not a Member as on the cutoff date 
should treat this Notice of AGM for information 
purpose only.
 
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting System
a) 
Log-in Method for e-voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode;
b) 
Login Method for Shareholders other than 
Individual Shareholders holding Securities in 
demat mode and Shareholders holding securities 
in physical mode.
 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting 
system.
 
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:
A) 
Login Method for e-voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode
 
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised 
to update their mobile number and e-mail ID in 
their demat account in order to access e-voting 
facility.
 
 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL, Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.
com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the 
“Bene昀椀cial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will 
prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, 
you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access 
to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click 
on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.
nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home 
page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID 
(i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Veri昀椀cation 
Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to 
NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on Company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL 
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting 
during the meeting.
287
Type of shareholders Login Method
Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR 
code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
 
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
1.  
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without 
any further authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and 
then user your existing my easi username & password.
2.  
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the e-Voting is in progress as per the information provided by 
Company. On clicking the e-Voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of 
the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period. 
Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.  
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website HYPERLINK “https://www.cdslindia.com” and click on login & New System 
Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The 
system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded 
in the Demat Account.
After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the 
e-Voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders (holding 
securities in demat 
mode) login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility upon logging in, you will be 
able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL 
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click 
on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
 
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve user ID/Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at above mentioned website.
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com or calling at 022 – 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or calling at toll free number 
18002109911
Annual Report 2023-24
288
B) 
Login Method for Shareholders other than 
Individual 
shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in demat mode and shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode.
I. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open 
web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
II. 
Once the home page of e-Voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login” which is 
available under “Shareholders/Members” 
section.
III. 
A new screen will open. You will have to 
enter your User ID, your Password and a 
Veri昀椀cation Code as shown on the screen.
 
Alternatively, if you are registered for 
NSDL e-services i.e. IDEAS, you can log-
in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to 
NSDL e-services after using your log-
in credentials, click on e-Voting and you 
can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote 
electronically.
IV. 
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of 
holding shares i.e. 
Demat (NSDL or 
CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is
a) For Members 
who hold 
shares in 
demat account 
with NSDL
8 
Character 
DP 
ID 
followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID
For example if your 
DP ID is IN300***and 
Client ID is 12****** 
then your user ID is 
IN300***12******
b) For Members 
who hold 
shares in 
demat account 
with CDSL
16 Digit Bene昀椀ciary ID
For example if your 
Bene昀椀ciary 
ID 
is 
12**************, then 
your user ID is
12**************
c) For Members 
holding shares 
in Physical 
Form
EVEN Number followed 
by Folio Number
registered 
with 
the 
Company For example 
if 
folio 
number 
is 
001***and 
EVEN 
is 
116873 then user ID is 
116873001***
V. 
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
i. 
If you are already registered for 
e-Voting, then you can use your existing 
password to login and cast your vote.
ii. 
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system 
for the 昀椀rst time, you will need to 
retrieve the “initial password” which 
was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your “initial password”, you 
need to enter the “initial password” 
and the system will force you to change 
your password.
iii. 
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
a) 
If your e-mail ID is registered with 
your demat account or with the 
Company, your “initial password” 
is communicated to you on your 
e-mail ID. Trace the email sent to 
you from NSDL from your mail 
box. Open the e-mail and open 
the attachment i.e. .pdf 昀椀le. Open 
the .pdf 昀椀le. The password to open 
the pdf 昀椀le is your 8 digit client ID 
for NSDL account, last 8 digits of 
client ID for CDSL account or folio 
number for shares held in physical 
form. 
The 
.pdf 
昀椀le 
contains 
your “User ID” and your “initial 
password”.
b) 
If your e-mail ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned 
below 
in 
process 
for 
those 
Members whose e-mail IDs are 
not registered.
VI. 
If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received the “Initial password” or have 
forgotten your password click on:
i. 
“Forgot User Details/Password?” (If 
you are holding shares in your demat 
account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www. evoting.nsdl.com.
ii. 
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you 
are holding shares in physical mode) 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.
com.
iii. 
If you are still unable to get the 
password by aforesaid two options, you 
can send a request at www.evoting.
nsdl.com 
mentioning 
your 
demat 
account number/folio number, your 
PAN, your name and your registered 
address.
289
iv. 
Members can also use the OTP (One 
Time Password) based login for casting 
the votes on the e-Voting system of 
NSDL.
VII. After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on 
the check box.
VIII. Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
IX. 
After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-Voting will open.
 
Details on Step 2 are given below: 
 
How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting 
system?
I. 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the Companies “EVEN” in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle is active.
II. 
Select “EVEN” of Company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. 
For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on 
“VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join General 
Meeting”.
III. 
Now, you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
IV. 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and 
click on “Submit” and “Con昀椀rm” when prompted.
V. 
Upon con昀椀rmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
VI. 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
con昀椀rmation page.
VII. Once you con昀椀rm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
 
In case of any queries with respect to the manner of 
voting, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions 
(FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user manual 
for Shareholders available at the download section 
of www.evoting.nsdl. com or call on .: 022 - 4886 
7000 or send a request at www.evoting.nsdl.com or 
contact Mr. Amit Vishal, Deputy Vice President or Ms. 
Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, National Securities 
Depository Limited, 301, 3rd Floor, Naman Chambers, 
G Block, Plot No- C-32, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra East,  Mumbai- 400051, at the designated 
e-mail ID: evoting@nsdl.com who will also address 
the grievances connected with the voting by electronic 
means.
 
Process for those Members whose e-mail ids are not 
registered for procuring user id and password and 
registration of e-mail ids for e-voting on the resolutions 
set out in this Notice:
 
In terms of MCA Circulars, the Notice, explanatory 
statement together with accompanying documents, 
is being sent to the Members through electronic form 
only at the e-mail IDs registered with the Depositories 
in case of electronic shareholding or the Company’s 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (in case of physical 
shareholding). Members whose e-mail addresses are 
not so registered, may follow the following procedure:
• 
In case shares are held in physical mode, please 
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certi昀椀cate (front and back), 
PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) by e-mail to investors@3i-infotech.com.
• 
In case shares are held in demat mode, please 
provide DPID-CLID (16-digit DPID + Client ID 
or 16 digit bene昀椀ciary ID), Name, client master 
or copy of Consolidated Account statement, 
PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) to investors@3i-infotech.com. If you are 
an Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode, you are requested to refer to the 
login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. a) Login 
Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode.
• 
Alternatively, shareholder / Members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
• 
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories 
and Depository Participants. Shareholders are 
required to update their mobile number and 
e-mail ID correctly in their demat account in order 
to access e-Voting facility.
3. 
Instructions for Members for participating in the 
AGM through VC/OAVM are as under:
a. 
Member will be provided with a facility to attend 
the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access by 
following the steps mentioned above for Access 
to NSDL e-Voting system. After successful login, 
you can see link of “VC/OAVM link” placed under 
Annual Report 2023-24
290
“Join meeting” menu against Company name. You 
are requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed 
under Join meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM 
will be available in Shareholder/Member login 
where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
Please note that the Members who do not have 
the User ID and Password for e-voting or have 
forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve 
the same by following the remote e-voting 
instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid last 
minute rush.
b. 
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion 
to their share in the paid-up equity share capital of 
the Company as on the cut-off date of Monday, 
September 23, 2024.
c. 
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
d. 
Further, Members will be required to allow 
Camera and use Internet with a good speed to 
avoid any disturbance during the meeting.
e. 
Please note that Members connecting from 
mobile devices or tablets or through laptops etc. 
connecting via Mobile hotspot may experience 
Audio / Video loss due to 昀氀uctuation in their 
respective network. It is therefore recommended 
to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate 
any kind of aforesaid glitches.
f. 
Members can submit questions in advance with 
regard to items mentioned in the Notice or any 
other matter to be placed at the AGM, from their 
registered e-mail address, mentioning their name, 
DP ID and Client ID number / folio number and 
mobile number, to reach the Company’s e-mail 
address investors@3i-infotech.com at least 48 
hours in advance before the start of the AGM 
i.e. by Saturday, September 28, 2024 by 11:30 
a.m. (IST). Such questions by the Members shall 
be taken up during the AGM and replied by the 
Company suitably.
g. 
Members who would like to express their views 
or ask questions during the AGM may register 
themselves as a speaker by sending their request 
from their registered e-mail address mentioning 
their name, DP ID and Client ID / folio number, 
PAN, mobile number at investors@3i-infotech. 
com between 9:00 a.m. (IST) on Wednesday, 
September 25, 2024 to 5:00 p.m. (IST) on 
Thursday, September 26, 2024. Those Members 
who have registered themselves as a speaker 
will only be allowed to express their views/ask 
questions during the AGM. The Company reserves 
the right to restrict the number of questions 
and number of speakers depending upon the 
availability of time for the AGM.
4. 
Instructions for Members for e-Voting during the 
AGM are as under:
a) 
Members may follow the same procedure for 
e-voting during the AGM as mentioned above for 
remote e-Voting.
b) 
Only those Members, who will be present in the 
AGM through VC / OAVM facility and have not 
cast their vote on the Resolutions through remote 
e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing 
so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting 
system in the AGM.
c) 
Members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-Voting prior to the AGM may also participate in 
the AGM through VC/OAVM facility but shall not 
be entitled to cast their vote again.
d) 
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for Remote e-Voting.
5. 
General Instructions for the Members:
a) 
SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent 
Account Number (PAN) by every participant in 
securities market. Members holding shares in 
electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit 
the PAN to their Depository Participants with 
whom they are maintaining their demat accounts. 
Members holding shares in physical form can 
submit their PAN details to the Company.
b) 
In terms of Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations, 
securities of listed companies can only be 
transferred in dematerialised form with effect 
from April 1, 2019. In view of the above, Members 
are advised to dematerialise shares held by them 
in physical form.
c) 
The Register of Members and the Share Transfer 
Books of the Company will remain closed from 
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 to Monday, 
September 30, 2024 (both days inclusive). 
d) 
Notice of this AGM has been sent to those 
Members whose names appear in the Register 
of Members as Friday August 30, 2024.
 
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes Member of the Company after the Company 
sends the Notice of the AGM by e-mail may obtain 
the User ID and password by sending a request to 
the Company’s e-mail address investors@3i-infotech.
com or by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com. 
However, if you are already registered with NSDL for 
remote e-Voting then you can use your existing user 
ID and password for casting your vote. If you forgot 
your password, you can reset your password by using 
291
“Forgot User Details / Password?” or “Physical User 
Reset Password?” option available www.evoting.nsdl.
com or call on 022 - 4886 7000. In case of Individual 
Shareholders holding securities in demat mode who 
acquires shares of the Company and becomes a 
Member of the Company after sending of the Notice 
and holding shares as of the cut-off date i.e. Monday, 
September 23, 2024 may follow steps mentioned in 
the Notice of the AGM under “Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system”.
e) 
A person, whose name is recorded in the Register 
of Members or in the Register of Bene昀椀cial 
Owners maintained by the depositories as on 
the cut-off date only shall be entitled to avail the 
facility of remote e-Voting or casting vote through 
e-voting system during the AGM.
f) 
The Company reserves the right to limit the 
number of Members asking questions depending 
on the availability of time at the AGM.
g) 
The Chairman shall at the AGM, at the end of 
discussion on the resolutions on which voting is to 
be held, allow voting, by use of e-Voting system 
for all those Members who are present during the 
AGM through VC / OAVM, but have not cast their 
votes by availing the remote e-Voting facility. The 
remote e-Voting module during the AGM shall be 
enabled by NSDL for voting 15 minutes after the 
conclusion of AGM.
h) 
The Company has appointed Mr. Prakash Shenoy 
(Membership No. F12625) and failing him Mr. Anil 
Shah (Membership No. F3088), Partners of M/s. 
SAP & Associates Practicing Company Secretaries 
as scrutiniser (the “Scrutiniser”) to scrutinise the 
e-Voting at the AGM and remote e-Voting in a fair 
and transparent manner.
i) 
The Scrutiniser shall after the conclusion of 
e-Voting at the AGM, 昀椀rst download the votes 
cast at the AGM and thereafter unblock the votes 
cast through remote e-Voting and shall make a 
consolidated scrutiniser’s report of the total votes 
cast in favour or against, invalid votes, if any, and 
whether a particular resolution has been carried 
or not, and such Report shall then be sent to the 
Chairperson or a person authorised by him, within 
two working days from the conclusion of the 
AGM, who shall then countersign and declare the 
result of the voting forthwith.
j) 
The voting results of the AGM declared along with 
the report of the Scrutiniser shall be placed on the 
website of the Company at www.3i-infotech.com 
and on the website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.
com immediately after the declaration of results 
by the Chairperson or a person authorised by him. 
The results shall also be immediately forwarded 
to the stock exchanges.
k) 
The Notice of the AGM and the Annual Report 
for the FY 2023–24 including therein the Audited 
Financial Statements for the year 2023-24, will 
be available on the website of the Company at 
www.3i-infotech.com. The Notice of 31st AGM 
will also be available on the websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com 
and www.nseindia.com, respectively and also 
available on the website of NSDL (agency for 
providing the Remote e-Voting facility) i.e. www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
l) 
We urge Members to support our commitment to 
environmental protection by choosing to receive 
the Company’s communication through e-mail. 
The Members holding shares in electronic form 
who have not registered their e-mail address 
are requested to register the same with their 
concerned Depository Participant for this purpose 
and for receiving all such communications from 
the Company. Members holding shares in physical 
form may write to the Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent.
m) 
Members are requested to note that trading 
in equity shares of the Company on the Stock 
Exchanges is permitted only in dematerialised 
form as per the noti昀椀cation issued by SEBI. The 
shares of the Company are available for trading 
under both the depository systems in India i.e. 
NSDL and CDSL. Members who continue to hold 
shares in physical form are, therefore, requested 
to note that they will not be able to trade in the 
shares of the Company, unless the same are 
dematerialised.
n) 
Pursuant to the requirements of Corporate 
Governance under Listing Regulations and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, 
information about the Director proposed to be re-
appointed has been given in the Annexure to this 
Notice.
o) 
Members desirous of getting any information 
about the accounts and operations of the 
Company are requested to write to the Company 
at least seven days before the AGM to enable the 
Company to keep the information ready at the 
AGM.
p) 
Members may avail of the nomination facility as 
provided under Section 72 of the Act (including 
any statutory modi昀椀cation(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force). Members 
desiring to avail this facility may send their 
nomination in the prescribed Form No. SH-13 duly 
Annual Report 2023-24
292
昀椀lled in, to the Company at its Registered Of昀椀ce 
address. Members holding shares in electronic 
mode may contact their respective Depository 
Participants for availing this facility.
q) 
The soft copy of Register of Directors and Key 
Managerial Personnel and their shareholding 
maintained under Section 170 of the Act and 
the Register of Contracts and Arrangements 
in which Directors are interested maintained 
under Section 189 of the Act will be available 
electronically for inspection without any fees by 
the Members from the date of circulation of this 
Notice upto the date of AGM i.e. Members seeking 
to inspect such documents can send an e-mail to 
www.3i-infotech.com.
293
Additional Information as required to be disclosed under Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) regarding the Directors proposed 
to be appointed/re-appointed:
Name of the Director
Dr. Aruna Sharma
Date of Birth/Age
August 19, 1958/ 66 years
Quali昀椀cation
As mentioned in Annexure to Notice
Experience
As mentioned in Annexure to Notice
Date of 昀椀rst appointment on the Board of Directors
February 1, 2022
Relationship with other Directors, Manager and Other Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company
None
Expertise in speci昀椀c functional Area
As mentioned in Annexure to Notice
Brief Resume of the Director
As mentioned in Annexure to Notice
Directorships held in other Companies (excluding Foreign 
Companies)
1. Arjas Steel Private Limited
2. Welspun Enterprises Limited
3. Goldsikka Limited
4. Welspun Aunta-Simaria Project Private Limited
5. Logically Infomedia Private Limited
List of Membership / Chairmanship of Committees on 
other Boards
A. Audit Committee
Welspun Enterprises Limited
B. Stakeholder Relationship Committee
Welspun Enterprises Limited(C)
C. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Welspun Enterprises Limited(C) 
Listed entities from which the person has resigned in the 
past 3 years
None
Disclosure of relationships between Directors inter-se
None
Number of shares held in the Company as on date of this 
Notice including shareholding as a bene昀椀cial owner
Nil
Details of remuneration last drawn
Sitting Fees for attending the Board and Committee Meetings 
as applicable
Details of remuneration sought to be paid
Sitting Fees for attending the Board and Committee Meetings 
as applicable
Terms and conditions of appointment or re-appointment  
Appointment as Non-Executive Director liable to retire by 
rotation
Justi昀椀cation for choosing the appointee for appointment 
as an Independent Director
Not Applicable
Number of Board Meetings attended during the year
Please refer Corporate Governance Report which is a part of 
this Annual Report
(C) Chairperson
Annual Report 2023-24
294
Annexure
Brief Pro昀椀le of the Directors Seeking Appointment / Re-appointment at the  
31st Annual General Meeting Dr. Aruna Sharma (DIN: 06515361)
Dr. Aruna Sharma an Indian Administrative Of昀椀cer of 1982 
batch Madhya Pradesh Cadre retired after her work as 
Secretary of Steel and Information Technology in Government 
of India. She has always focused to have a comprehensive 
approach and establish a system in all her postings for 
ensuring sustainable quality outcomes. She has written 
books, reaching the Last Bene昀椀ciary: Resource Convergence 
Mantra Model (2008) and Impact of Recourse Convergence 
in Policy Making, Mainstreaming of Resource Convergence 
in Policy Making Program Design and Execution (2014) 
released by UNDP. FAO has also published her work on 
food security. Her latest work is the book U@Game Changer 
for Inclusive Growth for public representatives. Her article 
on “The Samagra anti‐poverty program in Madhya Pradesh: 
Integrating household data, overcoming silo‐problems and 
leaving nobody behind” is published in electronic version. 
Her new book Dancing Towards the $5 Trillion Economy on 
Holistic Beat.
She as Secretary Steel drafted and successfully executed 
Steel Policy and preferential procurement policy. The GFR 
amendment set the trend to enhance domestic demand and 
was key to the revival of the sector. Logistic improvements 
were planned and envisaged by getting a ‘right of way 
policy’ from Railways for slurry pipelines and maximum 
usage of Sagarmala routes.
At State and Center, she has visualised, worked and 
implemented successful software like SAMAGRA (a 
household wise common database) used by all the 
individual and family bene昀椀t schemes, now implemented in 
8 states, Panch Parmeshwar has made the entire working 
of Panchayat, Block and district for all works executed 
cashlessly. This graduated to Priya Soft. The software 
is real-time data of all the receipts expenditures by the 
Panchayat irrespective of the source of funding. Besides, 
all receipts and payments are cashless. It generates all 
the statutory 8 reports required by CAG in auto mode. The 
Panchayat only must enter the project estimates, cash book, 
and upload bills and photographs of the status of work. 
It is online on the web and any Panchayat can be viewed 
and monitored. The 昀椀nancial inclusion model involving all 
kinds of 昀椀nancial institutions to ensure access in 5km radius 
was developed along with the popularisation RuPay card. 
Besides, envisaged and by coordination developed have 
common National Scholarship portal and GeM portal for 
procurement to list a few. She was Secretary of Information 
Technology and later Secretary Steel in the government of 
India. She was instrumental to bring in a comprehensive 
approach and has visualised and drafted the National 
Steel Policy 2017 and a clear policy on preference for local 
manufacturing that has enabled the complete revival of the 
sector. The amendment to GFR rules by adding the life cycle 
cost has been the game-changer. 
She was also Director General Doordarshan where she gave 
world-class coverage to Common wealth Games 2010 and 
that sent benchmark. Doordarshan channels went up in TRP 
and revenue generation in her tenure. Her focus of work is 
also in the area of Water Security and enhancing local jobs. 
Access to preventive health care has been the focus when 
she worked as Secretary of Health and Family Welfare. 
The focus has been on holistic care in terms of drinking 
water, sanitation, preventive hygiene and vaccination and 
access to inpatient. She has been a member of the National 
Knowledge Commission on health care and education. Her 
doctoral work is on psycho-barriers in access to public health 
care. She has worked extensively with policy makers for the 
revival of mining in Goa and the new draft of the proposed 
mining policy.
She was in the 5 member High-Level RBI committee on 
Deepening of Digital Payments constituted by the Reserve 
Bank of India- a report that had immediate execution. 
She is a Fellow with the University of Bath in the UK and 
working on accelerating the success and sustainability of 
SDGs by resorting to the common household database. 
She is an alumnus of Harvard Kennedy School. Her forte is 
development, core sectors and environmental issues. She 
regularly writes for Financial Express, Economic Times, and 
CNBC 18.
Registered Of昀椀ce:
Tower # 5,
International Infotech Park,
Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400 703 
Maharashtra
By the Order of the Board
For 3i Infotech Limited
Sd/-
Varika Rastogi
Company Secretary 
Date: August 14, 2024
Place: Navi Mumbai
295
GLOBAL PRESENCE
INDIA 
Tower # 5, International Infotech Park, Vashi Railway Station 
Complex, Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400703, Maharashtra, India
A-13,1st 昀氀oor, Graphix Tower, near electricity Tower and 
Metro station, Sector-62, Noida-201309, Uttar Pradesh, India
Tower # 6, 6th 昀氀oor, International Infotech Park, Vashi Railway 
Station Complex, Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400703, Maharashtra, 
India
Crescent Solitaire Commercial, 2nd 昀氀oor Saki Naka, 
Andheri - 400072, Maharashtra, India
C-57, Sector-57, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Noida – 201301, 
Uttar Pradesh, India
Unit 6B and corporation door No 1/12 in East Wing , Sobha 
Pearl, Opp. Mayo Hall, bearing Municipal No. 1 (Old Nos. 16, 
17, 18 and 19), Commissariat Road, Ward No. 76, Bangalore 
560025
No. 2/88, 3rd 昀氀oor, Saravana Matrix Tower LLP – SM Tower, 
Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), Seevaram, Perungudi, 
Chennai – 600096,
Tamil Nadu, India
1st Floor, Brigade Tech Park B Block, Pattandur Agrahara 
Village, K.R Puram Hobli, White昀椀eld Road, Bangalore-560066, 
Karnataka
5th 昀氀oor, DHFL VC Silicon Towers, Kondapur, Hyderabad – 
500032, Telangana, India
6th 昀氀oor, Tower # 2, E-Wing, Seawoods Grand Central, 
Sector - 40, Seawoods Darave Railway Station, Nerul Node, 
Navi Mumbai - 400706, Maharashtra, India
Module No. B3-05, 3rd 昀氀oor, Block B, IITMRP, Kanagam Road, 
Taramani, Chennai – 600113, Tamil Nadu, India
USA 
110 Fieldcrest Avenue, Suite 22, Edison, NJ - 08837
UAE 
Of昀椀ce 110, Building 1, Dubai Internet City,  
P. O. Box No. 9109, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Business Gate Center, Of昀椀ce 1011-23, Level 10, IBN Batuta 
Gate, Jebel Ali 1, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
SAIF X3 Building, Of昀椀ce No. 48-57, P.O. Box 8089, Sharjah, 
United Arab Emirates
BAHRAIN
Gulf Business Centre, Al Salam Tower 11th 昀氀oor, Of昀椀ce No. 1129, Building No. 722, Road 1708, Block 317, Diplomatic Area, 
Kingdom of Bahrain
SAUDI ARABIAH
Of昀椀ce No. 104, 1st 昀氀oor, Intersection of Al-Takhassusi Street 
with Imam Saud bin Abdulaziz Road, Al Mohammadiyyah 
District, 8011 Leaders Business Centre, 3282, Riyadh 12363, 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Abdullah Al Qahtani Building, 2nd 昀氀oor, Of昀椀ce No. 6, Cross 
18, Prince Bandar Street, Al Khobar, P.O. Box 8897, Dammam 
31492, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
THAILAND
30th 昀氀oor, No. 152, Chartered Square Building, 30-01, North Sathorn Road, Kaweng Silom, Khet Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, 
Thailand
MALAYSIA
2B-23-1, Level 23, Block 2B , Plaza Sentral, Jalan Stesen Sentral 5, 50470, Kuala Lumpur Sentral Malaysia
 
Annual Report 2023-24
296
PAN UPDATE/ E-COMMUNICATION REGISTRATION FORM 
(FOR PHYSICAL HOLDERS OF SHARES WHO HAVE NOT YET UPDATED THEIR  
E-MAIL ID, PAN AND / OR BANK ACCOUNT DETAILS WITH THE COMPANY)
To, 
3i INFOTECH LIMITED 
Tower # 5, 3rd Floor, International Infotech Park, 
Vashi Station Complex, 
Vashi, Navi Mumbai – 400703 
Ph: +91-22-7123 8000 
Email: investors@3i-infotech.com
Folio No.
Name of the sole / 昀椀rst named Member
Name of Joint holder(s)
Registered Address of Member
Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Self – Attested Copy to 
be attached)
E-mail ID to be registered
Mobile No.
Bank Account Details (for electronic credit of all future 
Dividends, if any)
Name of the Bank
Name of the Branch
Account Number (as appearing in your cheque book)
Account Type (Saving / Current / Cash Credit)
Saving
Current
Cash Credit
9 Digit MICR Number (as appearing on the MICR cheque 
issued by the bank) Please enclose a photocopy of a cheque 
for veri昀椀cation
IFSC Code
Date: 
Signature of the Member: 
Note:
1. 
Members holding shares in demat mode are requested to contact their Depository Participant (DP) for updation of above 
details.
2. 
Members are requested to keep DP / RTA / Company informed as and when there is any change in the email address. 
Unless the E-mail ID given above is changed by you by sending another communication in writing / E-mail, the Company 
will continue to send the documents to you on the above-mentioned E-mail ID.
3. 
Members hereby authorise Company to send all the correspondence on the above-mentioned E-mail ID.
4. 
Please enclose a self-attested copy of PAN card of the 昀椀rst named member, original cancelled cheque leaf and address 
proof (Aadhaar card) as required for updating of the details along with this form.
297
NOTES 
NOTES 
NOTES 
NORTH AMERICA  EUROPE 
MIDDLE EAST    AFRICA
SOUTH ASIA    ASIA PACIFIC
Registered Of昀椀ce: Tower #5, International Infotech 
Park, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400 703, 
Maharashtra, India
E-mail: investors@3i-infotech.com 
Website: www.3i-infotech.com
