Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly known as “Gati Limited”) 
Registered Office: 4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India 
Corporate Office: Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur, Hyderabad, Rangareddy – 500084, Telangana, India 
E-mail: investor.services@allcargologistics.com Tel: 022 66798100
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155 | Website: www.gati.com
August 17, 2024 
BSE  Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001. 
Tel:   022 - 2272 1233 / 34 
Fax:  022 - 2272 2131 / 1072/ 2037 / 2061 / 41 
Scrip Code: 532345 
ISIN No.: INE152B01027 
Re.: Allcargo Gati Limited 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E),  Mumbai – 400 051 
Tel:     022 - 2659 8235 / 36 / 452 
Fax:    022 - 2659 8237/ 38 
Symbol : ACLGATI 
ISIN No.: INE152B01027 
Re.: Allcargo Gati Limited 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Subject: Notice of 29th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report of the Company for 
the Financial Year 2023-24. 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 and 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), please 
find enclosed herewith the Notice convening 29th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and the 
Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2023-24. 
The 29th AGM will be held on Tuesday, September 10, 2024 at 3:00 P.M. (IST) through 
Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) without physical 
presence of the Members and in compliance with the applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with rules made thereunder and various Circulars 
issued by MCA and SEBI from time to time in this regard, with the latest circular General 
Circular No 10/2022 dated December 28, 2022, General Circular No 11/2022 dated 
December 28, 2022 (MCA) and and General Circular No. 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 
read with applicable SEBI circulars (hereinafter collectively referred to as “the Circulars”) to 
transact the businesses as set out in the Notice of the 29th AGM.  
In compliance with the above circulars the Annual Report for the financial year 2023-24 and 
Notice of the 29th AGM has been sent electronically to all the members of the Company 
whose email addresses are registered with the Company or Depository Participant(s).  
In terms of Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended 
from 
time 
to 
time 
and 
in 
terms 
of 
SEBI 
vide 
circular 
no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 09, 2020 in relation to e-Voting 
Facility Provided by Listed Entities, the Company is providing e-voting facility to its 
members (holding shares either in physical or dematerialized form) to exercise their right to 
vote by electronic means on the businesses specified in the Notice of the 29th AGM of the 
Company (“Remote e-voting”).  
 
 
Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly known as “Gati Limited”) 
Registered Office: 4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India 
Corporate Office: Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur, Hyderabad, Rangareddy – 500084, Telangana, India 
E-mail: investor.services@allcargologistics.com Tel: 022 66798100 
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155 | Website: www.gati.com  
 
The Company is also offering the facility to the Members to cast their vote electronically 
during the AGM. Accordingly, the Company has fixed Tuesday, September 03, 2024 as the 
cut-off date to determine the eligibility of the members to cast their vote by electronic means 
and e-voting during the AGM. 
The voting rights of Members shall be in the proportion to their shares of the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date of Tuesday, September 03, 2024. 
The remote e-voting will commence on Saturday, September 07, 2024 at 9:00 AM (IST) and 
close on Monday, September 09, 2024 at 5:00 PM (IST). 
The brief details of the agenda items proposed to be transacted and important information 
relating to the 29th AGM are provided in Annexure I and Annexure II respectively. 
The information contained in this intimation shall also be made available on the Company’s 
website www.gati.com, on the website of the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(www.nseindia.com) and BSE Limited (www.bseindia.com).  
We request you to kindly take the same on your record. 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Allcargo Gati Limited 
(Formerly known as “Gati Limited”) 
 
 
 
T.S. Maharani 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
M. No. F8069 
 
Encl.: As above 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHANTHAVADH
AN MAHARANI 
THIRUVELLUR
Digitally signed by 
SHANTHAVADHAN 
MAHARANI THIRUVELLUR 
Date: 2024.08.17 14:09:53 
+05'30'
 
 
Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly known as “Gati Limited”) 
Registered Office: 4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India 
Corporate Office: Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur, Hyderabad, Rangareddy – 500084, Telangana, India 
E-mail: investor.services@allcargologistics.com Tel: 022 66798100 
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155 | Website: www.gati.com  
 
Annexure I 
 
Brief Summary of the Resolutions proposed to be transacted at the 29th AGM of the 
Company. 
 
Resolution 
No. 
Details of the Resolution 
Ordinary/Special 
Resolution 
Ordinary Business: 
1. 
To receive, consider and adopt the audited financial statements 
of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
and the Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors 
thereon. 
Ordinary 
2. 
To receive, consider and adopt the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 and the Report of the Auditors thereon. 
 
Ordinary 
3. 
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty (DIN: 
00012754), who retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers 
himself for re-appointment. 
 
Ordinary 
Special Business: 
4. 
Approval for the payment of commission to the Non- 
Executive and Independent Director(s) of the Company. 
 
Special 
5. 
Approval to advance any loan, give any guarantee or to 
provide any security to all such person specified under section 
185 of the Companies Act, 2013 upto an aggregate limit of 
Rs.500 crores. 
 
Special 
6. 
Additional objective for utilization of the proceeds of the 
Preferential Issue of Warrants made during FY 2021-22 by the 
Company. 
 
Special 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly known as “Gati Limited”) 
Registered Office: 4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India 
Corporate Office: Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur, Hyderabad, Rangareddy – 500084, Telangana, India 
E-mail: investor.services@allcargologistics.com Tel: 022 66798100 
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155 | Website: www.gati.com  
 
Annexure II 
 
Information at a glance 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Partcilars 
Details 
1. 
Day, Date and Time of AGM 
Tuesday, September 10, 2024 at 3:00 P.M. (IST). 
 
2. 
Mode 
Video Conference (VC)/Other Audio-Visual Means 
(OAVM). 
 
3. 
Participation through Video-
Conferencing 
Members can login from 2:30 p.m. (IST) on the date of 
AGM at www.evoting.nsdl.com  
 
4. 
Helpline Number for VC 
participation 
022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 
5. 
Speaker 
Registration 
and 
Submission of Questions / 
Queries Before AGM 
Members are encouraged to express their views / send 
their queries in advance mentioning their name demat 
account number / folio number, e-mail ID, mobile 
number at investor.services@allcargologistics.com  
 
Questions / queries received by the Company till 5:00 
p.m. on Sunday, September 08, 2024 shall only be 
considered and responded during the AGM. 
 
6. 
Recorded transcript 
Will be made available post AGM at www.gati.com   
 
7. 
Cut-off date for e-voting 
Tuesday, September 03, 2024 
 
8. 
Remote E-voting start time 
and date 
Saturday, September 07, 2024 at 9:00 A.M. (IST) 
9. 
Remote E-voting close time 
and date 
Monday, September 09, 2024 at 5:00 P.M. (IST) 
10. 
Remote E-voting website of 
NSDL 
www.evoting.nsdl.com 
11. 
Email Registration & Contact 
Updation Process 
Detailed in the Notes forming part of this Notice of 29th 
AGM. 
 
 
 
GREEN PATH 
FOR THE 
NEW FUTURE.
ANNUAL REPORT
2023-24
Disclaimer: We have exercised utmost care in the preparation of this report. 
It contains forecasts and/or information relating to forecasts. Forecasts are 
based on facts, expectations, and/or past figures. As with all 
forward-looking statements, forecasts are connected with known and 
unknown uncertainties, which may mean the actual results deviate 
significantly from the forecast. Forecasts prepared by the third parties, or 
data or evaluations used by third parties and mentioned in this 
communication, may be inappropriate, incomplete, or falsified. We cannot 
assess whether information in this report has been taken from third parties, 
or these provide the basis of our own evaluations, such use is made known 
in this report. As a result of the above-mentioned circumstances, we can 
provide no warranty regarding the correctness, completeness, and 
up-to-date nature of information taken, and declared as being taken, from 
third parties, as well as for forward-looking statements, irrespective of 
whether these derive from third parties or ourselves. Readers should keep 
this in mind. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any 
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.
CORPORATE 
INFORMATION
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty
Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
Independent Director
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
Independent Director
Audit Committee
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal, Chairman
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey, Member
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla, 
Member
Mr. Hetal Madhukant Gandhi, Member
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal, Chairman
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla, 
Member
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni, Member
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents
Link Intime India Private Limited
Corporate Registry
Unit: Gati Limited, C -101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai – 400 083, Maharashtra
Tel. No.: 18003454001
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy 
Kalyaniwalla
Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director
Mr. Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
Independent Director
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni
Independent Director
Mr. Ravi Jakhar
Non-Executive & Non-Independent 
Director
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari
Non-Executive & Non-Independent 
Director
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty
Managing Director
Mr. Anish T Mathew
Chief Financial Officer
Mrs. T. S. Maharani
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Board of Directors
Key Managerial Personnel
Members of the Committees
Registered Office: 
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz (East), 
Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India. Tel: 022 66798100
Corporate Office:
Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur. Hyderabad, 
Rangareddi – 500084, Telangana, India. Tel: 040 7120 4284
Risk Management Committee
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey, Chairman
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla, 
Member
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari, Member
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni, Chairperson
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla, 
Member
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal, Member
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla, 
Chairperson
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal, Member
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni, Member
Auditors
M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
Bankers/Financial Institutions
IndusInd Bank Limited
Axis Bank Limited
State Bank of India Limited
Canara Bank Limited
CONTENTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Business Outlook  
03
6
0
 
G
S
E
Message from the Chairman 
08
Financial Metrics 
11
Board of Directors 
12
Management Team 
13
India’s Leading end-to-end  
14
Logistics Solutions  
Ground Express 
15
Air Express  
16
Supply Chain  
17
Retail Services  
18
AllcargoGATI’s CSR Vision  
19
Awards and Accolades  
20
STATUTORY REPORTS
Notice 
22
Directors’ Report 
33
Report on Corporate Governance 
50
Management Discussion and Analysis 
65
Business Responsibility and  
70
Sustainability Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STANDALONE 
- Independent Auditor’s Report 
99
- Balance Sheet 
108
- Statement of Proﬁt & Loss 
109
- Cash Flow Statement 
110
- Statement of Changes in Equity 
112
- Notes to the Financial Statements 
114
CONSOLIDATED
- Independent Auditor’s Report 
161
- Balance Sheet 
168
- Statement of Proﬁt & Loss 
169
- Cash Flow Statement 
170
- Statement of Changes in Equity 
172
- Notes to the Financial Statements 
174
Corporate Overview
DRIVING 
GROWTH 
TOWARDS 
A GREENER 
PATH 
For over three decades, AllcargoGATI 
has been delivering progress with 
ingenious solutions, enabling enterprise 
with nationwide reach and agility.
As we strive forward with 
digitally-enabled logistics services, 
augmented reach, and world-class 
infrastructure, we are conscious of our 
commitment to Environment Social and 
Governance (ESG) norms and 
sustainability. It is a key guiding force 
that steers us to take strategic 
decisions that reduce ecological 
impact and empower businesses with 
green mobility.
Through collaborative, result-oriented 
action, we build on the dreams of a 
young, bold India, driving growth 
towards a greener path and protecting 
our planet for future generations.
02  |  Annual Report 2023-24 
We have evolved to provide multiple services and solutions in logistics and 
distribution, to emerge as a market leader in varied segments. Backed by an 
extensive network across India, we offer services to more than 19,800 pin 
codes, covering 735 out of 739 districts in India, operating more than 1900 
scheduled routes. Further, 1000 PIN Codes were moved from ESS to direct 
delivery during the year, augmenting reach and speed. Our integrated 
multi-modal transportation network comprising surface and air helps to 
ensure timely deliveries across the length and breadth of the country. 
AllcargoGATI’s PAN-India warehousing facilities also play a crucial role in 
offering customized Supply Chain Solutions to customers across verticals. 
As part of Allcargo, We are geared to grow into a digitally-enabled market 
leader committed to contributing towards driving India's growth story 
forward.
Vehicle 
Tracking
Digital 
Payments
Organization-wide 
ERP System
Genie
Annual Report 2023-24  |  03
Corporate Overview
BUSINESS 
OUTLOOK
With more than three decades of 
experience, AllcargoGATI, offers 
Ground Express, Air Express and 
Supply Chain Solutions to meet varied 
customer requirements. A commitment 
to facilitate our customers’ business 
growth with excellent logistics services 
and green mobility, drives us to deliver 
customized solutions, designed to 
delight and provide a seamless 
experience. 
Corporate Overview
04  |  Annual Report 2023-24
GOING GREEN 
FOR BUSINESSES 
AND THE 
ENVIRONMENT
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2023-24  |  05
At AllcargoGATI, we are dedicated to fostering a sustainable 
future by embracing green initiatives and reducing our carbon 
footprint. Our commitment to going green is not just a 
corporate responsibility but a core value that drives our 
operations and partnerships. Through innovative solutions 
and strategic collaborations, we are paving the way for a 
cleaner, greener tomorrow.
Enabling businesses to 
go green
In fact, we have been supporting 
Swedish furniture giant, IKEA’s 
mission to be 100% zero emission 
in home deliveries by 2025. In 2019, 
we started with two electric vehicles 
which contributed to 2% of all home 
deliveries in Hyderabad, India. 
Today, 61% of all deliveries from the 
IKEA Hyderabad store take place 
through electric vehicles. This 
EV-led last-mile delivery partnership 
was expanded for the IKEA 
Nagasandra store Bengaluru, by 
deploying electric three-wheeler 
cargo vehicles. There are also plans 
to onboard larger-capacity, 
four-wheeler cargo vehicles in the 
near future.
Recently, we also collaborated with 
Schneider Electric to power their 
deliveries with alternative fuel 
compressed natural gas (CNG) 
vehicles, to go green for all in-city 
transportation by 2025.
AllcargoGATI remains steadfast in 
our mission to create a sustainable 
environment for future 
generations. By continually 
expanding our green initiatives and 
partnering with like-minded 
organizations, we are setting new 
standards in eco-friendly logistics 
and transportation. Together, we 
are making significant impact and 
lead the way towards a more 
sustainable and environmentally 
conscious world.
Alternatives to fossil fuel
Making a headway in its 
commitment to reduce carbon 
emissions, AllcargoGATI has 
introduced EVs for first and last mile 
deliveries, with more than 100 EVs 
deployed, in an introductory phase, 
across the country. Further, with an 
MoU with clean energy solutions 
provider, Gentari, we are adding 
another 500 electric cargo vehicles 
to its existing fleet.
With Care for Environment and Society enshrined in our core values, 
we have adopted a strategic approach to Environment, Social and 
Governance (ESG) norms. Under the expertise of our ESG knowledge 
partners, a dedicated ESG team works in collaboration with teams across 
India. Equipped with insights and empirical data provided by our AI powered 
ESG technology partner, we have mapped our ESG goals vis-à-vis carbon 
emissions to labour practices, human rights and cyber security. 
As an express logistics company, reducing our carbon emissions is a top 
priority for us, for which we have taken considerable steps during the year. 
We have made significant investments in Electric Vehicles (EVs) and forged 
partnerships to provide other alternative fuel options with aim of converting 
our entire pick-up and delivery fleet to alternative fuel by 2025 and 
contributing to India’s goal of being net-zero in carbon emissions by 2070.  
Giving direction our initiatives is our ESG goal of becoming carbon neutral 
by 2040. 
06  |  Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Corporate Overview
OUR CSR PILLARS
We take pride in our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs which 
are focused on uplifting and bringing a positive change in communities 
where we operate.
Our business is built on the foundation of sustained value creation for our 
stakeholders. As a result, we believe, it is not sufficient to concentrate solely 
on the bottom line. Instead, we recognize the importance of building and 
sustaining long-term reciprocal relationships with all our stakeholders. To 
maximize value creation for every stratum of society, our CSR activities are 
modelled around education, skill development, environment and disaster 
management during natural calamities.
Education
Adopting government 
schools to facilitate 
infrastructure 
development, providing 
tools for enhanced 
learning and aiding a 
hygienic and safe 
learning environment 
with a focus on 
activities that foster 
physical and mental 
wellbeing.
Our approach 
towards 
sustainability
Rural Development 
Projects and 
Contributions
Rural development is a 
dynamic process and 
we make significant 
contributions towards 
the improvement of 
economic and social 
infrastructure to improve 
rural health and skill 
development initiatives.
Environment
We recognize the 
importance of 
environmental 
sustainability to lay the 
foundations for a 
successful business. 
We ensure optimum 
utilization of natural 
resources to meet 
present needs without 
jeopardizing the supply 
of resources for future 
generations.
Community
We organize multiple 
welfare events to reach 
out to the marginalized 
sections of society. We 
strongly believe in 
creating awareness 
about healthcare and 
enabling sustainability 
within the community.
Annual Report 2023-24  |  07
Corporate Overview
Message from
the Chairman
Dear Shareholders,
FY 2023-24 has been a year marked 
by sustainable innovation and 
progress. As leaders in ground 
express, and as a responsible 
corporate citizen, we believe it is our 
responsibility to not only deliver 
excellent logistics services that 
moves India forward but also to 
contribute positively to the 
environment and the communities 
we serve.
This year, sustainability has been at 
the heart of our strategy, as we have 
continued with our green strides. We 
have implemented eco-conscious 
initiatives across our operations, 
from optimizing delivery routes to 
reducing our carbon footprint, we 
are taking concerted efforts to 
provide businesses with solutions in 
alignment with their carbon 
emission goals. Our commitment to 
sustainable practices is driven by 
our belief that a thriving business 
and a healthy planet go hand in 
hand.
08  |  Annual Report 2023-24
various strides towards becoming 
an atmanirbhar bharat. These 
foresighted development polices 
need to be complemented with 
robust ground logistics services, 
that can penetrate difficult terrains 
and remote locations.  The 
multimodal connectivity initiatives 
like the visionary PM Gati Shakti 
National Master Plan and National 
Logistics Policy are already laying 
the foundation for this development, 
but the success of these initiatives 
will depend upon active participation 
from private players as well.
This is where AllcargoGATI is 
perfectly geared to partner India’s 
growth with unparalleled reach into 
the hinterlands and excellent metro 
connectivity. The customised 
solutions for large enterprises, 
e-commerce businesses, as well as 
SMEs are helping them reach new 
frontiers of growth. 
Excellence in Ground Express 
and Contract Logistics
AllcargoGATI has emerged as a 
trusted partner for businesses, with 
an integrated network comprising 18 
surface express centres, 21 surface 
transshipment hubs, and 86 
distribution hubs. Our coverage 
spans the whole of India, ensuring 
safe and timely deliveries.
We have accelerated capacity 
creation, implemented hub 
modernization, and enhanced 
automation to provide 
industry-leading turnaround times. 
Our multimodal solutions for ground 
and air express, combined with 
enhanced delivery services, have 
enabled businesses across India to 
move even time-sensitive parcels 
and special cargo with ease.
Creating synergies with Allcargo’s 
contract logistics wing, Allcargo 
Supply Chain, we cater to specific 
needs of marquee customers in 
various sectors, delivering high 
Annual Report 2023-24  |  09
Powering Future-Ready 
Green Logistics
Climate change being an issue that 
impacts all irrespective of 
geography, there is an increasing 
focus on reducing carbon 
emissions, the world over. Various 
countries have announced their 
target year by  which to achieve 
carbon neutrality, and numerous 
governments have passed stringent 
environmental policies, such as the 
Scandinavian countries –  
companies from such nations are 
looking for sustainable solutions 
even in the country of operation.
Consequently, there is an increasing 
requirement for a more responsible 
supply chain, with anticipated global 
demand for green logistics being 
approximately $50 billion in 2025 
and with an expectation to rise to 
roughly $350 billion in 2030. 
In India, the government has set a 
target of 2070 to achieve the goal of 
net zero carbon emissions, and has 
also committed to cutting the ratio 
of greenhouse emissions to gross 
domestic product to 45% of its 2005 
level by 2030. 
At AllcargoGATI we are geared to 
support the country’s carbon 
emission goals, and contribute to 
the health of our environment. This 
shift towards green logistics aligns 
perfectly with our ESG 
commitments, aiming for carbon 
neutrality by 2040 and converting 
our fleet to alternative fuel vehicles 
by 2026.
As global supply chains diversify, 
India's bold logistics ambitions and 
our focused efforts to reduce 
environmental impact through 
digitalization and infrastructure 
development will create a significant 
competitive advantage. In fact, 
AllcargoGATI has partnered global 
brands such as IKEA and Schneider 
Electric with alternative fuel vehicles 
for their deliveries.
Maximizing the Potential of 
India’s Growth Story
India is poised for significant 
socio-economic growth, supported 
by stable policies and development 
initiatives, aimed at achieving a 
Viksit Bharat. 
The logistics sector, which is one of 
the key development levers for India 
is set to reach USD 591 billion by 
FY27, supporting the nation’s 
expanding economic activity.
India, today, is the largest market in 
terms of end user industry, and the 
expanding middle-class with an 
increased spending capacity is 
driving retail consumption. The 
Indian retail market witnessed a 
significant 34% growth between 
2019-2023. Further, the internet 
revolution – wherein 54% of the 
population actively uses the internet 
– has transformed the spending 
habits of Indians. The Indian 
e-commerce market is expected to 
become the second-largest 
worldwide, by 2034.  At a time when 
the digital economy is opening up 
new consumption frontiers, global 
companies are establishing 
manufacturing bases in India and 
the nation is staking its claim in the 
global value chain.
Moreover, it is a matter of great 
pride that India has officially 
emerged as the world's third-largest 
startup ecosystem, boasting over 
1.25 lakh startups and 110 unicorns. 
MSMEs are considered the 
backbone of the economy, 
contributing around 38% of the 
country’s manufacturing output and 
strengthening  India’s trade by 
contributing nearly half of the 
total exports.
Further, with the Make in India 
initiative, aimed at turning India into 
a global manufacturing hub, and 
Budget 2024’s focus on encouraging 
MSMEs through the credit 
guarantee scheme, we are taking 
Corporate Overview
Further, on the governance front, 
AllcargoGATI exemplifies a 
forward-thinking approach aligned 
with the principles and guidelines of 
ISO 31000 Risk Management. 
Through a comprehensive 
framework encompassing 
emergency response, cyber security, 
and crisis management, seamless 
operations and exceptional service 
delivery are ensured. The ISO 27001 
certification underscores our 
unwavering commitment to cyber 
security, guaranteeing the safety 
and security of our customers' data.
Looking Ahead
Delivering on India’s progress and 
global ambitions every day is our 
driving force. We are aligned with 
national initiatives and look forward 
to collaborating with customers, 
partners, and associates to enhance 
the global competitiveness of the 
logistics sector through 
skill-building, infrastructure 
development, cost reduction, and 
streamlined supply chains.
10  |  Annual Report 2023-24
standards of customer service 
and identifying new markets for 
expansion.
Optimizing Operations with 
Digital Technology
Streamlining operations and 
optimizing costs through 
transformation and digital 
infrastructure is a key focus area. 
Our state-of-the-art hubs offer 
economies of scale, cross-docking 
for improved turnarounds, and 
automation for smoother 
operations.
Our digital-first approach creates a 
competitive advantage for 
customers, with tools like 
Salesforce-based CRM, digital 
payment modes, WhatsApp chatbot 
Gati Genie, and data-driven route 
optimization enabling high service 
quality at the best possible costs. 
GEMS, the legacy operating system 
is being upgraded to a cloud native 
system. The core operational 
software will be designed to have a 
modern interface that offers 
improved customer experience. AI 
and machine learning will automate 
several tasks in GEMS 2.0, and the 
application will prioritise security 
and robust performance across 
different geographical operations. 
Progress Driven by Our People
Our people are our greatest 
strength. We continue to 
strengthen our management and 
leadership team, realign sales 
structures, and create growth 
opportunities within the 
organization. Our focus on 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
(DEI), helps us attract and retain 
top talent. It is commendable that 
the first shift of 9 our facilities is 
operated entirely by  women, and 
certain job openings are exclusively 
offered to women logistics 
professionals in an effort to 
increase the gender diversity of a 
rather male-dominated sector.  
Social and Governance 
In addition to our efforts to 
conserve the environment by 
offering green logistics, we also 
uphold stringent social and 
governance parameters.
Through our CSR arm, Avashya 
Foundation we work collaboratively 
with a network of well curated 
partner NGOS to reach out the 
wider community with carefully 
crafted initiatives in the six 
intervention areas of Education, 
Environment, Health, Women 
Empowerment, Disaster Relief and 
Sports. I’m happy to share that 
during the year, Maitree – one of 
our key projects planted a 
landmark one million trees.
Corporate Overview
Chairman
AllcargoGATI
Sincerely,
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2023-24  |  11
FINANCIAL METRICS
(Consolidated)
Total Income
( ₹ in Lakhs)
(in times)
(₹ in Lakhs)
(₹)
Current Ratio 
(in times)
Turnover on 
Capital Employed
EBITDA
(%)
EPS
18-19
19-20
20-21
21-22
 (7.0)
 (0.4)
 (18.7)
22-23
 (0.7)
23-24
1.12
1.7
Debt
14,425
36,694
40,879
16,093
28,463
21-22
12,780
22-23
20-21
19-20
18-19
23-24
4
6
3
3
3
21-22
5
22-23
20-21
19-20
18-19
23-24
*Before Exceptional Item
2.37
2.08
4.33
2.96
21-22
4.74
22-23
20-21
19-20
18-19
4.06
23-24
1.2
0.8
0.8
0.9
1.0
21-22
1.2
22-23
20-21
19-20
18-19
23-24
1,87,915
1,72,493
1,32,465
1,50,524
21-22
20-21
19-20
18-19
1,74,604  
1,70,950
22-23
23-24
12  |  Annual Report 2023-24
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
 
For additional details 
scan the QR Code
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
Independent Director
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy 
Kalyaniwalla
Non-Executive & 
Non-Independent Director
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty
Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
Independent Director
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni
Independent Director
Mr. Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
Independent Director
Mr. Ravi Jakhar
Non-Executive &
Non-Independent Director
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari
Non-Executive &
Non-Independent Director
Corporate Overview
MANAGEMENT TEAM
Annual Report 2023-24  |  13
Mr. Ketan Kulkarni
Deputy Managing Director
Mrs. T. S. Maharani
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Mr. Sanjay Khiyani
Deputy Chief Information Officer
Mr. Uday R. Sharma
Chief Commercial Officer
Mr. Mehernosh Mehta
Chief HR Officer
 
Mr. Anish Mathew
Chief Financial Officer
Kaushal Shetty
Head of Marketing 
& Transformation
Mr. Kapil Mahajan
Global Chief Information 
& Technology Officer
Mr. Sandeep Kulkarni
Chief Operating Officer
Corporate Overview
Corporate Overview
Our end-to-end logistics solutions 
are designed to offer multi-modal 
services across road and air spans 
the whole of India. And with more 
than 500 pick-up points across 
India, backed by our commitment 
to technology, AllcargoGATI is 
today a preferred partner for 
end-to-end logistics across India 
owing to the reach, speed, 
convenience and reliability it offers 
its customers.
► Truly end-to-end services with 
road and air movement, 
warehousing, and supply chain 
management
► Dedicated call centers with 
24x7 support
► Experience across industries
14  |  Annual Report 2023-24
INDIA’S 
LEADING 
END-TO-END 
LOGISTICS 
SOLUTIONS 
Supply Chain
Air Express
Ground Express
Corporate Overview
Advantages
• Customized end-to-end 
logistics solutions
• Unparalleled reach across 
India
• State-of-the-art tracking 
services
• Quick and trusted claim 
process
• Over 5000 trucks
• Alternative fuel vehicles 
• Over 600 offices
• Reverse logistics expertise
• On-time deliveries
Our Ground Express service brings you its multi-modal 
deliveries that covers over 19800 PIN codes of the country's 
districts. You can choose and customize distribution 
services based on your needs. Whether you need to move 
parcels, freight or special cargo, our cost-effective and 
time-sensitive services have you covered.
Annual Report 2023-24  |  15
GROUND EXPRESS
16  |  Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Advantages
• Tie-up with India’s leading 
commercial airlines
• Movement to urban and 
semi-urban cities
• Expertise in moving cargo 
weighing more than 5 kg
• Cost-effective solutions
• Guaranteed on-time delivery
• Direct connection to 34 
commercial airports across 
the country
With a focus to safety and reliability - AllcargoGATI Air 
brings a dedicated air freight service built on over 30 years 
of logistics and supply chain experience, and a commitment 
to moving your cargo across India’s metros and non-metro 
cities alike. Our experience combined with our network and 
tie-ups with some of India's leading airlines give us an edge 
when it comes to safely and efficiently moving your cargo 
across India.
AIR EXPRESS
Annual Report 2023-24  |  17
Corporate Overview
Advantages
• Best-in-class Warehouse 
Management System
• Integrated warehousing 
and distribution
• Option of order and 
inventory-based models
• Inventory and purchase 
order management
• Customized solutions for 
multiple industries
• Shop floor automation
• Sophisticated racking 
system and conveyor 
belts
• World-class material 
handling 
• Technology-enabled 
warehouses
Our supply chain management solutions span over 65 
warehouses across the country, including 3 E-Fulfilment 
centers that cater to sectors like E-Commerce, Hospitality, 
Healthcare and Electronics, among others. With each 
warehouse designed and built to meet global standards, our 
dedicated team of experts is backed by the latest in tools, 
technologies and processes designed for your advantage.
*As of June 2020
SUPPLY CHAIN
Corporate Overview
18 |  Annual Report 2023-24
Premium Flexilite
Air shipments for 
cargo up to 5 kg
Laabh
Surface deliveries of 
cargo weighing up 
to 20 kg
Bike Express
Special services for 
moving your bike from 
one city to other
Surface Lite
Surface deliveries 
for cargo up to 5 kg
Vir Express 
Dedicated services for 
our Army Personnel
Student Express
Hassle free 
movements from 
Home-to-hostel and 
Hostel-to-home
RETAIL SERVICES
GROUND EXPRESS | AIR EXPRESS | SUPPLY CHAIN
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2023-24  |  19
In the coming years, the focus 
will be on creating greater 
impact and reaching out to 
more communities and 
individuals, through a variety of 
initiatives that serve those who 
need it the most. 
AllcargoGATI has a rich and long history of 
giving back to society. Through its CSR arm, 
Avvashya Foundation, initiatives are being 
implemented across different areas like Health, 
Education, Environment, Women’s 
Empowerment, Disaster Relief, and sports. 
Initiatives in the sphere of health, revolve around 
affordability and accessibility of quality 
healthcare for the marginalised.
An important project providing a ray of light for 
young children is the support given to 
educational institutions in Hyderabad, enabling 
them to ensure better facilities and a better 
learning experience for children. The 
Government High School, at Banjara Hills; the 
Zilla Parishad High School in Miyapur, Kardex 
Facilities Services Pvt Ltd. have been supported 
for many years now.
AllcargoGATI’s
CSR VISION
Corporate Overview
20  |  Annual Report 2023-24
AWARDS AND
ACCOLADES
Annual Report 2023-24  |  21
Corporate Overview
Masters of Risk Management - Logistics Industry
CNBC-TV18 India Risk Management Awards
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) - Logistics Industry
CNBC-TV18 India Risk Management Awards
Environment Social and Governance (ESG) and 
Business Continuity Management
CNBC-TV18 India Risk Management Awards
Certificate of Excellence and Silver Award
(Conferred on Gati Air), Vistara Partner Excellence Awards
Successful Leadership award
Pragati Leadership on 13th September 2023, in Mumbai.
Champion of Diversity Award 
Maritime SheEO Conference 2023
Young Achiever of the Award 2022
(Conferred to our Head of Franchisee and Ground Operations) 
at the Stars of the Industry (since 2006) for Excellence and 
Leadership Award, powered by ETAscent.
The India Risk Management Awards
Won a Master of Risk in Cyber Security in the mid-cap category, 
at the 8th edition of The India Risk Management Awards.
Exemplary Leadership Award
Mr. Adarsh Hegde has been honoured with the ‘Exemplary 
Leadership Award’ at the 19th edition of Asian Leadership 
Awards For Excellence in Logistics & Supply Chain
Best Express Logistics Service Provider Of The Year
Awarded as the ‘Best Express Logistics Service Provider of the 
year’ at the 19th edition of Asian Leadership Awards For 
Excellence in Logistics 
and Supply Chain
World Leadership Congress & Awards
Won ‘Company of the year’ at the 19th global and 4th Indian 
edition of Business Leader of the Year awards by the World 
Leadership Congress & Awards
2024
2023
2022
2021
Notice 
NOTICE is hereby given that the 29th (Twenty Ninth) Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Members of Allcargo Gati 
Limited (CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155) will be held on 
Tuesday, September 10, 2024 at 3:00 P.M. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) for 
which purpose the Registered office of the Company situated at 
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz 
(East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India shall be deemed 
as the venue for the Meeting and the proceedings of the Annual 
General Meeting shall be deemed to be made thereat, to transact 
the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the audited financial 
statements of the Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024 and the Reports of the Board of Directors 
and Auditors thereon and in this regard, to consider and 
if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the 
following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT the audited financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and 
the reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon 
laid before this meeting, be and are hereby considered and 
adopted.”
2.	
To receive, consider and adopt the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024 and the Report of the Auditors 
thereon and in this regard, to consider and if thought fit, 
to pass, with or without modification(s), the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024 and the report of Auditors thereon laid 
before this meeting, be and are hereby considered and 
adopted.”
3.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty 
(DIN: 00012754), who retires by rotation and, being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment and in this regard, to 
consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty (DIN: 00012754), who retires 
by rotation at this meeting be and is hereby re-appointed 
as a Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.	
Approval for the payment of commission to the Non-
Executive and Independent Director(s) of the Company.
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with rules made thereunder (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for 
the time being in force), the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, the provisions of the Memorandum 
and Articles of Association, consent of the members of 
the Company be and is hereby accorded to the Board of 
Directors of the Company for payment of commission to 
each of the Non-Executive and Independent Director of the 
Company for a sum not exceeding ` 30,00,000/- (Rupees 
Thirty Lakhs only) per annum (inclusive of sitting fees 
being paid to them for attending the meeting of the Board 
and its Committees), for the Financial Year 2023-24 and 
subsequent financial years, in such manner and up to such 
extent as the Board of Directors of the Company may, from 
time to time, determine.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving effect 
to this resolution, the Board of Directors of the Company, 
be and are hereby authorized to take all necessary actions 
and do all such deeds, matters and things, as it may in its 
absolute discretion deem necessary, proper or desirable 
and to settle any question, difficulty or doubt that may arise 
in this regard.”
5.	
Approval to advance any loan, give any guarantee or to 
provide any security to all such person specified under 
section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 upto an aggregate 
limit of ` 500 crores.
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 185 and other 
applicable provisions if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 
and relevant rules made thereto including any statutory 
modifications or re-enactments thereof and in accordance 
with Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Company, approval of the Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded to the Board of Directors 
of the Company to advance any loan(s) and/or to give 
any guarantee(s) and/or to provide any security(ies) in 
connection with any Financial Assistance/Loan taken/
to be taken/availed/to be availed by any entity which is a 
Subsidiary/ Associate/Joint Venture or such other entity/
person as specified under Section 185 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and more specifically to such other entity/person 
as the Board of the Directors in its absolute discretion 
deems fit and beneficial and in the best interest of the 
Company (hereinafter commonly known as the Entities); all 
together with in whom or in which any of the Director of the 
Company from time to time is interested or deemed to be 
interested; provided that the aggregate limit of advancing 
loan and/or giving guarantee and/or providing any security 
to the Entities shall not at any time exceed the aggregate 
limit of ` 500 Crores (Rupees Five Hundred Crores Only).
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the aforementioned loan(s) 
and/or guarantee(s) and/or security(ies) shall only be 
utilized by the borrower for the purpose of its principal 
business activities.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT keeping the best interest 
of the Company in view, any approval accorded by the 
Board of Directors and shareholders of the Company 
22  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
By order of the Board of Directors
Registered Office:
for Allcargo Gati Limited 
(Formerly known as “Gati Limited”)
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz 
(East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India 
T.S. Maharani
Contact: +91 040-7120 4284 / +91 022 66798100
(Company Secretary & Compliance Officer)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155 
Membership No: F8069
Website: www.gati.com
Email: investor.services@allcargologistics.com
Place: Mumbai
Date:  August 02, 2024
under Section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 under this 
resolution shall be in force till the period any amendment to 
the said resolution will be made by the Board of Directors 
and Shareholders thereof.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT any one of the Directors(s) or 
the Chief Financial Officer or the Company Secretary of 
the Company be and is/are hereby severally authorised for 
and on behalf of the Company to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as may be necessary, proper, expedient, 
or incidental to give effect to this resolution.”
6.	
Additional objective for utilization of the proceeds of the 
Preferential Issue of Warrants made during FY 2021-22 by 
the Company.
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, if any, read with rules made there 
under and subject to the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and other applicable rules, regulations 
and laws, the consent of the members of the Company be 
and is hereby accorded for including an additional purpose 
/ objective namely ‘Granting of Inter-Corporate Deposits 
to fellow subsidiaries/associates/joint ventures/any other 
entity in which the Directors of the Company are interested’ 
for utilization of the proceeds of the Equity Warrants issued 
on preferential basis amounting to ` 52,49,99,610/- (Rupees 
Fifty Two Crores Forty Nine Lakhs Ninety Nine Thousand 
Six Hundred and Ten only) approved for issue of Equity 
Shares of the Company to the Promoters on preferential 
basis vide Extra-ordinary General Meeting of the Company 
held on June 03, 2021.”
	
“RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 
Company be and are hereby severally authorized to settle 
any question, difficulty or doubt that may arise in giving 
effect to this resolution and to do all such acts, deeds and 
things as may be necessary, expedient and desirable for 
the purpose of giving effect to this resolution.”
Annual Report 2023-24  | 23
Statutory Reports
NOTES:
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India 
(“MCA”) issued General Circular Nos. 20/2020, 02/2021, 
19/2021, 21/2021 and 02/2022 dated May 05, 2020, January 
13, 2021, December 08, 2021, December 14, 2021, May 05, 
2022, General Circular No 10/2022 dated December 28, 
2022, General Circular No 11/2022 dated December 28, 
2022 and General Circular No. 09/2023 dated September 
25, 2023, respectively, (“MCA Circulars”) allowing, inter-
alia, conduct of AGMs’ through Video Conferencing/ Other 
Audio-Visual Means (“VC/ OAVM”) facility till September 
30, 2024, in accordance with the requirements provided 
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the MCA General Circular No. 
20/2020. In compliance with these Circulars, provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing 
Regulations”), the 29th AGM of the Company is being 
conducted through VC/OAVM facility, which does not 
require physical presence of members at a common venue. 
The deemed venue for the 29th AGM shall be the Registered 
Office of the Company.
2.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the act, a member entitled 
to attend and vote at the agm is entitled to appoint a proxy 
to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the proxy need 
not be a member of the company. Since this agm is being 
held pursuant to the mca circulars through vc/oavm, the 
requirement of physical attendance of members has been 
dispensed with. Accordingly, in terms of the mca circulars 
and the sebi circulars, the facility for appointment of 
proxies by the members will not be available for this agm 
and hence the proxy form, attendance slip and route map 
of the agm venue are not annexed to this notice.
3.	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM through 
VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
4.	
All the Members of the Company including retail individual 
investors, institutional investors, etc. are encouraged 
to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM mode and vote 
electronically. Corporate members intending to appoint 
their authorised representatives to attend and participate 
at the AGM, are requested to send to the Company, a 
certified copy (in PDF/ JPG Format) of the relevant Board 
Resolution/Authority letter etc. with attested specimen 
signature of the duly authorised signatory(ies) who are 
authorised to vote, to the Scrutinizer at pjandcofirm@
gmail.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
5.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 15 
minutes before the scheduled time of the commencement 
of the Meeting on first-come first-served basis by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The Members will 
be able to view the proceedings on the National Securities 
Depository Limited’s (‘NSDL’) e-Voting website at www.
evoting.nsdl.com. The facility of participation at the 
AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available for 1,000 
Members on a first come first served basis as per the MCA 
Circulars. The detailed instructions for joining the Meeting 
through VC/OAVM form part of the Notes to this Notice.
6.	
In compliance with the aforementioned MCA and SEBI 
Circulars, Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 
2023-24 is being sent through electronic mode to those 
Members whose email addresses are registered with the 
Company/ Depository Participant. For members who have 
not registered their e-mail address and on request, hard 
copies of the Annual Report 2023-24 are being sent in 
the permitted mode. Members may note that the Notice 
and Annual Report 2023-24 will also be available on the 
Company’s website www.gati.com, websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.
com respectively, and on the website of the National 
Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) a service provider 
for voting through remote e-Voting, for participation in the 
29th AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-Voting during 
the 29th AGM at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/.
7.	
The relevant details, pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the 
Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India, in respect of Directors seeking appointment/re-
appointment at this AGM are also annexed.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE 
E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL MEETING ARE AS 
UNDER:-
The remote e-voting period begins on September 07, 2024 
(9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on September 09, 2024 (5:00 p.m. 
IST). The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by 
NSDL for voting thereafter. The Members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners 
as on the record date (cut-off date) i.e. September 03, 
2024, may cast their vote electronically. The voting right 
of shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in the 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the cut-
off date, being September 03, 2024.
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists 
of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
24  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email ID in their demat accounts in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL.
1.	
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.
com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on 
the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section , this will 
prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, 
you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access 
to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com.  Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.
nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
3.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home 
page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User 
ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a 
Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be 
redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website 
of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting 
& voting during the meeting.	
4.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL speed-e” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user 
ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further 
authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then use your existing 
my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by 
company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the 
e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to 
access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting 
service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click 
on registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The 
system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded 
in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting 
option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all 
e-Voting Service Providers.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 25
Statutory Reports
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their 
depository participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility, upon logging in, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site 
after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company name 
or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the 
meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use "Forget User ID" and "Forget 
Password" option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending 
a request at  evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 
1800 22 55 33
B)	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ 
section.
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen.
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL e-services i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL e-services after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
4.	
Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding shares  
i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
 Your User ID is:
a) 	 For Members who hold shares in demat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** 
then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b) 	 For Members who hold shares in demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your 
user ID is 12**************
c) 	 For Members holding shares in Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the 
company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 then 
user ID is 101456001***
5.	
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below: 
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can user your existing password to login and cast your vote.
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was 
communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system 
will force you to change your password.
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your ‘initial password’ is communicated 
to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and open the 
attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL 
account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares held in physical form. The .pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
26  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
	
	
(ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in process for those shareholders whose 
email ids are not registered. 
6.	
 If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “ Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
b)	
Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.
com.
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in 
mentioning your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, your name and your registered address etc.
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares and whose 
voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting your vote 
during the General Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which you wish 
to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for shareholders
1.	
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of 
the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) 
who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to pjandcofirm@gmail.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.
co.in. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution / Power 
of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab 
in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. 
In such an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical User Reset Password?” option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password. 
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 
or send a request to Mr. Amit Vishal, Senior Manager – NSDL at evoting@nsdl.co.in 
Annual Report 2023-24  | 27
Statutory Reports
Process for those shareholders whose email IDs are not 
registered with the depositories for procuring user ID and 
password and registration of e mail IDs for e-voting for the 
resolutions set out in this notice:
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode please provide 
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share 
certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested scanned 
copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned 
copy of Aadhar Card) by email to investor.services@
allcargologistics.com.
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to 
investor.services@allcargologistics.com. If you are an 
Individual shareholder holding securities in demat mode, 
you are requested to refer to the login method explained at 
step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a request to 
evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user ID and password for 
e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed 
to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders 
are required to update their mobile number and email ID 
correctly in their demat account in order to access e-Voting 
facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR e-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is same 
as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
2.	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present 
in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not casted 
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and 
are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-Voting system in the AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be 
eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be eligible 
to vote at the AGM.
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 
grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
Remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned 
above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. After 
successful login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM” placed 
under “Join meeting” menu against company name. You 
are requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed under Join 
Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM will be available in 
Shareholder/Member login where the EVEN of Company 
will be displayed. Please note that the members who do 
not have the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have 
forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same 
by following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in 
the notice to avoid last minute rush.
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
3.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera and use 
Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during 
the meeting.
4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
5.	
Members are encouraged to express their views / send 
their queries in advance mentioning their name, demat 
account number / folio number, email ID, mobile number 
at investor.services@allcargologistics.com. Questions 
/ queries received by the Company till 5:00 p.m. on 
Sunday, September 08, 2024 shall only be considered and 
responded during the AGM.
6.	
The Company reserves the right to restrict the number 
of questions and number of speakers, depending on the 
availability of time for the AGM.
7.	
Those Members, who will be present in the AGM through 
VC / OAVM facility and have not cast their vote on the 
Resolutions through remote e-Voting, shall be eligible to 
vote through e-Voting system during the AGM.
Other Instructions:
(a)	
Voting rights shall be reckoned on the paid-up value of 
shares registered in the name of the member / beneficial 
owner (in case of electronic shareholding) as on the 
cut-off date i.e. Tuesday, September 03, 2024. A person, 
whose name is recorded in the register of members or 
in the register of beneficial owners maintained by the 
depositories as on the cut-off date, only shall be entitled 
to vote. A person who is not a member as on the cut-off 
date, should treat the Notice for information purpose only.
(b)	
The login ID and password for e-voting is being sent to the 
members who have registered their e-mail IDs with the 
Company / their respective Depository Participants are 
being forwarded the login ID and password for e-voting by 
e-mail.
(c)	
The facility for voting, the Company has opted to provide 
the same electronic voting system at the Meeting, as 
used during remote e-voting, and the said facility shall be 
operational till all the resolutions proposed in the Notice 
are considered and voted upon at the Meeting and may be 
used for voting only by the members holding shares as on 
the cut-off date who are attending the Meeting and who 
have not already cast their vote(s) through remote e-voting.
(d)	
Any person who become member of the Company after 
dispatch of the Notice of the Meeting and holding shares 
as on the cut-off date may obtain the User ID and password 
for e-voting by sending email intimating DP ID and Client 
ID / Folio No. at evoting@nsdl.co.in with a copy to investor.
services@allcargologistics.com. However, if you are 
already registered with NSDL for e-voting, you can use your 
existing User ID and password for casting your vote.
28  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
	
The Register of members and share transfer books of the 
Company will remain closed from Tuesday, September 03, 
2024 to Tuesday, September 10, 2024 (both days inclusive) 
for the purpose of AGM.
(e)	
The Scrutinizer, after scrutinising the votes cast at the time 
of the meeting and through e-voting, will, within stipulated 
time, make a consolidated scrutinizer’s report and submit 
the same to the Chairman not later than two working days 
from the conclusion of the AGM. The results declared 
along with the consolidated scrutinizer’s report shall be 
placed on the website of the Company i.e. www.gati.com 
and on the website of NSDL i.e. https://www.evoting.nsdl.
com/. The results shall simultaneously be communicated 
to the Stock Exchanges.
(f)	
Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the 
Resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on the date of 
the Meeting, i.e. Tuesday, September 10, 2024.
(g)	
Members whose shareholding is in electronic mode are 
requested to direct notifications about change of address 
and updates about bank account details to their respective 
depository participants(s) (DP).
(h)	
All documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and 
the Explanatory Statement can be obtained for inspection 
by writing to the Company at its email ID investor.services@
allcargologistics.com till the date of AGM.
(i)	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of the 
Act, and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which 
the directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 
of the Act, and the certificate from Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company certifying that the 'Gati - Employees 
Stock Appreciation Rights Plan - 2021' (ESAR 2021) are 
being implemented in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulation, 2021, as amended, will be 
available electronically for inspection by the members 
during the AGM. All documents referred to in the Notice 
will also be available for electronic inspection without any 
fee by the members from the date of circulation of this 
Notice up to the date of AGM, i.e. Tuesday, September 10, 
2024. Members seeking to inspect such documents can 
send an email to investor.services@allcargologistics.com.
(j)	
The members who have not surrendered their old share 
certificates (Issued by the then Transport Corporation of 
India Limited, now known as TCI Industries Limited, the 
transferor Company, under the Scheme of Arrangement) 
are requested to surrender their old share certificates 
to TCI Industries Limited, Mukesh Textile Mills Private 
Limited, N.A. Sawant Marg, Colaba, Mumbai – 400 005 
to obtain their new share certificates of four companies 
including this Company.
(k)	
Members holding shares in physical mode are:
i.	
Required to submit their Permanent Account Number 
(PAN) and bank account details to the Secretarial 
Department of the Company / Link Intime India 
Private Limited (“Link Intime”), Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent of the Company, if not registered with 
the Company as mandated by SEBI.
ii.	
Advised to register the nomination in respect of their 
shareholding in the Company.
iii.	
Requested to register / update their e-mail address 
with the Secretarial Department of the Company / 
Link Intime for receiving all communications from the 
Company electronically.
(l)	
Members holding shares in electronic mode are:
i.	
Requested to submit their PAN and bank account 
details to their respective DPs with whom they are 
maintaining their demat accounts.
ii.	
Advised to contact their respective DPs for registering 
the nomination.
iii.	
Requested to register / update their e-mail 
address with their respective DPs for receiving all 
communications from the Company electronically.
(m)	  Non-Resident Indian members are requested to inform 
Link Intime / respective DPs, immediately of:
i.	
Change in their residential status on return to India 
for permanent settlement.
ii.	
Particulars of their bank account maintained in India 
with complete name, branch, account type, account 
number and address of the bank with pin code 
number, if not furnished earlier.
(n)	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, bank 
details such as, name of the bank and branch details, bank 
account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc., to their DPs 
in case the shares are held by them in electronic form and 
to Link Intime / Secretarial Department of the Company, in 
case the shares are held by them in physical form.
(o)	
Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order 
of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to 
the Link Intime / Secretarial Department, the details of such 
folios together with the share certificates for consolidating 
their holdings in one folio. A consolidated share certificate 
will be issued to such Members after making requisite 
changes.
(p)	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956/2013, 
the Company has transferred the unpaid or unclaimed 
dividends for the period of seven years i.e. upto the financial 
year 2015-16, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(IEPF) established by the Central Government. Members 
who have not encashed their dividend warrant(s) so far for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2017 or any subsequent 
financial years are requested to make their claim to the 
office of Link Intime, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, 
or the Nodal Officer of the Company, at the Company’s 
registered office. Members are requested to note that 
dividends that are not claimed within seven years from 
the date of transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend 
Account, will be transferred to IEPF. Shares on which 
dividend remains unclaimed for seven consecutive years 
will also be transferred to the IEPF as per Section 124 of 
the Act, read with applicable IEPF rules.
(q)	
Pursuant to Section 101 and Section 136 of the Act read 
with relevant Rules made thereunder, Companies can 
serve Annual Reports and other communications through 
electronic mode to those Members who have registered 
their email address either with the Company or with 
Annual Report 2023-24  | 29
Statutory Reports
the Depository Participant(s). Members who have not 
registered their email address with the Company can now 
do the same by submitting a duly filled-in ‘Shareholder 
Registration Form’ available on the website of the Company 
i.e. www.gati.com. Alternatively, Members holding shares 
in physical mode and who have not registered/updated 
their e-mail addresses with the Company are requested 
to register/update their email addresses by sending a 
duly signed request letter to the Company’s Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent viz. Link Intime by providing Folio 
No. and Name of the Member or may also send an e-mail 
to Mrs. T.S. Maharani, Company Secretary at investor.
services@allcargologistics.com. Members holding shares 
in demat form are requested to register their email address 
with their Depository Participant(s) only. Members of the 
Company who have registered their email address are also 
entitled to receive such communication in physical form, 
upon request.
(r)	
The Company has transferred the unpaid or unclaimed 
dividends declared up to the financial years 2015-16 to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established 
by the Central Government. The Company has uploaded 
the details of unpaid and unclaimed dividends lying with 
the Company as on September 04, 2023 (date of the 
previous Annual General Meeting) on the website of the 
Company and the same can be accessed through the 
link: https://www.gati.com/investor-relations/unclaimed-
dividend-details/. The said details have also been uploaded 
on the website of the IEPF Authority and the same can be 
accessed through the link: www.iepf.gov.in.
(s)	
Adhering to the various requirements set out in the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended, 
the Company is under the process of transferring the 
shares in respect of which dividend had remained unpaid 
or unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more to the 
IEPF Authority and which were due for transfer during 
the financial year 2023-24. Details of the shares to be 
transferred to the IEPF Authority are available on the 
website of the Company and the same can be accessed 
through the link: https://www.gati.com/investor-relations/
unclaimed-dividend-details/.
(t)	
Members may note that shares as well as unclaimed 
dividends transferred to IEPF Authority can be claimed 
back from them. Concerned members/investors are 
advised to visit the weblink: http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/
refund.html or contact Link Intime for lodging claim for 
refund of shares and / or dividend from the IEPF Authority.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No.4
The Company's Non-Executive Independent Directors are leading 
professionals with high level of expertise and rich experience in 
functional areas such as business strategy, financial governance, 
corporate governance, research & innovation amongst others. 
They have been shaping and steering the long-term strategy and 
make invaluable contributions towards the Company's business 
strategy, monitoring of risk management and compliances. 
On recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, the Board of Directors at their meeting held on 
August 02, 2024 have approved the proposal for payment 
of commission to each of the Non-Executive Independent 
Directors of the Company, not exceeding ` 30,00,000/- (Rupees 
Thirty Lakhs only) per annum (inclusive of sitting fees being 
paid to them for attending the meeting of the Board and its 
Committees), for the Financial Year 2023-24 and subsequent 
financial years, in such manner and up to such extent as the 
Board of Directors of the Company may, from time to time, 
determine.
All Non-Executive Independent Director(s) of the Company may 
be deemed to be concerned or interested in this resolution to 
the extent of Commission that may be payable to them from 
time to time and none of the other Directors or key managerial 
personnel or their relatives is, in anyway, concerned or interested 
in the said resolution, except to the extent of their shareholding, 
if any.
The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at Item 
No.4 of the Notice for approval by the shareholders.
Item No.5
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 185 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Meeting of Board and its 
Powers) Rules, 2014 (the “Rules”) (as amended from time to 
time), no company shall, directly or indirectly, advance any loan, 
including any loan represented by a book debt to, or give any 
guarantee or provide any security in connection with any loan 
taken by (a) any director of company, or of a company which is its 
holding company or any partner or relative of any such director; 
or (b) any firm in which any such director or relative is a partner.
However, a company may advance any loan including any loan 
represented by a book debt, or give any guarantee or provide 
any security in connection with any loan taken by any person in 
whom any of the director of the company is interested, subject 
to the condition that (a) a special resolution is passed by the 
company in general meeting and the loans are utilized by the 
borrowing company for its principal business activities.
In order to augment the long term resources of the Company and 
to render support for the business requirements of the entities 
in which director of the Company is interested or deemed to 
be interested from time to time, the Board of Directors in its 
meeting held on August 02, 2024 has, subject to the approval 
of shareholders of the Company, proposed and approved for 
seeking the shareholder approval for advancing any loan, giving 
any guarantee or providing any security to all such person 
specified under Section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
more specifically such other entity/person as the Board of 
30  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Directors in its absolute discretion deems fit and beneficial 
and in the best interest of the Company (hereinafter commonly 
known as the Entities); all together with in whom or in which any 
of the Director of the Company from time to time is interested or 
deemed to be interested and upto an aggregate limit of ` 500.00 
Crores. Further, the aforementioned loan(s) and/or guarantee(s) 
and/or security(ies) shall only be utilized by the borrower for the 
purpose of its principal business activities and that keeping the 
best interest of the Company.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relative(s) is / are in any way concerned or interested, in passing 
of the above-mentioned resolution except to the extent of their 
directorships and shareholding in the Company (if any).
Accordingly, consent of the members is sought for passing a 
Special Resolution as set out at Item No. 5 of this Notice, in 
relation to the details as stated above and thus the Board of 
Directors recommends the said Resolution for the approval of 
the shareholders of the Company as a Special Resolution.
Item No.6
The Members of the Company approved for fund raising by 
the Company through preferential issue of equity shares and 
warrants to one of the promoters of the Company, Allcargo 
Logistics Limited (“Holding Company”) for an amount not 
exceeding ` 80,00,00,000/- (10,23,020 Equity shares having face 
value of ` 2/- each and 71,61,120 equity warrants).
The Members accorded their approval to utilise the proceeds 
of the Preferential issue of Equity Shares and Warrants for 
the following purposes vide General Meetings of Members of 
the Company held on June 03, 2021 and September 15, 2022, 
respectively:
(i)	
Repay Debt
(ii)	
Meet working capital requirement
(iii)	 General Corporate purposes
(iv)	 Granting of Inter Corporate Deposits to subsidiaries
The entire proceeds from the Preferential issue of equity shares 
and part proceeds realised w.r.t. Preferential issue of warrants 
were utilised for the purposes as mentioned and approved 
accordingly without any deviation and compliance in this regard 
duly notified to the Regulatory Authorities as per the Listing 
Regulations.
Further, the balance available proceeds of Preferential issue of 
warrants partly remain as surplus funds with the Company, and 
the Company proposes to deploy such surplus to advancing any 
loan, giving any guarantee or providing any security to all such 
person specified under Section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and more specifically such other entity/person as the Board 
of Directors in its absolute discretion deems fit and beneficial 
and in the best interest of the Company (hereinafter commonly 
known as the Entities) which purpose has been considered 
and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company vide 
its meeting held on August 02, 2024 and now placed for the 
approval of the members of the Company.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) or 
relatives of Directors and KMP, is in any way concerned with or 
interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of their 
respective shareholding, in the resolution set out at Item No. 6 
of the accompanying notice.
The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at Item 
No.6 of the Notice for approval by the shareholders.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 31
Statutory Reports
PURSUANT TO REGULATION 36 OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS 
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 AND SECRETARIAL STANDARD 2 ISSUED BY ICSI, 
INFORMATION ABOUT THE DIRECTORS PROPOSED TO BE APPOINTED/ RE-APPOINTED IS FURNISHED 
BELOW:
ANNEXURE-I
Item No. 3:
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty (DIN: 00012754)
Age
67
Qualifications
Bachelor of Commerce.
Experience (including expertise in specific functional area) / 
Brief Resume
In 1993, he founded Allcargo Logistics which today enjoys the 
status of being India’s largest integrated logistics company. Its 
trajectory of success and wide portfolio of world-class services 
like Multimodal Transportation, Contract (3) Logistics and Project 
Equipment are testimony to Mr. Shetty’s entrepreneurial spirit and 
foresight.
Terms & Conditions of Re-appointment
Director liable to retire by rotation.
Remuneration Last Drawn (FY 2023-24)
NIL
Remuneration proposed to be paid
NIL
Date of first appointment on the Board
February 04, 2020
Shareholding in the Company as on 
March 31, 2024
NIL
Relationship with other Directors/Key Managerial Personnel
Not related to any director/key managerial personnel
Number of meetings of the Board attended during the financial 
year (2023-24)
4 out of 6
Directorships of other Boards as on March 31, 2024
•	
Allcargo Logistics Limited;
•	
Allcargo Multimodal Private Limited;
•	
Malur Logistics and Industrial Parks Private Limited;
•	
Allcargo Terminals Limited;
•	
Allcargo Inland Park Private Limited;
•	
AGL Warehousing Private Limited;
•	
Alltrans Logistics Private Limited;
•	
Avvashya CCI Logistics Private Limited;
•	
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited;
•	
FTL (India) Private Limited;
•	
Avashya Holdings Private Limited;
•	
Avashya Corporation Private Limited;
•	
Talentos Entertainment Private Limited;
•	
Talentos Warehousing & Industrial Parks Private Limited;
•	
Hoskote Warehousing & Industrial Parks Private Limited
Membership/ Chairmanship of committees
of other listed companies as on March 31, 2024 (includes only 
Audit Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee)
Allcargo Logistics Limited:
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
By order of the Board of Directors
Registered Office:
for Allcargo Gati Limited 
(Formerly known as “Gati Limited”)
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz 
(East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India 
T.S. Maharani
Tel: +91 040-7120 4284 / 022 66798100
(Company Secretary & Compliance Officer)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155 
Membership No: F8069
Website: www.gati.com
Email: investor.services@allcargologistics.com
Place: Mumbai
Date:  August 02, 2024
32  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Dear Members,
Your Directors present the report of the Business and Operations of your Company (‘the Company’ or ‘AGL’), along with the audited 
financial statements, (standalone and consolidated) for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. The Consolidated Performance of 
your Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
1)	
Financial Highlights
	
The summarized standalone and consolidated financial results of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 as 
compared to the previous year are as under:
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial 
Year 2023-24
Financial 
Year 2022-23
Financial 
Year 2023-24
Financial 
Year 2022-23
Total Income
23,031
26,406
1,70,950
1,74,604
Profit/(Loss) before Finance Cost, Depreciation & 
Amortization Expenses, Exceptional items & Tax 
Expenses
757
385
6,341
9,291
Less: Finance cost
8
34
3,002
2,936
Less : Depreciation and Amortization Expenses
53
67
6,894
5,921
Profit/(Loss) before tax & Exceptional items
696
284
(3555)
434
Exceptional items – Income / (Expense)
2663
(803)
3449
96
Profit/(Loss) before tax
3359
(520)
(106)
530
Less: Tax expenses
(58)
24
(718)
1621
Profit/(Loss) after tax
3417
(544)
612
(1,091)
Attributable to
Owners of the company
3417
(544)
1453
(928)
Non –controlling Interest
-
-
(841)
(163)
Add: other comprehensive Income (net of Tax)
2
(15)
(113)
(612)
Total comprehensive income
3419
(588)
499
(1,703)
Attributable to
Owners of the company
3419
(588)
1,374
(1,361)
Non –controlling Interest
-
-
(875)
(342)
Directors' Report
2)	
Dividend
In view of the loss for the year ended, the Directors do 
not recommend any dividend on the equity shares of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024. The 
Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company is available 
on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://
www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Dividend-
Distribution-Policy.pdf.
3)	
Review of Operations
Consolidated:
During the year under review, at consolidated level, your 
Company achieved a revenue of ` 1,70,950 Lakhs, EBITDA 
of `6,341 Lakhs, PBT of ` (106) Lakhs and PAT of ` 612 
Lakhs as against a revenue of ` 1,74,604 Lakhs, EBITDA 
of ` 9,291 Lakhs, PBT of ` 530 Lakhs and PAT of ` (1,091) 
Lakhs respectively in the previous year.
Standalone:
At standalone level, your Company recorded revenue of 
` 23,031 Lakhs, EBITDA of ` 757 Lakhs, PBT of ` 3,359 
Lakhs and PAT of ` 3,417 Lakhs as against revenue of 
` 26,406 Lakhs, EBITDA of ` 385 Lakhs, PBT of ` (520) 
Lakhs and PAT of ` (544) Lakhs in the previous year.
4)	
Performance and Financial Details of Subsidiaries 
and Associates
The financial performance of the subsidiaries and 
associate companies are discussed in the Report on 
Management Discussion & Analysis Report. Pursuant to 
the provisions of Sections 129, 133, 134 and 136 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with Rules framed 
thereunder, the Company has prepared Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
and a separate statement containing the salient features of 
financial statement of subsidiaries and associate in Form 
AOC-1 forms part of the Annual Report.
In accordance with Section 136 of the Act, the Annual 
Accounts of the Subsidiaries are available on the 
Company’s website and also open for inspection by any 
Member at the Company’s Corporate Office. The Company 
will make available these documents and the related 
detailed information upon request by any Member of the 
Company or any Member of its Subsidiary, who may be 
interested in obtaining the same.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 33
Statutory Reports
5)	 Subsidiaries, Associates & Joint Ventures and 
Consolidated Financial Statements
In accordance with the Ind-AS 110 on Consolidated Financial 
Statements read with the Ind-AS 28 on Accounting for 
Investments in Associates notified under Section 133 read 
with Section 129(3) of the Act, the Audited Consolidated 
Financial Statements are provided in the Annual Report.
The financial statements of the following Subsidiaries 
have been consolidated into the financial statements of 
the Company:
i.	
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited (formerly 
known as “Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited”)
(“GESCPL”)
ii.	
Gati Import Export Trading Limited (“GIETL”)
iii.	
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited (“ZCMPL”)
iv.	
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited (“GLPPL”)
v.	
Gati Projects Private Limited (“GPPL”)
The Company has one Associate Company i.e. Gati Ship 
Limited and the same is not considered in the consolidation 
of accounts as the Company ceases to have significant 
control after the sale of stake of 12.09% on May 16, 2014. 
Further, the Company has no Joint Ventures.
In accordance with Regulation 16(1)(c) of the Listing 
Regulations, GESCPL has been identified as a material 
unlisted subsidiary of the Company.
The Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries as 
approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s 
website at https://www.gati.com/pdf/Investors/
announcements/Policy-on-material-subsidiaries.pdf
6)	
Shifting of the Registered office of the Company
During the year under review, the Registrar of Companies 
(ROC), Hyderabad and Registrar of Companies (ROC), 
Mumbai, Ministry of Corporate Affairs have approved form 
INC 22 giving effect to the change in the registered office 
address of the Company at "4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo 
House, CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400 
098.
7)	
Reserves
No amount transferred to Reserves, in view of the losses 
of the Company at the end of the financial year.
8)	
Fixed deposits (FD)
As on March 31, 2024, fixed deposits of your Company 
stood at ` 126.39 Lakhs out of which ` 27.54 Lakhs remain 
unclaimed and there were no overdue deposits as on that 
date. During the year under review, your Company has not 
accepted any Fresh/Renewal of deposits. There was no 
default in repayment of deposits or payment of interest 
thereon during the year and there are no deposits which 
are in non-compliance with the requirements of the Act. 
The current fixed deposits carry a rating of “CARE BBB” 
issued by CARE Ratings Limited. The Company has also 
transferred unclaimed public deposits as at March 31, 
2024 amounting to ` 17,86,174/-, (Rupees Seventeen Lakhs 
Eighty Six Thousand One Hundred and Seventy Four only) 
during the period under review.
9)	
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
i.	
Appointment/Resignation/Cessation of Director:
There has been no changes in the Board of Directors and 
KMP from the last reporting period till the date of this 
report.
ii.	
Re-appointment of Director:
During the year under review, the Company has re-
appointed Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla (DIN: 
00060776) as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
of the Company, who retired by rotation at the 28th AGM 
held during the year.
iii.	
Retirement by Rotation:
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the 
Act, read with Companies (Management & Administration) 
Rules, 2014 and Articles of Association of the Company, 
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty (DIN: 00012754), Executive and 
Non-Independent Director of the Company, who retires by 
rotation at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, has offered 
himself for re-appointment and the Board recommends his 
re-appointment.
In compliance with Regulation 36(3) of the Listing 
Regulations, brief resume of the Director proposed to be 
re-appointed forms part of the Annexure to the Notice of 
the ensuing AGM.
iv.	
Key Managerial Personnel:
The following have been designated as the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company pursuant to Sections 2(51) and 
203 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014:
1.	
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty – Managing Director
2.	
Mr. Anish T Mathew – Chief Financial Officer
3.	
Ms. T. S. Maharani – Company Secretary
There were no changes to the Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company during the reporting period.
v. 	
Appointment of Mr. Ketan Nishikant Kulkarni as 
Deputy Managing Director of Gati Express & Supply 
Chain Private Limited ("GESCPL"), Material Subsidiary 
of the Company
Mr. Ketan Nishikant Kulkarni was appointed as Deputy 
Managing Director of GESCPL at the meeting of its Board 
of Directors held on August 02, 2024 for a period of five 
consecutive years commencing from August 02, 2024 to 
August 01, 2029 (both days inclusive), subject to approval 
of shareholders of GESCPL.
10)	 Particulars of Employees and related disclosures
The remuneration paid to your Directors is in accordance 
with the Nomination and Remuneration Policy formulated 
in accordance with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 
19 of the Listing Regulations. The salient aspects covered 
in the Nomination and Remuneration Policy have been 
outlined in the Corporate Governance Report which forms 
part of this Annual report.
The information required under section 197 of the Act 
read with Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
34  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
being in force) in respect of Directors/employees of the 
Company is set out in the Annexure –A to this report.
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act read 
with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 (as amended) and as per the provisions of Section 
136(1) of the Act, the annual report is being sent to all the 
members excluding the statement showing names and 
other particulars of the top ten employees and employees 
drawing remuneration in excess of the limits prescribed 
under the said rules. The said statement is available for 
inspection at the request of the shareholders to be sent 
via e-mail at investor.services@allcargologistics.com up 
to the date of this AGM of the Company.
11)	 Declaration by Independent Directors
Pursuant to sub section (6) of Section 149 of the Act 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations, all 
the Independent Directors of your Company have given 
declaration that they have met the criteria of independence 
as required under the Act and the Listing Regulations.
12)	 Remuneration Policy
Your Directors have, on the recommendation of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, framed a 
policy for selection and appointment of Director(s), 
Senior Management Personnel and their remuneration. 
The Remuneration Policy forms part of the Corporate 
Governance Report.
13)	 Board Evaluation
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, annual performance evaluation is to be done 
for the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and Individual 
Directors. To ensure an effective evaluation process, the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of 
Directors (“NRC”) has put in place evaluation framework 
for conducting the performance evaluation exercise.
Based on the criteria set by NRC, the Board has carried out 
annual evaluation of its own performance, its Committees 
and individual Directors for financial year 2023-24. The 
questionnaires on performance evaluation were broadly 
based on the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India on January 05, 
2017. An online platform has been provided to each Director 
for their feedback and evaluation. The evaluation process 
was anchored by an independent professional agency 
to ensure independence, confidentiality and neutrality. 
A report on the evaluation process and the results of the 
evaluation were presented by the agency to the Board.
The performance evaluation of the Board was done on 
key attributes such as composition, administration, 
corporate governance, independence from Management, 
etc. Parameters for evaluation of Directors included 
constructive participation in meetings and engagement 
with colleagues on the Board. Similarly, committees were 
evaluated on parameters such as adherence to the terms 
of the mandate, deliberations on key issues, reporting to 
Board, etc. Evaluation of the Chairman of the Company was 
on the basis of his leadership, guidance to the Board and 
overall effectiveness.
Thereafter, at the Board meeting, the performance of 
the Board, its Committees and individual Directors 
was discussed and deliberated. The Board of Directors 
expressed their satisfaction towards the process followed 
by the Company for evaluating the performance of the 
Directors, Board and its Committees.
14)	 Board Committees
Detailed Composition of the Board committees namely 
Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee and Risk 
Management Committee, number of meetings held during 
the year under review and other related details are set out 
in the Corporate Governance Report which forms a part 
of this Report.
15)	 Audit committee
The details pertaining to the composition of the audit 
committee are included in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which is a part of this report.
All the recommendations made by the Audit Committee 
were accepted by the Board of Directors of the Company.
16)	 Particulars of Loans, Guarantees and Investments
The particulars of Loans given, Investments made and 
guarantees provided by the Company under Section 186 
of the Act read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and 
its Powers) Rules, 2014 as at March 31, 2024, forms part of 
the Financial Statements.
17)	 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
In terms of section 135 and Schedule VII of the Act read 
with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 made thereunder, as amended, the Board of 
Directors of your Company have constituted a Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee.
During the year under review, there was no requirement of 
amount to be spent on CSR activities, in absence of the 
profits in the immediately three preceding financial years. 
The Composition of CSR Committee and CSR Policy are 
available on the Company’s website www.gati.com.
18)	 Related Party Transactions
In line with the requirements of the Act and Listing 
Regulations, your Company has formulated a Policy on 
Related Party Transactions which is also available on the 
Company’s website at https://www.gati.com/investor-
relations/policies/. The Policy intends to ensure that proper 
reporting, approval and disclosure processes are in place 
for all transactions between the Company and Related 
Parties.
Related party transactions that were entered during the 
financial year were on an arm’s length basis and were in 
the ordinary course of business. There were no material 
related party transactions, i.e. transactions exceeding 
10% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last 
audited financial statements, were entered during the year 
by your Company. Accordingly, the disclosure of Related 
Party Transactions as required under Section 134(3)(h) of 
the Act in Form AOC-2 is not applicable. The details of the 
transactions with related parties are provided in Note No. 
45 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 35
Statutory Reports
19)	 Meetings of the Board and Committees
Six Meetings of the Board of Directors were held during the 
year under review. For details of the meetings of the Board, 
please refer to the report on Corporate Governance, which 
forms part of this Annual report.
20)	 Vigil Mechanism
The Whistle-blower Policy has been framed in compliance 
with the provisions of Section 177(10) of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations and the same is 
made available on the website of your company at https://
www.gati.com/investor-relations/policies/.
21)	 Policy on prevention of Sexual Harassment at 
Workplace
As per the requirement of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) 
Act, 2013 (‘POSH Act’) and Rules made thereunder, your 
Company has complied with the provisions related to the 
Constitution of Internal Complaints Committee (ICC).
The Company has taken several initiatives across the 
organization to build awareness amongst employees 
about the Policy and the provisions of Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace Act.
No complaint on sexual harassment was received during 
the year under review.
22)	 Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, the Company shall 
familiarise the Independent Directors with the Company, 
their roles, rights, responsibilities in the Company, nature 
of the industry in which the Company operates, business 
model of the Company, etc. The Directors are regularly 
informed during meetings of the Board and Committees 
on the business strategy, business activities, business 
operations and issues faced by the Logistics industry.
The details of the Familiarisation programme process for 
the Independent Directors forms part of the Corporate 
Governance Report.
23)	 Directors' Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to the requirement under section 134(5) of the 
Act, with respect to the Directors' Responsibility Statement 
relating to the Company, it is hereby confirmed:
a)	
That in the preparation of the Accounts for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024, the applicable accounting 
standards and schedule III of the Act (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) for the 
time being in force), have been followed along with 
the proper explanation relating to material departure;
b)	
That the Directors have selected such accounting 
policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgments and estimates that were reasonable and 
prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024 and 
of the profit and loss of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024;
c)	
That proper and sufficient care has been taken for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) for 
the time being in force), for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud 
and other irregularities;
d)	
That the accounts have been prepared on 'going 
concern’ basis;
e)	
The directors had laid down internal financial controls 
to be followed by the company and such internal 
financial controls are adequate and the Company is 
constantly endeavouring to improve the standards 
of internal control in various areas and taking steps 
to strengthen the internal control system to make it 
commensurate and effective with the nature of its 
business;
f)	
The directors have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and such systems are adequate and operating 
effectively.
24)	 Annual Return
Pursuant to sub-section (3) of Section 92 of the Act and Rule 
12 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, the Annual Return of the Company as at 
March 31, 2024 in Form MGT-7 is available on the website 
of the Company at the link https://www.gati.com/investor-
relations/general/
25)	 Risk Management Policy
The company has a well-defined process in place to 
ensure appropriate identification and treatment of 
risks. Risk identification exercise is inter-woven with the 
annual planning cycle which ensures both regularity and 
comprehensiveness. The identification of risk is done 
at strategic, business, operational and process levels. 
While the mitigation plan and actions for risks belonging 
to strategic, business and key critical operational risks 
are driven by senior leadership, for rest of the risks, 
operating managers drives the conception and subsequent 
auctioning of mitigation plans.
All risks are well integrated with functional and business 
plans and are reviewed on a regular basis by the senior 
leadership.
The Company, through its risk management process, aims 
to contain the risks within its risk appetite. There are no 
risks which in the opinion of the Board that threatens the 
existence of the Company. However, some of the risks 
which may pose challenges are set out in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis which forms part of this Annual 
Report.
26)	 Internal Financial Controls
Your Company has established and maintained a framework 
of internal financial controls and compliance systems. 
Based on the framework of internal financial controls and 
compliance systems established and maintained by the 
Company, the work performed by the internal, statutory and 
secretarial auditors and external consultants, including the 
audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting 
by the statutory auditors and the reviews performed by 
management and the relevant board committees, including 
the audit committee, the Board is of the opinion that the 
Company’s internal financial controls were adequate and 
your Company is constantly endeavouring to improve the 
standards of internal control in various areas and taking 
36  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
steps to strengthen the internal control system to make 
it commensurate and effective with the nature of its 
business.
Further, the statutory auditors of your company have 
also issued an attestation report on internal control over 
financial reporting (as defined in Section 143 of Act) for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024, which forms part to 
the Statutory Auditors Report.
27)	 Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act, read 
with Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 ('the 
Rules'), all unpaid or unclaimed dividend are required to be 
transferred by the company to the IEPF established by the 
Central Government, after the completion of seven years. 
Further, according to the Rules, the shares in respect of 
which dividend has not been paid or claimed by the 
shareholders for seven consecutive years or more shall 
also be transferred to demat account created by the IEPF 
Authority. Accordingly, the company has transferred the 
unpaid or unclaimed dividend amounting to ` 17,35,135/- for 
the financial year 2015-16 and unclaimed public deposits 
amounting to ` 17,86,174/- as at March 31, 2024 during the 
period under review. 
28)	 Auditors
a)	
Statutory Auditors
As per Section 139 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, and pursuant to the 
recommendation of the Board of Directors and Audit 
Committee of the Company at their meeting held on May 
20, 2022, the shareholders vide the Ordinary Resolution 
approved the appointment of M/s. S. R. Batliboi & 
Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
No. 101049W/E300004) as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company at the 27th AGM of the Company for a term of five 
consecutive years i.e. from the conclusion of 27th AGM till 
the conclusion of 32nd AGM of the Company pursuant to 
Section 139 of the Act.
The standalone and consolidated financial statements of 
the Company have been prepared in accordance with the 
Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under Section 133 
of the Act read with relevant rules issued thereunder (Ind 
AS) and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India.
Further, the report of the Statutory Auditors along with 
the notes on the Financial statements is enclosed to 
this Report. The Auditors’ Report do not contain any 
qualifications, reservation, adverse remarks, observations 
or disclaimer on Audited Financial Statements for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024.
b) Secretarial Auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act 
and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, your Company has 
appointed M/s. Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co., Company 
Secretaries, Hyderabad as the Secretarial Auditor to 
conduct an audit of the secretarial records of the Company 
for the financial year 2023-24. The Secretarial Audit Report 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 under the Act, 
read with Rules made thereunder and Regulation 24A of 
the Listing Regulations, is set out in the Annexure – B-1 
to this report.
Further, the Secretarial Audit Report of the material 
subsidiary i.e. Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited 
(formerly known as “Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited”) 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, pursuant to 
requirement of Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, 
is set out in Annexure – B-2 to this report.
Furthermore, Mr. T. N. Kannan, Practicing Company 
Secretary carried out Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit 
every quarter of the Financial Year under review and the 
report thereon is submitted to the Stock Exchanges.
29)	 Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption 
and Foreign Exchange Earnings & Outgo
The information on conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings & outgo 
pursuant to Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read with Rule 
8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is annexed 
as Annexure – C.
30)	 Change in Capital Structure and Listing at Stock 
Exchanges
The equity shares of your Company continue to be listed 
and traded on the BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
	
Gati - Employees Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2021 
(“ESAR 2021”)
The shareholders of the Company have approved the Gati 
- Employees Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2021 ('ESAR 
2021'/'Plan') on January 27, 2022 and the Company has 
also obtained the in-principle approval from the BSE 
Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
for the granting of Employee Stock Appreciation Rights 
("ESARs") under the Plan to the employees of the Company, 
its Holding Company, Subsidiary Company(ies) and 
Associate Company(ies).
During the year under review, the Company granted 
7,00,000 ESARs to eligible employees of the Subsidiary 
Company with a view to attract and retain the senior talents 
and reward them for their performance and to contribute 
to the growth & profitability of the Company.
The status of the available ESARs as on the date of this 
Report is as detailed hereunder:
Sr. 
No. Particulars
ESARs
1
Total ESARs approved
42,00,000
2
Less: ESARs granted
(49,05,000)
3
Add: ESARs lapsed (as per the Plan)
11,25,000
Available ESARs
4,20,000
Pursuant to the above, Company has allotted a total of 
1,27,440 Equity Shares at ` 2/- each to eligible employees 
under Gati - Employees Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 
2021.
Further, the disclosure in terms of Regulation 14 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 is 
available on the website of the Company at https://www.
gati.com/investor-relations/general/.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 37
Statutory Reports
	
Qualified Institutional Placement:
The Board of Directors by way of its resolution dated 
December 21, 2023, and the shareholders of the Company, 
pursuant to the special resolution passed through Postal 
Ballot dated February 05, 2024, have authorized the 
issuance and allotment of such number of equity shares 
of the Company of face value of ` 2/- each, (the “Equity 
Shares”) aggregating to an amount up to ` 50,000 lakhs, 
pursuant to various modes of fund raise including a 
qualified institutions placement.
Pursuant to the above, the Fund Raise Committee of the 
Board of Directors of the Company authorized the opening 
of the Issue with the floor price of ` 106.07/- per Equity 
Share and adopted the preliminary placement document 
vide its meeting held on June 24, 2024 and approved 
the placement document and closure of the Issue at its 
Meeting held on June 27, 2024.
Further, the said Committee at its Meeting held on June 28, 
2024 approved for the issue and allotment of 1,67,60,800 
equity shares of face value ` 2/- each of the Company to 30 
successful Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs), at a price 
of ` 101/- per Equity Share (including premium of ` 99/- 
per Equity Share) and reflecting a discount of ` 5.07/- (i.e. 
4.78%) on the floor price of ` 106.07/- per Equity Share, 
against receipt of full payment of application monies 
aggregating to ` 169,28,40,800/- (Rupees One Hundred 
Sixty Nine Crores Twenty Eight Lakhs Forty Thousand Eight 
Hundred Only).
Pursuant to the above, Company has issued 167,60,800 
Equity Shares of ` 2/- each to eligible QIBs.
Further, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital of 
the Company as on the date of this Report is ` 29,40,31,928/- 
divided into 14,70,15,964 equity shares of ` 2/- each.
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Paid up
No. of Shares
Paid up
Share Capital
1.
Share Capital as on 
April 01, 2023
13,01,30,117
26,02,60,234
2.
Add: Issue of Shares 
under ESAR Plan
1,27,440
2,54,880
3.
Add: Issue of Shares 
through QIP
1,67,60,800
3,35,21,600
4.
Share Capital as 
on the date of this 
Report
14,70,18,357
29,40,36,714
31)	 Company’s Policies
The details of the policies approved and adopted by the 
Board are provided in Annexure - D to this report.
32)	 Corporate Governance
Your Company is committed to maintain the high 
standards of corporate governance and adhere to the 
corporate governance requirements set out by Securities 
and Exchange Board of India. The Report on corporate 
governance as stipulated under Regulation 34 of the 
Listing Regulations, forms part of this Annual Report and 
is annexed as Annexure - E. The requisite certificate from 
the Practicing Company Secretary confirming compliance 
with the conditions of corporate governance as stipulated 
under the aforesaid Regulations forms part of this report.
33)	 Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
(MD&AR)
Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the 
financial year under review, as stipulated under Regulation 
34(2)(e) of the Listing Regulations, is presented in a 
separate section and forms part of this Annual Report.
34)	 Business 
Responsibility 
and 
Sustainability 
Report (BRSR)
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the 
financial year under review, as stipulated under Regulation 
34(2)(f) of the Listing Regulations and SEBI Circular SEBI/
HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 2021, is 
presented in a separate section and forms part of this 
Annual Report.
35) Proposed Amalgamation of our Company with 
Allcargo Logistics Limited
The Board of Directors of your Company, on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the 
Committee of Independent Directors, at their meetings 
held on December 21, 2023 approved the composite 
scheme of arrangement / amalgamation for restructuring 
of businesses (the “Scheme”) under sections 230 to 232 
read with section 66 and other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, read with (a) the Companies 
(Compromises, Arrangements and Amalgamations) 
Rules, 2016, as amended from time to time; (b) applicable 
regulation of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended; and (c) 
relevant provisions of the Memorandum of Association 
and the Articles of Association of your Company.
The Scheme provides for the following:
i.	
Allcargo Logistics Limited (“Allcargo Logistics 
Limited” or “Demerged Company” or “Transferee 
Company 2”) will be demerging its Business Division 
viz. International Supply Chain to Allcargo ECU Limited 
(“Resulting Company” or “AEL”) and the consequent 
issue of equity shares by Resulting Company to 
the shareholders of the Demerged Company and 
subsequent listing of such equity shares;
ii.	
Further, the Contract Logistics Business and Express 
Logistics Business will be transferred by way of an 
amalgamation between Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited (formerly known as Avvashya Supply Chain 
Private Limited) (“Transferor Company 1” or “ASCPL”) 
and Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited 
(formerly known as Gati - Kintetsu Express Private 
Limited) (“Transferor Company 2” or “GESCPL”) into 
our Company (“Transferee Company 1” or “Transferor 
Company 3” or “AGL”) and consequently the equity 
shares of Transferor Company 2 held by our Company, 
and of Transferor Company 1 and Transferor Company 
2 held by the Demerged Company (hereinafter known 
as (“Amalgamation 1”) shall stand cancelled; and
iii.	
Post Amalgamation 1, our Company will be 
amalgamated into Transferee Company 2 and 
the Equity Shares held by Transferee Company 
2 shall stand cancelled (hereinafter known as 
(“Amalgamation 2”).
38  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
The Company has applied for and are currently awaiting 
regulatory approvals from the Stock Exchanges (BSE and 
NSE), pursuant to which other government and regulatory 
filings shall be made, as required.
37)	 General
Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is 
required in respect of the following items as there were 
no transactions on these items during the financial year 
under review:
1.	
Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to 
dividend, voting or otherwise.
2.	
No significant or material orders were passed by the 
Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact the 
going concern status and Company’s operations in 
future.
3.	
During the period under review, none of the Auditors 
of the Company have reported any fraud as specified 
under the second proviso of Section 143(12) of the 
Act (including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force).
4.	
The Company has complied with Secretarial 
Standards, i.e. SS-1 and SS-2, relating to Meetings of 
the Board of Directors and General Meetings, issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
5.	
There were no material changes commitments 
affecting the financial position of your Company 
between the end of financial year (March 31, 2024) 
and the date of the report (August 02, 2024).
6.	
Company is not required to maintain cost records 
under Section 148(1) of the Act.
7.	
The policy for determining material subsidiaries of 
the Company has been provided on the Company’s 
website at www.gati.com
38)	 Acknowledgment
Your Directors thank various departments of Central and 
State Government, Organizations and Agencies for the 
continued help and co-operation extended by them to your 
Company. Your Directors also gratefully acknowledge all 
stakeholders of the Company viz. Members, Customers, 
Dealers, Vendors, Financial Institutions, banks and other 
business partners for the excellent support received 
from them during the year under review and the financial 
contribution and significant support from the largest 
shareholder Allcargo Logistics Limited. Your Directors 
place on record their sincere appreciation to all employees 
of the Company for their unstinted commitment and 
continued contribution to the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Place: Mumbai
Chairman & Managing Director
Date: August 02, 2024
DIN: 00012754
Annual Report 2023-24  | 39
Statutory Reports
Particulars of Employees information as per Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
i)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the financial 
year 2023-24 and percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and 
Company Secretary during the financial year 2023-24, are as under:
Executive Directors and KMP
Ratio of remuneration of each Director 
/ Key Managerial Personnel to median 
remuneration of employees
% increase in Remuneration
in the Financial Year 2023-24
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty, Managing Director(@)
NIL
NIL
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari, Chief Executive Officer(^)
NIL
NIL
Mr. Anish T. Mathew, Chief Financial Officer
18
8.6%
Mrs. T. S. Maharani, Company Secretary
5.96
5.0%
(@) Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty is drawing remuneration from Allcargo Logistics Limited, Holding Company.
(^)Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari draws remuneration from Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited (formerly known as “Gati-
Kintetsu Express Private Limited”), Material Subsidiary Company. However, he was re-designated as a Non - Executive, Non-
Independent Director on the Board of the Company w.e.f. June 09, 2023.
ii)	
The median remuneration is ` 7,53,733 /-  and the percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial 
year is 6%
iii)	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of company as on March 31, 2024: Twelve (12)
iv)	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial 
year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if 
there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
Increase in remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
v)	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
Note:
a)	
The Non-Executive, Independent Directors of the Company are entitled for sitting fee as per the statutory provisions and the 
details of the same are provided in the Corporate Governance Report and is governed by the Differential Remuneration Policy, 
as detailed in the said report.
b)	
Percentage increase in remuneration is calculated based on total cost to the Company as per the remuneration policy of the 
Company.
Annexure – A
For and on behalf of the Board
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Place: Mumbai
Chairman & Managing Director
Date: August 02, 2024
DIN: 00012754
40  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Form No. MR-3
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year Ending 31st March 2024
Annexure – B-1
To
The Members of
Allcargo Gati Limited
(Formerly Gati Limited)
4th Floor B Wing Allcargo House, CST Road Kalina Santacruz 
East Mumbai, Vidyanagari, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 
400098.
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit pursuant to Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013, on the compliance of applicable 
statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly Gati Limited) 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the Corporate Conducts/Statutory Compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minutes books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information and 
according to the examinations carried out by us and explanations 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of the secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the 
audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st March 
2024 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on 31st March 2024 according to the 
provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
there under;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made there under;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed there under;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’): -
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018;
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; 
(Not applicable to the Company during the financial 
year under review);
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client; (Not Applicable as the Company 
is not registered as Registrar to Issue and Share 
Transfer Agent during the financial year under 
review);
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not applicable 
as the Company has not delisted/proposed to delist 
its equity shares from any Stock Exchange during 
the financial year under review);
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable as 
the Company has not bought back any of its equity 
shares).
(i)	
The Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 
2015; and
(j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018.
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India with relating to Board 
Meetings and General Meetings.
(ii)	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange 
India Limited (NSE) read with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 41
Statutory Reports
(iii)	 Other Specifically applicable laws to the Company in 
respect of which we relied on the Internal Audit report 
and noted relevant compliances and observations 
made by the Internal Auditor:
(a)	
Carriage of Goods by Road Act, 2007
(b)	
Carriage of Goods by Air Act, 1972
(c)	
Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
(d)	
Motor Transport Workers Act, 1961
(e)	
Motor Vehicles Act, 1988
(f)	
Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
(g)	
The Factories Act, 1948
(h)	
Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act, 1993
(i)	
Railway Act, 1989
(j)	
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
1981
(k)	
The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act, 1974
(l)	
Control of National Highways (Land and Traffic) 
Act, 2002
We further report that:
(i)	
based on the information provided by the Company, 
its officers and its authorized representatives during 
the conduct of the audit and also on review of periodic 
reports by Company Secretary taken note of by the Board 
of Directors of the Company, adequate systems and 
processes and control mechanism exist in the company 
to monitor and ensure the compliance with the applicable 
laws.
(ii)	
The compliance by the Company of applicable accounting 
standards and taxation laws has not been reviewed in 
this Audit since the same have been subject to review by 
Statutory Audit and Other designated professionals.
(iii)	 the constitution of the Board of Directors of the Company 
is duly constituted of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors, and Independent Directors in accordance with 
the applicable laws and regulations.
(iv)	 adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board and Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were sent electronically well in advance 
or shorter consent were taken in other cases, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
(v)	
all the decisions at the Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings have been carried out unanimously as recorded 
in the Minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors or 
Committee of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that:
(i)	
there are adequate systems and processes in the 
Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
(ii)	
there were no specific events/actions in pursuance of the 
above referred laws, rules, regulations, etc., having a major 
bearing on the Company’s affairs.
We further report that:
•	
During the period, two MCA Forms were filed late with an 
additional fee due to technical issue and subsequently, the 
Compliance has been met by the Company.
•	
The Company has changed its name from GATI Limited to 
Allcargo Gati Limited w.e.f 19th October, 2023 as approved 
by the Registrar of Companies (ROC), Hyderabad.
•	
The Company has provided clarifications regarding the 
correspondence received from BSE regarding Regulation 
30(6) and Schedule III of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, 
in conjunction with SEBI Circular CIR/CF D/CM D/4/2015 
dated September 09, 2015. These clarifications pertain to 
the delayed disclosure to the Exchange(s) following the 
closure of Board Meetings held on 19.05.2023, 04.08.2023, 
03.11.2023, and 02.02.2024. The Company has clarified 
that these meetings were conducted via Audio-Video 
mode, and the documentation could only be signed after 
the conclusion of the meetings. The delay in submission 
was primarily due to the process of obtaining signatures 
from the relevant individuals, who were located elsewhere, 
followed by authentication by the Chairman. The company 
has ensured that the outcomes were submitted to the 
exchange within a few minutes of completion.
•	
The Registered Office of the Company has been shifted 
from the State of Telangana, Hyderabad to the State of 
Maharashtra at Mumbai at "4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo 
House, CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East), Mumbai - 400 
098" with effect from February 27, 2024, as approved by 
the Registrar of Companies, Hyderabad and the Registrar 
of Companies, Mumbai.
•	
7,00,000 ESARs were granted during the year The said 
issue and allotment is in accordance with the (Share Based 
Employee Benefits & Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021.
For Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
CS Navajyoth Puttaparthi
Partner
FCS No: 9896; C P No: 16041
Place: Hyderabad
Peer Review Certificate No. 1158/2021 
Date: 16th May, 2024
UDIN: F009896F000381291
42  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
To
The Members of
Allcargo Gati Limited
(Formerly Gati Limited) 
4th Floor B Wing Allcargo House, CST Road Kalina Santacruz
East Mumbai, Vidyanagari, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400098.
Our report with given date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the company's financial records and Books of Accounts.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
the happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, and standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the company’s future viability nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company.
‘ANNEXURE A’
For Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
CS Navajyoth Puttaparthi
Partner
FCS No: 9896; C P No: 16041
Place: Hyderabad
Peer Review Certificate No. 1158/2021 
Date: 16th May, 2024
UDIN: F009896F000381291
Annual Report 2023-24  | 43
Statutory Reports
To
The Members of
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited
(Formerly Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited)
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit pursuant to Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013, on the compliance of applicable 
statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited 
(Formerly Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited) (hereinafter 
called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
Corporate Conducts/Statutory Compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minutes books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information and 
according to the examinations carried out by us and explanations 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the 
audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 
2024 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and 
compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on 31st March 2024 according to the 
provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
there under;
(ii)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and 
regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
(iii)	 The Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’) shall not apply to the Company being an unlisted 
company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
(iv)	 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India with respect to the Board and General 
Meeting.
(v)	
During the period under review the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
(vi)	 Other Specifically applicable laws to the Company in 
respect of which we relied on the Internal Audit report and 
noted relevant compliances and observations made by the 
Internal Auditor:
(a)	
Carriage of Goods by Road Act, 2007
(b)	
Carriage of Goods by Air Act, 1972
(c)	
Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1925
(d)	
Motor Transport Workers Act, 1961
(e)	
Motor Vehicles Act, 1988
(f)	
Fatal Accidents Act, 1855
(g)	
The Factories Act, 1948
(h)	
Multimodal Transportation of Goods Act, 1993
(i)	
Railway Act, 1989
(j)	
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981
(k)	
The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
1974
(l)	
Control of National Highways (Land and Traffic) Act, 
2002
We further report that:
(i)	
based on the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, and its authorized representatives during 
the conduct of the audit and also on review of periodic 
reports by Company Secretary taken on record by the 
Board of Directors of the Company, adequate systems and 
processes and control mechanism exist in the company to 
monitor and ensure the compliance of with the applicable 
general laws like Labour laws, competition law and 
environment laws.
(ii)	
the Compliance by the Company of applicable accounting 
standards and taxation laws has not been reviewed in 
this Audit since the same have been subject to review 
by Statutory Financial Audit and Other designated 
professionals.
(iii)	 the constitution of the Board of Directors of the Company 
is duly constituted of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors, and Independent Directors in accordance with 
the applicable laws and regulations.
(iv)	 adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board and Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were sent electronically well in advance 
Annexure – B-2
Form No. MR-3
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year Ending 31st March 2024
44  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
or shorter consent were taken in other cases, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
(v)	
all the decisions at the Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings have been carried out unanimously as recorded 
in the Minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors or 
Committee of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that:
(i)	
there are adequate systems and processes in the 
Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations, and guidelines.
(ii)	
there were no specific events/actions in pursuance of the 
above referred laws, rules, regulations, etc., having a major 
bearing on the Company’s affairs except as reported in the 
Financial Audit Report.
We further report that:
•	
The Company Changed its name from Gati-Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited to Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited w.e.f 27th July, 2023 as approved by the 
Regional Director.
•	
Three MCA forms were filed late with an additional fee due 
to technical issue and subsequently, the Compliance has 
been met by the Company.
For Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
CS Navajyoth Puttaparthi
Partner
FCS No: 9896; C P No: 16041
Place: Hyderabad
Peer Review Certificate No. 1158/2021 
Date: 16th May, 2024
UDIN: F009896F000381410
Annual Report 2023-24  | 45
Statutory Reports
To
The Members of
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited
(Formerly Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited)
4th Floor B Wing Allcargo House, CST Road Kalina Santacruz East Mumbai, 
Vidyanagari, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400098.
Our report with given date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company.
‘ANNEXURE A’
For Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
CS Navajyoth Puttaparthi
Partner
FCS No: 9896; C P No: 16041
Place: Hyderabad
Peer Review Certificate No. 1158/2021 
Date: 16th May, 2024
UDIN: F009896F000381410
46  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
[Section 134(3)(m) of The Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(3) of The Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
A)	 First mile automation (E-Docket):
Further to the successful roll out of first of its kind Paperless Shipment Booking Process (e-AWB) for retail customer in last 
financial year, this year as planned the e-docket facility has been extended to our MSME and Strategic customers with 85% 
compliance level.
Additionally, two major initiatives have been rolled out successfully during this financial year which has helped significantly in 
enhancing the efficiency and accuracy:
a.	
We have upgraded our booking application to capture docket (AWB) details by scanning the e-waybill QR code and 
capturing the information from the E-waybill site for complete and accurate data.
b.	
All our pickup personnel have been equipped with mobile label printer to print the package sticker in real time at the point 
of pick up, thus reducing the pick-up time significantly.
B)	 ERP Transformation (GEMS 2.0) update:
The GEMS 2.0 project was launched in August 24 and the study and design phase has been progressing as scheduled by the 
technology partner. The technology infrastructure environment has been setup on the cloud successfully including security 
configurations for starting the development of the application. As part of the GEMS 2.0 other related projects of Master Data 
Management (MDM) and Data Lake (DL) creation have also been initiated and have progressed well. Both these projects would 
go live in the first half of next year.
C)	 Last mile automation (Telematics):
Our delivery app is further enhanced with telematics solution to provide real time visibility of vehicle current position and delivery 
partner’s travelling route path etc. This has strengthened our team’s ability to monitor the delivery related activity proactively. 
Capturing the consignee’s address and tagging it with unique code is another innovative feature added to the application. At 
25 locations these new features are rolled out as pilot. As this application has been very successful, the same would be rolled 
out to all business partners, across the country by Q2FY25 post appropriate training.
D)	 Foreign Exchange earnings and outgo:
The particulars of earning and expenditure in foreign exchange during the year are given as follows:
(Amt in Lakhs.)
Summary
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Foreign exchange earnings
56.01
56.01
Foreign exchange outgo
1.86
1.86
Annexure – C
For and on behalf of the Board
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Place: Mumbai
Chairman & Managing Director
Date: August 02, 2024
DIN: 00012754
Annual Report 2023-24  | 47
Statutory Reports
Board Policies
We seek to promote and follow the highest level of ethical standards in all our business transactions guided by our value systems. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 mandated the 
formulation of certain policies for all listed companies. All our corporate governance policies are available on our website, at https://
www.gati.com/investor-relations/policies/. The policies are reviewed by the Board and updated based on need and new compliance 
requirements.
Key policies that have been adopted are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the policy
Brief Description
Web link
1
Whistleblower Policy 
(Policy on Vigil 
Mechanism)
The company has adopted a whistleblower mechanism for 
directors and employees to report concerns about unethical 
behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company's 
code of conduct and ethics.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2020/10/Gati-Whistle-
Blower-Policy.pdf
2
Code of Conduct 
and Ethics
The company has adopted the Code of Conduct and Ethics which 
forms the foundation of its ethics and compliance program.
https://www.gati.com/investor-
relations/code-of-conduct/
3
Insider Trading 
Policy
This policy provides the framework in dealing with securities of 
the company.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/07/Code-of-Conduct-
to-Regulate-Monitor-and-Report-
Trading-by-Designated-Persons.pdf
4
Policy for 
determining 
Materiality for 
Disclosures
This policy applies to disclosures of material events affecting 
Gati and its subsidiaries.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2021/06/Policy-for-
Determination-of-Materiality-and-
archive.pdf
5
Risk Management 
Policy
This policy is framed with the objective of identification, 
evaluation, monitoring, controlling, managing and minimizing 
identifiable risks.
h t t p s : // w w w. g a t i . c o m / w p -
content/uploads/2022/06/Risk-
Management-Policy.pdf
6
Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy
This policy formulates the criteria for determining qualifications, 
competencies, positive attributes and independence for the 
appointment of a director (executive and non-executive) and also 
the criteria for determining the remuneration of the directors, key 
managerial personnel and other employees.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/08/Remuneration-
policy.pdf
7
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy
This policy outlines the Company's strategy to bring about a 
positive impact on society through programs relating to hunger, 
poverty, education, healthcare, environment and lowering its 
resource footprint.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2021/06/CSR-Policy.pdf
8
Policy on Material 
Subsidiaries
This policy is used to determine the material subsidiaries and 
material non-listed Indian subsidiaries of the company and to 
provide the governance framework for them.
h t t p s : // w w w. g a t i . c o m / p d f /
Investors/announcements/Policy-
on-material-subsidiaries.pdf
9
Related Party 
Transaction Policy
This policy regulates all transactions between the company and 
its related parties.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2021/06/RPT-Policy.pdf
10
Code of Practices 
Procedures for Fair 
Disclosure of UPSI
This 
Code 
serves 
as 
a 
guiding 
charter 
for 
all 
concerned persons associated with the functioning of 
the company and their dealings in its securities. Further, the Code 
also seeks to ensure timely and adequate disclosure of Price 
Sensitive Information to the investor community / other relevant 
stakeholders, by the company to enable them to take informed 
decisions with regard to the Company's securities.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
u p l o a d s / 2 0 1 9 / 0 4 / C o d e - o f -
Practices-Procedures-for-Fair-
Disclosure-of-UPSI.pdf
11
Dividend Distribution 
Policy
This 
Policy 
lays 
down 
a 
broad 
framework 
for 
considering decisions by the Board of Directors of the 
Company 
with 
regard 
to 
distribution 
of 
dividend 
to 
its 
shareholders 
by 
striking 
a 
balance 
between pay-out and retaining earnings on the basis of the future 
growth strategy of the Company.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
u p l o a d s / 2 0 2 1 / 0 6 / D i v i d e n d -
Distribution-Policy.pdf
Annexure – D
48  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Sr. 
No.
Name of the policy
Brief Description
Web link
12
Anti-Harassment and 
Anti-Discrimination 
Policy
Zero-tolerance policy towards any form of harassment or 
discrimination
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Anti-Harassment-
and-Anti-Discrimination-Policy.pdf
13
Anti-trust and Anti-
competetive Policy
This policy provides guidance to all associates about antitrust 
and competition laws and conducts business in fair, ethical and 
transparent manner.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Anti-trust-and-
Anti-competetive-Policy.pdf
14
Board Diversity 
Policy
Promote diversity and inclusion across all levels within the 
organization
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Anti-trust-and-
Anti-competetive-Policy.pdf
15
Code of Conduct on 
Ethics, Transparency 
and Accountability
Sets the tone of the way we conduct ourselves within the Company 
and also the way we conduct our business with stakeholders in 
line with our value of practicing highest standards of business 
ethics and humility.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
u p l o a d s / 2 0 2 3 / 0 4 / C o d e - o f -
Conduct-Ethics-Transparency-and-
Accountability.pdf
16
Corporate Tax 
Governance Policy
Policy on Tax principles, governance and risk management
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Corporate-Tax-
Governance-Policy.pdf
17
Environment Policy
Policy entails approach towards Environmental aspects and 
acts as a guideline to manage the related impact and risk. This 
Policy will help us develop better environmental practices while 
conducting business and create value for relevant stakeholders.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Environment-
Policy.pdf
18
Sustainable 
Procurement Policy
Sets out principles and procedures for procurement and supplier 
sustainability assesment
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Sustainable-
Procurement-Policy.pdf
19
Supplier Code of 
Conduct
Defines the basic requirements placed on the suppliers and 
third-party intermediaries of the Company, concerning their 
responsibilities towards their stakeholders and the environment.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Supplier-Code-of-
Conduct.pdf
20
Health and Safety 
Policy
This policy conveys approach to integrate safety standards in 
our business processes, and our aim to identify, manage and 
mitigate health and safety threats.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Health-and-
Safety-Policy.pdf
21
Stakeholder 
Engagement Policy
This stakeholder engagement policy is committed to being 
responsible, transparent, and accountable towards the citizens 
of society, especially in all communities where Company has its 
workspace and operations.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Stakeholder-
Engagement-Policy.pdf
22
Human Rights Policy The Policy highlights Company's commitment towards Human 
Rights and contains Declaration of Human Rights and principles 
addressing fundamental rights set out in the Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/Human-Rights-
Policy.pdf
For and on behalf of the Board
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Place: Mumbai
Chairman & Managing Director
Date: August 02, 2024
DIN: 00012754
Annual Report 2023-24  | 49
Statutory Reports
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’), and the report contains the details of Corporate 
Governance systems and processes at Allcargo Gati Limited 
(‘AGL’ or ‘the Company’).
Corporate governance is the set of processes, customs, policies, 
laws and institutions affecting the way a company is directed, 
administered or controlled. It is a system of structuring, 
operating and controlling a company with a view to achieve 
long term strategic goals to satisfy shareholders, creditors, 
employees, customers and suppliers.
Corporate governance is based on principles such as conducting 
the business with all integrity and fairness, being transparent 
with regard to all transactions, making all the necessary 
disclosures and decisions, complying with all the laws of the 
land, accountability and responsibility towards the stakeholders 
and commitment to conducting business in an ethical manner.
Company’s Philosophy
The Company believes that timely disclosures, transparent 
accounting policies and a strong and independent Board go a 
long way in maintaining good corporate governance, preserving 
shareholders’ trust and maximizing long-term corporate value.
The Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance focuses 
on the attainment of the highest standards of transparency, 
accountability, ethics and equity with management flexibility, 
empowerment and responsiveness in the interest of 
shareholders, customers, employees, business associates and 
the society at large.
AGL’s corporate governance framework is based on the following 
main principles:
•	
Appropriate composition and size of the Board;
•	
Timely flow of information to the members of the Board 
and Board Committees;
•	
Well developed systems and processes for risk 
management and financial reporting;
•	
Timely and accurate disclosure of all material operational 
and financial information.
Board of Directors
As on March 31, 2024, the Company has Eight Directors, out of 
which, seven (i.e. 87.50 percent) are Non-Executive Directors 
out of which Four (i.e. 50.00 percent) are Independent Directors. 
The profiles of Directors can be found on https://www.gati.com/
about-us/management/bod/. The composition of the Board is 
in conformity with Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations read 
with Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013. The composition 
of the Board also represents an optimal mix of professionalism, 
knowledge, experience and enables the Board to discharge 
its responsibilities and provide effective leadership to the 
business. The Board’s actions and decisions are aligned with 
the Company’s best interests. It is committed to the goal of 
sustainably elevating the Company’s value creation. The 
Board critically evaluates the Company’s strategic direction, 
management policies and their effectiveness.
There have been no changes taken place in the Board of 
Directors and KMP from the last report till the date of this report.
The composition of Board/Committees can be found on https://
www.gati.com/investor-relations/committees-of-the-board/.
Each Director informs the Company on an annual basis about 
the Board and Board Committee positions he/she occupies in 
other companies including Chairmanships and notifies changes 
periodically and regularly during the term of their directorship 
in the Company. None of the Directors on the Board hold 
directorship in more than ten public companies. None of the 
Independent Directors serve as an Independent Director on 
more than seven listed companies. None of the Directors of the 
Company is related to each other. Further, none of the Directors 
on the Board are Members of more than ten Committees or 
Chairman of more than five Committees across all the public 
companies in which they are Directors.
The number of other directorships, committee chairmanships/
memberships held in other companies by each of the Directors 
as on March 31, 2024 is tabled below:
Annexure – E
Name
No. of Directorships and Committee 
Membership / Chairmanship in other Public 
Companies
Directorship in other Listed Entity and 
Category of Directorship
Other 
Directorships
Committee**
Chairmanship
Membership
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty
4
0
1
(i)	 Allcargo Logistics Limited (Promoter, 
Executive Director)
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy 
Kalyaniwalla
5
0
3
(i)	 Allcargo Logistics Limited (Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Director)
(ii) 	Allcargo Terminals Limited (Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Director)
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
4
1
6
(i)	 Raymond Limited (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director)
50  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Name
No. of Directorships and Committee 
Membership / Chairmanship in other Public 
Companies
Directorship in other Listed Entity and 
Category of Directorship
Other 
Directorships
Committee**
Chairmanship
Membership
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
9
5
10
(i)	 Thejo Engineering Limited (Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Director)
(ii)	 360 One Wam Limited (Formerly known 
as IIFL Wealth Management Limited) 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director)
(iii)	Allcargo Logistics Limited (Non-
Executive, Non- Independent Director)
(iv)	Thomas Cook (India) Limited (Non-
Executive, Independent Director)
(v)	 PNB Housing Finance Limited (Non-
Executive, Independent Director)
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni
2
1
2
NIL
Mr. Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
6
2
5
(i)	 Chalet Hotels Limited (Chairman, Non-
Executive, Independent Director)
(ii)	 Ami Organics Limited (Non-Executive, 
Independent Director)
(iii)	Shilpa Medicare Limited(Non-Executive, 
Independent Director)
(iv)	Syrma SGS Technology Limited(Non-
Executive, Independent Director)
(v)	 Singer India Limited(Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent Director)
(vi)	Allcargo Logistics Limited (Non-
Executive, Independent Director)
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Mr. Ravi Jakhar
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
** Chairmanships / Memberships of Board Committees include only Audit and Stakeholders Relationship Committees.
List of Core Skills/ Expertise/ Competencies required and available with the Board
A chart or matrix setting out the list of core skills / expertise / competencies identified by the Board of Directors as required in the 
context of its business(es) and sector(s) for it to function effectively are as under :-
Sl. 
No. Names of Directors
Skill/Expertise/Competency
Finance and
Accounting
Corporate
Governance 
and Listing 
Regulations
Sales,
Marketing And 
Programming
General
Administration
Industry 
experience,
Global Business 
& Business 
acumen
1.
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty
√
√
√
√
√
2.
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla
√
√
--
√
√
3.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
√
√
√
√
√
4.
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey 
√
√
√
√
√
5.
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni
--
--
√
√
√
6.
Mr. Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
√
√
√
√
√
7.
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari
√
√
√
√
√
8.
Mr. Ravi Jakhar
√
√
√
√
√
In the above table, specific areas of focus or expertise of individual Board members have been highlighted, however, the absence of a 
mark against a member’s name does not necessarily mean that the member does not possess the corresponding qualification or skill.
Meetings of the Board
The Board of Directors must meet at least four times a year, with a maximum time gap of 120 days between two Board meetings. 
During the financial year 2023-24, the Board met six times: on April 02, 2023, May 19, 2023, August 04, 2023, November 03, 2023, 
December 21, 2023 and February 02, 2024. The necessary quorum was present at all the meetings. Consequent to relaxations granted 
by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India, certain Board Meetings in the financial year 2023-24 
were held through Video Conferencing. The proceedings of the meetings held through Video Conferencing are duly recorded by 
the Company.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 51
Statutory Reports
The below table gives the composition of the Board, their attendance at the board meetings held during the year and at the previous 
Annual General Meeting held on September 04, 2023 and also the shareholding:
Name
Category and Designation
Attendance particulars
No. of Equity 
shares
Board 
meetings
Last AGM
Mr. Shashi Kiran Shetty
Executive, Chairman & Managing Director
4/6
No
--
Mr. Kaiwan Kalyaniwalla
Non - Executive, Non-Independent Director
6/6
Yes
--
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
Non - Executive, Independent Director
6/6
Yes
--
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
Non - Executive, Independent Director
6/6
Yes
--
Ms. Vinita Mohoni
Non - Executive, Independent Director
4/6
Yes
--
Mr. Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
Non - Executive, Independent Director
4/6
Yes
--
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari
Non - Executive, Non-Independent Director
4/6
Yes
33002
Mr. Ravi Jakhar
Non - Executive, Non-Independent Director
4/6
Yes
--
Ms. Cynthia D’souza (a) (Stepped-down)
Non - Executive, Independent Director
1/6
NA
--
Mr. Yasuyuki Tani (b) (Stepped-down)
Non - Executive, Nominee Director
1/6
NA
--
Notes:
(a) Resigned as Non - Executive, Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. June 08, 2023.
(b) Resigned as Non - Executive, Nominee Director of the Company w.e.f. June 08, 2023.
Information given to the Board:
The Company provides the following information to the Board 
and the Board Committees. Such information is submitted 
either as part of the agenda papers in advance of the meetings 
or by way of presentations and discussion materials during the 
meetings.
•	
Annual operating plans and budgets, capital budgets, 
updates and all variances;
•	
Quarterly, Half yearly, Nine months and Annual results of 
the Company and its subsidiaries;
•	
Detailed presentations on the business performance of the 
Company and its material subsidiaries;
•	
Declaration of dividend, if any;
•	
Minutes of meetings of the Audit Committee and other 
Committees;
•	
Contract in which Directors are interested;
•	
Update on the significant legal cases of the Company;
•	
Subsidiary companies minutes, financial statements and 
significant investments;
•	
Reviews the compliance reports of all laws applicable to 
the Company;
•	
Evaluates the Company’s strategic direction, management 
policies, performance objectives and effectiveness of 
Corporate Governance practices.
In the path of digitalization and with a view to ensure its 
commitment to Go-Green initiative of the Government, the 
Company circulates to its Directors, notes for Board/Committee 
meetings through an electronic platform thereby ensuring high 
standards of security and confidentiality of Board papers.
Board Support
The Company Secretary is responsible for collation, review and 
distribution of all papers submitted to the Board and Committees 
thereof for consideration. He/She is also responsible for 
preparation of the Agenda and convening of the Board and 
Committee meetings. He/She attends all the meetings of the 
Board and its Committees, in the capacity of Secretary of 
the Committees. He/She advises / assures the Board and its 
Committees on Compliance and Governance principles and 
ensures appropriate recording of minutes of the meetings.
Code of Conduct
The Company has adopted a code of conduct for all Board 
Members and Designated Senior Management of the Company. 
The duties of Independent Directors as laid down in the 
Companies Act, 2013, are incorporated in the Code of Conduct. 
The Code of Conduct is available on the website of the Company 
i.e. https://www.gati.com/investor-relations/code-of-conduct/.
Appointment and Tenure of Directors
The Directors of the Company are appointed / re-appointed 
by the Board on the recommendations of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and approval of the Members at the 
General Meetings. In accordance with the Articles of Association 
of the Company, not less than two-thirds of the total number of 
Directors other than Independent Directors of the Company, are 
liable to retire by rotation at the AGM each year and, if eligible, 
offer themselves for re-election.
As regards the appointment and tenure of the Independent 
Directors, following is the policy adopted by the Board:
•	
The Company has adopted the provisions with respect to 
appointment and tenure of Independent Directors which 
are consistent with the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing 
Regulations. The Company has also received declarations 
from all the Independent Directors of the Company 
confirming that they meet the criteria of independence as 
prescribed both under the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing 
Regulations.
•	
The Independent Directors will serve a maximum of two 
terms of five years each, after the introduction of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
•	
The Company would not have any upper age limit of 
retirement of Independent Directors from the Board and 
their appointment and tenure will be governed by provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations.
•	
In accordance, with the Listing Regulations, the Company 
shall ensure that the appointment of any Non-Executive 
52  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Director who has attained the age of 75 years is approved 
by the Members by way of a Special Resolution.
•	
In accordance, with the Listing Regulations, the Company 
shall ensure that the approval of shareholders for 
appointment of a person on the Board of Directors is taken 
at the next general meeting or within a time period of three 
months from the date of appointment, whichever is earlier.
Declaration by Independent Directors
The Company has on its Board, eminent Independent Directors 
who have brought in independent judgement to Board’s 
deliberations including issues of strategy, risk management 
and overall governance. They have played a pivotal role in 
safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders.
The Independent Directors have submitted declarations that 
they meet the criteria of Independence laid down under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations and have 
confirmed that they do not hold directorship more than the 
prescribed limit in the Listing Regulations. The Company has 
also issued formal appointment letters to all the Independent 
Directors in the manner provided under the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Rules issued thereunder.
Separate meeting of the Independent Directors
Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing Regulations and 
Secretarial Standard - 1 on Meetings of the Board of Directors 
mandates that the Independent Directors of the Company hold 
at least one meeting in a year, without the attendance of Non 
– Independent Directors. During the financial year 2023-24, 
one meeting of the Independent Directors was held on March 
07, 2024. The Independent Directors, inter-alia, reviewed the 
performance of Non-Independent Director, Board as a whole 
and Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of 
Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
Familiarisation programmes to Independent Directors
The Board familiarization programme comprises of updation on 
Statutory laws, Business outlook and functional issues.
All Independent Directors are taken through a familiarization 
programme on an annual basis that covers the background of the 
Company and its growth over the last several decades, various 
milestones in the Company’s existence since its incorporation, 
the present structure and an overview of the businesses and 
functions. The Independent Directors are highlighted on the 
constitution, Board procedures, matters reserved for the Board 
and major risks facing the business and mitigation programmes. 
The Independent Directors are made aware of their roles and 
responsibilities at the time of their appointment and a detailed 
Letter of Appointment is issued to them.
In the Board Meetings, all facts of the business and related 
functional issues are discussed in order to provide a good 
understanding of the business to the Independent Directors. 
These programmes give an opportunity for the Board to interact 
with the next level of management. To make these sessions 
meaningful and insightful, pre-reads are circulated in advance. 
There are opportunities for Independent Directors to interact 
amongst themselves every quarter.
The details of programs for familiarization of the Independent 
Directors are available on the Company’s website and can be 
accessed through the web link: https://www.gati.com/investor-
relations/familiarization-programmes/.
Committees of the Board
The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance 
structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal 
with specific areas / activities as mandated by applicable 
regulation; which concern the Company and need a closer 
review. The Board Committees are set up under the formal 
approval of the Board to carry out clearly defined roles which 
are considered to be performed by Members of the Board, as 
a part of good governance practice. The Chairperson of the 
respective Committees informs the Board about the summary 
of the discussions held in the Committee Meetings. The minutes 
of the meetings of all Committees are placed before the Board 
for review. The Board Committees can request special invitees 
to join the meeting, as appropriate.
The Company has five Board-level Committees, namely:
1.	
Audit Committee
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
3.	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
4.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
5.	
Risk Management Committee
Audit Committee:
The management is responsible for the Company’s internal 
controls and the financial reporting process while the statutory 
auditors are responsible for performing independent audits 
of the Company’s financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing practices and for issuing reports 
based on such audits. The Board of Directors has constituted 
and entrusted the Audit Committee with the responsibility to 
supervise these processes and thus ensure accurate and timely 
disclosures that maintain the transparency, integrity and quality 
of financial control and reporting. The constitution of the Audit 
Committee also meets with the requirements of Section 177 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:
i.	
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process 
and disclosure of financial information to ensure that the 
financial statement are correct, sufficient and credible;
ii.	
reviewing and examining with management the quarterly 
and annual financial results and the auditors’ report 
thereon before submission to the Board for approval;
iii.	
reviewing the Management Discussion and Analysis of the 
financial condition and result of operations;
iv.	
reviewing with management, Statutory Auditors and 
Internal Auditor, the adequacy of internal control systems;
v.	
formulating in consultation with the Internal Auditor, 
the scope, functioning, periodicity and methodology for 
conducting the internal audit;
vi.	
reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function and 
discussing with Internal Auditor any significant finding 
and reviewing the progress of corrective actions on such 
issues;
vii.	
evaluating internal financial controls and risk management 
systems;
viii.	 reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence 
and performance and effectiveness of audit process; 
Annual Report 2023-24  | 53
Statutory Reports
reviewing management letters / letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors;
ix.	
recommending the appointment, remuneration and terms 
of appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company and 
approval for payment of any other services;
x.	
Ensure that adequate safeguards have been taken for legal 
compliance for the Company;
xi.	
reviewing, approving or subsequently modifying any 
Related Party Transactions in accordance with the Related 
Party Transaction Policy of the Company;
xii.	
reviewing the functioning of the Whistle Blowing 
mechanism;
xiii.	 any other matter referred to by the Board of Directors.
The Audit Committee comprises of Independent Directors and 
Non-Executive Directors as on March 31, 2024. All members of 
the Audit Committee are financially literate and bring in expertise 
in the fields of finance, economics, strategy and management.
During the financial year 2023-24, the Audit Committee met 
five times viz., on May 19, 2023, August 04, 2023, November 
03, 2023, December 21, 2023 and February 02, 2024. The below 
table gives the composition and attendance record of the Audit 
Committee and the Company Secretary of the Company act as 
the secretary of the Committee.
Sl. 
No.
Name
Position
Number of meetings 
during the financial year
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Lal(a)
Chairman
05
05
2
Mr. Nilesh Shivji 
Vikamsey(b)
Member
05
05
3
Mr. Kaiwan 
Kalyaniwalla
Member
05
05
4.
Mr. Hetal Gandhi(c)
Member
05
04
(a) Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal was designated as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of the Company w.e.f. August 28, 2023.
(b) Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey re-designated as Member of the Audit 
Committee of the Company w.e.f. August 28, 2023.
(c) Appointed as Non-Executive Independent Director on the Board of the 
Company w.e.f. June 09, 2023.
The Audit Committee invites such of the executives, as it 
considers appropriate, Statutory Auditors and Internal Auditors 
to be present at its meetings. The Company Secretary acts as 
the Secretary to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee also 
interacts with the Auditors of the Company, separately.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal, Chairman of the Audit Committee 
has attended the previous Annual General Meeting held on 
September 04, 2023.
Nomination & Remuneration Committee:
The Board has constituted Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee consisting of two Independent Directors and one 
Non-Independent Director. The terms of reference of the 
Committee covers evaluation of compensation and benefits 
for Executive Director(s), Non-Executive Director(s), Senior 
Management Employees, framing of policies and systems of 
the Employee Stock Appreciations Rights Plan 2021 and looking 
after the issues relating to major HR policies.
During the financial year 2023-24, the Committee met two times 
i.e., on February 01, 2024 and March 07, 2024. The below table 
gives the composition and attendance record of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary of the 
Company act as the secretary of the Committee.
Sl. 
No.
Name
Position
Number of meetings 
during the financial year
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Lal
Chairman
02
02
2
Mr. Kaiwan 
Dossabhoy 
Kalyaniwalla
Member
02
02
3
Ms. Vinita Dang 
Mohoni
Member
02
02
Board Evaluation
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual evaluation of 
its own performance, board committees and individual directors 
pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Listing 
Regulations and the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India on January 5, 2017 
and based on the criteria set by the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee. An online platform has been provided to each 
Director for their feedback and evaluation.
The performance of the board was evaluated by the board after 
seeking inputs from all the directors on the basis of criteria such 
as the board composition and structure, effectiveness of board 
processes, information and functioning, etc.
The performance of the committees was evaluated by the board 
after seeking inputs from the committee members on the basis 
of criteria such as the composition of committees, effectiveness 
of committee meetings, etc.
In a separate meeting of independent directors, performance 
of non-independent directors, the Chairman of the Company 
and the board as a whole was evaluated, taking into account 
the views of executive directors and non-executive directors.
The Board and the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
reviewed the performance of individual directors on the basis of 
criteria such as the contribution of the individual director to the 
board and committee meetings like preparedness on the issues 
to be discussed, meaningful and constructive contribution and 
inputs in meetings, etc.
In the board meeting that followed the meeting of the independent 
directors, the performance of the board, its committees and 
individual directors was also discussed.
Performance evaluation of independent directors was done 
by the entire board, excluding the independent director being 
evaluated.
Remuneration policy
The Nomination & Remuneration Policy of your company is 
available on the website of the company i.e. https://www.gati.
com/investor-relations/policies/
Directors Remuneration
The remuneration paid/payable to the Directors is given below:
a)	 Executive Director: - NIL
b)	 Non-Executive Directors: -
	
The Sitting fee and commission (if any), payable to the 
Non-Executive Directors during the year under review 
is in conformity with the applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Company ensures that it has 
54  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
been duly considered and approved by the Board and the 
shareholders (if any).
	
The details of sitting fee paid to the Non-Executive, 
Independent Directors during the financial year 2023-24 
are as follows:
Name
Sitting fee
Commission
(`)
(`)
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
7,00,000
---
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
6,75,000
---
Mr. Hetal Madhukant 
Gandhi
4,50,000
---
Ms. Vinita Dang Mohoni
3,50,000
---
Ms. Cynthia D’souza(a)
25,000
---
TOTAL
22,00,000
---
(a)	 Stepped down from the Position of Non - Executive, Independent 
Director of the Company w.e.f. June 08, 2023.
The approval for payment of commission to the Independent 
Directors for FY 2023-24 being sought from the Members of the 
Company at this ensuing AGM.
Other than above and as disclosed in the related party transaction 
statement, there are no pecuniary or business relationship 
between the Non-Executive Directors and Company and also 
between all the Directors.
Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
The Board has constituted Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee consisting of majority of Independent Directors and 
a Non-Executive Director.
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee is empowered 
to perform the functions of the Board relating to handling of 
stakeholders’ queries and grievances. It primarily focuses on:
i.	
Consider and resolve the grievances of shareholders of 
the Company with respect to transfer & transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of 
declared dividend, etc;
ii.	
Evaluate performance and service standards of the 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the Company;
iii.	
Provide guidance and make recommendations to improve 
investor service levels for the investors;
iv.	
Any other matter referred to by the Board of Directors.
During the financial year 2023-24, the Committee met one time 
i.e., on February 01, 2024. The below table gives the composition 
and attendance record of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee. The Company Secretary of the Company act as the 
secretary of the Committee and also designated as Compliance 
Officer.
Sl. 
No.
Name
Position
Number of meetings 
during the financial 
year
Held
Attended
1
Ms. Vinita Dang 
Mohoni
Chairperson
01
01
2
Mr. Kaiwan 
Dossabhoy 
Kalyaniwalla
Member
01
01
3.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Lal
Member
01
01
In order to expedite the process of transfer and transmission 
of shares, the Board has constituted an internal Share Transfer 
Committee and have delegated the powers to certain officers 
of the Company who are the members of the said committee.
An analysis of the investor complaints received and redressed 
during the financial year 2023-24 is given below:
Sl. 
No.
Nature of 
Complaint
Received Disposed
Pending
Not resolved 
to the 
satisfaction of 
shareholders
1
Non receipt 
of dividend 
warrants
3
3
Nil
NA
2
Non receipt 
of Annual 
Report
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Non-receipt 
of stock split 
shares
5
5
Nil
NA
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:
Mrs. T.S. Maharani
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy – 500084, Telangana, India
Tel: +91 040 7120 4284; 022 6679 8100
Email: investor.services@allcargologistics.com,  
Website: www.gati.com
The company obtains yearly certificate from a company 
Secretary in Practice under Regulation 40(9) of the Listing 
Regulations, confirming the issue of certificates for transfer, 
sub-division, consolidation etc. and submits a copy thereof 
to the Stock Exchanges in terms of Regulation 40(10) of the 
Listing Regulations. Further, the compliance certificate under 
Regulation 7(3) of the Listing Regulations, confirming that 
all activities in relation to both physical and electronic share 
transfer facility are maintained by Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India is also filed with Stock Exchanges on an annual basis.
In accordance with Regulation 76 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 
2018 and SEBI Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir- 16/2002 dated 
December 31, 2002, a qualified practicing company secretary 
carried out a share capital audit to reconcile the total admitted 
equity share capital with NSDL and CDSL and the total issued 
and listed equity share capital. The Audit Report confirms that 
the total issued and paid-up share capital is in agreement with 
the total number of shares in physical form and the total number 
of dematerialized shares held with NSDL and CDSL.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR):
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of our 
culture and constantly seeks opportunities to give back to the 
society and hope to make a difference to the lives of people by 
sharing our business success with them.
The main objective of the CSR Policy is to lay down guidelines 
and also make CSR as one of the key business drivers for 
sustainable development of the environment and the society in 
which AGL operates in particular and the overall development 
of the global community at large.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 55
Statutory Reports
The role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is 
as follows:
i.	
Formulating and recommending to the Board the CSR 
Policy and activities to be undertaken by the company;
ii.	
Recommending the amount of expenditure to be incurred 
on CSR activities of the company;
iii.	
Reviewing the performance of the Company in the area of 
CSR;
iv.	
Providing external and independent oversight and 
guidance on the environmental and social impact of how 
the company conducts its business;
v.	
Monitoring CSR policy of the company from time to time;
vi.	
Monitoring the implementation of the CSR projects or 
programs or activities undertaken by the company.
vii.	
Any other matter referred to by the Board of Directors.
The Board has constituted Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee consisting of two Independent Directors and one 
Non-Independent Director.
During the period under review, there was no requirement to 
hold the Committee meeting due to unavailability of profits in 
the Company to be allocated for CSR spends. The below table 
gives the composition of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee and the Company Secretary of the Company act as 
the secretary of the Committee
Sl. 
No.
Name
Position
Number of meetings 
during the financial 
year
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Kaiwan Kalyaniwalla Chairman
NIL
NIL
2
Ms. Vinita Dang 
Mohoni
Member
NIL
NIL
3.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
Member
NIL
NIL
Risk Management Committee:
The Board has constituted Risk Management Committee 
consisting of one Independent Director being the Chairman of 
the Committee and two Non-Independent Directors as Members 
of the Company.
The terms of reference of the Committee covers the following:-
-	
Frame, Monitor and Implement the Risk Management Plan 
and Policy of the Company and review the Company’s 
risk governance structure, risk assessment and risk 
management practices and guidelines, procedures for risk 
assessment and risk management;
-	
Adopting polices, systems for maintaining information/
cyber security of the Company from preventing of global 
hacking incidents, losing of sensitive, confidential data etc;
-	
Identify, Review and Monitor risks of each business 
vertical and functions of the Company including strategic, 
financial, operational, currency, work place environment, 
safety & information security, regulatory and reputational 
risk periodically;
-	
Continually obtaining reasonable assurance from 
management heads of each business vertical that all 
known and emerging risks have been identified and 
mitigated or managed;
-	
Framing guidelines, policies and processes for monitoring 
and mitigating risks;
-	
Setting strategic plans and objectives for risk management 
and risk minimization;
-	
Overseeing the risk management process, controls, fraud 
risk assessment, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and 
funding;
-	
Review compliance with risk policies, monitor breach/
trigger trips of risk tolerance limits and direct action;
-	
Development and deployment of risk mitigation plans to 
reduce the vulnerability to the prioritized risks and provide 
oversight of risk across organisation;
-	
Maintain, update and review Risk Registers from time-to-
time;
-	
Delegate authorities from time-to-time to the Committee 
Members, Executives, Authorized persons to implement 
the decisions of the Committee and execution of necessary 
documents;
-	
To achieve sustainable business growth, protect the 
Company’s assets, safeguard Members investment, 
ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations 
and avoid major surprises of risks;
-	
To obtain advice and assistance from internal or external 
legal, accounting or other advisors;
-	
Periodically reporting to the Board;
-	
Performing such other functions as may be necessary or 
directed by the Board.
During the financial year 2023-24, the Committee met twice i.e., 
on July 13, 2023 and January 09, 2024. The below table gives 
the composition and attendance record of the Risk Management 
Committee and the Company Secretary of the Company act as 
the secretary of the Committee.
Sl. 
No.
Name
Position
Number of meetings 
during the financial 
year
Held
Attended
1
Mr. Nilesh Shivji 
Vikamsey
Chairman
02
02
2
Mr. Kaiwan Dossabhoy 
Kalyaniwalla
Member
02
02
3.
Mr. Pirojshaw Aspi 
Sarkari
Member
02
02
56  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
General Body Meetings
(a)	 Annual General Meeting:
Year(s)
Date of AGM
Time
Venue
No. of Special 
resolutions passed
2022-23
September 04, 2023
3:00 P.M.
Meeting conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to 
the MCA Circulars.
4
2021-22
September 15, 2022
3:00 P.M.
Meeting conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to 
the MCA Circulars.
1
2020-21
September 22, 2021
3:00 P.M.
Meeting conducted through VC/OAVM pursuant to 
the MCA Circulars.
Nil
(b)	 Extra-ordinary General Meeting:
	
During the year under review, there were no Extra-Ordinary General Meetings of the Shareholders of the Company.
(c)	 Postal Ballot:
	
During the year under review, the Company had completed the following Postal Ballot:
	
1.	
Pursuant to Sections 23, 41, 42, 62(1) (c) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Members of the Company approved for the raising 
of funds through issuance of Securities of the Company by way of Special Resolution through Postal Ballot passed on 
February 05, 2024. The voting pattern of the same was as follows:
	
	
Item No. 1
	
	
Approval for raising of funds through issuance of Securities of the Company.
Total no. of votes received
75463728
Total no. of valid votes
75463728
No. of votes/shares received for the 
resolution (%)
No. of votes/shares received against 
the resolution (%)
Invalid/Abstain votes
71707368 (95.02%)
3756360 (4.98%)
NA
No. of Shareholders voted for the 
resolution
No. of Shareholders Voted against the 
resolution
No. of Shareholders Votes Neutral/ 
Invalid/Abstain
422
46
NA
Disclosures
i.	
Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions, which may have potential conflict with the interest of the 
Company at large:
	
There are no material related party transactions during the year that have conflict with the interest of the Company. Transactions 
entered into with related parties during the financial year were in the ordinary course of business and at arm’s length basis and 
were approved by the Audit Committee. The Board’s approved policy for related party transactions is uploaded on the website 
of the Company i.e., https://www.gati.com/investor-relations/policies/.
ii.	
There were no penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by the Stock Exchanges or Securities and Exchange Board 
of India or any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, during the last three years except the following:
Sl. 
No. Action taken by
Details of violation 
Details of action taken (E.g. 
fines/penalty)
Action taken by the 
Company
1
BSE Limited
Late submission of Annual 
Report under clause 31 of 
erstwhile listing agreement for 
the period ended March 2014.
Imposing of Penalty of 
` 55,460/- including GST, during 
the financial year 2021-22.
Company has paid the same 
to BSE Limited in time.
	
Further, as per the Annual Secretarial Compliance Report issued by M/s. Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co., no instances of non-
compliances were observed by them during the year.
iii.	
Whistle blower policy:
	
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy and 
has established the necessary vigil mechanism as defined 
under Regulation 22 of Listing Regulations for directors and 
employees to report concerns about unethical behavior. 
No person has been denied access to the Chairman of the 
audit committee. The Vigil Mechanism Policy is available 
on the website of the Company i.e., https://www.gati.com/
investor-relations/policies/.
iv.	
The Company has complied with all mandatory 
requirements of Listing Regulations.
v.	
Subsidiary Companies:
	
The Board of Directors has reviewed the financial 
statements and minutes of the Board meetings of Gati 
Express & Supply Chain Private Limited (formerly known 
as “Gati-Kintetsu Express Private Limited”) (GESCPL), 
the material unlisted subsidiary company. The policy 
for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries is available on 
the website of the Company i.e., https://www.gati.com/
investor-relations/policies/. Further, the Board of Directors 
has also reviewed the financial statements and minutes of 
the board meetings of all other subsidiary companies of 
the company.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 57
Statutory Reports
vi.	
Disclosure of commodity price risks and commodity 
hedging activities: Not Applicable.
vii.	
The Company is preparing its financial statements in line 
with the Ind-AS, as notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs.
ix.	
Total Fees for all services paid by the Company and its 
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory 
auditor and all entities in the network firm/ network entity 
of which the statutory auditor is a part is given below:
Type of Service
Amount in Lakhs
Audit Fees
16
Tax Audit
9
Certification and other Fees
4
Total
29
x.	
A Certificate has been received from M/s. Puttaparthi 
Jagannatham & Co., Practising Company Secretaries, 
that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company 
has been debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as directors of Companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
or any such authority.
xi.	
During the financial year 2023-24, no complaints regarding 
sexual harassment was received by the Company.
xii.	
During the financial year 2023-24, Board had accepted all 
the recommendation of committees of the Board.
Details of compliance with mandatory requirements
The Company has complied with all mandatory requirements 
specified in Regulation 17 to 27 and clause (b) to (i) of sub 
regulation (2) of regulation 46 of Listing Regulations.
Disclosure of certain type of Agreements Binding 
Listed Entities:
There are no such agreements.
Non-Mandatory Requirements
Audit qualification
During the year under review, there is no audit qualification on 
the company’s Financial Statements.
Reporting of Internal Auditor
The Internal Auditor exercises an Independent Audit and has 
direct access to the Audit Committee and he /she participates 
in the meetings of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 
of the Company and presents his internal audit observations to 
the Audit Committee.
CMD/CFO Certification:
The CMD/CFO of the Company provided certification on financial 
reporting and internal controls for the financial year 2023-24 to 
the Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 16, 2024, as 
required under Regulation 17(8) of Listing Regulations.
Means of Communication
i.	
Publication of results
	
The quarterly, half-yearly & nine months un-audited 
financial results and annual audited financial results of the 
Company were generally published in National level English 
newspaper(s) as well as regional language newspaper 
circulating in the State of Telangana/Maharashtra.
ii.	
Website and News Release
	
The quarterly, half-yearly & nine months un-audited 
financial results and annual audited financial results are 
available on the website of the Company i.e. “www.gati.
com”. Official news releases, detailed presentations made 
to media, analysts, etc are available on the website of the 
Company i.e. www.gati.com. Your Company also makes 
timely disclosures of necessary information to BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited in terms of 
the Listing Regulations and other rules and regulations 
issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
	
Further, following information is available on the website 
of the Company i.e. www.gati.com:
•	
Details of business of the Company;
•	
Terms and conditions of appointment of Independent 
Directors;
•	
Composition of various Committees of Board of 
Directors;
•	
Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel;
•	
Details of establishment of vigil mechanism/ Whistle 
Blower policy;
•	
Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive 
Directors;
•	
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions;
•	
Policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries;
•	
Details of familiarization programs imparted to 
Independent Directors;
•	
Policy for determination of materiality of events;
•	
Investor Presentations.
NSE Electronic Application Processing System 
(NEAPS):
The NEAPS is a web-based application designed by NSE for 
corporates. All periodical compliance filings like shareholding 
pattern, corporate governance report, media releases, among 
others are filed electronically on NEAPS.
BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre (the 
‘Listing Centre’):
BSE’s Listing Centre is a web-based application designed for 
corporates. All periodical compliance filings like shareholding 
pattern, corporate governance report, media releases, among 
others are also filed electronically on the Listing Centre.
E-voting
Pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013, and 
the Listing Regulations, Company is providing e-voting facility 
to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions, 
to be passed at the General Meetings.
Additional Shareholders’ Information
Annual General Meeting:
Date: September 10, 2024
Time: 3:00 PM
Mode of Meeting: Video Conferencing/Other Audio-Visual 
Means
Deemed Venue: Registered Office of the Company situated at 
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina Santacruz 
(East), Mumbai – 400098, Maharashtra, India.
58  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Financial Calendar
Financial Year - 1st April to 31st March
Tentative calendar for declaration of financial results in 
Financial Year 2024-25
Results for the quarter ended June 30, 
2024
on or before August 
14, 2024 [Declared on 
August 02, 2024]
Results for the quarter ended September 
30, 2024
on or before 
November 14, 2024
Results for the quarter ended December 
31, 2024
on or before 
February 14, 2025
Results for the year ended March 31, 2025 on or before May 
30, 2025
Record date/Book Closure
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the 
Company will remain closed from Tuesday, September 03, 2024 
to Monday, September 09, 2024 (both days inclusive).
Dividend
In view of the loss incurred by the Company during the year, the 
Directors have not recommended any dividend on the equity 
shares of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024.
Credit Rating
During the financial year 2022-23, CARE Ratings Limited has 
revised the credit ratings of the Company vide its letter dated 
December 01, 2022, details of credit rating assigned by CARE 
Ratings Limited are given below:
Facilities/ 
Instruments
Amount (In 
Crs) as on 
March 31, 2024
Revised Rating
(December 01, 
2022)
Remarks
Fixed Deposits 0.18
Care BBB; Stable Reaffirmed
Unpaid/Unclaimed Dividends:
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF 
Rules”), dividends, if not claimed for a consecutive period of 7 
years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the 
Company, are liable to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) set up by the Central Government. 
Accordingly, the company has transferred to IEPF the following 
unpaid or unclaimed dividends during the financial year 2023-24:
Particulars
Amount of 
Dividend (in `)
Dividend for the Financial Year 2015-16
17,35,135/-
The shareholders are requested to verify their records and claim 
their unclaimed dividends for the past years, if not claimed. The 
details of outstanding dividend accounts are given below.
Sl. 
no
Dividend for the 
year
Dividend 
%
Date of 
declaration
Due date for 
transfer
1
2016-17: Final
40
01.08.2017
31.08.2024
2
2017-18: Final
45
18.09.2018
17.10.2025
3
2018-19: Final
40
25.09.2019
24.10.2026
The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed 
amounts lying with the Company as on September 04, 2023 
(date of last AGM) on the Company’s website i.e., https://www.
gati.com/investor-relations/unclaimed-dividend-details/ and 
on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at www.iepf.
gov.in/.
Unclaimed Equity Shares:
Section 124(6) read with the ‘Investor Education and Protection 
Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016’ (‘Rules’), as amended, requires that all shares, in respect 
of which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive 
years or more (relevant shares), shall be transferred by the 
Company in the name of IEPF along with statement containing 
such details as may be prescribed by the authority from time to 
time. The said requirement does not apply to shares in respect 
of which there is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory 
Authority, restraining transfer of the shares.
Accordingly, during the year under review, your Company has 
not transferred any shares pertaining to the FY 2015-16 to the 
Investor Education & Protection Fund Authority, as required in 
accordance with the Rules.
The Company has appointed a Nodal Officer under the provisions 
of IEPF, the details of which are available on the website of 
the Company i.e. https://www.gati.com/investor-relations/
unclaimed-dividend-details/.
Guidance for Investor to file claim
The members who have a claim on above dividends and shares 
may claim the same from IEPF Authority by submitting an online 
application in the prescribed Form No. IEPF-5 available on the 
website www.iepf.gov.in and sending a physical copy of the 
same, duly signed to the Company/Registrar & Share Transfer 
Agent, along with requisite documents enumerated in the Form 
No. IEPF-5. No claims shall lie against the Company in respect 
of the dividend/shares so transferred. Further, the Shareholders/
claimant can file only one consolidated claim in a financial year 
as per the rules.
Unclaimed Shares as per Regulation 39 of the Listing 
Regulations.
As per the provisions of Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations, 
the unclaimed shares lying in the possession of the Company 
are required to be dematerialized and transferred into a special 
Demat account held by the Company. The Company has already 
sent reminders to the shareholders for Claiming those shares at 
their latest available address(es) with the Company or Depository, 
as the case may be. Accordingly, unclaimed shares lying with the 
Company have been transferred and dematerialized in “Allcargo 
Gati Limited - Unclaimed Suspense Account” of the Company. 
This Account is being held by the Company purely on behalf 
of the shareholders entitled for these shares as there were no 
shares outstanding to be transferred to IEPF.
It may also be noted that all the corporate benefits accruing on 
these shares like bonus, split etc., if any, shall also be credited 
to the said “Unclaimed Suspense Account” and the voting rights 
on these shares shall remain frozen until the rightful owner has 
claimed the shares. Shareholders who have not yet claimed their 
shares are requested to immediately approach the Secretarial 
Department of the Company or Registrar & Share Transfer Agent 
of the Company by forwarding a request letter duly signed by the 
shareholders furnishing their complete postal address along 
with PIN code, a copy of PAN card & proof of address, and for 
delivery in demat form, a copy of Demat Account - Client Master 
Report duly certified by the Depository Participant (DP) and a 
recent Demat Account Statement, to enable the Company to 
release the said shares to the rightful owner.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 59
Statutory Reports
The status of equity shares lying in the Suspense Account as on 
March 31, 2024 is as under:
Sl. 
no Particulars
No. of
shareholders
No. of 
equity
shares held
1
Aggregate number of shareholders 
and the outstanding shares lying in 
the Unclaimed Suspense Account 
at the beginning of the year
12
1325
2
Number of shareholders who 
approached the Company (with 
complete 
documentation) 
for 
transfer of shares from the 
Unclaimed 
Suspense 
Account 
during the year
0
0
3
Number of shareholders to whom 
shares were transferred from the 
Unclaimed 
Suspense 
Account 
during the year;
0
0
4
Aggregate number of shareholders 
and the outstanding shares lying in 
the Unclaimed Suspense Account 
at the end of the year.
12
1325
The dividend on the shares in the Unclaimed Suspense Account 
will be remitted to the Shareholders on their claiming the shares, 
till such time, that dividend will be available in the Unpaid 
Dividend Bank Account.
Code of Conduct for prohibition of Insider trading
Your company had adopted a Code of conduct as per Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time. All Directors, 
Senior Management Personnel, person forming part of 
Promoter(s)/Promoter(s) Group(s) and such other Designated 
persons who could have access to the Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information of the Company are governed by this 
Code. During the year under review, the Company had made 
due compliance with Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The code of 
conduct is available on the website of the Company i.e. www.
gati.com.
Listing on Stock Exchanges
The Company's shares are listed on BSE Limited (BSE), Floor 
25, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 
001 and The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE), 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
(East), Mumbai – 400 051.
Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
Stock Code:
a) Trading scrip code on BSE	
	
	
	
	
: 532345
b) Trading scrip code on NSE	 	
	
 	
 	
: ACLGATI
International Securities Identification Number (ISIN):
ISIN is a unique identification number of traded scrip. The 
Company’s ISIN for equity shares is INE152B01027.
Market Price Data
The Monthly high and low prices of your company’s share at 
BSE and NSE for the year ended March 31, 2024 are as under:
NSE
BSE
High
Low
High
Low
Apr-2023
121.50
101.30
121.35
101.25
May-2023
129.00
112.10
128.95
112.10
Jun-2023
126.75
113.85
126.70
113.75
Jul-2023
150.00
121.40
150.00
121.25
Aug-2023
162.40
139.10
162.55
139.25
Sep-2023
177.65
145.30
177.50
145.50
Oct-2023
168.30
134.30
168.10
134.25
Nov-2023
149.00
132.20
132.05
136.50
Dec-2023
149.00
117.65
148.75
117.60
Jan-2024
134.50
121.80
134.25
121.80
Feb-2024
127.05
109.55
127.10
110.00
Mar-2024
118.20
95.35
119.00
95.60
Share price performance in comparison to broad based 
indices - BSE & NSE
Particulars
Share price v/s NSE Share price v/s BSE
Share 
price(`)
NSE 
Nifty
Share 
price(`)
BSE 
Sensex
As on April 3, 2023
110.35
17398
110.40
59106
As on March 31, 
2024
96.05
22326
96.20
73651
Changes (%)
(12.96%)
28.33%
(12.86%)
24.61%
Total equity as on March 31, 2024 was 13,02,52,027 (previous 
year 13,01,30,117) equity shares of ` 2/- each.
Share Transfer System
All queries and requests relating to share transfers/
transmissions may be addressed to our Registrar and Transfer 
Agent:
Link Intime India Private Limited
C -101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg,
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400 083
Maharashtra
Tel. No.:- +91 22 49186270
E-mail:- rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Website:- www.linkintime.co.in
A summary of approved transfers, transmissions, deletion 
requests, etc. are placed before the Board of Directors from 
time to time as per the Listing Regulations.
Dematerialization of Shares and liquidity
Break up of shares in physical and demat form as on March 31, 
2024:
Particulars
No of Shares
%
Physical Segment (A)
4,83,149
0.37
Demat Segment (B)
NSDL 
4,64,54,002
35.67
CDSL 
8,33,14,876
63.96
Total (A+B)
13,02,52,027
100.00
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) at its Board 
Meeting held on March 28, 2018 revised the provisions relating 
to transfer of listed securities and decided that requests for 
60  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
effective transfer of listed securities shall not be processed 
unless the securities are held in the dematerialized form with 
a depository participant. The said measure of SEBI is aimed 
at curbing fraud and manipulation risk in physical transfer of 
securities by unscrupulous entities. Transfer of securities only 
in demat form will improve ease, convenience and safety of 
transactions for investors. The said amendment got notified and 
is effective from April 1, 2019. Further, SEBI had fixed March 31, 
2021 as the cut-off date for re-lodgement of transfer deeds and 
the shares that are re-lodged for transfer shall be issued only 
in demat mode.
Further, SEBI Vide its circular dated January 25, 2022 has directed 
that the Company while processing the below-mentioned 
requests also, shall issue the securities in dematerialised form 
only:
•	
Issue of duplicate securities certificate;
•	
Claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account;
•	
Renewal / Exchange of securities certificate;
•	
Endorsement;
•	
Sub-division / Splitting of securities certificate;
•	
Consolidation of securities certificates/folios;
•	
Transmission;
•	
Transposition
Shareholders intending to lodge any of the aforesaid request 
are mandatorily required to do so in the specific Form specified 
by SEBI in this regard (Form ISR-4) along with the documents / 
details specified therein.
Shareholders are also requested to keep record of their specimen 
signature before lodgment of shares with the Company to avoid 
probability of signature mismatch at a later date.
Folio No. / DP ID No.
Shareholders / Beneficial Owners are requested to quote their 
Folio Nos. / DP ID Nos., as the case may be, in all correspondence 
with the Company.
Shareholders are also requested to quote their E-mail IDs, 
Contact / Fax numbers for prompt reply to their correspondence.
Shareholders who continue to hold shares in physical form 
are advised to dematerialize their shares at the earliest. 
For any clarification, assistance or information, relating to 
dematerialization of shares the Company’s RTA may be 
contacted.
Secretarial Audit
The Company has undertaken secretarial audit for the financial 
year 2023-24 which, inter alia, includes audit of compliance 
with the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, 
Listing Regulations and applicable regulations prescribed by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India and Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and Secretarial Standard issued by the 
Institute of the Company Secretaries of India. The Secretarial 
Audit Report forms part of the Annual Report.
Distribution of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2024:
No. of shares
No. of account
% of total account
No. of shares
% to Total shares
1
1000
91536
93.7773
13822387
10.6120
1001
2000
2766
2.8337
4151384
3.1872
2001
4000
1676
1.717
4939319
3.7921
4001
6000
669
0.6854
3358716
2.5786
6001
8000
276
0.2828
1935980
1.4863
8001
10000
208
0.2131
1946496
1.4944
10001
20000
273
0.2797
3966150
3.0450
20001
And above
206
0.211
96131595
73.8043
TOTAL
97610
100
130252027
100.0000
Categories of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2023:
Sr
Category
No. of equity 
shares held
% of holding
1
Clearing Members
1536
0.0012
2
Other Bodies Corporate
3511252
2.6957
3
Escrow Account
1785
0.0014
4
Foreign Banks
370
0.0003
5
Foreign Company
4329114
3.3236
6
Foreign Inst. Investor
860
0.0007
7
Other Bodies (Promoter Co)
65786510
50.5071
8
Hindu Undivided Family
1033162
0.7932
9
Nationalised Banks
3560
0.0027
10
Non Nationalised Banks
7526
0.0058
11
Foreign Nationals
360
0.0003
12
Non Resident Indians
1815026
1.3935
13
Non Resident (Non Repatriable)
963128
0.7394
14
Public
44493107
34.1592
15
Promoters
715053
0.5490
Annual Report 2023-24  | 61
Statutory Reports
Sr
Category
No. of equity 
shares held
% of holding
16
Trusts
2255
0.0017
17
Present Employees
557206
0.4278
18
Promoter - Trust
2444367
1.8766
19
Body Corporate - Ltd Liability Partnership
231853
0.1780
20
FPI (Corporate) - I
1245399
0.9561
21
NBFCs registered with RBI
50004
0.0384
22
Investor Education And Protection Fund
878925
0.6748
23
Alternate Invst Funds - III
2179669
1.6734
Total
130252027
100.00
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity
The Company has not issued any GDR/ADR or any convertible instruments. Further, details related to the ESARs granted to the 
employees pursuant to ESAR Plan 2021 is provided in the Directors’ Report forming part of this Annual Report.
Plant Location: None
Address for Correspondence
All Members’ correspondence should be forwarded to Link Intime India Private Limited, the Registrar and Transfer Agent of the 
Company or to the Secretarial Department at the Corporate Office of the Company at the addresses mentioned below.
Link Intime India Private Limited
Allcargo Gati Limited
(Unit Allcargo Gati Limited)
Secretarial Department
C -101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg,
Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur Hyderabad, 
Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400 083
Rangareddi – 500084, Telangana, India.
Maharashtra
Tel: 040 7120 4284
Toll-free No.: 1800 1020 878
E-mail: investor.services@gati.com
Fax: 022 4918 6060
Website: www.gati.com
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES):
The investors’ complaints are also being processed through the centralized web based complaint redressal system of SEBI. The 
salient features of SCORES are availability of centralized database of the complaints and uploading online action taken reports by 
the Company. Through SCORES the investors can view online the action taken and current status of the complaints.
Declaration
As provided under Regulation 26(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, the Board Members and the Senior Management Personnel have confirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct 
for Board of Directors and Senior Management for the year ended March 31, 2024.
For Allcargo Gati Limited
(Formerly known as “Gati Limited”)
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Place: Mumbai
Chairman & Managing Director
Date: August 02, 2024
DIN: 00012754
62  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To
The Members of
Allcargo Gati Limited
(Formerly Gati Limited)
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina,
Santacruz, East Mumbai, Vidyanagari, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India - 400098.
We have examined the relevant records relating to compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Allcargo Gati Limited 
(Formerly Gati Limited) (“the Company”), for the year ended 31st March, 2024, as per the relevant provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) as referred to 
in Regulation 15(2) of the Listing Regulations for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was limited 
to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in above mentioned Listing Regulations, as applicable.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
CS Navajyoth Puttaparthi
Partner
FCS No: 9896; C P No: 16041
Place: Hyderabad
Peer Review Certificate No. 1158/2021 
Date: 16th May, 2024
UDIN: F009896F000381366
Annual Report 2023-24  | 63
Statutory Reports
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(As per clause C of Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 read with Regulation 34(3) of the said Listing Regulations).
To
The Members of
Allcargo Gati Limited
(Formerly Gati Limited)
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz, East Mumbai, 
Vidyanagari, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India - 400098.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Allcargo Gati 
Limited (Formerly Gati Limited), having CIN L63011MH1995PLC420155 and its registered office at 4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, 
CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz, East Mumbai, Vidyanagari, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India - 400098, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the 
Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) 
read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, We 
hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending on 31st March, 
2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of appointment in 
the Company
1
Shashi Kiran Janardhan Shetty
00012754
04/02/2020
2
Kaiwan Dossabhoy Kalyaniwalla
00060776
04/02/2020
3
Dinesh Kumar Lal
00037142
03/07/2020
4
Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
00031213
05/02/2021
5
Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari
00820860
09/06/2023
6
Dang Mohoni Vinita
01919140
05/06/2023
7
Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
00106895
09/06/2023
8
Ravi Jakhar
02188690
09/06/2023
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of 
the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the 
management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Puttaparthi Jagannatham & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
CS Navajyoth Puttaparthi
Partner
FCS No: 9896; C P No: 16041
Place: Hyderabad
Peer Review Certificate No. 1158/2021 
Date: 16th May, 2024
UDIN: F009896F000381344
64  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Indian Economy:
India is touted as a bright spot in the global economy. During 
the year 2023, India surpassed United Kingdom to become the 
fifth largest economy and also had the opportunity to host the 
G20 summit. As per the International Monetary Fund, India is 
likely to become the world’s fourth largest economy by 2025 
by surpassing Japan. The IMF also expects India to overtake 
Germany and become the third largest economy by 2027. India 
has also emerged as an attractive investment destination on 
account of government’s thrust on sectors like infrastructure, 
manufacturing, logistics and focus on technology. These 
government initiatives have not only helped instil confidence 
in the country’s capabilities but have also paved the way for its 
promising future.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
The International Monetary Fund has projected India’s economy 
to grow at 6.8 percent in financial year 2025 and 6.5 percent 
in financial year 2026, this is in stark contrast to the projected 
global growth. India’s growth is expected to come on the back 
of resilient domestic demand and private sector CAPEX which 
is expected to take over from government CAPEX. Overall 
manufacturing activity continues to remain buoyant in India, 
the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) touch a 
sixteen year high in March 2024. During the financial year 2024 
India’s merchandise exports declined, however trade deficit 
improved by 35.7 percent as compared to financial year 2023. 
Overall exports (merchandise and services) reached $776.68 
billion representing a marginal increase as compared to last 
year. This growth in overall exports has come despite global 
headwinds. During the financial year 2024 Goods and Service 
Tax collection saw an increase of 11.7 percent and stood at 
` 20.14 lakh crore as compared to last year, thus signifying 
strong economic activity.
While the global economic recovery is expected to remain 
steady and slow, India will continue to gallop on its path to 
growth. Government initiatives to boost manufacturing and 
infrastructure, strong domestic consumption, and investments 
by private sector augurs well for economic growth in India. 
Consumer price inflation in India is expected to decline from an 
average of 5.4 percent in financial year 2024 to 4.6 percent in 
financial year 2025 and 4.2 percent in financial year 2026.
Indian Logistics Sector:
India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world today. 
This growth is anticipated on the back of India becoming one 
of the largest manufacturing and consumption hub globally. 
This signifies robust economic activity and job creation and will 
enable India to become one of the top three economies during 
this decade. It has also led to India being a preferred investment 
destination. This economic growth and wide consumption base 
in India will act as a tailwind for the growth of logistics sector 
too.
Over the years, the Indian logistics sector has evolved too, it 
has come a long way from being a labour-intensive industry 
to being one where technology plays a pivotal role. In fact, 
during the year 2023, India was ranked 38th out of 139 countries 
in the world bank’s logistics performance index (LPI). India’s 
ranking improved from 44 to 38 between 2018 to 2023. This 
improvement in the ranking has come on the back of various 
government initiatives to boost infrastructure, manufacturing, 
and on the back of technological advancements in the logistics 
sector.
The logistics cost in India is estimated to be around 12 percent 
of GDP. In the Indian logistics landscape road transportation 
dominates the freight movement with its share in freight 
movement being estimated at 66 percent. Rail movement is 
considered to be cheaper and is mainly used to transport bulk 
goods over long distances. In the interim budget announced by 
the finance minister during February 2024, the logistics sector 
has got a major boost. The government has allocated ` 11.00 
lakh crores, it plans to set up three major economic railway 
corridors under the PM Gati Shakti for enabling multi modal 
connectivity.
With India poised to become one of the leading economies in 
the world, logistics as a sector is bound to play an important 
role as economic growth is always coupled with growth of 
logistics sector. The logistics landscape in India has undergone 
GDP Current Price ($ Tn)
2.57
3.10
3.35
3.57
3.93
4.34
2026 P
2025 P
2024 P
2023
2022
2021
2020
4.79
Annual Report 2023-24  | 65
Statutory Reports
significant changes like implementation of GST, e-invoicing, 
improvement in infrastructure and digitisation.
Few factors that will drive the growth of logistics in India are:
1)	
Infrastructure development: Under which the government 
is providing a physical framework for enabling movement of 
goods across the country. According to the Ministry of Road 
Transport and Highways of India, National Highway network has 
increased to 1,46,145 km in year 2023 from 91,287 km in year 
2014.
2)	
PM Gati Shakti: Under this the government plans to 
facilitate multi modal connectivity. Even during the recent 
interim budget the government has announced three economic 
railway corridors. Energy, mineral and cement corridors; port 
connectivity corridors; and high traffic density corridors.
3)	
Manufacturing: There is thrust by the government to boost 
manufacturing in India, it aims to increase the contribution of 
manufacturing to India’s GDP from 17 percent currently to 25 
percent by 2025. Various schemes such as the Production 
Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme and Atmanirbhar Bharat have 
been announced to support this goal. Technology is also bound 
to play an important role in supporting logistics. It will help in 
improving efficiency and providing visibility of shipments.
4)	
Foreign Trade Policy: The government in its foreign trade 
policy 2021- 26 is focusing on establishment of a mechanism 
that will boost exports and increase import screening to protect 
manufacturers.
Express Logistics:
Express Logistics is a logistics solution that caters to time 
definite delivery needs. It adds value to the customers supply 
chain by providing convenience in pick-up and delivery, time-
bound delivery, reliability of service, safety and security of 
consignments, track and trace of consignments, proof of 
delivery, and call centre support. The Indian express logistics 
market which comprises of domestic and international B2B 
surface express, B2B air express, B2C (e-commerce) and 
document movement is estimated to be more than $7 billion 
per annum. Historically, the express logistics market has grown 
2x the GDP growth, however in the last few years the growth has 
come at a faster rate due to sharp growth in the e-commerce 
logistics.
Key demand drivers for growth of organised express 
logistics players in India:
Manufacturing Activity & Economic Growth: The Indian 
economy is touted to be a bright spot in the global economy. 
This is bound to come on the back of growth in manufacturing 
activity in India. The government, with an objective to boost 
manufacturing has come up with initiatives like Make in India 
and production linked incentive. This increased manufacturing 
and economic augurs well for growth of express logistics in 
India.
Increased Customer Expectations: With change in consumer 
consumption behaviour, the need for faster, time definite and 
damage free transport of goods has increased. Manufacturers 
are now compelled to deliver faster, this is a positive thrust for 
express logistics.
Growth of MSME/SME: With support for manufacturing and 
demand for goods, the MSME and SME manufacturers are also 
looking to expand their business pan India. Lot of these small 
businesses depend on unorganized logistics players to fulfil 
their needs which will shift to organized express players.
Technology Adoption: With the growth of IT and IT systems, 
businesses are on the lookout to work with partners who have 
a tech driven approach and can provide a better interface. They 
also prefer partners who can make use of data analytics and 
help with supply chain bottlenecks. Organized express logistics 
players have always been early adopters of technology which 
will act as a tailwind for their growth.
Growth in E-commerce: The growth of internet penetration 
and digital payments infrastructure has fuelled the growth of 
e-commerce penetration in the country. The market size of 
e-commerce is projected to cross 10 billion shipments per year 
by financial year 2028 from 4 billion shipments in financial year 
2023.
Regulatory Changes and Infrastructure Growth: Regulatory 
initiatives like GST, e-waybill, e-invoicing has not only pushed 
for adopting a structured process but also eradicated delays 
and malpractices. This coupled with growth of infrastructure 
through projects like Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) and PM 
Gati Shakti has laid the groundwork for better transportation 
services and push for adoption of express logistics.
Allcargo Gati:
Allcargo Gati was incorporated in 1995 and is one of India’s 
oldest and leading B2B express logistics player. The company 
provides express logistics solutions to its clients which include 
surface distribution, air freight and supply chain management 
solutions. The company has a strong pan-India network to carry 
out its operations, it covers 99 percent of government approved 
pin codes.
As of 30th April, 2024 we operate 657 Operating Units (OUs) 
comprising of 22 Surface Transit Centres (STCs), 8 Air Transit 
Centres (ATCs), 18 Express Distribution Centres (EDCs), 94 Gati 
Distribution Warehouse (GDWs), 129 Customer Convenience 
Centres - Owned (CCCOs), and 386 Customer Convenience 
Centres - Franchise (CCCFs) across India.
66  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
The company is a part of the Allcargo Group, which takes pride 
in being a logistics conglomerate providing end to end logistics 
solutions to its customers. During the financial year, a scheme 
of arrangement involving Allcargo Logistics and Allcargo Gati 
was announced which was approved by the board. As per the 
scheme the International Supply Chain business of Allcargo 
Logistics Limited will be demerged into Allcargo ECU Limited. 
It will be a mirror demerger. On the domestic supply chain side, 
the contract logistics business and the express business is 
operated under Allcargo Supply Chain Pvt Ltd and Gati Express 
& Supply Chain Private Limited respectively. Going forward the 
subsidiary structure will collapse, and both these businesses 
will be merged into the demerged Allcargo Logistics Ltd.
Post completion of the scheme, we will focus on the domestic 
side of the business and will be one of the first companies in 
India that will cater to the supply chain as well as transportation 
needs of businesses.
During the financial year 2024, the company achieved a 
milestone of attaining its highest ever express volume. This is a 
culmination of the company’s new and improved infrastructure, 
improved service quality and sales acceleration initiatives.
Post Allcargo Logistics Ltd acquiring the company in 2020, 
Allcargo Gati had embarked on its journey on the pillars it had 
laid down. These pillars had a strategy to focus on development 
of infrastructure, Digitalisation, Sales Acceleration, Improving 
Operations and building a robust team. Over these years the 
management has taken huge strides in each of the mentioned 
pillars that has led to sustainable growth for the company. 
During the year, the company applied for a change of name 
which was approved by the exchanges, your company is now 
renamed as "Allcargo Gati Ltd" With a strong brand name like 
Allcargo getting attached to a well-recognized brand like Gati, 
it is bound to gain confidence of all stakeholders.
01
Jammu & Kashmir
01
Chandigarh
03
Punjab
01
Goa
02
14
Maharashtra
01
03
Madhya Pradesh
01
06
Gujarat
01
03
Rajasthan
01
05
Haryana
01
04
Kerala
01
07
Karnataka
Himachal Pradesh
01
Assam
03
01
Uttarakhand
02
Delhi
03
01
Uttar Pradesh
08
02
Bihar
03
West Bengal
05
01
Jharkhand
02
01
Odisha
03
01
Tamil Nadu
03
02
Chhattisgarh 
01
Telangana
03
01
Arunachal Pradesh
01
Pondicherry
01
GDW
EDC
Annual Report 2023-24  | 67
Statutory Reports
Driving Digital Transformation and Innovation
As part of our ongoing commitment to building an organization 
with a digital heart, we have embarked on a journey to modernize 
and digitally transform our IT landscape. This transformation 
encompasses our core ERP application, Financial System, 
Procurement & Vendor Management, and other key applications, 
positioning us to stay ahead in a rapidly evolving market.
At the core of this transformation, our ERP system is being 
revamped into a more agile, cloud-based platform, utilizing the 
latest technology stack. This upgrade is designed to enhance 
customer experience and streamline business operations, 
ensuring ease of doing business. By incorporating artificial 
intelligence and machine learning, the system will automate 
routine tasks, driving efficiency and innovation across the 
organization.
To further strengthen our financial management, we have 
selected an industry-leading financial ERP system, which is 
slated to go live on April 1, 2024. This system will enable us to 
achieve better revenue management, cost control, and financial 
oversight, contributing to the overall health and sustainability of 
our business.
In our pursuit of cost control, operational excellence, and 
enhanced productivity, we continue to invest in in-house 
innovation. A prime example of this is the deployment of 
dimensional weighing and scanning machines at our mega 
hubs. These advanced machines help mitigate revenue loss 
by ensuring accurate measurement of dimensions and weight. 
Additional initiatives include the introduction of digital dockets 
for retail and MSME customers, digital onboarding processes for 
MSMEs, and the integration of telematics to track pickups and 
deliveries. These measures are designed to unlock significant 
value for our customers.
Collectively, these initiatives are expected to significantly 
enhance service quality, increase operational visibility, and 
ultimately drive higher levels of customer satisfaction.
Infrastructure and Operations:
The company has completed Phase one of its infrastructure 
amplification. With this the company now has six super hubs 
operational across locations like Delhi (Farukhnagar), Mumbai, 
Bengaluru, Nagpur, Guwahati and Indore. These hubs have 
helped improve capacity and made the company future ready. 
The physical infrastructure combined with digital infrastructure 
will enable the company to become a powerhouse in the 
domestic express business. The newly developed infrastructure 
also has an impact on the operations since it enables faster 
loading and unloading, higher productivity, faster turnaround 
time, and improved load factor.
On the operations front there is focus on data analytics for 
data driven decision making. During the year, the company also 
embarked on a nationwide program to train Gati associates. 
In phase one of the training conducted 738 out of the 3,000 
associates were trained. There is immense pride on sharing 
that with the infrastructure in place and focus on operations the 
service parameters of the company have improved significantly 
and are now at par with the best in the business.
Sales Acceleration:
Our sales acceleration initiatives has enabled the company to 
deliver a robust performance during the year. The company has 
recorded its highest ever express business volume. The idea is 
to obtain an optimal sales mix between key accounts, MSME 
and Retail clients. During the year, the management has set up 
an inside sales team to cater to the MSME clients, this team will 
aim to provide the right support at the right time to these clients. 
Regional key account managers have also been appointed to 
promote faster resolution of queries. Other initiatives like a re-
designed SME incentive structure and digital onboarding of 
MSME clients are also in place.
The key focus of our sales acceleration initiatives continues to 
remain client retention, increasing wallet share and identifying 
opportunities in new markets. Our dedicated sales force plays 
an important role in identifying opportunities in new territories.
Team:
The company has identified and hired for required positions. 
During the year, the team was strengthened by addition of 
Mr. Sandeep Kulkarni who joined as the Chief Operating Officer 
and Mr. Uday Sharma who joined as the Chief Commercial 
Officer. Sandeep has over two decades of diversified experience, 
he has served in the Indian Navy. His corporate experience 
has been into Marketing, Corporate Strategy and Head of 
operations in fulfillment center. He led roles of P&L and Chief 
Supply Chain officer in his previous stints. Uday is a logistics 
and supply chain veteran with over two decades of experience 
in this field. Before joining Gati, Uday handled sales at various 
logistics organisations, including Delhivery, Spoton Logistics, 
Safe Express, and Aramex, among others.
Human resources:
At Allcargo Gati, human capital is given utmost importance. The 
focus is on creating an enriching environment for the employees, 
where there are opportunities for growth and inclusive 
development. The organisation had initiated project NEEV which 
is based on the principles of inclusion, empowerment, and unity 
in variety. The objective is to have inclusive participation across 
all locations of the organization. During the financial year 2024, 
there was special focus on employee development framework at 
all levels. Initiatives like customer service program, operations 
training program, sales training program and business specific 
need-based program was carried out. HR is a key enabler for 
organizational growth and continues to engage with employees 
and address their grievances, if any.
Financial Performance:
During the year under review, at a consolidated level, Allcargo 
Gati achieved a revenue of ` 1,698 crores against ` 1,723 crores 
for the previous year. Majority of the revenue for our company 
comes from the express logistics business housed under 
GESCPL that clocked revenue of ` 1,479 crores as against ` 1,469 
crores in the previous year. This was driven by total volumes 
(GESCPL: surface plus air express) growing 10 percent YoY, 
improving to 1,249 kt from 1,133 kt. Around 92 percent of GESCPL 
revenue came from the surface express business, followed by 
5 percent from air express. In terms of client mix, 71 percent of 
GESCPL sales were driven by KEAs (Key Enterprise Accounts), 
14 percent by MSMEs and 15 percent by Retail accounts.
68  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Financial Ratios:
Particulars
FY2022 – 23
FY2023 – 24 
Debtors Turnover
4.76
4.42
Interest Coverage
1.15
2.11
Current Ratio
1.19
1.20
Debt Equity Ratio
0.18
0.21
Operating Profit Margin (%)
5.39
3.73
Net Profit Margin (%)
-0.63
0.36
Return on Equity (%)
-0.05
0.02
Debtors Turnover: The decrease in debtors turnover ratio is due 
to increase in average debtors as well as decline in the revenue.
Interest Coverage Ratio: Decrease in the Interest coverage ratio 
is mainly due to lower EBITDA margins on account of decline in 
gross profit margin compared to previous year.
Current Ratio: The improvement in the current ratio is due to 
the relinquishment of the corporate guarantee related to the 
IDFC matter and the profitable disposal of non-core properties 
compared to their carrying value. 
Debt Equity Ratio: Improvement in debt equity ratio is primarily 
driven by increase in total Equity on account of profit added 
during the year, reserves created against ESARs and issuance 
of shares against the ESARs. 
Operating Profit Margin: The lower operating profit margin 
resulted from increased operating costs due to higher volumes 
coupled with lower realized yield compared to the previous year. 
Net Profit Margin: Higher net profit margins are mainly driven 
by exceptional items and deferred tax asset creation during the 
year. 
Return on Equity: The improved return on equity is due to higher 
net income generated during the year.
Risks & Concerns:
The financial and related risks have been comprehensively 
covered in the Annual Accounts of the company together with 
the mitigation strategy of the same. The present and anticipated 
future risks are reviewed by the management of the company 
at regular intervals. The management takes suitable preventive 
steps and measures to adequately safeguard the company’s 
resources of tangible and intangible assets. For more detailed 
information regarding Financial Performance of the company 
you may refer Director’s Report forming part of this Annual 
Report.
Business Mix (%)
Client Mix (%)
92%
62%
21%
17%
17%
14%
69%
92%
5%
5%
3%
3%
Q3FY 23
Q3FY 24
Q3FY 23
Q3FY 24
Surface
KEA
Air
MSME
SCM
Retail
Annual Report 2023-24  | 69
Statutory Reports
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
S. 
No. Particulars
Details
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
L63011MH1995PLC420155
2
Name of the Company
Allcargo Gati Limited (“Gati”)
3
Year of incorporation
25th April 1995
4
Registered office address
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz 
(East) Mumbai, Maharashtra, India, 400098
5
Corporate address
Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), Kondapur, Hyderabad, 
Rangareddi - 500084, Telangana, India.
6
E-mail
investor.services@allcargologistics.com
7
Telephone
+91 40 7120 4284, +91 22 66798100
8
Website
www.gati.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE)
11
Paid-up Capital
` 26,05,04,054
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Name: Ms. T.S. Maharani
Contact: 040 7120 4284
Email Id: maharani.ts@allcargologistics.com
13
Reporting boundary
Consolidated basis
14
Whether the company has undertaken reasonable 
assurance of the BRSR Core
No
15
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
16
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II.	
Products/services
17.	
Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No. Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Express Logistics
Surface & Air Transport
87%
2
Fuel Stations
Distribution of Fuel in partnership with 
HPCL & Indian Oil
13%
18.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. 
No. Product / Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Express Logistics
522, 521, 512, 492
87%
2
Fuel Stations
473
13%
III.	 Operations
19.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
NA
170+
170+
International
NA
0
0
20.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
35
International (No. of Countries)
1
70  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? –
	
Gati is not involved in any export business and operates only in India.
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
Our customer base comprises of businesses, MSMEs, individual customers, retailers, wholesalers among others.
IV.	 Employees
21.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr.
No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
Other
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
Employees
1.
Permanent (D)
2,735
2,400
87.75%
335
12.25%
0
0
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3.
Total employees (D + E)
2,735
2,400
87.75%
335
12.25%
0
0
Workers
4.
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
667
574
86.05%
93
13.95%
0
0
6.
Total workers (F + G)
667
574
86.05%
93
13.95%
0
0
b.	
Differently-abled Employees and workers:
Sr.
No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
Other
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
10
9
90%
1
10%
0
0
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3.
Total employees (D + E)
10
9
90%
1
10%
0
0
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
6.
Total workers (F + G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
22.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Particulars
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
16
2
12.5%
Key Management Personnel
4
1
25%
Note: Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) composition is provided on a consolidated basis that includes Subsidiary Board 
/ KMPs of the Company.
23.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2023-24 
FY 2022-23
FY 2022-21
Male
Female
Other
Total
Male
Female
Other
Total
Male
Female
Other
Total
Permanent Employees
6%
5%
0%
6%
18%
19%
0%
18%
29%
34%
0%
29%
Permanent Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Note: NA = Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24  | 71
Statutory Reports
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
24.	 (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary/
associate companies/joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Allcargo Logistics Limited
Holding
50.16
Yes
2
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited
Subsidiary
70
Yes
3
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
4
Gati Import Export Trading Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
5
Gati Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
6
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
7
Gati Ship Limited
Associate
47.95
Yes
VI.	 CSR Details
25.	  
(i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013:
No
(ii) Turnover (in `):
 17,09,50,00,000
(iii) Net worth (in `):
 7,00,14,00,000
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
26.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No)
(If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Local 
Communities
Yes,
Stakeholder 
Engagement Policy
Grievances can be 
sent to though our Gati 
Vigil Mechanism Policy 
which contains Whistle 
Blower Procedures 
(https://www.gati.
com/wp-content/
uploads/2022/08/Gati-
Whistle-Blower-Policy.
pdf)
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Investors (other 
than shareholders)
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Shareholders
13
0
NA
12
0
NA
Employees and 
Workers
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Customers
15
69
The matters 
filed against 
Allcargo 
Gati Limited 
are previous 
to takeover 
in 2019
15*
25**
Pending 
adjudication 
for hearing 
in the 
consumer 
court.
Value Chain 
Partners / Suppliers
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Note: * Consumer Complaints received from appropriate court of law/consumer forums
** The number includes complaints pending from previous years of reporting
72  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
27.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity (R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk 
/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity
1.
Energy
Opportunity
As a logistics company, efficient 
energy management is crucial 
to ensure that we reduce our 
dependency on non-renewable 
energy sources and transition 
to options such as green fuels 
and route optimization. While 
adopting better technology to 
reduce our energy consumption 
can have a significant initial 
investment, 
this 
will 
ensure 
transition to cleaner fuels and 
reduce emissions in the process.
-
Positive 
implications
2.
Energy
Risk
•	
Transitioning 
towards 
renewable sources of energy 
such as solar, wind or green 
hydrogen 
comes 
with 
a 
significant investment.
•	
Further, 
appropriate 
infrastructure for Alternate 
Fuel 
Vehicles 
(AFVs), 
including Electric Vehicles 
(EVs) may not be available in 
remote locations.
•	
We are largely dependent on 
our business vendors such as 
business associates for being 
able to transition towards 
alternate energy sources.
•	
Gati is investing in 
solar plant installations 
on an OpEx model, thus 
reducing the initial cost 
of capital.
•	
Gati 
is 
currently 
focusing 
on 
geographies that has 
infrastructure to adopt 
Alternate Fuel Vehicles 
(AFVs), including EVs 
with 
ease 
and 
will 
slowly 
expand 
over 
other 
geographies 
depending 
upon 
availability.
Negative 
implications
3.
Emissions
Risk
The principal source of emissions 
for Gati is its road transportation 
segment which it operates via 
third-party 
business 
partners. 
Additionally non-management of 
emissions can lead to damage of 
Gati’s brand value and reputation.
Gati 
is 
working 
with 
third-party 
aggregators 
to include alternate fuel 
vehicles, 
including 
EVs, 
CNG and LNG vehicles 
in the first and last mile 
delivery segment.
Negative 
implications
4.
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety
Risk
As a logistics company, Gati is 
also exposed to the risk of road 
accidents which can lead to 
permanent injuries or loss of
life. Unsafe working conditions 
can lead to work-related injuries. 
Failure 
to 
meet 
regulatory 
requirements can also lead to 
heavy penalization.
Gati has a Health and 
Safety 
Policy 
with 
a 
commitment to conducting 
business activities, with 
zero injury to employees, 
sub-contractors and third-
party organizations.
Negative 
implications
5.
Diversity, 
Equity and 
Inclusion
Opportunity
Bias and discrimination at work 
hinders 
healthy 
professional 
relationships and can hamper 
professional development. The 
physical work environment and 
geographic 
locations 
of 
the 
industry can increase entrance 
of 
individuals 
with 
diverse 
backgrounds/ geographies also 
increasing inclusion of women 
in the workforce, thus providing 
access to a wider talent pool.
-
Positive 
implications
Annual Report 2023-24  | 73
Statutory Reports
Sr. 
No
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity (R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk 
/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity
6.
Labour 
Practice and 
Human Rights
Risk
Human rights violations and 
abuses can adversely impact 
employees 
and 
contractual 
labourers and bears a risk of 
litigation. Such violations can 
also cause reputational damage 
to the company.
Gati has a Human Rights 
Policy with commitments 
such as zero tolerance 
towards human trafficking, 
child labour, and forced 
labour, 
freedom 
of 
association, discrimination 
among others. A formal 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism is set in place 
wherein all employees and 
contractual workers can 
report any grievances to 
the CHRO of the company 
on 
mehernosh.mehta@
allcargologistics.com
Negative 
Implications
7.
Community 
Development
Opportunity
Community 
development 
is 
essential for obtaining a social 
license to operate. Gati’s presence 
is widespread with operations all 
over India and thus can impact 
many communities. Corporate 
social responsibility can also lead 
to increased investor interest and 
brand value recognition.
-
Positive 
implications
8.
Customer 
Satisfaction
Opportunity
Providing sustainable logistics 
solutions can attract and retain 
customers as many commercial 
customers 
are 
looking 
for 
ways 
to 
make 
their 
supply 
chain 
sustainable. 
Ensuring 
that customer grievances and 
feedbacks are redressed which 
can boost customer loyalty and 
increase retention.
Positive 
Implication
9.
Corporate 
Governance
Opportunity
Ensuring good governance and 
transparent practices can help 
securing 
stakeholder 
interest, 
a 
higher 
reputation, 
reduced 
risks and improved financial 
performance.
-
Positive 
Implications
10.
Cybersecurity
Risk
Data breaches and cybersecurity 
threats 
have 
increased 
over the past decade. With 
cloud 
computing 
and 
online 
marketplace 
and 
payments, 
maintaining 
the 
privacy 
of 
customer or employee data is 
crucial for Gati. Cyber-attacks 
can have several impacts on the 
functioning of the organisation 
such as operational cost and 
reputational damage.
Gati has a Cybersecurity 
policy 
and 
is 
ISO 
27001:2022 
certified 
to 
ensure utmost compliance 
and better customer data 
privacy. 
Compliance 
to 
such high standards of 
cybersecurity has helped 
us achieve a high rating 
in our third-party IT audit 
from BitSight with a score 
of 770.
Negative 
Implications
11.
Sustainable 
Supply Chain
Opportunity
Adopting a sustainable supply 
chain can help minimise supply 
disruption risks and emerging 
regulatory risks. Ensuring that 
suppliers also meet Gati’s ESG 
expectations can contribute to 
supporting 
local 
businesses, 
reduce 
implied 
environmental 
impacts, 
and 
promote 
good 
governance.
-
Positive 
Implications
74  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Sr. 
No
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity (R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk 
/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity
12.
Supply chain 
disruptions
Risk
Disruptions in the supply chain 
can further hamper processes 
and 
create 
a 
ripple 
effect 
throughout Gati’s value chain. 
Such disruptions can also delay 
deliveries and damage brand 
reputation subsequently leading 
to financial losses.
Gati 
has 
established 
a 
Supplier Code of Conduct 
including 
coverage 
of 
human rights, environmental 
performance, 
community 
development, 
business 
ethics 
and 
transparency 
and whistleblowing.
Gati has also adopted a 
sustainable 
procurement 
policy 
for 
its 
suppliers 
with guidelines to procure 
from sustainable and local 
sources.
Negative 
Implications
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and Management Processes
1
a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/
No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available
P1
– Sustainable Procurement Policy
P2
- Anti-trust and Anti-competitive Policy
	
Code of Conduct
	
Corporate Tax Governance Policy
P3
- Human Rights Policy
	
Health and Safety Policy
	
Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy
	
Board Diversity Policy
P4
- Stakeholder Engagement Policy
	
Supplier Code of Conduct
P5
- Human Rights Policy
Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy
P6
- Environment Policy
	
Supplier Code of Conduct
P7
– Corporate Tax Governance Policy
P8
– Stakeholder Engagement Policy
	
CSR Policy
P9
– Information Security and Cybersecurity Policy
2
Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
4
Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/ labels/ standards (e.g., Forest 
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustee) standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each 
principle.
The Policies are compiled keeping in mind the different global 
standards including that of the United Nations, International Labour 
Organisation and various ISO standards.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 75
Statutory Reports
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
5
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
•	
Achieve Carbon Neutrality by 2040
•	
100% transition to renewable sources for electricity consumption at 
all owned facilities by 2040
•	
40% gender diversity in junior and middle management by 2040
•	
30% gender diversity in the top management
•	
Zero cases of data and cybersecurity breaches through timely 
resolution of cyber incidents, if any
•	
Maintain zero instances of noncompliance with regulatory 
requirements year-on-year
•	
Committed to making a safer workplace for all our employees and 
workers
•	
Committed to multiple United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals - SDG 3, 4, 11, and 14 to benefit community growth
•	
Continue to ensure Zero employment of child and forced labour
•	
Continue to ensure Zero instances of human rights violation
6
Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals, and targets along-with reasons 
in case the same are not met.
Gati has set goals & targets last year and we will be tracking 
performance on the said policies in the upcoming year
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
	
The purpose of our business is to dedicatedly serve to ensure stakeholder delight and influence the environment and society 
at large with our good work, as we abide by our values that form the cornerstone of our business strategies, decisions, and 
activities. We are committed to this roadmap as we seek to grow sustainably and deliver logistics solutions with excellence, 
again and again, with a lot more rigor and enthusiasm as the days pass. Please refer to page XX for the Chairman’s / MD’s 
speech.
8.
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
Pirojshaw Sarkari, Managing Director & CEO – 
GESCPL (Material Subsidiary Company)
9.
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? 
(Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
The Company is working on creating a Sustainability 
committee in the coming years that will drive ESG 
initiatives.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / Committee 
of the Board/ Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)
P1
P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
P1
P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against above policies and 
follow up action
Board of Directors
Annually
Description of other committee for 
performance against above policies and 
follow up action
Refer to Page XX of Annual Report 
indicating Board level Committee 
details
Annually
Compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles, and rectification 
of any non-compliances
Board of Directors
Annually
Description of other committee for 
compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles and rectification
Refer to Page XX of Annual Report 
indicating Board level Committee 
details
Annually
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
No
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
	
Not Applicable
76  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are 
expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed 
by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training and its 
impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
1
P1 - P9
100%
Key Managerial Personnel
9
P1 - P9
100%
Employees other than BoD and KMPs
74 
P1 - P9
100%
Workers
NA*
Warehouse safety, defensive 
driving, fire drills, behavioral 
conduct, code of conduct
NA
Note: *Gati conducts various trainings for its workers on topics such as warehouse safety, defensive driving, fire drills, behavioral conduct, 
code of conduct trainings among others. However, Gati is currently not capturing the number of trainings provided at all its locations and is in 
the process of setting up mechanisms to capture such trainings.
NA = Not Available
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or 
by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following 
format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Particulars
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/judicial 
institutions
Amount (in 
INR)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
NA
NA
0
NA
No
Settlement
NA
NA
0
NA
No
Compounding fee
NA
NA
0
NA
No
Particulars
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/judicial 
institutions
Amount (in 
INR)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NA
NA
0
NA
No
Punishment
NA
NA
0
NA
No
Note: NA = Not Applicable
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
	
Gati does not have any cases of monetary or non-monetary fines or penalties for the reporting year
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-
link to the policy.
	
Yes, anti-corruption and anti-bribery aspects are covered as a part of Gati’s Code of Conduct - Ethics Transparency and 
Accountability Policy. Gati has zero tolerance against any cases and instances of corruption, bribery, extortion or malpresentation 
of financial statements. All of Gati’s employees, in their individual capacity or while representing the Company, are strictly 
prohibited from engaging in any form of corruption or giving or accepting any kind of bribe, kickbacks or facilitation payments, 
directly or indirectly. None of Gati’s employees shall indulge in giving or receiving extravagant, lavish or uncustomary gifts to 
government or public authorities, during or after business hours. In the situation that accepting a bribe results in it bearing a 
direct threat to their lives, Employees should immediately inform their immediate manager or write to Head - Internal Audit, 
Risk & Compliance of the Company at whistleblower@allcargologistics.com . The web link to the policy is as follows: https://
www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Code-of-Conduct-Ethics-Transparency-and-Accountability.pdf
Annual Report 2023-24  | 77
Statutory Reports
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the Directors
0
None
0
None
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the KMPs
0
None
0
None
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
No corrective actions were taken as there were no cases on non-compliance.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(i) Accounts payable *365 in INR Lakh
32,26,235
34,72,975
(ii) Cost of goods/services procured in INR Lakh
1,32,964
1,30,734
(iii) Number of days of accounts payables 
(Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured)
24
26
9.	
Open-ness of business: Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related 
parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Particulars
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	 (i)	 Purchases from trading houses
0
0
	
(ii)	 Total Purchases
0
0
	
(iii)	Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
0
0
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
0
0
c.	 (i)	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses
0
0
	
(ii)	 Total purchases from trading houses
0
0
	
(iii)	Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
0
0
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	 (i)	 Sales to dealers / distributors
2,59,39,25,747
2,46,05,96,833
	
(ii)	 Total Sales
16,97,99,72,817
17,23,16,88,916
	
(iii)	Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales
0.15
0.14
b.	 Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales are 
made
403
392
c.	 (i)	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors
66,01,42,610
63,70,72,855
	
(ii)	 Total sales to dealers / distributors
2,59,39,25,747
2,46,05,96,832
	
(iii)	Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers / distributors
25%
26%
78  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Particulars
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Share of RPTs in
a.	 (i)	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties)
0
0
	
(ii)	 Total Purchases
0
0
	
(iii)	Purchases (Purchases with related parties as % 
of Total Purchases)
0
0
b.	 (i)	 Sales (Sales to related parties
7,72,00,000
17,69,00,000
	
(ii)	 Total Sales
16,97,99,00,000
17,23,17,00,000
	
(iii)	Sales (Sales to related parties as a % of Total 
Sales)
0.5%
1%
c.	 (i)	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties
0
0
	
(ii)	 Total loans & advances
0
0
	
(iii)	Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties as a % of Total loans & advances)
0
0
d.	 (i)	 Investments (Investments in related parties
0
0
	
(ii)	 Total Investments made
0
0
	
(iii)	Investments (Investments in related parties as a % 
of Total Investments made)
0
0
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value of 
business done with such partners) under the awareness 
programmes
0
None
0
Note: We have currently only carried out supplier ESG self-assessment via survey in FY 2024 furthermore we intend to assess performance, 
identify gaps & help in capacity building of our supplier going forward
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If 
Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, the Company expects its employees to avoid and disclose to the Company any situation that may appear as a conflict of 
interest and disclose to the Company if any of its official is having family or business relationship with an official or employee 
of the Company who can influence the performance, in whole or in part, of a Contract. Further, during the year, the company 
has taken a declaration from all employees disclosing Conflict of Interest, if any.
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
0
0
0
Capex
0
0
0
Note: Gati has invested in Solar energy projects and Electric Vehicles (EVs) on an OpEx model
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, Gati has implemented the Sustainable Procurement Policy. Suppliers are expected to follow Gati’s ESG practices and 
fulfill sustainable procurement expectations such as compliance to laws and regulations, human rights issues, resource 
efficiency among others. Suppliers are also expected to source sustainably in their respective value chains.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Gati assesses its suppliers for sustainability and 20% of our suppliers were assessed for ESG
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) 
Plastics (including packaging), (b) E-waste, (c) Hazardous waste, and (d) other waste.
	
Not Applicable. Gati is a logistics company and does not manufacture any goods or services that can generate e-waste or 
hazardous waste.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 79
Statutory Reports
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Extended Producer Responsibility is not applicable to Gati as it is a logistics company.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
Gati has not conducted a Life Cycle Assessment of any of its services.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Gati has not conducted a Life Cycle Assessment of any of its services.
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
Gati is a logistics company and does not use any recycled or reused input material for manufacturing or in any of its services.
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
Gati is a logistics company and does not use any recycled or reused input material for manufacturing or in any of its services.
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Gati is a logistics company and does not use any recycled or reused input material for manufacturing or in any of its services.
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
Total 
(A)
% of employees covered by
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Number
% (C / 
A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / 
A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / 
A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / 
A)
Permanent Employees
Male
2,400
2,400
100%
2,400
100%
NA
0%
2,400
100%
NA
0%
Female
335
335
100%
335
100%
335
100%
NA
0%
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
2,735
2,735
100%
2,742
100%
335
100%
2,400
100%
0
0%
Other than permanent Employees
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
Total 
(A)
% of employees covered by
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Number
% (C / 
A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / 
A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / 
A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / 
A)
Permanent Workers
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Other than permanent Workers
Male
574
574
100%
574
100%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Female
93
93
100%
93
100%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
667
667
100%
667
100%
0
0%
0
0%
0
0%
80  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
	
c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in 
the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well-being measures
3,19,36,998
3,69,68,352
Total Revenue
17,09,50,00,000
17,46,04,00,000
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company
0.2%
0.2%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
0
Yes
100%
0
Yes
Gratuity
100%
0
Yes
100%
0
Yes
ESI
100%
0
Yes
100%
0
Yes
Others – please specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Note: NA = Not Applicable
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Some of the Gati premises are designed/structured in manner to be made accessible to differently abled employees and 
workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The following steps have been undertaken 
to achieve this:
	
•	
Ramps for access to warehouses in a few locations
	
•	
Moving ahead all the new warehouses will be structured in a more inclusive manner to accommodate differently-abled 
employees, workers and visitors
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the policy?
	
Yes, Gati emphasizes on providing equal opportunities for its employees in the Anti-Discrimination Policy, POSH Policy and 
Human Rights Policy.
	
Web-link to the policies:
	
Anti-harassment or Anti-discrimination policy –  HYPERLINK "https://www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Anti-
Harassment-and-Anti-Discrimination-Policy.pdf" Anti-Harassment-and-Anti-Discrimination-Policy.pdf (gati.com)
	
POSH Policy –  HYPERLINK "https://www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/POSH-POLICY.pdf" POSH-POLICY.pdf (gati.
com)
	
Human Rights policy –  HYPERLINK "https://www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Human-Rights-Policy.pdf" Human 
Rights Policy
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
72%
NA
NA
Female
100%
29%
NA
NA
Other
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
100%
69%
NA
NA
Note: Retention Rate is computed based on how many employees availed parental leave, returned and continued for a period of 12 months.
NA = Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24  | 81
Statutory Reports
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Particulars
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
NA
Other than Permanent Workers
NA
Permanent Employees
Yes, the organization has multiple platforms and practices available such as:
1. Grievance Resolution Committee:
A. Informal Stage: The employee should, at first instance, try resolving the grievance 
verbally with their Line managers/Centre Head. In cases of lack of satisfactory response, 
the grievance can be escalated to the Local Business HR. In absence of successful 
resolution of the grievance, a formal written complaint can be filed to Grievance 
Resolution Committee.
B. Formal Stage: In situations where the informal stage has been surpassed or there has 
been no successful resolution of the grievance received, the aggrieved employee may 
write to the email id mentioned here: employeefirst@allcargologistics.com
All emails written to this ID goes to Grievance Resolution Committee.
Grievance Resolution Committee and its role:
i. Zonal Committee chaired by Zonal HR head with cross functional team.
ii. Central Committee chaired by Head IR & Compliance with cross functional team. Any 
investigation undertaken by the Committee shall be in accordance with the principles 
of natural justice and will be undertaken confidentially and as expeditiously as possible 
with great sensitivity.
2. POSH Committee:
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Committee has been set up to cater to 
employee concerns regarding any discriminatory / harassment cases irrespective of 
gender.
3. Diversity & Inclusion Committee:
Diversity & inclusion Committee available at every Zone across India. The committee 
conducts monthly DE& I Structured meetings, and gender sensitization talks.
4. One on One Discussion with Business HR
The employees have the option to have a one-one discussion with their Business HR 
partner as well.
Other than Permanent Employees
NA
Note: NA = Not Applicable
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees /
workers in
respective 
category, who are 
part of
association(s) or 
Union (B)
%
(B/A)
Total
employees
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees /
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
%
(D/C)
Total Permanent Employees
- Male
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
- Female
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
- Other
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total Permanent Workers
- Male
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
- Female
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
- Other
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
82  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
FY April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees
Male
2,400
2,400
100%
2,400
100%
2,822
1,570
56%
2,822
100%
Female
335
335
100%
335
100%
425
396
93%
425
100%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Total
2,735
2,735
100%
2,735
100%
3,247
1,966
61%
3,247
100%
Workers
Male
574
544
95%
544
95%
0
0
0
0
0
Female
93
88
95%
88
95%
0
0
0
0
0
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Total
667
632
95%
632
95%
0
0
0
0
0
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
FY April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
2,400
2,400
100%
2,822
2,705
95.9%
Female
335
335
100%
425
350
82.4%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total
2,735
2,735
100%
3,247
3,055
94.1%
Workers
Male
574
0
0%
0
0
0%
Female
93
0
0%
0
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total
667
0
0%
0
0
0%
Note: As Gati’s workers are all sourced from contractors, we do not have any performance and career development reviews for them.
10.	  Health and safety management system:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system?
Yes, Gati has implemented the Health and Safety Policy. Gati is cognizant of safety at all its locations and is in the process 
of implementing a holistic Occupational Health and Safety system in the next phase.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity?
Gati has a Health and Safety policy while safety trainings are conducted by location heads. To identify work-related hazards 
and assess the risks on a routine basis, we conduct toolbox meetings organized by safety marshals.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)
Gati currently does not have a formal mechanism for incident reporting to report work-related hazards and is in the process 
of implementing a system for incident registration.
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
Yes. The Company provides Group Term Life Insurance Policy to its employees as a part of non-occupational medical 
and healthcare services.
11.	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Particulars
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Safety Incident/Number
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
0
0
Annual Report 2023-24  | 83
Statutory Reports
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace
	
Employee well-being programs/initiatives are conducted for all the employees and during FY 2023-24 the following well-being 
initiatives were undertaken:
•	
Women safety programs
•	
POSH & gender sensitization meetings as a part of DE&I initiative
•	
Road safety programs
•	
Women self-defense program
•	
Fire emergency training exit
•	
Zumba session
•	
Walkathon, diabetes & hypertension awareness program
•	
Eye check up camps
•	
General health check up
•	
Driver health check up
•	
Yoga at your desk
	
Additionally, the following trainings are provided for health and safety:
Type of Training
Frequency
Firefighting training  
Monthly
Mock drills 
Yearly
First Aid Training  
Yearly
Restacker and Forklift safety training
Monthly
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
0
0
0
0
Health & Safety
0
0
0
0
0
0
14.	 Assessments for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
0
Working Conditions
0
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
The corrective action/s taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks / concerns arising 
from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions include maintenance of a hygiene tracker which is updated 
by the Business HRs during their operating unit visits and discussion on the problem areas with the respective unit heads/in charges 
and through holding one on one discussion with the concerned stakeholders. This is usually followed by a monthly hygiene review 
with the P/L head of that respective zone in the presence of the respective Business HRs, the Zonal HR head & the BSG Leaders 
assigned to that territory to keep a track of the number of concerns received versus the number of concerns dealt with and closed. 
GATI has implemented Hygiene Policy which ensures workplace cleanliness and basic amenities like availability of clean drinking 
water, proper sanitation facilities, etc. 
The BSG team conducts OU visits on a monthly basis to ensure all the points under the hygiene policy are taken care of and a Hygiene 
tracker is maintained to create a Pan India visibility.
84  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) and (B) 
Workers (Y/N):
Yes, the Company covers all the employees and workers under Group Accident Policy, and Mediclaim & Group Term Life 
Insurance Policy for all employees.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
The Supplier Code of Conduct incorporates clauses concerning human rights, including but not limited to minimum wages, 
working hours, and freedom of association. Each partner within the value chain is required to endorse the Supplier Code of 
Conduct and adhere to its provisions. We utilize services of external agency to monitor monthly statutory compliance of 
suppliers and associates, which undergo monthly audits conducted by our compliance partner. Additionally, our Location HR 
conducts random inspections to ensure statutory payments by suppliers and associates are upheld.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Particulars
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees
0
0
0
0
Workers
0
0
0
0
Note: Gati is in the process of reviewing systems to capture data for safety related incidents.
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
No. The entity does not provide transition assistance programs.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
20%
Working Conditions
20%
Note: Currently we undertake a self-assessment survey as a part of our Supplier ESG Assessment. We have covered 20% of vendors from the 
significant vendor pool.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
We started our supplier ESG assessment last year. Currently review mechanisms are being developed & thereafter we will have 
the strategy ready for corrective action.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 85
Statutory Reports
PRINCIPLE  4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
Gati identifies individuals or groups of individuals (including Companies, Partnership firms and Proprietary Firms) who are 
impacted by Gati’s products, services and activities as well as individuals or groups of individuals which have a direct or indirect 
impact on Gati. Upon such prioritization, Gati shall analyze the risks and impacts of Gati’s operation, whether direct or indirect, 
borne by each stakeholder.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication (Emails, 
SMS, Newspapers, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community meetings, 
Notices Board, Website)
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly/
others)- Please 
specify
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagements
Employees and 
workers
No
•	
Intranet portal
•	
Trainings and development 
programmes
•	
Performance management system
•	
Emails. Written communication
•	
Newsletters, circulars and internal 
publications
•	
Employee engagement initiatives
•	
Functional and cross-functional 
committees
Daily/Weekly
Business/operations 
related communications
Investors and 
shareholders
No
•	
Annual shareholder meeting
•	
Investor presentations and conference 
calls
•	
Investor conferences and meets
•	
Press releases and newsletters
Quarterly
To provide updates on 
company’s operations 
and updates on new 
business decisions
Customers
No
•	
Customer satisfaction surveys
•	
Marketing and advertising
•	
Customer service centres
•	
Complaint handling and feedback
•	
Electronic communication – social 
media, WhatsApp, Calls
Daily
Addressing customer 
requirements for 
deliveries and grievances 
if any
Suppliers and 
Contractors
No
•	
Regular interaction through online and 
offline meetings, phone calls, e-mails
•	
Conferences and workshops
•	
Trainings and awareness programs
Daily/Weekly
To track daily 
operational activities 
and communicate future 
needs and expectations
Government 
and Regulatory 
Authorities
No
•	
Meetings and formal dialogue
•	
Representation through various trade 
bodies workshops
Other – Need 
basis
Business-related
Industry 
Associations
No
•	
Conferences, global events and 
workshops
•	
Press releases and newsletters
•	
Written Communications
•	
Meetings
•	
Publications and Announcements
Other – Need 
basis
Business-related
Communities 
and NGOs
No
•	
Conferences and workshops
•	
Communication via telephone, email, 
etc.
•	
Community-participation events
•	
CSR partnerships - Contribution 
towards various causes
•	
Communication with Beneficiary 
Committees
Other – Need 
basis
To obtain a social 
license to operate in 
communities around our 
operations
Media
No
•	
Written Communications
•	
Interviews and Forums
•	
Meetings
•	
Publications and Announcements
•	
Media releases
Other – Need 
basis
Business-related
86  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics 
or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
Investors and shareholders raise their concerns to the Board at Annual General Meetings (AGMs) as per SEBI requirements.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Yes, Gati circulated the stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment questionnaire to all its stakeholders to identify 
key environmental and social topics. Based on the material topics identified, Gati is in the process of forming key environmental 
and social initiatives.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
Gati has taken multiple initiatives to address the concerns of vulnerable & marginalized stakeholder groups which have 
evolved throughout the years with their key focus being employee betterment & improved employee connect. Such instances 
& initiatives include:
•	
Monthly OU Visits by the business HRs of respective territories.
•	
Townhall meetings
•	
Skip level meetings
•	
Neev program which focusses on employee empowerment & inclusiveness where employees gather in small groups along 
with their unit heads & HR from different functions to discuss on finding solutions to specific problems at employee levels.
•	
Employee Grievance Redressal Policy rolled out for all Gati employees and has committees at zonal & corporate level. 
Employees can send their grievances to employeefirst@allcargologistics.com
•	
Diversity & Inclusion committees are at place to discuss on DE&I related problems.
•	
Under our CSR, for our communities, we create awareness events, verify socio-economic background of the population, 
provide consultations, round of discussion with technical persons, involve the hospital and other stakeholders who can 
provide clarity on the issue. We take actions such as address individual issues, take to concern, provide clarity, give the 
needful to the person/group till it is resolved. For example, chemotherapy was required in some cases 6 times depending 
on situation whereas in some cases it may require more than 6 sessions.
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following 
format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
2,735
2,735
100%
3,247
26
0.8%
Other than permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0%
Total Employees
2,735
2,735
100%
3,247
26
0.8%
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0%
0
0
0
Other than permanent
667
0
0%
0
0
0
Total Workers
667
0
0%
0
0
0
Note: Gati does not exclusively have Human Rights related trainings for ‘Other than permanent workers’ but they are protected under our 
Human Rights Policy
Annual Report 2023-24  | 87
Statutory Reports
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No (C)
% (C /A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent Employees
Male
2,400
0
0%
2,400
100%
2,822
0
0%
2,822
100%
Female
335
0
0%
335
100%
425
0
0%
425
100%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Workers
Permanent Workers
Male
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
574
574
100%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Female
93
93
100%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Other
0
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0%
0
0%
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
Particulars
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
14
9,20,000
2
4,90,000
Key Managerial Personnel
3
2,33,92,306
1
39,90,427
Employees other than BoD and KMP
2,397
3,70,788
334
3,87,996
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
Note: Gati employs ‘Other than Permanent Workers’ through contractors, hence we do not capture this data.
	
3 b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females 
18,46,66,823
21,61,36,417
Total wages
1,64,26,00,912
1,77,54,89,330
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
11.24%
12.17%
Note: The above data is for female employees
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, there is a focal point responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business. 
We periodically undertake human rights due diligence to identify, prevent, mitigate and account adverse human right impacts. 
There will be review of this policy periodically during board reviews and revisions in the policy shall be made accordingly. The 
policy shall be reviewed and approved by the management. Any guidelines on human rights issued by government agencies 
or ILO from time to time, they will automatically be part of this policy. The Learning and Development team shall conduct 
mandatory training programs to promote a discrimination and harassment-free workplace on an annual basis. All employees 
are required to complete the training and affirm compliance. At Gati, Mehernosh Mehta is the focal point responsible for human 
rights-related aspects. Email ID: mehernosh.mehta@allcargologistics.com
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
A.	
Grievance Resolution Committee:
•	
Informal Stage: The employee should, at first instance, try resolving the grievance verbally with their Line managers/
Centre Head. In cases of lack of satisfactory response, the grievance can be escalated to the Local Business HR. In 
absence of successful resolution of the grievance, a formal written complaint can be filed to Grievance Resolution 
Committee.
88  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
•	
Formal Stage: In situations where the informal stage has been surpassed or there has been no successful resolution 
of the grievance received, the aggrieved employee may write to the email id mentioned here: employeefirst@
allcargologistics.com. All emails to this ID is received by the Grievance Resolution Committee.
	
	
	
Grievance Resolution Committee and its role:
	
a.	
Zonal Committee chaired by Zonal HR head with cross functional team.
	
b.	
Central Committee chaired by Head IR & Compliance with cross functional team. Any investigation undertaken by 
the Committee shall be in accordance with the principles of natural justice and will be undertaken confidentially 
and as expeditiously as possible with great sensitivity.
	
B.	
 POSH Committee:
	
	
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee has been set up to cater to employee concerns regarding any 
discriminatory / harassment cases irrespective of gender.
	
C.	
 One on One Discussion with Business HR
	
	
We also have the option for the employees to approach their Business HR partners for a one-on-one discussion as well.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
1
0
0
1
0
0
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
0
0
0
0
Child Labour
0
0
0
0
0
0
Forced Labour/Involuntary 
Labour
0
0
0
0
0
0
Wages
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other human rights related 
issues
0
0
0
0
0
0
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in 
the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
1
1
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers
0.2%
0.2%
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
Yes, Gati has mechanisms in place to prevent adverse consequences to the complaint in discrimination and harassment 
cases. The details of the complainant are kept confidential, and the authenticity of the complainant’s report is investigated by 
the assigned committee. The details regarding the investigation are also limited to the committee and kept confidential. The 
complainant is protected from any discrimination and harassment till the issue is resolved. This is done in order to safeguard 
the complainant's interest and confidence.
1. Human Rights Policy
2. Anti-Harassment & Discrimination Policy
3. POSH Policy
4. Employee grievance redressal policy
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Gati expects all its suppliers to adhere to the highest standards of ethical conduct in line with country-specific laws and 
conventions for their labor practices. This includes the abolition of child labor, forced labor, bonded labor etc. Gati expects 
its suppliers to create and maintain an environment that treats all employees with dignity and respect and refuses to tolerate 
any harassment or inhumane treatment including but not limited to mental cruelty, violence, sexual exploitation or corporal 
punishment of any kind. It is ensured that the human rights requirements are actively communicated internally and externally 
through the Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 89
Statutory Reports
10.	 Assessments for the year:
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
100%
Sexual harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
100%
Others (please specify details)
-
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
No corrective actions have been taken as there have been no risks and concerns arising from the assessments. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
Gati did not receive any grievances or complaints regarding Human Rights principles and guidelines therefore there are no 
modifications required.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
Human Rights due diligence has not been conducted. However, Gati plans to conduct due diligence going forward.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Some of the Gati premises are designed/structured in manner to be made accessible to differently abled employees and 
workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The following steps have been undertaken 
to achieve this:
•	
Ramps for access to warehouses in a few locations
•	
Moving ahead all the new warehouses will be structured in a more inclusive manner to accommodate differently-abled 
employees, workers and visitors
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Particulars
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
20%
Discrimination at workplace
20%
Child Labour
20%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
20%
Wages
20%
Others – please specify
20%
Note: Gati currently has started assessing its Category A value chain partners in the current year.
We have supplier code of conduct & sustainable procurement policy all suppliers are required to comply to policy requirements 
like prevention of child labour, forced labour, sexual harassment, and discrimination at workplace are part of the of both the 
policies. Kindly find our policies in the link below:
1. Supplier code conduct :
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.pdf
2. Sustainable procurement policy :
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Sustainable-Procurement-Policy.pdf
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
No corrective actions have been taken as there have been no risks and concerns arising from the assessments.
90  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
1,342.88
615.27
Total fuel consumption (B)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0
0
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
1,342.88
615.27
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
21,761.49
18,841.91
Total fuel consumption (E)
4,251.91
3,790.13
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
26,013.40
22,632.04
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
27,356.26
23,247.31
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/turnover in 
rupees crores) (GJ/ INR Crore)
16.00
13.31
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)* (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
(GJ/ USD Crore PPP)
358.45
298.14
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Note: *The PPP conversion factor used for calculating the Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) – 22.40
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No.
Note: No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Gati does not have sites / facilities identified as designated consumer under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme 
of the Government of India.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
(i) Surface water
NA
NA
(ii) Groundwater
NA
NA
(iii) Third party water
NA
NA
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
NA
NA
(v) Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
NA
NA
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total Water consumption/ Revenue from operations)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Water intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Note: NA = Not Available
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No
Note: No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24. Gati is currently not tracking its 
water consumption and is in the process of setting systems and procedures.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 91
Statutory Reports
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged: Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(i)	 To Surface water- 
NA
NA
	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
With treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 To Groundwater- 
NA
NA
	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
With treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	To Seawater water- 
NA
NA
	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
With treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties -
NA
NA
	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
With treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others-
NA
NA
	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
With treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Note: NA = Not Available
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
	
Zero Liquid Discharge is not applicable to Gati as it is a logistics company and does not own any manufacturing plants.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Particulars
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx
MT
NA
NA
SOx
MT
NA
NA
Particulate matter (PM)
MT
NA
NA
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
MT
NA
NA
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
MT
NA
NA
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
MT
NA
NA
Others – Please Specify
MT
NA
NA
Note: No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24. Gati is currently not tracking its stack or air emissions 
and is in the process of setting systems and procedures.
NA = Not Available
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Particulars
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
390.96
337.39
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
4,556.69
3,213.58
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupees in crore of 
turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from 
operations)
tCO2e/INR Crore
2.89
2.03
Scope 1&2 Emissions intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
tCO2e/USD Crore 
(PPP)
64.74
45.47
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) -- 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Note: NA = Not Applicable.
*The PPP conversion factor used for calculating the Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) – 22.40
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No.
	
Note: No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24
92  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
Yes. Given the nature of the industry, road transportation is prone to producing a high quantity of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
emissions. Gati has set a goal to deploy 500 plus Alternate Fuel Vehicles (AFVs) in the first & last mile and was able to achieve 
500 plus AFVs by March 2024. At a few of its warehouses, Gati has adopted solarization projects and is planning to install solar 
projects of 1.1+ MW in the coming years.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
NA
NA
Plastic Waste (A)
NA
NA
E-Waste (B)
NA
NA
Biomedical Waste (C)
NA
NA
Construction & Demolition (C&D waste) (D)
NA
NA
Battery Waste (E)
NA
NA
Radioactive Waste (F)
NA
NA
Other Hazardous Waste (please specify) (G)
NA
NA
Other Non-Hazardous Waste generated. Please specify if any (Break-up by 
composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector) (H)
NA
NA
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
NA
NA
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)
NA
NA
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP)
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
NA
NA
(i) Recycled
NA
NA
(ii) Re-used
NA
NA
(iii) Other recovery operations
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
NA
NA
(i) Incineration
NA
NA
(ii) Landfilling
NA
NA
(iii) Other disposal operations
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24. Waste generation is not being tracked 
currently. Gati is in the processing of tracking its waste and setting appropriate practices for waste management.
Note: NA = Not Available
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
	
As a logistics company, Gati does not manufacture any products and thus does not use any hazardous or toxic chemicals. 
Currently, we are in the processing of tracking our waste and setting appropriate practices for waste management.
11.	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
Gati is yet to conduct a study of its operations that comes under in ecological sensitive areas and is in the process of setting 
appropriate practices to track this.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 93
Statutory Reports
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year:
	
During the reporting period, Gati has not conducted any environment impact assessment. Gati ensures compliance to local 
and national applicable laws wherever required.
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
	
Yes, Gati ensures compliance to local and national applicable laws wherever required.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
Note: Gati is in process of conducting a study to identify if we have any facility / plant located in areas of water stress
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24.
	
Water withdrawal is not being tracked currently.
	
Note: NA = Not Available
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Particulars
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2
 equivalent
8,71,898.02
7,71,789.49
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupees in crore of turnover
tCO2e/ INR Crore
510.03
442.02
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
Note: Previous year emissions were computed only for Mid mile operations. Current year also includes 1st mile and last mile. Further, during 
the current year the computation of emissions is done at a shipment level whereas previous year the computation of emission was done at 
trip level to get a granular view.
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No external assurance was carried out on environmental parameters for FY 2023-24
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities.
Gati has not conducted a Biodiversity Impact Assessment to understand the significant direct and indirect impacts.
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, 
or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as 
outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Gati has implemented a few initiatives to improve its resource efficiency:
•	
Adoption of Alternate Fuel Vehicles (AFVs) in first mile and last-mile fleet
•	
Introduction of e-Dockets to reduce physical documentation and thus minimizing the use of paper
•	
Increased digital transactions by 2x with clients to reduce use of paper while preparing shipments.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
Our Business Continuity Management Systems (BCMS) approach is based on four pillars – Emergency Response, Crisis 
Management, Business Continuity Planning, and Disaster Recovery Management. IT Disaster Recovery Solution built on a 
hybrid strategy of on-premises and third-party cloud infrastructure that supports quick response and recovery for applications 
and services. It includes the implementation of a cloud-based DR solution for some critical Gati applications. We have primary 
data centres and disaster recovery data centres with appropriate on premise back up arrangements. We have implemented 
a cloud-based DR solution for enabling the backup of current applications, systems, and data required to execute business 
continuity planning (BCP) in case of failure of primary data centres due to any disaster.
Emergency Response and Crisis Management: Gati has established comprehensive emergency response arrangements to 
ensure the safety and well-being of employees, visitors, and stakeholders during emergencies. A dedicated team is responsible 
for coordinating and managing crisis situations. This team consists of individuals from various departments and levels within 
the organization, including senior management, communications, operations, legal, and human resources.
Business Continuity Planning: Integrate crisis management with business continuity planning. Identified critical business 
functions and developed strategies to ensure their continuity during a crisis. This includes backup systems, alternative 
locations, and contingency plans to minimize disruption and maintain essential operations.
94  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
Gati has not conducted a Biodiversity Impact Assessment to understand the significant direct and indirect impacts or 
understand impacts from the value chain.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
Gati has not conducted a Biodiversity Impact Assessment to understand the significant direct and indirect impacts or 
understand impacts from the value chain.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
Gati is a member of two trade associations.
	
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
2.
Express Industry Council of India (EICI)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based 
on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Not applicable since there were no cases of anti-competitive conduct by Gati in FY 2023-24.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
In FY 2023-24, there have been no public policies that have been advocated by Gati. 
PRINCIPLE 8 	 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Social impact assessments are not being presently conducted, but Gati plans on conducting SIAs in the future once the projects 
reach an appropriate maturity level.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
Gati does not have any projects for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by Gati Limited.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
Gati has a Whistleblower Policy that allows the community to register any grievances.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
NA
NA
Sourced directly from within India 
NA
NA
Note: Gati is a service industry and not a manufacturing industry hence input material would not be applicable for Gati
NA = Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24  | 95
Statutory Reports
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns- Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost.
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural
i) Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis)
NA
NA
ii) Total Wage Cost
NA
NA
iii) % of Job creation in Rural areas
NA
NA
Semi-Urban
i) Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis)
NA
NA
ii) Total Wage Cost
NA
NA
iii) % of Job creation in Semi-Urban areas
NA
NA
Urban
i) Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis)
NA
NA
ii) Total Wage Cost
NA
NA
iii) % of Job creation in Urban areas
NA
NA
Metropolitan
i) Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis)
NA
NA
ii) Total Wage Cost
NA
NA
iii) % of Job creation in Metropolitan areas
NA
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Social impact assessments are not being presently conducted, but Gati plans on conducting SIAs in the future once the projects 
reach an appropriate maturity level.
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified 
by government bodies:
S. 
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent in INR
1
-
-
0
3.
a.	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No, Gati does not have a preferential procurement policy at the moment.
b.	
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
No, Gati does not have a preferential procurement policy at the moment
c.	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
No, Gati does not have a preferential procurement policy at the moment
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on traditional 
knowledge
Owned/Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes/No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
1
NA
NA
NA
NA
Note: NA = Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Gati is not involved in any litigations for intellectual property.
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
1
Donation to Schools
2,055
100%
Note: The donation was given to schools for the benefit of education to underprivileged children
96  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
Being a customer-centric company, Gati Limited is always looking to enhance its customer experience by actively recording 
and addressing grievances and feedback. Through the Online Reputation Management tracking system through social media 
or publicly availably platforms, Gati keeps a check on all customer complaints and queries raised. Complaints and feedback 
received through mail are addressed by Customer Experience team, and twice a day the reports are published.
All IT-related complaints are observed by the IT helpdesk and complaints can be raised over mail it_ser_request1@
allcargologistics.com.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
Particulars
As a % to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not Applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Not Applicable
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Not Applicable
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Particulars
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Remarks
Data privacy
0
0
None
0
0
None
Advertising
0
0
None
0
0
None
Cyber-security
0
0
None
0
0
None
Delivery of essential services
0
0
None
0
0
None
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
None
0
0
None
Unfair Trade Practices
17
69
Some cases 
were filed 
against 
ACGL prior to 
acquisition
13
13
Pending 
adjudication 
for hearing
Other
0
0
None
0
0
None
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Particulars
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
Yes, Gati has an Information Security and Cybersecurity Policy that ensures commitment to the highest standards of 
cybersecurity practices. Policy link:
https://www.gati.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Information-Security-and-Cyber-Security-Policy.pdf
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken 
by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
There were no incidents of data breaches for FY 2023-24.
Gati has a strong commitment to maintaining customer privacy and cybersecurity. Given that Gati captures personally 
identifiable information of its customers for deliveries, appropriate technical and process control measures are implemented. 
The IT systems are ISO 27001:2022 certified and are in line with the NIST framework. There are strong procedures for incident 
management, and vulnerability assessments are regularly conducted. We have attained a rating of 770 on the BitSight 
cybersecurity performance ratings, helping us achieve an ‘Advanced’ rating for our cybersecurity system.
Safeguarding the cyber security and data privacy is paramount to us. We have ensured enhanced protocols are implemented 
for data transmission, Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) is implemented across platform, continuous threat intelligence and 
monitoring is in place and compliance to regulatory standards & ISO standards. Thus, only preventive measures are being 
undertaken and undergo continual improvement, but no corrective actions were required.
Annual Report 2023-24  | 97
Statutory Reports
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
	
	
There were no data breach incidents for FY 2023-24
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
	
There were no data breach incidents for FY 2023-24
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
	
	
Not Available, since there were no data breach incidents for FY 2023-24
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/company/allcargogati/
Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/share/4oPnhUDbCq3qc9qk/?mibextid=qi2Omg
Instagram : https://www.instagram.com/allcargogati?igsh=ZGo4c3NnMGVzdTQ0
X : https://x.com/allcargogati?t=Tsy-gwihxnoiA5npjVrRGg&s=08
YouTube : https://youtube.com/@gatiltd9387?si=fgum8ml5expg3DXD
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Gati is currently not conducting any consumer awareness activities.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
In case of service disruption, the customer service team sends service advisories to the customers
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not 
Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. 
	
Not Applicable. Gati is a logistics company and does not manufacture any products.
5. 	
Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the 
entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, Gati conducts the Customer Satisfaction Survey (C-Sat) on an annual basis
98  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial 
Statements of Allcargo Gati Limited
(“the Company”) which comprise the Balance sheet as at 
March 31, 2024, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including 
the statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow 
Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year 
then ended and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, 
including a summary of material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements give the information required by the Companies 
Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of 
the Company as at March 31, 2024, its profits including other 
comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity 
for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified 
under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of 
our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance 
with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Standalone Financial 
Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed in the context 
of our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole 
and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our 
description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided 
in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be the key 
audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled 
the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, 
our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the Standalone Financial Statements. The results of our audit 
procedures, including the procedures performed to address the 
matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the 
accompanying Standalone Financial Statements.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment of investment in subsidiary (as described in Note 4 of the Standalone Financial Statements)
The Company has investment of ` 55,255 Lakhs in equity shares 
of Gati Express and Supply Chain Private Limited (‘GESCPL’), 
subsidiary.
Management has assessed and determined the recoverable 
amount for the investments made based on judgments and key 
assumptions relating to identification of impairment indicators, 
revenue growth, operating margin, forecasts of future cashflows 
and discount rates applied to such cash flows.
We considered this as key audit matter because the assumptions 
on which the tests are based are highly judgmental and are 
affected by future market and economic conditions which 
are inherently uncertain and because of the materiality of the 
balances to the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures among other things included the following:
•	
We obtained an understanding of the Company’s processes 
and policies with respect to assessment of impairment, 
evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of such controls.
•	
We obtained and assessed the cash flow forecasts and 
evaluated the key assumptions and estimates used by 
Management in preparing these forecasts by comparing 
them with factors such as historical financial information and 
performing inquiries with Management.
•	
We assessed objectivity and independence of external 
specialist engaged by the management for evaluation of 
recoverable value. We obtained and read the report of external 
specialist to understand the work performed on testing of key 
assumptions and estimates and their outcome of testing.
•	
We involved our subject matter experts to assist in evaluating 
the valuation methodology, identifying and testing key 
assumptions and estimates and performing comparative 
calculations to test the reasonableness of key assumptions 
used in preparing the cash flow forecasts.
•	
We also assessed the recoverable value by performing 
sensitivity testing of key assumptions used.
•	
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the calculations and 
assessed the accounting treatment applied.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly known as Gati Limited)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 99
Other Information
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other 
information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Annual report, but does not include the Standalone 
Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and in doing so, consider whether such other information is 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, 
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing 
to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those charged 
with governance for the Standalone Financial 
Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters 
stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position, financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity 
of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair 
view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, Management 
is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of 
the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The 
risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting 
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by Management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
	
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue 
as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures and whether the Standalone Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
100  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, 
we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters 
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books except 
for the matters stated in the paragraph 2 (h)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss 
including the Statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement 
of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account;
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended;
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2024 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors 
is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of 
the Act;
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to these Standalone Financial 
Statements and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” 
to this report;
(g)	
In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the 
year ended March 31, 2024 has been paid / provided 
by the Company to its directors in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to 
the Act;
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
Standalone Financial Statements – Refer Note 
34 to the Standalone Financial Statements;
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses;
iii.	
Following are the instances of delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Company.
Period to which the amount relates
Amount (` in Lacs)
Delay in days Remarks
FY 2006-07
0.32
3,352 During the year Holding 
Company 
has 
deposited 
these amounts in delay 
with Investor Education and 
Protection Fund.
FY 2008-09
0.21
2,892
FY 2009-10
0.30
2,485
FY 2010-11
0.00
2,135
FY 2011-12
0.67
1,590
FY 2012-13
0.65
1,282
FY 2013-14
3.47
940
FY 2014-15
4.29
519
FY 2015-16
8.03
187
FY 2016-17
2.72
85
20.67
iv.	
a)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to or 
in any other person or entity, including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
b)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 101
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party
	
	
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
c)	
Based on such audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material 
misstatement.
v.	
No dividend has been declared or paid during 
the year by the Company.
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, the Company has used three accounting 
softwares for maintaining its books of account 
which have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software except, as explained 
in note 51 to the financial statements, audit trail 
at application level in case of two softwares 
was enabled for part of the year and in case of 
one software audit trail is not enabled for direct 
changes to data when using certain access 
rights. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of audit 
trail feature being tampered with in respect of 
the accounting software where audit trail was 
enabled.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Aniket A Sohani
Partner
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Membership Number: 117142
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24117142BKDHZO3921
102  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Annexure ‘1’ 
referred to in paragraph under the heading “Report on other legal and regulatory requirements” of our report of even date
Re: Allcargo Gati Limited (“the Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records examined 
by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)	
(a)	
(A)	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of 
Property, Plant and Equipment.
	
(a)	
(B)	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	
Property, Plant and Equipment have been physically verified by the Management during the year and no material 
discrepancies were identified on such verification.
	
(c)	
The title deeds of immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in note 3 and 15 to the Standalone Financial Statements are held in 
the name of the Company except two of immovable properties as indicated in the below mentioned cases as at March 
31, 2024 for which title deeds were not available with the Company and hence we are unable to comment on the same.
(Amount in Lakhs)
Description of 
Property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Held in 
name of
Whether promoter, 
director or their 
relative or employee
Period held – 
indicate range, 
where appropriate
Reason for not being held in 
the name of Company
Freehold building 
(Chennai 
Myalpore)
352
TCI Limited
No
Since 2000
The asset was transferred to 
the Company pursuant to the 
business transfer arrangement 
with TCI Limited and the same 
is in the process of sale.
Freehold building 
(Sholapur)
0.01
TCI Limited
No
Since 2000
The asset was transferred to 
the Company pursuant to the 
business transfer arrangement 
with TCI Limited and the same 
is in the process of sale.
	
(d)	
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of use assets) or intangible assets 
during the year ended March 31, 2024.
	
(e)	
There are no proceedings initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the 
Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
(a)	
The inventory has been physically verified by the management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of verification 
by the management is reasonable and the coverage and procedure for such verification is appropriate and no discrepancies 
were noted.
	
(b)	
The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of ` Five crores in aggregate from banks or financial 
institutions during any point of time of the year on the basis of security of current assets. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(iii)	 (a)	
During the year the Company has provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee and provided security 
to companies as follows:
Particulars
Loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year
- Subsidiaries
1,100
- Others
1,000
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of above cases
- Subsidiaries
1,100
	
	
During the year the Company has not provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee and provided 
security to Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
	
(b)	
During the year the investments made, guarantees provided, security given and the terms and conditions of the grant of all 
loans and advances in the nature of loans, investments and guarantees to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships 
or any other parties are not prejudicial to the Company's interest.
	
(c)	
The Company has granted loans and advance in the nature of loans during the year to companies, where the schedule of 
repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayment or receipts are regular.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 103
	
(d)	
There are no amounts of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to Companies, firms, limited liability partnerships 
or any other parties which are overdue for more than ninety days.
	
(e)	
There were no loans or advance in the nature of loan granted to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any 
other parties which had fallen due during the year, that have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle 
the overdues of existing loans given to the same parties.
	
(f)	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, either repayable on demand or without 
specifying any terms or period of repayment to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(iv)	 Loans, investments, guarantees and security in respect of which provisions of Sections 185 and 186 of the Act are applicable 
have been complied with by the Company.
(v)	
The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the public nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be deposits 
during the year. However, in regard to the unclaimed deposits the Company has complied with the provisions of Sections 73 to 
76 of the Act and the rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable. We are informed by the management that no order has 
been passed by the Company Law Board, National Company Law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India or any Court or any other 
Tribunal in this regard.
(vi)	 The Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act for the services of 
the Company.
(vii)	 (a)	
Undisputed statutory dues including goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, 
service tax, cess and other statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited with the appropriate authorities though 
there has been a slight delay in a few cases. According to the information and explanations given to us and based on 
audit procedures performed by us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of these statutory dues were outstanding, 
at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable. The provision of Sales-tax, duty 
of custom, duty of excise, value added tax are not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, statutory dues relating to Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, service tax, Employees State Insurance, 
Income-Tax, Duty of the customs or Cess or other statutory dues which have not been deposited on account of any dispute 
are as follows:
(Amount in Lakhs)
Name of statue
Nature of 
dues
Amount
Period to which 
amount pertains Forum where dispute is pending
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
4,403.24
2015 - 2022 CESTAT, Audit Commissionerate, Commissioner of 
service tax
CGST Act, 2017
GST
414.45
2017-2020 Appellate Authority – up to Commissioners
(viii)	 The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax 
assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(viii) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)	 (a)	
The Company did not have any outstanding loans or borrowings or interest thereon due to any lender during the year. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
	
(c)	
The Company did not have any term loans outstanding during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(c) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	
The Company did not raise any funds during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(d) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(e)	
On an overall examination of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds 
from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
	
(f)	
The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or 
associate companies. Hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(x)	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any money during the year by way of initial public offer / further public offer (including debt 
instruments) hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares /fully or partially or optionally 
convertible debentures during the year under audit and hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
(xi) 	 (a)	
No fraud by the Company or no fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
104  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
	
(b)	
During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the Act has been filed by cost auditor/ secretarial auditor 
or by us in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
	
(c)	
As represented to us by the management, there are no whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the 
year.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions of the Act. Therefore, the requirement to report on clause 3(xii) (a), 
(b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)	Transactions with the related parties are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and the details 
have been disclosed in the notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)	 (a)	
The Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
The internal audit reports of the Company issued till the date of the audit report, for the period under audit have been 
considered by us.
(xv)	 The Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors and 
hence requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	(a)	
The provisions of Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to the Company. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities. Accordingly, the requirement 
to report on clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	
There is no Core Investment Company as a part of the Group, hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(d) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly requirement to report on Clause 3(xviii) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 48 to the Standalone Financial Statements, ageing and expected dates of 
realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the Standalone Financial 
Statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists 
as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as 
and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit 
report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 (a), (b) The provisions of Section 135 to the Act in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility is not applicable to the Company. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xx) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Aniket A Sohani
Partner
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Membership Number: 117142
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24117142BKDHZO3921
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 105
ANNEXURE 2
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 
ALLCARGO GATI LIMITED 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause 
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements of Allcargo Gati Limited (“the 
Company”) as of March 31, 2024 in conjunction with our audit 
of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the 
year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the 
internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's 
internal financial controls with reference to these Standalone 
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the 
“Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to these Standalone Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to these Standalone Financial Statements and 
their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to these standalone financial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of 
the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these 
Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference 
to these Standalone Financial Statements
A Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A Company's internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and 
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made 
only in accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's assets that 
could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
106  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial control with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Aniket A Sohani
Partner
Mumbai
Membership Number: 117142
May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24117142BKDHZO3921
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 107
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Assets
Non-Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
3
720
1,442
Right-of-use Assets
3A
47
54
Other Intangible Asset
3B
5
-
Financial Assets
Investment in Subsidiaries
4
55,300
55,305
Other Financial Assets
5
6
4
Income tax assets, net
6
710
589
Other Non-Current Assets
7
127
126
56,915
57,520
Current Assets
Inventories
8
215
244
Financial Assets
	
Trade Receivables
9
385
441
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
10
611
259
	
Other Bank Balances
11
8,536
7,637
	
Loans
12
3,484
2,254
	
Other Financial Assets
13
2,349
1,772
Other Current Assets
14
799
396
16,379
13,003
Assets Held for Sale
15
1,341
2,418
17,720
15,421
Total Assets
74,635
72,941
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Equity Share Capital
16
2,605
2,603
Other Equity
17
71,017
66,900
73,622
69,503
Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
	
Lease Liabilities
18
37
44
Provisions
19
55
48
92
92
Current Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
	
Borrowings
20
-
99
	
Lease Liabilities
18
13
10
	
Trade Payables
21
	
(a)	 Total Outstanding Dues of micro and small enterprises
-
-
	
(b)	 Total Outstanding Dues of creditor other than micro and small enterprises
53
94
	
Other Financial Liabilities
22
647
2,905
Other Current Liabilities
23
202
230
Provisions
19
6
8
921
3,346
Total Liabilities
1,013
3,438
Total Equity and Liabilities
74,635
72,941
Material accounting policies
2
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited (formerly 
known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Standalone Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
108  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Particulars
Notes
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
I
INCOME
Revenue from Operations
24
22,073
25,698
Other Income
25
958
708
TOTAL INCOME (I)
23,031
26,406
II
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses
26
174
199
Purchase of Stock-in-trade
21,310
24,744
Changes in Inventories of Stock-in-Trade
27
29
36
Employee Benefits Expenses
28
274
314
Finance Costs
29
8
34
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
30
53
67
Other Expenses
31
487
728
TOTAL EXPENSES (II)
22,335
26,122
III
PROFIT/ BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND TAX (I-II)
696
284
IV
Exceptional Items
32
2,663
(803)
V
PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (III+IV)
3,359
(519)
VI
TAX EXPENSES
33
Current Tax
-
40
Deferred Tax
-
-
Tax related to earlier years
(58)
(16)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSES
(58)
24
VII
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (V-VI)
3,417
(543)
VIII
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
a)	 Re-Measurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans
2
(15)
b)	 Income tax effect on above item
-
-
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR, (NET OF TAX)
2
(15)
IX
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (VII+VIII)
3,419
(558)
X
EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE
40.
[Nominal value per share ` 2/-]
	
Basic(in `)
2.63
(0.43)
	
Diluted(in `)
2.63
(0.43)
Material accounting policies
2
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited 
(formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 109
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
(A)
Cash flow from Operating Activities
Profit/(Loss) Before Taxes after exceptional items as per Statement of Profit 
and Loss
3,359
(519)
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
53
67
Loss on sale of Property, plant & equipment
-
4
Impairment Charged of Property, plant & Equipment
-
345
Impairment Charged in the realisable value of Non-core Assets
-
674
Net gain on disposal of Non-core Assets
(308)
(479)
Relinquishment of financial liability
(2,360)
-
Impairment allowance for Investment
4
5
Loss on write off of Property, Plant and Equipment
1
258
Finance Costs
7
34
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
13
148
Bad debts and irrevocable balances written off (net of allowances)
-
22
Interest Income
(782)
(312)
Net gain on Sale of Mutual Funds
-
(8)
Interest on Income Tax Refund
(37)
(9)
Liability no longer required written back
(77)
(208)
Provision for Employees Share Appreciation Rights
43
88
Operating Profit Before working capital changes
(84)
110
Adjustment for changes in operating assets and liabilities:
Decrease in Inventories
29
36
Decrease in Trade receivables
43
310
Decrease in Other Financial Assets
115
247
Increase in Other Assets
(401)
(31)
Increase in Provisions
6
2
Increase/(Decrease) in Financial Liabilities
157
(287)
Increase/(Decrease) in Trade Payable
12
(132)
Increase / (Decrease) in other Liabilities
13
(22)
Cash (used)/ generated from Operating Activities
(110)
232
Direct Taxes paid (net of refunds)
(26)
40
Net Cash flow (used)/generated from Operating Activities (A)
(136)
272
(B)
Cash Flow From Investing Activities :
Proceeds from sale of Property Plant and Equipment
2
29
Expenditure on Property Plant and Equipment including lease improvements
(1)
(83)
Proceeds from Sale of Non-Core Assets
2,066
3,173
Proceeds from Sale of Investments
-
1,119
Purchase of Current Investments
-
(100)
Expenditure on Intangible assets and Intangible asset under development
(5)
-
Inter-corporate deposits to Subsidiary
(1,231)
(2,250)
Investment in bank Fixed deposit, net
(898)
(7,462)
Interest Received
741
143
Net Cash flow generated/(used) from Investing Activities (B)
674
(5,431)
(C)
Cash Flow From Financing Activities
Proceeds from shares issued on exercise of Employee Stock Appreciation 
Rights
2
-
Proceeds from Allotment of shares against Share Warrants
-
5,250
Repayment of Public Deposits
(111)
(306)
Transfer of unpaid dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund(IEPF)
(18)
(9)
Standalone Cash Flow Statement 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
110  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Transfer of unpaid public deposits including interest to IEPF
(21)
-
Payment of Principal Portion of Lease Liabilities
(11)
(3)
Payment of interest on Lease Liabilities
(4)
(3)
Interest Paid
(23)
(58)
Net Cash flow (used)/generated from Financing Activities (C)
(186)
4,871
Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)
352
(288)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
259
547
Cash and Cash Equivalents as the end of the Year
611
259
Notes:
	
1. The above Statement of Cash Flow has been prepared under the " Indirect Method" as set out in Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) 7 on Statement of Cash Flow as notified under Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2015.
2. Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Cash on hand
14
11
Balance with Banks:
In Current Accounts
597
248
Cash and Cash Equivalents (Refer Note 10)
611
259
Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities.
Public Deposits
Short Term 
Borrowings
Long Term 
Borrowings
Lease liabilities
Balance as at April 1, 2022
404
-
-
7
Cash Flow Changes (Net)
(306)
-
-
(6)
On account of Ind AS 116
-
-
-
53
Others
-
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2023
99
-
-
54
Balance as at April 1, 2023
99
-
-
54
Cash Flow Changes (Net)
(111)
-
-
(15)
On account of Ind AS 116
-
-
-
11
Others
12
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
-
-
50
Note : Public deposits balance does not include the obligation related to unpaid matured deposits which is Grouped under ”Other 
Current Financial liabilities”.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited 
(formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Standalone Cash Flow Statement 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 111
A)	
Equity Share Capital 
Particulars
No. of Shares
Amount
Balance as at April 01, 2023
 13,01,30,117 
 2,603 
Add/(Less): Issue of shares on excerise of ESAR's for the Year ended March 31, 2024 (Refer Note-a)
 1,21,910 
 2 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 13,02,52,027 
 2,605 
Particulars
No. of Shares
Amount
Balance as at April 01, 2022
 12,29,68,997 
 2,459 
Add/(Less): Issue of shares on excerise of ESAR's for the Year ended March 31, 2023 (Refer Note-b)
 71,61,120 
 144 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 13,01,30,117 
 2,603 
Note (a) During the current year upon vesting of Grant 1 shares, the Company has allotted equity shares of 1,21,910 towards exercise of vested ESARs of 2,85,000. For these shares 
allotment, the Company has received ` 2.43 lakhs at face value of ` 2 per share as per the "Gati Employees Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2021(ESAR Plan 2021).
B)	
Other Equity 
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total
Securities 
Premium
General 
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Tonnage 
Tax Reserve 
(Utilized)
Share Option 
Outstanding 
account/
ESAR's
Special 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Balance as at April 01, 2023
 41,924 
 8,785 
 2,084 
 929 
 1,649 
 22,336  (10,807)
 - 
 66,900 
Profit/(Loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,417 
 - 
 3,417 
Other Comprehensive income for the current year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 - 
 2 
Share based payment expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 698 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 698 
Transfer on account of ESARs not exercised
 - 
 26 
 - 
 - 
 (26)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer on account of exercise of ESARs
 306 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (306)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 42,230 
 8,811 
 2,084 
 929 
 2,015 
 22,336 
 (7,388)
 - 
 71,017 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
112  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Total
Securities 
Premium
General 
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Tonnage 
Tax Reserve 
(Utilized)
Share Option 
Outstanding 
account/
ESAR's
Special 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Balance as at April 01, 2022
 35,067 
 8,785 
 2,084 
 929 
 56 
 22,336  (10,249)
 1,750 
 60,759 
Profit/(Loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (543)
 - 
 (543)
Other Comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (15)
 - 
 (15)
Share based payment expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,593 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,593 
Issue of shares pursuant to preferential allotment (Note b)
 6,857 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,750)
 5,107 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 41,924 
 8,785 
 2,084 
 929 
 1,649 
 22,336 
 (10,807)
 - 
 66,900 
Note (b) During the previous year, the Company has issued and allotted 71,61,120 Equity Shares of face value of  `2/- each (“Equity Shares”) against share warrants at a price of 
` 97.75/- per Equity Share at a premium of  ` 95.75/- per Equity Share, aggregating up to `6,857 lakhs. Total amount received ` 7,000 lakhs out of which 25% received of subscription 
of ` 1,750 lakhs at that time of issuance of warrants and has received balance 75% of subscription amount of ` 5,250 lakhs at the time of allotment of shares.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited 
(formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 113
Corporate and General information:
Allcargo Gati Limited ("the Company") is a public limited 
Company incorporated in 1995 under provisions of the 
Companies Act, 1956 having its Corporate Office at 4th floor, 
Western Pearl, Survey No.13(P), Kondapur, Hyderabad - 500084, 
Telangana, India. The Company is primarily engaged in the 
business of E-commerce logistics and running of fuel stations. 
The Company is listed in the National Stock exchange of India 
(NSE) and Bombay Stock exchange (BSE).
During the current year, the Registrar of Companies (ROC), 
Hyderabad and Registrar of Companies (ROC), Mumbai, Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs have approved form INC 22 giving effect to 
the change in the registered office address of the Company from 
“4th floor, Western Pearl, Survey No.13(P), Kondapur, Hyderabad - 
500084, Telangana, India” to "4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, 
CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400 098" with 
effect from February 27, 2024.
(1)	 Basis of Accounting
1.1	 Statement of Compliance
These standalone financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS) as notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time) 
read with Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
"Act"). The presentation of the Financial Statements is 
based on Division II Schedule III of the Companies Act, 
2013.
The financial statements are approved by the Board of 
Directors at its meeting held on May 16, 2024.
1.2	 Basis of Measurement
The standalone financial statements have been prepared 
on a going concern basis using historical cost convention, 
except
•	
Financial Instruments - Measured at Fair value/ 
Amortised cost;
•	
Plan Assets under defined benefit plans–Measured 
at fair value;
•	
Employee Share based payments- Measured at fair 
value
1.3	 Functional and Presentation Currency
All financial information presented in Indian rupees (INR) 
which is the Company’s functional currency, has been 
rounded to the nearest lakhs, unless otherwise stated.
1.4	 Use of Estimates and Judgements
The preparation of the Company’s standalone financial 
statements in conformity with the recognition and 
measurement principles of Ind AS requires management 
to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses, the accompanying disclosures 
and disclosures of contingent liabilities. Estimates and 
underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 
Uncertainty about these estimates and assumptions could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in 
future periods. The application of accounting policies that 
require critical accounting estimates involving complex 
and subjective judgments and the use of assumption in 
these financial statements have been disclosed below. 
Appropriate changes in estimates are made as management 
becomes aware of changes in circumstances surrounding 
the estimates. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised 
and in any future periods affected.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments used are as 
below:
(i)	
Defined benefit obligation
(ii)	
Recognition of current tax and deferred tax
(iii)	 Recognition and measurement of provisions and 
contingencies
(iv)	 Fair value measurement of Financial instruments
(v)	
Allowance for expected credit losses of receivables
(vi)	 Allowance for bad and doubtful advances
(vii)	 Share based payment.
(viii)	 Impairment of Investment in subsidiary
1.5	 Current Vs Non-Current Classification
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An 
asset is classified as current when it is:
•	
Expected to be realized or intended to sell or consume 
in normal operating cycle;
•	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	
Expected to be realized within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
•	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period.
All the other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
•	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;
•	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 
reporting period; or
•	
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement 
of the liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period.
The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities respectively.
(2)	 Material Accounting Policies:
A summary of the material accounting policies applied in 
the preparation of the financial statements are as given 
below. These accounting policies have been applied 
consistently to all the periods presented in the financial 
statements.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
114  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
2.1	 Property, plant and equipment
Recognition and Measurement:
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) held for use in the 
supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, 
are stated in the balance sheet at acquisition cost, net of 
accumulated depreciation and cumulative impairment 
losses, if any.
The initial cost at cash price equivalent of property, plant 
and equipment acquired comprises its purchase price 
after deducting trade discounts and rebates, including 
import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, any 
directly attributable costs of bringing the assets to its 
working condition and location and present value of any 
obligatory decommissioning costs for its intended use. 
Administrative, Borrowing and other general overhead 
expenses that are specifically attributable to construction 
or acquisition of PPE or bringing the PPE to working 
condition are allocated and capitalized as a part of cost 
of PPE, if PPE meets the criteria of qualifying asset. When 
significant parts of plant and equipment are required to 
be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them 
separately based on their specific useful lives.
Capital work in progress and Capital Advances:
Capital work in progress represents Property Plant and 
Equipment that are not yet ready for their intended use as 
at the Balance sheet date.
Capital advances given towards purchase/ acquisition of 
PPE outstanding at each balance sheet date are classified 
as capital advances under Other Non-current Assets.
Non-current assets held for sale
Assets are classified as Non-current assets held for sale 
and are presented separately in the Balance Sheet when 
the following criteria are met
- the Company is committed to selling the assets;
- the assets are available for sale immediately;
- an active plan of sale has commenced; and
- sale is expected to be completed within 12 months.
Assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured 
at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
cost to sell. Assets held for sale are no longer amortised 
or depreciated.
Subsequent Expenditure:
•	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the cost incurred 
will flow to the Company and the cost of the item 
can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of 
any component accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognized when replaced.
•	
Items such as spare parts, stand by equipment’s and 
servicing equipment’s that meet the definition of 
property, plant and equipment are capitalized at cost 
and depreciated over their useful life.
•	
Cost in nature of repair and maintenance expenses 
are charged to the statement of profit or loss during 
the reporting period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation:
•	
Depreciation on assets is provided on straight-
line method at the rates determined based on the 
useful lives of respective assets as prescribed under 
Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 as follows:
Category
Useful lives 
( in years )
Building
30 to 60
Plant and machinery
5 to 15
Commercial Vehicles
8
Furniture and fixtures
10
Computers
3 to 6
Office equipment
3 to 5
•	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
•	
Cost of leasehold land is amortised over the period of 
the lease or its useful life, whichever is lower.
•	
Depreciation method, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted, 
if required.
•	
Depreciation on additions (disposals) during the year 
is provided on a pro-rata basis i.e., from (up to) the 
date on which asset is ready for use (disposed-off).
Derecognition of Assets:
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any 
gain or loss is recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss.
2.2	 Intangible Assets:
Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost net of 
accumulated amortisation and cumulative impairment, if 
any. The Company capitalizes identifiable costs relating to 
development of internally generated software and these 
are stated net of accumulated amortisation. Intangible 
assets are amortised on straight line basis over its 
estimated useful life.
Estimated economic useful lives of the intangible assets 
is 3 to 6 years.
Intangible assets under development comprise costs 
relating to development of software that are not yet ready 
for their intended use as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amount of the intangible asset is derecognized 
on disposal or when no future economic benefit is 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss is recognized in 
the statement of Profit and loss.
2.3	 Leases:
The Company assesses at contract inception whether a 
contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identifiable asset 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 115
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
Company as a lessee
The Company applies a single recognition and 
measurement approach for all leases, except for short-
term leases and leases of low value assets. The Company 
recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and 
right-of-use assets representing the right to use the 
underlying assets.
(i)	
Right-of-use Assets (ROU Assets)
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use 
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted 
for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The 
cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount 
of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs 
incurred, and lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease incentives 
received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term 
and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful life of Right-of-use assets range 
from one to seven years.
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to 
the Company at the end of the lease term or the 
cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, 
depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful 
life of the asset.
(ii)	
Lease Liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Company 
recognises lease liabilities measured at the present 
value of lease payments to be made over the lease 
term. The lease payments include fixed payments 
(including in substance fixed payments) less any 
lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments 
that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts 
expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. 
The lease payments also include the exercise price 
of a purchase option reasonably certain to be 
exercised by the Company and payments of penalties 
for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects 
the Company exercising the option to terminate. 
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an 
index or a rate are recognised as expenses (unless 
they are incurred to produce inventories) in the 
period in which the event or condition that triggers 
the payment occurs. In calculating the present value 
of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement date 
because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not 
readily determinable. After the commencement 
date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased 
to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for 
the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying 
amount of lease liabilities is re-measured if there is a 
modification, a change in the lease term, a change in 
the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments 
resulting from a change in an index or rate used to 
determine such lease payments) or a change in the 
assessment of an option to purchase the underlying 
asset. Lease liability and ROU assets have been 
separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease 
payments have been classified as financing cash 
flows.
(iii)	 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Company applies the short-term lease recognition 
exemption to its short-term leases of properties, 
machinery and equipment (i.e. those leases that 
have a lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a purchase 
option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets 
recognition exemption to leases of office equipment 
that are considered to be low value. Lease payments 
on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets 
are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
2.4	 Impairment of assets:
a.	
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether 
there is any indication that an asset, may be impaired. If 
any indication exists, the Company estimates the asset’s 
recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash generating units (CGU) net 
selling price and its value in use. Where the carrying amount 
of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Assessment is also done at each Balance Sheet date as 
to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss 
recognized for an asset in prior accounting periods may 
no longer exist or may have decreased and such reversal 
is recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss to the 
extent previously recognized in P&L and remaining amount 
transferred to reserves.
b.	
Assets that are subject to depreciation and amortisation 
and assets representing investments in subsidiary 
and associate companies are reviewed for impairment, 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that carrying amount may not be recoverable. Such 
circumstances include, though are not limited to, significant 
or sustained decline in revenues or earnings and material 
adverse changes in the economic environment.
c.	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for 
impairment annually as at 31 March at the CGU level, as 
appropriate, and when circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may be impaired
2.5	 Foreign currency Transactions:
a.	
The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupee 
(INR), which is the functional and presentation currency 
of the Company.
b.	
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are 
recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the 
transaction.
c.	
At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary 
items are restated using the closing exchange rate.
116  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
d.	
Any exchange difference on account of settlement of 
foreign currency transactions and restatement of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency is 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
e.	
Non-monetary items are not retranslated at year-end 
and are measured at historical cost (translated using the 
exchange rates at the transaction date), except for non-
monetary items measured at fair value which are translated 
using the exchange rates at the date when fair value was 
determined.
2.6	 Investments in Subsidiaries:
The Company has accounted for its investments in 
subsidiaries and at cost less accumulated impairment
2.7	 Investment in Associate:
An associate is an entity over which the Company has 
significant influence. Significant influence is the power to 
participate in the financial and operating policy decisions 
of the investee but is not control or joint control over those 
policies.
The Company investments in its associate are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under the equity method, 
the investment in an associate is initially recognised at 
cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted 
to recognise changes in the Company share of net assets 
of the associate since the acquisition date.
The value of investment in associate had been fully 
provided in the books of accounts.
2.8	  Inventories:
Cost of Inventories have been computed on basis to include 
all cost of purchases, cost of conversion and other costs 
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Inventories are valued at lower of cost and 
net realizable values.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of 
completion and estimated costs necessary to make the 
sale. Cost are assigned to inventory on Fist in First out 
basis.
2.9	 Revenue Recognition:
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation 
is measured at the amount of transaction price (net off 
variable consideration) allocated to the performance 
obligation. The transaction price of goods sold and 
services rendered is net of variable consideration on 
account of various elements like discounts etc. Offered 
by the Company as part of the contract. The variable 
consideration is estimated based on the expected value 
of outflow.
a)	
Freight services:
Revenue has been recognised when control over the 
services transfers to the customer i.e., when the customer 
has the ability to control the use of the transferred services 
provided and generally derive their remaining benefits. The 
requirement is that a contract with enforceable rights and 
obligations exists and, amongst other things, the receipt of 
consideration is likely, taking-into-account the customer’s 
credit quality. The revenue corresponds to the transaction 
price to which the Company is expected to be entitled.
Variable consideration is included in the transaction 
price when it is highly probable that a significant reversal 
in the amount of revenue recognised will not occur and 
as soon as the uncertainty associated with the variable 
consideration no longer exists. The Company does not 
expect to have contracts where the period between the 
transfer of the promised services to the customer and 
payment by the customer exceeds one year. Accordingly, 
the promised consideration is not adjusted for the time 
value of money.
b)	
Sales of Fuel:
Revenue from sale of fuel products is recognized when the 
control on the goods has been transferred to the customer.
c)	
Others:
I.	
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Company and amount of income can be 
measured reliably.
II.	
Rent income is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the period of the lease.
III.	
Business support charges are recognized as and 
when the related services are rendered.
2.10. Trade receivables:
A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount 
of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage 
of time is required before payment of the consideration 
is due). Trade receivables are separately disclosed in the 
financial statements.
2.11.	Financial instruments:
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset for one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument for another entity.
(i)	
Financial assets:
a)	
Initial recognition and measurement:
	
On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified and 
measured at:
	
•	
Amortized Cost; or
	
•	
Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 
(FVOCI); or
	
•	
Fair value through Profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
	
Financial asset are not reclassified subsequent to 
their initial recognition, except if and in the period the 
Company changes its business model for managing 
financial asset. In the case of financial assets, not 
recorded at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL), 
financial assets are recognized initially at fair value 
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 117
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
plus transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset. Purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within a time frame established by regulation 
or convention in the market place (regular way trades) 
are recognized on the trade date, i.e., the date that the 
Company commits to purchase or sell the asset.
	
•	
Financial assets at amortised cost:
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if 
it meets both of the following conditions and is not 
designated as at FVTPL:
(a) The asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash 
flows; and
(b) The contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
The effective interest rate (EIR) amortisation is 
included in finance income in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss. This category generally applies to long-
term deposits and long-term trade receivables.
	
•	
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI):
On initial recognition of an equity investment that is not 
held for trading, the Company may irrevocably elect to 
present subsequent changes in the investment’s fair 
value in other comprehensive income (designated as 
FVOCI-equity investment). This election is made on 
an investment-by-investment basis.
Financial assets are measured at the FVOCI if both of 
the following conditions are met:
(a) The objective of the business model is achieved 
both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
the financial assets, and
(b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent 
SPPI.
Financial assets included within the FVTOCI category 
are measured initially as well as at each reporting date 
at fair value. Fair value movements are recognised in 
the other comprehensive income (OCI).
	
•	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL):
All financial assets which are not classified/ 
measured at amortised cost or FVOCI as described 
above are measured at FVTPL. On initial recognition, 
the Company may irrevocably designate a financial 
asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be 
measured at amortised cost or at FVOCI as at FVTPL 
if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an 
accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise
b)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement:
Category
Subsequent measurement 
and gains and Losses
Financial assets at 
amortised cost
These assets are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest 
method (EIR).
The amortised cost is reduced 
by impairment losses, if 
any. Interest income, foreign 
exchange gains and losses 
and impairment are recognised 
in Statement of Profit and 
Loss. Any gain or loss on 
derecognition is recognised in 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Equity 
investments at 
FVOCI
These assets are subsequently 
measured at fair value. 
Dividends are recognised as 
income in Statement of Profit 
and Loss unless the dividend 
clearly represents a recovery 
of part of the cost of the 
investment. Other net gains 
and losses are recognised in 
OCI and are not reclassified to 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Financial assets at 
FVTPL
These assets are subsequently 
measured at fair value. Net 
gains and losses, including any 
interest or dividend income, 
are recognised in Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
(ii)	
Financial Liability:
Financial liabilities are classified and measured at 
amortised cost or FVTPL
a)	
Initial Recognition & Subsequent measurement:
•	
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL):
A financial liability is recognized at FVTPL if it is 
classified as held-for-trading, or it is a derivative 
or it is designated as such on initial recognition. 
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at 
fair value and net gains and losses, including any 
interest expense, are recognised in Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
•	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. Interest expense and foreign 
exchange gains and losses are recognised in 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are 
recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss 
when the liabilities are derecognized as well 
as through the EIR amortisation process. For 
118  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
trade and other payables maturing within one 
year from the balance sheet date,
the carrying amounts approximates fair value 
due to the short maturity of these instruments.
b)	
Financial guarantee liability:
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company 
are those contracts that require a payment to be made 
to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the 
specified debtor fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially 
as a liability at fair value net off transaction costs 
that are directly attributable to the issuance of the 
guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured 
at the higher of the amount of loss allowance 
determined as per impairment requirements of Ind 
AS 109 and the amount recognised less cumulative 
amortisation.
(iii)	 Impairment of Financial Assets:
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on the financial assets 
which are not fair valued through Statement of Profit 
and Loss. Loss allowance for trade receivables with no 
significant financing component is measured at an amount 
equal to lifetime ECL at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. For all other financial assets, expected 
credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 
12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant increase 
in credit risk from initial recognition in which case those 
are measured at lifetime ECL.
If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant increase 
in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity 
reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based 
on 12-month ECL.
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition 
of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables.
The application of simplified approach does not require 
the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognizes impairment loss allowance based on lifetime 
Expected credit loss at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Company uses historically 
observed default rates over the expected life of the trade 
receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates 
to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its 
trade receivables.
(iv)	 Derecognition:
a)	
Financial Assets:
	
	
The Company derecognizes a financial asset only
•	
when the contractual rights to the cash flows 
from the asset expire, or	
•	
It transfers the rights to receive the contractual 
cash flows in a transaction in which substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership of 
the financial asset are transferred or in which 
the Company neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
ownership and does not retain control of the 
financial asset.
b)	
Financial liabilities:
The Company derecognizes a financial liability 
when its contractual obligations are discharged or 
cancelled, or expire. The Company also derecognizes 
a financial liability when its terms are modified 
and the cash flows under the modified terms are 
substantially different. In this case, a new financial 
liability based on the modified terms is recognised 
at fair value. The difference between the carrying 
amount of the financial liability extinguished and 
the new financial liability with modified terms is 
recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss.
(v)	
Offsetting:
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount presented in the balance sheet, when 
and only when, the Company currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
2.12.	Fair Value measurement:
A number of the Company’s accounting policies and 
disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for 
financial assets and financial liabilities. The Company 
has an established control framework with respect to the 
measurement of fair values.
The management has overall responsibility for overseeing 
all significant fair value measurements and it regularly 
reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation 
adjustments. The Company measures financial assets and 
financial liability at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
- In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
- In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized 
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based 
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
•	
Level 1- Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 119
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
•	
Level 2- Inputs other than quoted prices included in 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived 
from prices).
•	
Level 3- Inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines 
whether transfers have occurred between levels in the 
hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on 
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting 
period.
2.13.	Employee benefits:
a)	
Current employee benefits
Employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months 
of availing employee services are classified as current 
employee benefits. These benefits include salaries and 
wages, bonus and ex-gratia. The undiscounted amount 
of current employee benefits such as salaries and wages, 
bonus and ex-gratia to be paid in exchange of employee 
services are recognized in the period in which the employee 
renders the related service.
b)	
Defined contribution plan:
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit 
plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into 
a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive 
obligation to pay further amounts. The Company makes 
specified monthly contributions of employee provident 
fund to Government administered provident fund and 
Employee State insurance scheme which is defined 
contribution plans. Obligations for contributions to 
defined contribution plans are recognised as an employee 
benefit expense in the statement of Profit and Loss in the 
periods during which the related services are rendered by 
employees.
c)	
Defined benefit plan:
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan 
other than a defined contribution plan.
The Company’s gratuity benefit scheme is a defined benefit 
plan. The Company’s net obligation in respect of defined 
benefit plans is calculated by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in the current 
and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting 
the fair value of any plan assets. The calculation of defined 
benefit obligation is performed annually by a qualified 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the 
calculation results in a potential asset for the Company, 
the recognized asset is limited to the present value of 
economic benefits available in the form of any future 
refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions 
to the plan (‘the asset ceiling’). In order to calculate the 
present value of economic benefits, consideration is given 
to any minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which 
comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan 
assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset 
ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised in Other 
comprehensive income (OCI). The Company determines 
the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit 
liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount 
rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at 
the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined 
benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in 
the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as 
a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest 
expense and other expenses related to defined benefit 
plans are recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan 
is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to 
past service (‘past service cost’ or ‘past service gain’) or 
the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately 
in Statement of profit and Loss. The Company recognizes 
gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit 
plan when the settlement occurs.
The contributions are deposited with the Life Insurance 
Corporation of India based on information received by the 
Company. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the 
portion of the increased benefit related to past service by 
employees is recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss 
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the 
benefits become vested.
d)	
Compensated absences:
As per policy of the Company, employees can carry forward 
unutilized accrued compensated absences and utilize it in 
next service period or receive cash compensation. Since 
the compensated absences fall due wholly within twelve 
months after the end of the period in which the employees 
render the related service and are also expected to be 
utilized wholly within twelve months after the end of such 
period, the benefit is classified as a current employee 
benefit. The Company records an obligation for such 
compensated absences in the year in which the employee 
renders the services that increase this entitlement.
The obligation towards the same is measured at the 
expected cost of accumulating compensated absences 
as the additional amount expected to be paid as a result of 
the unused entitlement as at the year end. The Company’s 
liability is actuarially determined (using the Projected Unit 
Credit method) at the end of each year. Remesurements 
as a result of experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognized in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
e)	
Short-term employee benefit:
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on 
an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related 
service is provided. A liability is recognized for the amount 
expected to be paid, if the Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of 
past service provided by the employee, and the amount of 
obligation can be estimated reliably.
120  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
2.14.	 Exceptional items
Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense 
within the income statement that are of such size, nature 
or incidence that their separate disclosure is considered 
necessary to explain the performance for the period. 
Material item of income or expense are evaluated on a 
case to case basis for disclosure under exceptional items
2.15.	Taxes
a)	
Income Tax:
The tax expense for the period comprises current and 
deferred tax. Tax is recognised in Statement of Profit and 
Loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised 
in the other comprehensive income or in equity. In which 
case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or equity.
Current tax:
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are 
enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance sheet 
date.
Current income tax relating to items recognised outside 
the Statement of Profit and Loss is recognised outside the 
Statement of Profit and Loss (either in other comprehensive 
income or in equity). Management periodically evaluates 
positions taken in the tax returns with respect to 
situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject 
to interpretation and establishes provisions where 
appropriate.
Deferred tax:
Deferred tax is recognized for temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in financial statements and their corresponding tax 
bases. Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible 
temporary differences, unused tax credits, and tax losses, 
but only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available to offset them. The carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date 
and reduced if it becomes unlikely that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available. Unrecognized deferred tax assets 
are reassessed at each reporting date and recognized if 
it becomes probable that future taxable profits will allow 
their recovery.
Deferred tax related to items recognized outside the 
Statement of Profit and Loss is recognized outside the 
Statement of Profit and Loss, either in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured using the 
tax rates expected to apply when the liability is settled or 
the asset is realized, based on tax rates and laws enacted 
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax liabilities and assets 
is reviewed at the end of each reporting period.
b)	
GST/ value added taxes paid on acquisition of assets or 
on incurring expenses:
Expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount of 
sales/ value added taxes paid, except:
When the tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services 
is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which 
case, the tax paid is recognized as part of the cost of 
acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as 
applicable
Where receivables and payables are stated with the 
amount of tax included.
2.16.	Cash and cash equivalents:
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents 
include cash in hand, cheques in hand, demand deposits 
with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less.
2.17.	Provisions and Contingencies:
Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that 
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible 
obligations that arise from past events, whose existence 
would be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within 
the control of the Company. Such liabilities are disclosed 
by way of notes to the financial statements. No disclosure 
is made if the possibility of an outflow on this account is 
remote.
2.18.	Borrowing cost:
Borrowing costs are interest and other costs (including 
exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an 
adjustment to interest costs) incurred in connection 
with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs directly 
attributable to acquisition or construction of an asset 
which necessarily take a substantial period of time to get 
ready for their intended use are capitalized as part of the 
cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognised as 
an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Where there is an unrealized exchange loss which is treated 
as an adjustment to interest and subsequently there is a 
realised or unrealized gain in respect of the settlement or 
translation of the same borrowing, the gain to the extent 
of the loss previously recognised as an adjustment is 
recognised as an adjustment to interest.
2.19.	Share based payments:
Equity- settled share-based payments to employees are 
measured at the fair value of the employee stock options 
at the grant date.
The fair value of option at the grant date is expensed over 
the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity 
as “Share Option outstanding account”. In case of forfeiture 
of unvested option, portion of amount already expensed is 
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 121
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
reversed. In a situation where the vested option forfeited 
or expires unexercised, the related balance standing to 
the credit of the “Share Option outstanding account” are 
transferred to the “General Reserve”. When the options are 
exercised, the Company issues new fully paid up equity 
shares of the Company. The proceeds received and the 
related balance standing to credit of the Share Option 
outstanding account, are credited to equity share capital 
(nominal value) and Securities Premium.
2.20. Segment Reporting:
Segments are identified based on the manner in which the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) decides about 
resource allocation and reviews performance. Segment 
results that are reported to the CODM include items 
directly attributable to a segment as well as those that 
can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Segment capital 
expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to 
acquire property and equipment and intangible assets 
other than goodwill.
2.21. Climate Related Matters:
The Company considers climate-related matters in 
estimates and assumptions, where appropriate. This 
assessment includes a wide range of possible impacts 
on the Company due to both physical and transition risks. 
Even though the Company believes its business model 
and products will still be viable after the transition to a 
low-carbon economy, climate-related matters increase 
the uncertainty in estimates and assumptions. Even 
though climate-related risks might not currently have a 
significant impact on measurement, the Company is 
closely monitoring relevant changes and developments, 
such as new climate-related legislation.
2.22. Earnings per share:
(i)	
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net 
profit or loss before other comprehensive Income for the 
period attributable to equity shareholders of parent by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period.
(ii)	
Diluted earnings per share:
Diluted earnings per share adjust the figures used in the 
determination of basic earnings per share to take into 
account:
•	
The after income tax effect of interest and other 
financing costs associated with dilutive potential 
equity shares, and
•	
The weighted average number of additional equity 
shares that would have been outstanding assuming 
the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
2.23. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 
dated 31 March 2023 to amend the following Ind AS which 
are effective from April 1, 2023. The Company applied for 
the first-time these amendments.
i. Ind AS 1 – Disclosure of material accounting policies: The 
amendments related to shifting of disclosure of erstwhile 
"significant accounting policies’ to "material accounting 
policies’ in the notes to the financial statements and adding 
guidance on how entities apply the concept of materiality 
in making decisions.
The amendments have had an impact on the Company 
disclosures of accounting policies, but not on the 
measurement, recognition or presentation of any items in 
the Company financial statements.
ii. Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes: The amendments narrowed 
the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 
15 and 24 of Ind AS 12. At the date of transition to Ind 
ASs, a first-time adopter shall recognise a deferred tax 
asset to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary 
difference can be utilised. Similarly, a deferred tax liability 
for all deductible and taxable temporary differences 
associated with: a) right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, 
b) decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities and 
the corresponding amounts recognised as part of the cost 
of the related asset. Therefore, if a Groupe has not yet 
recognised deferred tax on right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities or has recognised deferred tax on net basis, 
the same need to recognise on gross basis based on the 
carrying amount of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.
The amendments had no impact on the Standalone 
financial statements.
iii. Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors: The amendments clarify the 
distinction between changes in accounting estimates, 
changes in accounting policies and the correction of errors. 
It has also been clarified how entities use measurement 
techniques and inputs to develop accounting estimates.
	
The amendments had no impact on the Standalone 
financial statements.
2.24. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions:
The preparation of the Company financial statements 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the 
carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future 
periods. Some of the significant accounting judgement 
and estimates are given below
i)	
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the 
present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These include the 
determination of the discount rate, future salary increases 
and mortality rates. All assumptions are reviewed at each 
reporting date. The parameter most subject to change is 
122  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2023
the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount 
rate for plans operated in India, the management considers 
the interest rates of government bonds in currencies 
consistent with the currencies of the post-employment 
benefit obligation.
Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on 
expected future inflation rates for the respective countries. 
The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality 
tables for the specific countries. Those mortality tables 
tend to change only at interval in response to demographic 
changes
ii)	
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair values of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their 
fair value is measured using valuation techniques including 
the discounted cash flow (DCF) model. The inputs to these 
models are taken from observable markets where possible, 
but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is 
required in establishing fair values. Judgements include 
considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk 
and volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors 
could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. 
Refer Note 37 for further disclosures.
iii)	
Leases - Estimating the incremental borrowing rate
The Company cannot readily determine the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental 
borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR 
is the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay 
to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar security, 
the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to 
the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. 
The IBR therefore reflects what the Company ‘would have 
to pay’, which requires estimation when no observable 
rates are available. The Company estimates the IBR using 
observable inputs (such as market interest rates) when 
available and is required to make certain entity-specific 
estimates (such as the credit rating).
iv)	
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant 
proportion of the asset base of the Company. The charge 
in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after 
determining an estimate of an asset's expected useful 
life and the expected residual value at the end of its life. 
The useful lives and residual values of the Company 
assets are determined by management at the time the 
asset is acquired and reviewed periodically, including at 
each financial year end. The lives are based on historical 
experience with similar assets.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 123
3.	
Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Tangible assets
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2023
Additions
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
April 01, 
2023
Depreciation 
for the year
Impairment 
for the year
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Freehold Land
2,172
-
869
664
639
869
-
-
869
-
-
639
1,303
Buildings
42
-
-
17
25
14
-
-
-
-
14
11
28
Vehicles
116
-
-
-
116
61
12
-
1
-
72
44
55
Plant & Machinery
65
1
2
-
64
22
23
-
1
-
44
20
43
Computers
234
-
65
-
169
234
-
-
65
-
169
-
-
Furniture & Fittings
121
-
6
-
115
115
2
-
5
-
112
3
6
Office Equipment's
58
0
6
-
52
51
2
-
4
-
49
3
7
TOTAL
2,808
1
948
681
1,180
1,366
39
-
945
-
460
720
1,442
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Additions
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Depreciation 
for the year
Impairment 
for the year
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Freehold Land
 2,176 
 - 
 - 
 4 
 2,172 
 524 
 - 
 345 
 - 
 - 
 869 
 1,303 
 1,652 
Buildings
 574 
 - 
 99 
 433 
 42 
 97 
 3 
 - 
 34 
 52 
 14 
 28 
 477 
Vehicles
 124 
 35 
 43 
 - 
 116 
 63 
 13 
 - 
 15 
 - 
 61 
 55 
 61 
Plant & Machinery
 275 
 - 
 210 
 - 
 65 
 123 
 15 
 - 
 116 
 - 
 22 
 43 
 152 
Computers
 802 
 - 
 568 
 - 
 234 
 798 
 5 
 - 
 569 
 - 
 234 
 - 
 4 
Furniture & Fittings
 563 
 - 
 442 
 - 
 121 
 435 
 17 
 - 
 337 
 - 
 115 
 6 
 128 
Office Equipment's
 105 
 1 
 48 
 - 
 58 
 95 
 4 
 - 
 48 
 - 
 51 
 7 
 10 
TOTAL
 4,619 
 36 
 1,410 
 437 
 2,808 
 2,135 
 57 
 345 
 1,119 
 52 
 1,366 
 1,442 
 2,484 
	
Notes:
a)	
Refer Note 15 for detailed information on assets held for sale.
b)	
No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 
1988 (as amended in 2016) [formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)] and Rules made thereunder.
c)	
During the current year management has classified three non-core immovable properties for monetisation purpose from Property Plant and Equipment to Assets Held 
for Sale as it meets the criteria of asset held for sale amounting ` 681 Lakhs (March 31, 2023 - 385 lakhs).
d)	
There is no Contractual Commitments for acquisition of Property, Plant and Equipment in Current and Previous year.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
 (All amounts in Indian Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
124  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
 (All amounts in Indian Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
3A.	 Right-of-use Assets (ROU)
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2023
Additions
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
April 01, 
2023
Depreciation 
for the year
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Buildings
55
7
-
-
62
5
12
-
-
17
45
50
Vehicles (ALD Car)
7
-
-
-
7
3
2
-
-
5
2
4
Total
62
7
-
-
69
8
14
-
-
22
47
54
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Additions
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Depreciation 
for the year
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2022
Leasehold Land
911
6
-
916
1
78
3
-
80
1
-
833
Buildings
-
55
-
-
55
-
5
-
-
5
50
-
Vehicles (ALD Car)
7
-
-
-
7
1
2
-
-
3
4
6
Total
918
61
-
916
63
79
10
-
80
9
54
839
3A.	 Right-of-use Assets (ROU)(Continued)
	
The following are the amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Depreciation expense of Right-of-use Assets
 14 
 10 
Interest expense on Lease Liabilities
 4 
 3 
Total 
 18 
 13 
Notes:
a)	
The aggregate depreciation expenses on Right-of-use Assets (ROU) is included under depreciation and amortization expenses in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
(Refer note - 30)
b)	
The Company had total cash outﬂows for leases of ` 15 lakhs during the year ended 31 March 2024. The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in note 18 of 
these ﬁnancial statements.
3B.	 Other Intangible Assets	
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Additions
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Depreciation 
for the year
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Computer Software
-
5
-
5
-
0
-
0
5
-
-
5
-
5
-
0
-
0
5
-
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 125
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
4.	
Investment in Subsidiaries
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Numbers / 
Units
Amount
Numbers / 
Units
Amount
Investments measured at Cost
Equity Instrument (Unquoted)
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited of ` 10/- each
3,62,163
36
3,62,163
36
Less: Impairment Allowance
(36)
(36)
Total (A)
-
-
Gati Import Export Trading Limited of ` 10/- each
23,00,000
230
23,00,000
230
Less: Impairment Allowance
(187)
-
(182)
Total (B)
43
48
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited of 
` 10/- each (Formerly known as Gati Kintestu 
Express Private Limited).
3,50,000
55,255
3,50,000
55,255
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited of ` 10/- each
10,000
1
10,000
1
Gati Projects Private Limited of ` 10/- each
10,000
1
10,000
1
Total (C)
55,257
55,257
Total (A)+(B)+(C)
55,300
55,305
	
Aggregate amount of Unquoted Investments and Impairment allowance of Investments are given as below:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Aggregate carrying cost of Unquoted Investments (Net of Impairment allowance)
 55,300 
 55,305 
Aggregate Impairment Allowance
 223 
 218 
5 	
 Other Non Current Financial Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Term deposits with banks (remaining maturity more than 12 months)
2
-
Security Deposit
4
4
Total (A)
6
4
Investments in Equity Instruments:
Gati Kausar India Limited of ` 10/-each*
8
8
Less: Impairment Allowance
(8)
(8)
Total (B)
-
-
Total (A)+(B)
6
4
(*) Investment in one of the subsidiary "Gati Kausar India Limited" ceased to be a subsidiary with effect from July 14, 2021. The Company has 
retained 7,518 number of equity shares as investment amounting to ` 8 lakhs which was fully provided in earlier years.
6 	
Income tax assets, net
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance tax, net
710
589
Total
710
589
7.	
Other Non-Current Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Capital Advances
114
114
Less: Allowances for Doubtful Advances
(114)
(114)
Total (A)
-
-
Balances with Statutory Authorities
127
126
Others
-
-
Total (B)
127
126
Total (A)+(B)
127
126
126  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
8.	
Inventories
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(At Lower of Cost and Net Realisable Value)
Stock in Trade *
215
244
Total
215
244
* Consists of Petrol, Diesel & Lubricants etc.,
Note: No inventories were pledged as security for liabilities during the current year and previous year.
9.	
Trade Receivables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unsecured
Considered Good
498
562
Credit Impaired
1,296
1,286
Total
1,794
1,848
Less: Expected Credit Loss (Refer Note 37(C)(i)(a))
(1,409)
(1,407)
Total
385
441
	
Trade Receivable Ageing Schedule as at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Total
Not 
due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 Year
1-2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
 More than 
3 Years 
i)	
Undisputed Trade Receivable - 
Considered good
 1 
 427 
 10 
 3 
 57 
 - 
 498 
ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivable - Credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 115 
 115 
iii)	 Disputed Trade Receivable - Considered 
good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivable - Credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,181 
 1,181 
Gross Trade Receivables
 1 
 427 
 10 
 3 
 57 
 1,296 
 1,794 
Less: Allowances for Expected Credit Loss
 (1,409)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 385 
	
Trade Receivable Ageing Schedule as at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Total
Not 
due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
- 1 Year
1-2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
More than 
3 Years
i)	
Undisputed Trade Receivable - 
Considered good
1
444
-
77
40
-
562
ii)	 Undisputed Trade Receivable - Credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
105
105
iii)	 Disputed Trade Receivable - Considered 
good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
iv)	 Disputed Trade Receivable - Credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
16
1,165
1,181
Gross Trade Receivables
1
444
-
77
56
1,270
1,848
Less: Allowances for Expected Credit Loss
(1,407)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
441
Notes:
i)	 No trade or other receivables are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person. 
ii)	Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days."
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 127
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
10 	 Cash and Cash Equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance with Banks:
- In Current accounts
597
248
Cash on hand
14
11
Total
611
259
11 	 Other Bank Balances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Term deposits with banks (original maturities more than 3 months but less than 
12 months)
8,499
7,582
Unpaid Dividend account
37
55
Total
8,536
7,637
12 	 Loans
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Inter corporate Deposit/Receivable from Subsidiaries (Refer Note 45)
3,484
2,254
Total (A)
3,484
2,254
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Loan receivable with credit Impaired
164
164
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Loans
(164)
(164)
Loan to Subsidiary (Refer Note 45)
1,443
1,443
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Loans
(1443)
(1443)
Total (B)
-
-
Total (A)+(B)
3,484
2,254
	
Refer Note 41 for related party information
13 	 Other Current Financial Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Accrued Interest on Deposits, Loans & investments, etc.
225
184
Receivable towards Employees Share Appreciation Rights from related parties
2,115
1,581
Other Advances receivable
9
7
Total (A)
2,349
1,772
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Other Receivables
62
68
Less: Allowance for Doubtful receivables
(62)
(68)
Other Advances receivable
1,849
2,259
Less: Allowance for Doubtful receivables
(1,849)
(2,259)
Total (B)
-
-
Total (A)+(B)
2,349
1,772
Refer Note 41 for related party information
128  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
14 	 Other Current Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Operational Advance
236
175
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Operational Advance
21
21
Less: Provision for doubtful operational advance
(21)
(21)
Balances with Statutory Authorities
331
262
Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables
(50)
(50)
Total (A)
517
387
Prepaid Expenses
281
4
Others
1
5
Total (B)
282
9
Total (A)+(B)
799
396
15 	 Assets Held for Sale
	
A)	
Property, Plant and Equipment
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Land & Building
1,341
2,418
Total
1,341
2,418
	
	
Movement of Assets held for sale 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance of Assets held for sale
2,418
5,133
Classified to Assets held for sale during the year (Refer Note 3)
681
1,221
Disposal of Assets held for sale during the year
(1,758)
(3,936)
Closing Balance of Assets held for sale
1,341
2,418
The Company has adopted an Asset Light Strategy, basis which the decision was taken to sell the all the non-core 
immovable properties and use the proceeds from such sale to pay the debt. Exceptional item refers to loss/gain on disposal 
of such assets as at March 31, 2024 in line with Ind AS 105. The Company has taken necessary steps and negotiation is 
ongoing with the prospective buyers for the sale of assets classified as AHS which is expected to be concluded in next 
one year. the Company has sold properties of ` 1,758 lakhs and has recorded a gain of ` 308 lakhs in exceptional item.
The proceeds from sale of properties are ` 2,066 Lakhs included net of advances received against Sale of properties.
	
B)	
Investments
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number / Units
Amount
Number / Units
Amount
Investment in an Associate
Gati Ship Limited of ` 10/- each
48,00,000
8,623
48,00,000
8,623
Less: Impairment Allowance
(8,623)
(8,623)
Total
-
-
Notes:
a)	
The Board has taken necessary steps and negotiation is ongoing with the prospective buyers for disposal of the 
above Property Plant & Equipment and investments and transaction is expected to be concluded in next one year.
b)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), are held in the name of the Company, except for the following:
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 129
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Description of 
item of Property
Gross Carrying 
Value
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Whether title deed 
holder is a Promoter, 
director or relative of 
Promoter/director or 
employee of promter
Property 
held Since 
which year
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Company
Freehold building 
(Chennai 
Myalpore)
352
Transport 
Corporation 
of India 
Limited
No
2000
The asset was transferred to the 
Company pursuant to the business 
transfer arrangement with Transport 
Corporation of India Limited and the 
same is in the process of sale
Freehold building 
(Sholapur)
0.01
Transport 
Corporation 
of India 
Limited
No
2000
The asset was transferred to the 
Company pursuant to the business 
transfer arrangement with Transport 
Corporation of India Limited and the 
same is in the process of sale
* Rounded off to nearest lakhs.
16 	 Equity Share Capital
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Authorized share capital
Equity Shares of ` 2/- each
17,50,00,000
3,500
17,50,00,000
3,500
3,500
3,500
Issued equity capital
Equity Shares of ` 2/- each fully paid up
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
2,605
2,603
Subscribed and fully paid-up:
Equity Shares of ` 2/- each fully paid up
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
2,605
2,603
a)	
Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of Shares
Amount
No. of Shares
Amount
Shares at the beginning of the year
13,01,30,117
2,603
12,29,68,997
2,459
Add: Share issued on allotment during the year.
1,21,910
2
71,61,120
144
Shares at the end of the year
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
Note: - 
i) Details of shares issued/allotted during the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
Date of allotment
Mode of Issue/allotment
No. of shares 
allotted
Face Value 
per shares
Nature of 
Consideration
a) August 04, 2023
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
24,866
2
Cash
b) September 02, 2023
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
19,469
2
Cash
c) November 03, 2023
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
62,885
2
Cash
d) February 02, 2024
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
14,690
2
Cash
Total
1,21,910
ii) During the previous financial year, the Board of Directors of the Company have approved the allotment of 71,61,120 (Seventy 
One Lacs Sixty One Thousand One Hundred and Twenty) Equity Shares of a face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two Only) fully paid up, 
to Allcargo Logistics Limited, Promoter of the Company, pursuant to the exercise of options attached to the Warrants allotted 
on June 17, 2021 and upon the receipt of balance 75% of the subscription money. Consequent to above allotment, the paid-
up equity shares capital of the Company has increased by ` 1,43,22,240/- (Rupees One Crore Fourty Three Lacs Twenty Two 
Thousand Two Hundred and Fourty Only) which represents 71,61,120 (Seventy One Lacs Sixty One Thousand One Hundred and 
Twenty) Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two Only) each.
15 	 Assets Held for Sale (contd)
130  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
b)	
Terms /Rights attached to Shareholder
The Company has only one class of issued shares i.e. Equity Shares having par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of Equity 
Shares is entitled to one vote per share and ranks pari passu. The dividend proposed by the Board of Director is subject to the 
approval of shareholder in the ensuing Annual General Meeting except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, 
the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after payment of all preferential amounts, 
in proportion to their shareholding.
c)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of Shares
% of holding
No. of Shares
% of holding
Allcargo Logistics Limited
6,53,30,095
50.16%
6,53,30,095
50.20%
Mr. Mukul Mahavir Agrawal
70,00,000
5.37%
70,00,000
5.38%
Total
7,23,30,095
55.53%
7,23,30,095
55.58%
d)	
The Company has neither allotted any equity shares for consideration other than cash nor has issued any bonus shares nor 
has bought back any shares during the year of five years preceding the date at which Balance Sheet is prepared.
e)	
No calls are unpaid by any directors or officers of the Company during the year.
f)	
Details of shares held by promoters
Sl. No.	Name of the Promoter
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
% Change 
during the 
Year
Number of 
Shares
% of 
Shareholding
Number of 
Shares
% of 
Shareholding
1
Allcargo Logistics Limited (effective from April 
08, 2020)
6,53,30,095
50.16
6,53,30,095
50.20
0%
2
Neera And Children Trust
23,15,889
1.78
23,15,889
1.78
0%
3
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal
2,24,935
0.17
2,24,935
0.17
0%
4
TCI Finance Limited
2,84,838
0.22
4,88,347
0.38
-42%
5
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal & Sons HUF
4,90,118
0.38
5,41,568
0.42
-10%
6
Mahendra Investment Advisors Private Limited
1,51,577
0.12
1,51,577
0.12
0%
7
Jubilee Commercial & Trading Private Limited
20,000
0.02
20,000
0.02
0%
8
Dhruv Agarwal Benefit Trust
8,750
0.01
8,750
0.01
0%
9
Manish Agarwal Benefit Trust
1,19,728
0.09
24,728
0.02
384%
10
Bunny Investments & Finance Private Limited
-
0.00
-
0.00
0%
Total
6,89,45,930
52.93
6,91,05,889
53.12
Note : The following Promoter and Promoter Group members have applied for reclassification from "Promoter and Promoter 
Group" category to "Public" category under Regulation 31A of SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015:-
1)	
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal
2)	
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal & Sons HUF
3)	
TCI Finance Limited
4)	
Mahendra Investment Advisors Private Limited
5)	
Jubilee Commercial & Trading Private Limited
6)	
Bunny Investments And Finance Private Limited
17 	 Other Equity
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a)
Securities Premium
42,230
41,924
b)
General Reserve
8,811
8,785
c)
Capital Reserve
2,084
2,084
d)
Tonnage Tax Reserve (Utilised)
929
929
e)
Special Reserve
22,336
22,336
f)
Retained Earning
(7,388)
(10,807)
g)
Share based payment reserve (ESARs - Equity)
2,015
1,649
Total
71,017
66,900
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 131
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
A	
The description, nature, purpose and movement of each reserve under other equity are as follows:-
	
a)	
Securities Premium :
	
	
Securities premium represents the premium on issue of equity shares. The same can be utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
b)	
General Reserve:
	
	
General reserve is the retained earnings of the Company, which are kept aside out of the Company's profit to meet future 
obligations, if any.
	
c)	
Capital Reserve :
	
	
Capital Reserve includes amount received on allotment of convertible warrants was forfeited and transferred to Capital 
Reserve Account.
	
d)	
Tonnage Tax Reserve (Utilised):
This reserve is a statutory reserve which is created and will be utilized in accordance with the provisions of Section 115VT 
of Income tax Act 1961 to comply with the provisions of ‘Tonnage Tax Scheme’ under Chapter XII-G.
	
e)	
Special Reserve: The Hon’ble Andhra Pradesh High Court, approved the Scheme of Arrangement for amalgamation. ("The 
Scheme") vide its Order dated March 19, 2013 which interalia, permits creation of a capital reserve to be called Special 
Reserve to which shall be credited excess of value of assets over value of liabilities on amalgamation of the subsidiaries 
amounting to ` 55,554 Lakhs to be utilized by the Company to adjust therefrom any capital losses arising from transfer 
of assets and certain other losses, any balance remaining in the Special Reserve shall be available for adjustment against 
any future permanent diminution in the value of assets and exceptional items etc. as specified in the Scheme as the Board 
of directors may deem fit.
	
f)	
Retained Earnings: Retained earnings comprise of net accumulated profit/(loss) of the Company, after declaration of 
dividend.
	
g)	
Share based payment Reserve: The share based payment reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share 
based payment transactions with employees. The amount recorded in this reserve is transferred to securities premium 
upon exercise of stock appreciation rights by employees. The amount outstanding in the "Share based payment reserve" 
will be transferred to "General Reserve", when the options are lapsed / cancelled.
	
	
The movement of Other equity as follows:
i)
The movement of Securities Premium
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
41,924
35,067
Add: Issue of shares pursuant to prefential allotment
-
6,857
Add: Transfer on account of exercise of ESARs
306
-
Closing Balance
42,230
41,924
ii)
The movement of General Reserve
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
8,785
8,785
Add: Transfer on account of ESARs not exercised
26
-
Closing Balance
8,811
8,785
iii)
The movement of Capital Reserve
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance
2,084
2,084
Add/(Less): Adjustment during year
-
-
Closing Balance
2,084
2,084
17 	 Other Equity (contd)
132  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
iv)
The movement of Tonnage Tax Reserve (Utilised)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance
929
929
Add/(Less): Adjustment during year
-
-
Closing Balance
929
929
vi)
The movement of Special Reserve
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance
22,336
22,336
Add/(Less): Adjustment during year
-
-
Closing Balance
22,336
22,336
v)
The movement of Share based payment reserve (ESARs - Equity)
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance
1,649
56
Add: Share based payment expense
698
1,593
Less: Transfer on account of ESARs not exercised
(26)
-
Less: Transfer on account of exercise of ESARs
(306)
-
Closing Balance
2,015
1,649
vii)
The movement of Retained Earning
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening Balance
(10,807)
(10,249)
Add/(Less): Profit/(Loss) for the year
3,417
(543)
Add/(Less): Other Comprehensive income for the year
2
(15)
Closing Balance
(7,388)
(10,807)
18 	 Lease Liabilities
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Non- Current
Current
Non- Current
Current
Secured
Lease Obligation
37
13
44
10
Total
37
13
44
10
	
Notes:
(a)	
The Company has lease contracts for certain items of Buildings. The Company’s obligations under leases are secured by the 
lessor’s title to the leased assets.
(b)	 Movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Lease liabilities at the beginning of the year
54
7
Recognition of right-of-use liability during the year
7
50
Interest cost accrued during the year
4
3
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
(15)
(6)
Decognition of right-of-use liability during the year
-
-
Lease liabilities at the end of the year
50
54
(c)	 Amounts recognised in the statement of cash flow arising from financing activities
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Total cash outflow for leases
15
6
17 	 Other Equity (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 133
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
d)	
Future payment of lease liabilities on an undiscounted basis
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Not later than one year
17
14
Later than one year but not later than five years
1-2 years
16
15
2-3 years
16
14
3-4 years
9
14
4-5 years
1
7
Later than five years
-
-
Total
59
64
19 	 Provisions 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Non- Current
Current
Non- Current
Current
Employee Benefits
Gratuity (Refer Note 35)
44
3
39
3
Compensated Absences (Refer Note 35)
11
3
9
5
Total
55
6
48
8
20 	 Current Borrowings
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unsecured
Current Maturities of Fixed deposits from Public
-
99
Total
-
99
Note:
	
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Public Deposits
Balance as at March 31, 2023
99
Borrowings made during the year
-
Repayment of Fixed deposits from Public repaid during the year
99
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
Particulars
	
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Public Deposits
Balance as at March 31, 2022
404
Repayment of Fixed deposits from Public repaid during the year
(306)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
99
21 	 Trade Payables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
For Goods and Services
Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (Refer Note No 36)
-
-
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
53
94
Total
53
94
18 	 Lease Liabilities (contd)
134  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
21 	 Trade Payables (contd)
	
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 
3 Years
Total
i) Undisputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
ii) Undisputed dues - Others
-
-
-
53
53
-
-
-
53
53
	
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 
3 Years
Total
i) Undisputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
ii) Undisputed dues - Others
-
 32 
 23 
39 
 94 
-
 32 
 23 
 39 
 94 
22 	 Other Current Financial Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Employee Related Liabilities
14
52
Security Deposits
132
118
Unpaid Dividends
37
55
Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon
18
71
Liability towards guarantee invoked #
-
2,360
Accrued Expenses
335
64
Others
111
185
Total
647
2,905
# Represents relinquishment of Corporate Guarantee. Refer note 32 of exceptional items for detailed explanation.
23 	 Other Current Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Dues to Statutory Authorities
28
24
Advance received towards sale of properties classified under AHS
164
164
Others
10
42
Total
202
230
24.	 Revenue from Operations
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Sale of Services
Freight, Ecommerce and Miscellaneous services
24
82
Sale of Products
Sale of Diesel, Petrol and Lubricants
21,915
25,444
Total (A)
21,939
25,526
Other Operating Revenue
Management Fee from Subsidiaries
134
168
Others
-
4
Total (B)
134
172
Total (A)+(B)
22,073
25,698
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 135
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
A.	
Revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated based on revenue stream and by reportable segment.
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue based on product & services
a)	 Express Distribution
24
86
b)	 Fuel Stations
21,915
25,444
c)	 Others
134
168
Total
22,073
25,698
Revenue based on Geography
India
22,073
25,698
Overseas
-
-
Total
22,073
25,698
Reconciliation of Revenue from Operation with contract price
Revenue as per contract price
21,940
25,554
Less:
Unsatisfied Performance Obligation
(1)
(28)
Revenue from Operations
21,939
25,526
Transaction Price - Unsatisfied Performance Obligation
The Company’s unsatisfied performance obligations mainly arises on account of undelivered shipments. The aggregate value 
of transaction price allocated to the unsatisfied performance obligations as at March 31, 2024 is ` 1 Lakhs, (Previous year ` 28 
lakhs) which is expected to be recognised during next year after delivery of shipments.
There are no customers which individually accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the period ended 31 March, 2024
B.	
Contract Balances
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023 
Trade Receivables
1,794
1,848
Less: Impairment Allowances
(1,409)
(1,407)
Total
385
441
25.	 Other Income
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest Income
On Deposit with Bank
538
216
On Inter Corporate Deposits
244
96
On Refund of Income Tax
37
9
Rental Income
17
163
Liabilities no longer required written back
77
208
Gain on Sale of Mutual Funds, net
-
8
Miscellaneous Income, net
45
8
Total
958
708
26.	 Operating Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Freight
7
59
Other Operating Expenses
167
140
Total
174
199
136  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
27.	 Changes in Inventories of Stock-in-Trade
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Opening Stock:
Stock-in-trade
244
279
244
279
Closing Stock
Stock-in-trade
(215)
(243)
(215)
(243)
Decrease in Inventories of Stock-in-trade
29
36
28.	 Employee Benefits Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries, Wages & Bonus
213
200
Contribution to Provident and other Funds
16
17
Staff Welfare Expenses
2
9
Share Based Payment Expenses (Refer Note 50)
43
88
Total
274
314
29.	 Finance Costs
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest Expenses
	
On Public Deposits
4
30
	
On Lease Liabilities
4
3
Others
-
1
Total
8
34
30.	 Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment (Refer Note: 3)
39
57
Depreciation on Right of use Asset (Refer Note: 3A)
14
10
Amortisation of Intangible (Refer Note :3B)
0
-
Total
53
67
31.	 Other Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Professional and Legal expenses
195
285
Remuneration to Auditors (Refer Note 31.1)
29
25
Directors Sitting Fees *
23
5
Repairs and Maintenance
17
32
Insurance
16
20
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
13
148
Bad debts and Irrevocable Balances Written off
11
113
Less: Provision for loss allowances recognised in earlier years
(11)
(90)
Electricity
12
17
Rates and Taxes
11
19
Management Fee
6
60
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 137
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Printing and Stationery
3
3
Telephone Expenses
2
1
Travelling Expenses
1
2
Rent
1
1
Foreign Exchange Loss, net
-
2
Loss on Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment, net
-
4
Miscellaneous Expenses
158
81
Total
487
728
* Refer Note 41 for Related Party Information.
31.1	 Auditors' Remuneration
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Statutory Audit fees
16
15
Limited review of quarterly results
9
8
Certification fees and other services
3
1
Reimbursement of out of Pocket Expenses
1
1
Total
29
25
31.2	Corporate Social Responsibility Expenditure
	
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act), the Company, meeting the applicability threshold, needs to spend at 
least 2% of its average net profit for the immediately preceding three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
activities. The areas for CSR activities are Education, Community, Environment Sustainability and Rural Development Projects 
& Donations. A CSR committee has been formed by the Company as per the Act. The funds were primarily allocated to a corpus 
and utilized through the year on these activities which are specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(a)	
During the year, the Company has incurred ` Nil (March 31, 2023 `Nil lakhs) on account of Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) included under Other Expenses.
	
(b)	
Gross Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year is ` Nil lakhs
	
(c)	
Amount approved by the board to be spent during the year is ` Nil lakhs
32.	 Exceptional Items 
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Loss on write off of Property, Plant & Equipment (Net) (Note d)
(1)
(258)
Impairment Charged on Property, Plant & Equipment (Note e)
-
(345)
Net Gain on disposal of Non-core Assets (Note c)
308
479
Impairment Charged in the realisable value of Non-core Assets
-
(674)
Relinquishment of Corporate Guarantee (Note a)
2,360
-
Provision on investment in Subsidiary "GIETL" (Note b )
(4)
(5)
Total
2,663
(803)
The Exceptional items (non-recurring) represents :
a)	
In January 2016, the Company had issued a Corporate Guarantee to IDFC Bank Limited (‘IDFC’) on behalf of GI Hydro 
Private Limited (formerly GATI Infrastructure Private Limited (‘GIPL’)). In FY 2017-18, the Company recorded a liability of 
` 2,360 lakhs due to the invocation of the Corporate Guarantee by IDFC. Subsequently, IDFC assigned all rights, title, and 
interests in financial assistance of GIPL to Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (‘Edelweiss’) under the 
SARFAESI Act, 2002.
	
During the current financial year, GIPL has raised funds by issuing bonds and repaid its debts to Edelweiss and thereby on 
January 12, 2024, Edelweiss has issued no-due certificate relinquishing the Corporate Guarantee issued by the Company. 
Accordingly, the Company has reassessed its exposure and reversed the liability of ` 2,360 lakhs. This has been treated 
as exceptional item (gain). Further the legal matters associated with this guarantee are disposed off during the current 
financial year.
138  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
b)	
Gati Import Export Trading Limited (GIETL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has discontinued its operations 
in FY 2021. Company’s investment in GIETL has been provided to extent of 187 lakhs as on March 31, 2024, out of this ` 5 
lakhs was provided in financial year 2022-23 and further ` 4 lakhs is provided in the current financial year.
c)	
Net gain on sale of assets which are disclosed under “Assets held for Sale” of ` 308 lakhs (March 31, 2023 - ` 479 lakhs).
d)	
A loss on write off of ` 1 lakhs in Property, Plant and Equipment is on account of discardment of Property, Plant and 
Equipment which have outlived their useful life and those which are no longer required for business operations (March 
31, 2023 - ` 258 lakhs).
e)	
During the previous financial year an impairment allowance of ` 345 lakhs has been provided in books on account of 
diminution in the fair value of Property, plant & Equipment.
33.	 Tax Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit Before Tax
3,359
(519)
Income Tax recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
Current Tax
-
40
Deferred Tax
-
-
Taxes related to earlier years
(58)
(16)
Total
(58)
24
Income Tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax expenses on Re-Measurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit 
plans
-
-
Total
-
-
Grand Total
(58)
24
33.1	Reconciliation of Income Tax expense for the year with book profits
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit/(Loss) before Tax (After Exceptional Items)
3,359
(519)
Applicable Tax Rate
25.17%
27.82%
Tax Expense
846
(144)
Tax Effect of :
Write back of liabilities not claimed as deduction in the earlier years
(672)
-
Brought forward losses utilised
(157)
-
Deffered tax not recoginsed
(18)
194
Taxes related to earlier years
-
(26)
Others
(57)
-
Total tax expense as per Statement of Profit and Loss
(58)
24
Effective Tax Rate
(1.73%)
(4.56%)
33.2	During the current finanicial year, the Company opted to exercise the option under section 115 BBA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 
as introduced by the Taxation laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 and has taken 25.168% rate of corporate tax in its accounts.
33.3	Deferred Tax Assets, net
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Asset
	
Allowance for Doubtful Receivables & Loans
-
37
Deferred Tax Liability
	
Property, Plant and Equipment
-
-
Others
-
(37)
Total
-
-
Deferred tax asset arising on account of business loss, allowance for doubtful receivables and advances, allowance for 
impairment of investments etc. has been recognised in books only to the extent of deferred tax liability. The reason for non 
recognition of deferred tax asset is due to carry forward losses and possible future capital gain on investments not being 
available for set off.
32.	 Exceptional Items (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 139
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
34.	 (A) Contingent liabilities and commitments
	
Contingent liabilities
	
In the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties. The Company assesses such 
claims and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an on-going basis with the assistance of external legal counsel, 
wherever necessary. The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being 
estimated and discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material. For potential losses that are considered possible, 
but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts 
unless the loss becomes probable. The following is a description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, 
but not probable.
(i)	 Contingent Liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	 Claim against the Company not acknowledged as debt
	
(i)	 Income tax Demand disputed in appeals and others (Includes amount 
paid under protest ` 321 Lakhs, previous year ` 321 Lakhs)
920
920
	
(ii)	 Indirect Tax demand disputed in appeals (Includes amount paid under 
protest ` 81 Lakhs, previous year ` 73 Lakhs) (1)
4,577
4,445
	
(iii)	Others (2)
229
223
Total
5,726
5,267
(1) Indirect taxes related matters:
Nature of Indirect 
taxes 
 Amount
Period to which 
amount pertains
Status
Service Tax
 4,445 
2009 - 2017
The Company has received various demand notices from 
Commissionere of Service Tax towards non payment of service 
tax on freight forwarding services, non payment of service tax on 
voyage charter service excess availment of Cenvat credit which 
are being contested by the Company based on the management 
evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Goods and Service 
tax
 132 
2017 - 2020
The Company has received various demand notices for a sum of 
` 70.41 lakhs for FY 2017-18 and 2018-19 majorly towards excess 
input claim which are being contested by the Company based on 
the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Total
 4,577 
	
(2) Other Claims
	
The Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant. There are claims which the Company does 
not believe to be of a material nature, other than those described below:
	
B) Neera Children Trust (‘NCT’) Vs. Gati Limited. & 29 Ors. (NCLT 535 of 2019), NCLT Hyderabad
	
Neera Children Trust (NCT) has filed a case alleging oppression and mismanagement against Gati Limited, its promoters, and 
directors, with the case currently under the purview of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Hyderabad. Various Interim 
Applications (IAs) have been submitted by different parties during the proceedings, addressing matters such as maintainability, 
waiver, the legality of postal ballots, shifting the registered office, and adding other respondents. In one significant development, 
Gati Limited filed an IA requesting the relocation of its registered office from Telangana to Maharashtra, which was granted by 
the NCLT on April 25, 2023.
	
As the litigation proceeds, Gati Limited's counter to the interim reliefs sought by NCT has been recorded, and the main 
petition is scheduled for a hearing on June 24, 2024. The case has seen six IAs filed by various parties, focusing on issues of 
maintainability, waiver, the legality of the postal ballot, the shifting of the head office, and the addition of other respondents. 
According to the assessment by the learned counsel, there is a high possibility of obtaining a favorable order in this case. 
However, the final resolution and its potential impact on Gati Limited's financial position depend on the NCLT's final verdict.
	
Until the NCLT reaches a decision, the ultimate impact on Gati Limited's financial standing cannot be determined with certainty. 
The Company is committed to monitoring the proceedings closely and will assess any potential financial implications as they 
arise.
140  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Notes : 
	
a) Pending resolution of the respective proceedings, it is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timing of cash 
outflows, if any, in respect of the above as it is determinable only on receipt of judgments / decisions pending with various 
forums / authorities.
	
b) The Company has reviewed all its pending litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where applicable, in its financial statements. The Company does not expect the 
outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on its financial position. Also, the Company does not expect 
any reimbursement in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
C)	
There has been a Supreme Court (SC) judgement dated February 28, 2019, relating to components of salary structure that 
needs to be taken into account while computing the contribution to provident fund under the EPF Act. There are interpretative 
aspects related to the Judgement including the effective date of application. From the previous year ended March 31, 2023, 
the Company is in compliance with same. The Company will continue to assess any further developments in this matter for 
the implications on financial statements, if any. Further, pending decision on the subject review petition and directions from 
the EPFO, the impact for the past period, if any, was not ascertainable and consequently no effect was given in the accounts.
D) 	
The Code on Social Security 2020 (Code) related to employee benefits during employment and post-employment received 
Presidential assent in September'2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India; however, the date on which the 
Code will come into effect has not been notified and the final rules/ interpretation have not yet been issued. The Company will 
assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes 
effective. However, the Company envisages that the impact of the above would not be material.
35.	 Disclosure as required under Ind AS 19 on Employee Benefits:
Defined Benefit Obligation
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Statement of Assets and Liabilities for defined benefit obligation
Present value of funded obligations
(52)
(48)
Fair value of plan assets
5
6
Net defined benefit liability recognised
(47)
(42)
Defined benefits - Gratuity
The Company provides gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/ termination 
is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of 
years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the company makes contributions to recognised funds in India.
These defined benefit plans expose the Company to actuarial risks, such as currency risk, interest risk and market (investment) 
risk.
The Company expects ` 20 lakhs to contribute to Gratuity Fund in the next year.
Defined benefits - Compensated absences
The Company provides for accumulation of leaves by certain categories of its employees. These employees can carry forward 
a portion of the unutilised leaves and utilise them in future periods or receive cash in lieu thereof as per the Company’s policy. 
The Company records a liability for such leaves in the period in which the employee renders the services that increases this 
entitlement. The total liability recorded by the Company towards this obligation is ` 14 lakhs and ` 14 lakhs as at March 31, 
2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively.
Inherent risk
The plan is defined benefit in nature which is sponsored by the Company and hence it underwrites all the risk pertaining to 
the plan. In particular, this exposes the Company, to actuarial risk such as adverse salary growth, change in demographic 
experience, inadequate return on underlying plan assets. This may result in an increase in cost of providing these benefits to 
employees in future. Since the benefits are lump sum in nature, the plan is not subject to longevity risk.
34.	 (A) Contingent liabilities and commitments (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 141
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
35.	 Disclosure as required under Ind AS 19 on Employee Benefits: (contd)
The following tables analyse present value of defined benefit obligations, expense recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss, 
actuarial assumptions and other information.
Reconciliation of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
(I)
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation
(a)
Balance at the beginning of the year
48
35
(b)
Current service cost
4
2
(c)
Interest on defined obligations
3
2
(d)
Benefits paid
(4)
(6)
(e)
Actuarial (gains)/ losses recognised in other comprehensive income
-
-
change in demographic assumptions
-
2
change in financial assumptions
(2)
(2)
experience adjustments
3
15
Balance at the end of the year
52
48
(II)
Reconciliation of present value of plan assets
(a)
Balance at the beginning of the year
6
6
(b)
Investment Income
-
-
(c)
Actual return on plan assets
-
-
(d)
Contributions by the employer
-
6
(e)
Benefits paid
(4)
(6)
(f)
Fund Transfer adjustment
-
-
(g)
Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on Plan Assets
3
Balance at the end of the year
5
6
(III)
Gratuity cost recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss
(a)
Current service cost
4
2
(b)
Interest on defined obligations
3
2
(c)
Interest income on plan assets
-
-
Gratuity cost recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss
7
4
(IV)
Remeasurements recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
(a)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on defined benefit obligation
1
15
(b)
Return on plan asset excluding interest income
(3)
-
Amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
(2)
15
(V)
Net Asset/ (Liability) recognised in the Balance Sheet
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(52)
(48)
(b)
Fair value of plan assets
5
6
Net defined benefit obligations in the Balance Sheet
(47)
(42)
(VI)
Plan assets
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Plan assets comprise of the following:
Investments with LIC
100%
100%
(VII)
Actuarial assumptions
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as 
weighted averages)
(a)
Discount rate
7.17%
7.31%
(b)
Future salary growth
5.00% first 2 years;
8.00% first 2 years;
5.00% thereafter
6.00% thereafter
(c)
Retirement age (years)
58
58
(d)
Withdrawal rates
8%
10%
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with the published rates under Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality (2012-14).
142  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
(VIII) Sensitivity analysis
	
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligations by the amounts shown below:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
(a)
Discount rate (1% movement)
(1)
1
(1)
1
(b)
Future salary growth (1% movement)
1
(1)
1
(1)
(c)
Withdrawal assumption (1% movement)
-
-
-
-
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide 
an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions as shown.
Wherever amounts are "0", the value is less than rupees fifty thousand.
Expected Cash Flows over the next (valued on Undiscounted Cash Flows)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
1 year
 20 
8
2 to 5 years
 32 
40
6 to 10 years
 9 
8
More than 10 years
 2 
 3 
Defined Contribution	
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Provident/Pension Fund
9
8
Employee State Insurance
0
-
Total
9
8
36.	 Due to Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(i)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of the accounting year :
-
-
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
-
-
Interest due on above
-
-
Total
-
-
(ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the 
MSMED Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the 
supplier beyond the appointed day during the accounting year
-
-
(iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
year) but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
-
-
(iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the 
accounting year.
-
-
(v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are 
actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a 
deductible expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
-
-
Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of 
information collected by the Management.
35.	 Disclosure as required under Ind AS 19 on Employee Benefits: (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 143
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
37.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management
A.	
Category wise classification of financial instruments and fair values
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2024, 
including their levels in the fair value hierarchy.
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
FVOCI
Other 
financial 
assets 
at amortised 
cost
Other 
financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost
Total 
carrying 
amount
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Other financial assets 
(Refer Note 5 & 13)
-
-
2,355
-
2,355
-
-
-
-
Trade receivables (Refer 
Note 9)
-
-
385
-
385
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash 
equivalents (Refer Note 
10)
-
-
611
-
611
-
-
-
-
Other bank balances 
(Refer Note 11)
-
-
8,536
-
8,536
-
-
-
-
Loans (Refer Note 12)
-
-
3,484
-
3,484
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
15,371
-
15,371
-
-
-
-
Financial liabilities
Trade payables(Refer 
Note 21 )
-
-
-
53
53
-
-
-
-
Other financial 
liabilities(Refer Note 22 )
-
-
-
647
647
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
700
700
-
-
-
-
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2023, 
including their levels in the fair value hierarchy.
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
FVOCI
Other 
financial 
assets 
at amortised 
cost
Other 
financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost
Total 
carrying 
amount
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
-
-
-
-
Other financial assets 
(Refer Note 5 & 13)
-
-
1,776
-
1,776
-
-
-
-
Trade receivables (Refer 
Note 9)
-
-
441
-
441
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents 
(Refer Note 10)
-
-
259
-
259
-
-
-
-
Other bank balances 
(Refer Note 11)
-
-
7,637
7,637
-
-
-
-
Loans (Refer Note 12)
-
-
2,254
-
2,254
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
12,367
-
12,367
Financial liabilities
-
-
-
-
Borrowing (Refer Note 20 )
-
-
-
99
99
-
-
-
-
Trade payables(Refer Note 
21 )
-
-
-
94
94
-
-
-
-
Other financial 
liabilities(Refer Note 22 )
-
-
-
2,905
2,905
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
3,098
3,098
144  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
B.	
Measurement of fair values
	
i.	
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
	
	
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, bank balances, trade receivables, loans, investments in Debt instrument, 
borrowings, lease liabilities, trade payables and other financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount 
largely due to the short-term nature of these instruments. The Company's loans have been contracted at market rates of 
interest. Accordingly, the carrying value of such loans approximate fair value.
	
	
During the previous year, Investments in equity instruments, which are classified as FVOCI are based on market price at 
the respective reporting date.
	
ii.	
Level 1 fair values
	
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 1 fair values.
Particulars
FVOCI Equity 
'instruments
Balance as at March 31,2022
1,011
Current Investments during the year
100
Net Gain on investments measured at FVTPL
8
Equity Investments through other comprehensive income
-
Sale proceeds of Non current Investments
(1,119)
Balance as at March 31,2023
-
Current Investments during the year
-
Sale proceeds of Non current Investments
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
C.	
Financial risk management
	
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
	
(i)	
Credit risk
	
(ii)	
Liquidity risk
	
(iii)	 Market risk
	
Risk management framework
	
The Company’s principal financial liabilities includes borrowings, Lease liabilities, trade payable and other financial liabilities. 
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s principal financial assets 
include Loans, trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets that derive directly from its operations.
	
The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. The Company’s primary risk management focus 
is to minimise potential adverse effects of market risk on its financial performance. The Company's exposure to credit risk is 
influenced mainly by the individual characteristic of each customer and the concentration of risk from the top few customers. 
The Company’s risk management assessment and policies and processes are established to identify and analyse the risks 
faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor such risks and compliance with the same. 
Risk assessment and management policies and processes are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and 
the Company’s activities.
	
(i)	
Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to 
meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from customers and loans given. 
Credit risk arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to customers, including 
outstanding accounts receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial 
assets. The objective of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The Company assesses 
the credit quality of the counterparties, taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors.
	
a)	
Trade receivables
	
	
As per simplified approach, the Company makes provision of expected credit losses on trade receivables using a provision 
matrix to mitigate the risk of default payments and makes appropriate provisions at each reporting date whenever is for 
longer period and involves higher risk. The Company uses expected credit loss model to assess the impairment loss or 
gain in accordance with Ind AS 109. The Company uses a provision matrix to compute the credit loss allowance for trade 
receivables.
37.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 145
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
	
The movement of Trade Receivables and Expected Credit Loss are as follows :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables (Gross)
1,794
1,848
Less: Expected Credit Loss
(1,409)
(1,407)
Trade Receivables (Net)
385
441
Reconciliation of Expected Credit Loss (Trade receivables)
Amount
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2022
1,349
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
148
Utilisation of Allowance for Bad debts written off
(90)
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2023
1,407
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
13
Utilisation of Allowance for Bad debts written off
(11)
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2024
1,409
	
b)	
Loans and Advances
	
 	
The movement of Loans and Expected Credit Loss are as follows :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Loans
5,091
3,861
Less: Expected Credit Loss
(1,607)
(1,607)
Loans (net)
3,484
2,254
Reconciliation of Expected Credit Loss (Loans)
Amount
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2022
1,607
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
-
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2023
1,607
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
-
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2024
1,607
	
	
The movement of Advances and Expected Credit Loss are as follows :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Advances receivable
4,035
3,915
Less: Expected Credit Loss
(1,911)
(2,191)
Loans (net)
2,124
1,724
Reconciliation of Expected Credit Loss (Other Advance Receivable)
Amount
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2022
2,321
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
6
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2023
2,327
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
 (416)
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2024
1,911
	
(ii)	
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at 
reasonable price. Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and 
the availability of funding through an adequate amount of credit facilities to meet obligations when due. The Company's 
finance team is responsible for liquidity, funding as well as settlement management. In addition, processes and policies 
related to such risks are overseen by senior management. Management monitors the Company's liquidity position through 
rolling forecasts on the basis of expected cash flows. Besides , it generally has certain undrawn credit facilities which 
37.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
146  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
can be accessed as and when required ; such credit facilities are reviewed at regular intervals. Thus , no liquidity risk is 
perceived at present.
The Company's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet 
its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or 
risking damage to the Company's reputation.
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date 
based on contractual undiscounted payments.
March 31, 2024
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
Amount
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 to 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Trade Payables
53
53
53
-
-
Other Financial Liabilities
647
647
647
-
-
Total
700
700
700
-
-
March 31, 2023
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
Amount
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 to 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Borrowings
99
99
99
-
Trade Payables
94
94
94
-
-
Other Financial Liabilities
2,905
2,905
2,905
-
-
Total
3,098
3,098
3,098
-
-
	
(iii)	 Market Risk
Floating exchange rate
Floating exchange rate with reference to Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices - such as foreign exchange 
rates and interest rates - will affect the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The 
objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, 
while optimising the return.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes 
in foreign exchange rates. The total unhedged foreign currency exposure at the year end towards Trade Receivable & 
Trade Payable is ` 9 Lakhs (Previous year ` 2 Lakhs) and ` 24 Lakhs (Previous Year ` 3 Lakhs) respectively. The Company 
does not have significant foreign currency exposure and hence, is not exposed to any significant foreign currency risk.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Company exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily 
to the Company's long term and short term borrowing with floating interest rates. The Company constantly monitors the 
credit markets and rebalances its financing strategies to achieve an optimal maturity profile and financing cost.
The interest rate profile of the Company 's interest bearing financial instruments at the end of the reporting period are 
as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fixed rate instruments
Financial Liabilities
	
Deposits from Public
-
99
-
99
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
Fixed rate instruments that are carried at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk for the purpose of sensitive 
analysis.
	
	
Equity risk
	
	
The Company’s quoted equity instruments are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future 
values of the investment securities. The reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Company’s senior management 
on a regular basis. The senior management reviews and approves all equity investment decisions.
37.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 147
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
38.	 Capital management
	
The Company’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investors, 
creditors and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. In order to maintain the capital 
structure the Company monitors the return on capital, as well as the level of dividends to equity shareholders. The Company 
aims to manage its capital efficiently so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to all 
its shareholders. For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued capital and all other equity 
reserves attributable to the equity holders and debt includes borrowings and lease liabilities.
	
The Company monitors capital on the basis of the following Gearing ratio:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Borrowings (including current maturities of Long term borrowing)
-
99
Less:
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(611)
(259)
	
Bank balance other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
(8,536)
(7,637)
Net Debt
(9,147)
(7,797)
Total Equity
73,622
69,503
Debt to equity ratio
(0.12)
(0.11)
39.	 Segment Information
A	
Basis for segmentation
	
An operating segment is a component of the Company that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues 
and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Company’s other components, 
and for which discrete financial information is available. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by 
the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments 
and assess their performance.
	
The Company has two reportable segments, as described below, which is the Company’s primary business segment. These 
business units are managed separately because they require different marketing strategies. For these business the Company’s 
CODM (designation of the person who reviews) reviews internal management reports at quarterly basis.
	
Reportable segments - Operations
	
Express Distribution - Covers integrated E-commerce cargo logistics
	
Fuel Stations - Covers fuel stations dealing in petrol, diesel and lubricants, etc.
B	
Information about reportable segments
	
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included below. Performance is measured based on segment 
profit (before tax), as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Company's CODM. Segment profit 
is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results 
of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an 
arm’s length basis.
	
Summary of Segment Information as at and for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
1.	 Segment Revenue (Net Sales / Income from each Segment)
       a)   Express Distribution
24
86
	
b)	 Fuel Stations
21,915
25,444
	
c)	 Unallocated
134
168
	
Total
22,073
25,698
Less: Inter Segment Revenue
-
-
Net Sales / Income from Operations
22,073
25,698
148  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
2.	 Segment Results (Profit (+) / Loss (-) before tax and interest from each 
Segment)
	
a)	 Express Distribution
(24)
(272)
	
Exceptional Items - Income/(expense)
-
(272)
	
Total(A)
(24)
(544)
	
b)	 Fuel Stations
243
378
	
	
Exceptional Items - Income/(expense)
-
-
	
Total(B)
243
378
	
Total (A+B)
219
(166)
Add/Less:	 (i) Finance Cost
(8)
(34)
	
	
(ii) Other un-allocated Income/(expense), net
485
212
	
	
(iii) Exceptional Items - Income/(expense), net
2,663
(531)
Profit / (Loss) before tax
3,359
(519)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
3. Segment Assets
a) Express Distribution
253
485
b) Fuel Stations
1,191
1,175
c) Unallocated
73,191
71,281
Total Assets
74,635
72,941
Segment Liabilities
a) Express Distribution
254
407
b) Fuel Stations
45
46
c) Unallocated
714
2,985
Total Liabilities
1,013
3,438
Capital Employed
73,622
69,503
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
4. Depreciation and Amortisation Expenses
a)	
Express Distribution
41
54
b)	
Fuel Stations
12
13
Total
53
67
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
5. Significant Non - Cash Expenditure
a)	
Express Distribution
-
1,287
b)	
Fuel Stations
13
-
Total
13
1,287
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
6. Capital Expenditure
a) Express Distribution
-
-
b) Fuel Stations
6
36
Total
6
36
39.	 Segment Information (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 149
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
C	
Geographical Information
	
The Company at present, operates in India only and therefore the analysis of geographical segments is not applicable to the 
Company.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
1.
Revenue from External Customers
a)	
India
22,073
25,698
b)	
International
-
-
Total
22,073
25,698
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
2. Segment Non Current Assets *
a) India
905
1,626
b) International
-
-
Total
905
1,626
* Non Current Assets are excluding Investment in Subsidiaries, Income tax asset and net Deferred tax asset.
40.	 Earnings per Share
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit/(Loss) for the year (` Lakhs)
3,417
(543)
Weighted Basic average number of shares (Nos.)
13,01,86,061
12,54,41,055
Weighted Diluted average number of shares (Nos.)
13,12,58,292
12,67,00,185
Basic & Diluted EPS
Basic Earnings Per Share (In `)
2.63
(0.43)
Diluted Earnings Per Share (In `)
2.63
(0.43)
Nominal value of shares outstanding (In `)
2.00
2.00
In the current year, in the computation of Diluted EPS, the Company has considering diluted weighted average shares of 10,72,231 shares 
(March 31 2023 12,59,130 shares) (ESARs).
150  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
41.	 Related party disclosures
(A)
Names of related parties and related party relationship for the year ended March 31, 2024
i)
Holding Company
1. Allcargo Logistics Limited
ii)
List of Directors & Key 
Managerial Personnel
1. Mr Shashi Kiran Shetty
– Chairman and Mangaing Director 
2. Mr Yasuhiro Kaneda
– Nominee Director  (Resigned w.e.f July 01, 
2022 )
3. Mr Kaiwan Kalayaniwalla
– Director
4. Ms. Cynthia D'Souza
– Independent Director (Resigned w. e. f. 
June 08, 2023)
5. Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
– Independent Director
6. Mr. Yasuyuki Tani
– Nominee Director (Resigned w. e. f June 08, 
2023)
7. Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
– Independent Director
8. Ms. T S Maharani
– Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
9. Mr. Pirojshaw Sarkari (Phil)
– Pirojshaw Aspi Sarkari (Stepped down as 
CEO w.e.f. May 31, 2023 and appointed as 
Director w. e. f. June 08, 2023)
10. Mr. Anish T Mathew
– Chief Financial Officer (Appointed  w.e.f  
February 04, 2022)
11. Mr Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
– Independent Director (Appointed w. e. f. 
June 09, 2023)
12. Mr Ravi Jakhar
– Director ( Appointed w.e.f. June 09, 2023)
13. Ms Vinita Dang Mohoni
– Independent Director ( Appointed w. e. f. 
June 05, 2023)
iii)
Entities in which Non 
Executive Director having 
significant influence 
1. Talentos ( India) Pvt Limited
iv)
Subsidiaries & Step down 
Subsidiaries
1. Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited (Formerly known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
2. Gati Import Export trading Limited
3. Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited
4. Gati Projects Private Limited
5. Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited
v)
Fellow Subsidiaries
1. ECU Hold NV
2. Gati Cargo Express (Shanghai) Co Limited
3.Gati Hong Kong Limited
4.Gati Asia Pacific Pte Limited.
5. Allcargo Belgium N.V.
6. Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited
vi)
Associate
1. Gati Ship Limited
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 151
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(B)	 Summary of the transactions with related parties
SL. 
No
Nature of Transaction
Key Managerial 
Personnel & 
Relatives
Entities in which Non 
Executive Director 
having significant 
influence
Holding, 
Subsidiaries, step 
down Subsidiaries & 
Fellow Subsidiaries
Total
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
a)
EXPENDITURE
Freight Expenses
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
-
6
40
6
40
-
-
-
-
6
40
6
40
Rent
Talentos ( India) Pvt Limited
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
Remuneration-Short term 
employee benefits
Ms T S Maharani
40
39
-
-
-
-
40
39
Mr Anish T Mathew
141
99
-
-
-
-
141
99
181
138
-
-
-
-
181
138
Directors Sitting Fee-Short 
term employee benefits
Ms. Cynthia D'Souza
-
1
-
-
-
-
-
1
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
7
2
-
-
-
-
7
2
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
7
2
-
-
-
-
7
2
Mr Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
5
-
-
-
-
-
5
-
Ms Vinita Dang Mohoni
4
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
23
5
-
-
-
-
23
5
Management Fee
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
-
6
60
6
60
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
60
6
60
Maintenance Expenses
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
-
-
10
-
10
-
-
-
-
-
10
-
10
Provision for Investment
Gati Import and Export 
Private Limited
-
-
-
-
4
5
4
5
-
-
-
-
4
5
4
5
Other Expenses
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
-
28
-
28
ECU Hold NV
-
-
-
-
-
0
-
0
-
-
-
-
-
28
-
28
41. 	 Related party disclosures (contd)
152  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
SL. 
No
Nature of Transaction
Key Managerial 
Personnel & 
Relatives
Entities in which Non 
Executive Director 
having significant 
influence
Holding, 
Subsidiaries, step 
down Subsidiaries & 
Fellow Subsidiaries
Total
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
FY 2023-
24
FY 2022-
23
b)
INCOME
Freight
Gati Cargo Express 
(Shanghai) Co Limited
-
-
-
-
26
18
26
18
-
-
-
-
26
18
26
18
Rent
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
-
1
109
1
109
Gati Import Export Trading 
Limited
-
-
-
-
1
0
1
0
Gati Logistics Parks Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
1
0
1
0
Gati Projects Private Limited
-
-
-
-
1
0
1
0
Gati Ship Limted
-
-
-
-
1
0
1
0
-
-
-
-
5
110
5
110
Management Fee
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
119
168
119
168
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
15
-
15
-
-
-
-
-
134
168
134
168
Reimbursement of expenses/ 
Other Income
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
-
-
21
-
21
-
-
-
-
-
21
-
21
Interest Income - Inter 
Corporate Deposit
-
Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited (Formerly 
Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
-
-
212
96
212
96
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
31
-
31
-
-
-
-
-
243
96
243
96
Sale of Assets
-
-
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
-
23
-
23
-
-
-
-
-
23
-
23
41. 	 Related party disclosures (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 153
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
41. 	 Related party disclosures (contd)
(c) Summary of closing balances with related parties.
SL. 
No
Particulars
Holding Company
Fellow Subsidiaries, 
Associates & Entities 
in which having 
significant influence 
and common influence
Total
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
c)
Investments - Equity
Gati Import Export Trading Limited
-
-
230
230
230
230
Gati Import Export Trading Limited - 
Provision
-
-
(187)
(182)
(187)
(182)
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited
-
-
36
36
36
36
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited - 
Provision
-
-
(36)
(36)
(36)
(36)
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited (Formerly Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
55,100
55,100
55,100
55,100
Gati Logistic Parks Private Limted
-
-
1
1
1
1
Gati Projects Private Limited
-
-
1
1
1
1
-
-
55,145
55,150
55,145
55,150
d)
Trade Receivables
Gati Cargo Express (Shanghai) Co Limited
-
-
5
12
5
12
-
-
5
12
5
12
e)
Other Receivables
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited (Formerly Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
1,237
866
1,237
866
Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
Gati Import Export Trading Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited
-
-
7
6
7
6
Gati Logistic Parks Private Limted
-
-
1
0
1
0
Gati Projects Private Limited
-
-
1
0
1
0
Gati Ship Limited
-
-
2
0
2
0
Allcargo Logistics Limited
862
692
-
-
862
692
862
692
1,248
873
2,110
1,565
f)
Interest Receivable on Inter Corporate 
Deposit (ICD)
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited (Formerly Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
143
86
143
86
-
-
143
86
143
86
g)
Loans & Advances - Given
Gati Logistic Parks Private Limted
-
-
1,444
1,444
1,444
1,444
Gati Logistic Parks Private Limted - 
Provision
-
-
(1,443)
(1,443)
(1,443)
(1,443)
Gati Express and Supply Chain Private 
Limited - ICD
-
-
3,484
2,250
3,484
2,250
Gati Projects Private Limited
-
-
3
3
3
3
Gati Import Export Trading Limited
-
-
0
-
0
-
-
-
3,488
2,254
3,488
2,254
154  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
41. 	 Related party disclosures (contd)
(c) Summary of closing balances with related parties.
SL. 
No
Particulars
Holding Company
Fellow Subsidiaries, 
Associates & Entities 
in which having 
significant influence 
and common influence
Total
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
h)
Trade Payables
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited (Formerly Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
4
-
-
-
4
-
4
-
-
-
4
-
i)
Other Payables
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private 
Limited (Formerly Known as Gati Kintetsu 
Express Private Limited)
-
-
0
-
0
-
Talentos ( India) Pvt Limited
-
-
0
-
0
-
-
-
0
-
0
-
j)
Investment Held for Sale
Gati Ship Limited
-
-
8,623
8,623
8,623
8,623
Gati Ship Limited Provision
-
-
(8,623)
(8,623)
(8,623)
(8,623)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Notes -
(i)	
This is to confirm that the above transactions are (a) comprehensive and have been reviewed by Internal Auditors of the 
Company; (b) in the ordinary course of Business and at arm's length; (c) in compliance with applicable regulatory / statutory 
requirements including the Company's policy on Related Party Transactions.
(ii)	
The Management confirms that requisite test to determine the arms length has been done and documented and where required 
confirmation from the external experts has been obtained for such determination.
(iii)	 Related Party Transactions for which approval of the Audit Committee has been taken are well within the ambit of Omnibus 
Approval given by the Audit committee.
(iv)	 The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given in FY 2023-24.
(v)	
The remuneration of directors is determined by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance 
of individuals and market trends.
(vi)	 Wherever amounts are "0", the value is less than rupees fifty thousand.
(vii)	 Post employment benefits are actuarially determined on overall basis and hence not seperately provided.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 155
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
42. 	 During the current year, Company had signed an out of 
court settlement with AIR India, pertaining to an ongoing 
legal matter before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court. As a 
result, Company has received a sum of ` 42 lakhs towards 
the final settlement, which has been recognised as Other 
Income. Pursuant to the settlement, the Hon'ble Delhi High 
Court accepted the Company's petition for withdrawal 
of the case and released the original bank guarantee, 
amounting to `2,200 lakhs, which is equivalent to the 
disputed arbitral award. The mentioned bank guarantee 
has been released by the banking partner.
43. 	 During the current year, Allcargo Logistics Limited ("Parent 
Company") has acquired a 30% stake (1,50,000 Equity 
Shares) in "Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited" 
(formerly known as Gati Kintetsu Express Private Limited), 
a material subsidiary. The acquisition comprises 1,30,000 
Equity Shares (26% stake) from KWE-Kintetsu World 
Express (S) Pte Ltd and 20,000 Equity Shares (4% stake) 
from KWE Kintetsu Express (India) Private Limited. The 
name of the Subsidiary Company " Gati Kintetsu Express 
Private Limited" has been changed to "Gati Express & 
Supply Chain Private Limited" w.e.f. July 27, 2023, duly 
approved by the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs.
44. 	 During the current year, the name of Company has been 
changed to "Allcargo Gati Limited", pursuant to the 
approval of the Board of Directors vide their Meeting held 
on August 04, 2023 and the shareholders of the Company 
at the Annual General Meeting held on September 04, 
2023. The Registrar of Companies, Telangana, approved 
and accordingly issued fresh certificate of incorporation 
pursuant to the change of the name w.e.f. October 19, 2023.
45. 	 Disclosure pursuant to Securities Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirement and 
Regulation 2015) and Section 186 of The Companies Act, 
2013.
	
The Loans in the nature of loan to subsidiaries are as 
follows; - 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Loans (1)
1,443
1,443
Less: - Allowances 
on the loans
(1,443)
(1,443)
-
-
Inter Corporate 
Deposit from 
Subsidiary (2)
3,484
2,250
Total
3,484
2,250
	
(1) The Company had given interest free loan to a wholly 
owned subsidiary “Gati Logistics Parks Limited (GLPL)” 
amounting to ` 2,001 Lakhs towards financing a project in 
an earlier year, where the operation is yet to commence. 
During the earlier financial year, the Company has received 
repayment of loan amount to the tune of ` 558 lakhs and 
balance loan receivable amount of `1,443 lakhs had been 
provided as provision.
	
(2) Gati Limited has extended an inter-corporate deposits 
(ICDs) of ` 3,484 Lakhs to Gati Express and Supply Chain 
Private Limited (formerly known as Gati Kintetsu Express 
Private Limited) at an interest rate of 7.50% per annum, with 
interest payable at the end of the 12 months tenure.
46. 	 The Board of directors in their meeting held on May 16, 
2024 and May 19, 2023 has given the Company approval 
to explore the sale/disposal of fuel station business and 
an in-principle consent to transfer the fuel station business 
to one of its wholly owned subsidiary, Gati Projects 
Private Limited, respectively subject to consent from the 
respective Oil Marketing Companies and the necessary 
approvals from the shareholders of the Company.
47. 	 There are no subsequent event after reporting date.
 48. 	Financial performance ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
31-Mar-24
31-Mar-23  Variance  Reasons 
for Variance 
Current Ratio (in times)
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
19.24 
4.61 
317%  Note -1 
Debt Equity ratio (in times)
Total Debt
Shareholder's 
Equity
0.00 
0.00 
0%
Debt service coverage ratio  
(in times)
Earnings available 
for debt Service
Total Debt Service 
6.47 
2.42 
168%  Note -2 
Return on Equity Ratio (in %)
Net Profit After 
Taxes- Preference 
Dividends( if any)
Average 
Shareholder's 
Equity
0.05 
(0.01)
-683%  Note -3 
Inventory turnover ratio  (in 
times)
Cost of Goods 
Sold or Sales
Average Inventory
95.49
97.30
-2%
Trade Receivables turnover ratio  
(in times)
Net Sales
Average Account 
Receivables
10.21
10.90
-6% -
Trade payables turnover ratio  
(in times)
Net Purchases
Average Account 
Payables
2.37 
1.13 
109%  Note -4 
Net capital turnover ratio (in 
times)
Net Sales
Working Capital
1.31 
2.13 
-38%  Note -5 
Net profit ratio (in %)
Net Profit
Net Sales
0.15 
(0.02)
-832%  Note -6 
156  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
31-Mar-24
31-Mar-23  Variance  Reasons 
for Variance 
Return on Capital employed (in 
%)
Earnings before 
interest and tax
Capital Employed
0.05 
(0.01)
-751%  Note -7 
Return on investment (in %)
Earnings before 
interest and tax
Investment
NA
NA
-  - 
Explanations given where the change in the ratio is more than 25% as compared to the preceding year.
Notes :
1)	
The improvement in the current ratio is due to the relinquishment of the corporate guarantee related to the IDFC matter and 
the profitable disposal of non-core properties compared to their carrying value.
2)	
Strengthened debt equity ratio is on account of reduction in debt and inflow from share warrant conversion contribute to an 
improved financial leverage, reflected by a lower debt equity ratio.
3)	
The improvement in Return on Equity is due to increased earnings.
4)	
The company's vendor turnover ratio has been optimized due to decrease in the average accounts payables as compared to 
previous year.
5)	
The decline in net capital turnover ratio is majorly due to reduction in current liabilities on account of relinquishment of the 
corporate guarantee related to the IDFC matter and lower revenue from operations compared to previous year.
6)	
The improved net profit ratio is driven by better business performance and exceptional gains from the relinquishment of the 
corporate guarantee related to the IDFC matter, as well as the profitable disposal of non-core properties compared to their 
carrying value.
7)	
The improved return on capital employed ratio is attributable to favorable earnings results predominantly driven by exceptional 
gains, and reduction in debt due to repayment of borrowings.
48.	 Financial performance ratios (Continued)
Definitions:
(a)	
Earning for available for debt service = Net Profit after 
taxes + Non-cash operating expenses like depreciation 
and other amortisations + Interest + other adjustments like 
loss on sale of Fixed assets etc.
(b)	
Debt service = Interest & Lease Payments + Principal 
Repayments
(c)	
Average inventory = (Opening inventory balance + Closing 
inventory balance) / 2
(d)	
Net sales = Net sales consist of gross sales minus sales 
return
(e)	
Average trade receivables = (Opening trade receivables 
balance + Closing trade receivables balance) / 2
(f)	
Net purchases = Net purchases consist of gross purchases 
minus purchase return
(f)	
Net credit purchases = Net credit purchases consist of 
gross credit purchases minus purchase return
(h)	
Working capital = Current assets - Current liabilities.
(i)	
Earning before interest and taxes = Profit before exceptional 
items and tax + Finance costs
(j)	
Capital Employed = Total Equity + Total Debt
(k)	
Return on Investment
	
(MV(T1) – MV(T0) – Sum [C(t)])
	
(MV(T0) + Sum [W(t) * C(t)])
	
where,
	
T1 = End of time period ,T0 = Beginning of time period, t = 
Specific date falling between T1 and T0
	
MV(T1) = Market Value at T1, MV(T0) = Market Value at T0
	
C(t) = Cash inflow, cash outflow on specific date
	
W(t) = Weight of the net cash flow (i.e. either net inflow or 
net outflow) on day ‘t’, calculated as [T1 – t] / T1
49.	 Other statutory information
(i)	
The Company does not have any transactions with 
companies struck off during current or previous 
financial year.
(ii)	
The Company does not have any charges or 
satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC 
beyond the statutory period during current or previous 
financial year.
(iii)	 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto 
currency or Virtual Currency during current or 
previous financial year.
(iv)	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter 
by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority during current or previous 
financial year.
(v)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested 
funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) during current or 
previous financial year with the understanding that 
the Intermediary shall:
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 157
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(vi)	 The Company has not received any fund from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Funding Party) during current or previous financial 
year with the understanding (whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
(vii)	 The Company does not have any transaction which is 
not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during current or 
previous financial year in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or 
any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 
1961.
(viii)	 Loans or Advances in the nature of loans are granted to Promoters ,Directors , KMPs and the Related Parties
Type of Borrower
Amount of loan or advance in the nature of 
loan outstanding
Percentage to the total Loans and Advances 
in the nature of loans
Nil
Nil
Nil
(ix)	 The Company has not revalued it’s Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of use assets) or intangible assets or 
both during current or previous financial year.
50.	 Employee share-based payment:
	
The Company has formulated employee share-based payment schemes with objective to attract and retain talent 
and align the interest of employees with the Company as well as to motivate them to contribute to its growth and 
profitability. The Company views employee stock options as instruments that would enable the employees to 
share the value they create for the Company in the years to come. For the year ended March 31, 2024 the Company 
recognised total expenses of ` 43 lakhs (March 31, 2023 - ` 88 lakhs) related to Share based Payment schemes. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company during the FY 2023-24 have granted 
9,50,000 ESARs to the Employees of its Holding Company and Subsidiary Company. The necessary accounting for the above 
has been made in the books of accounts in the respective years. Furthermore, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Board of Directors of the Company vide its meeting held on March 07, 2024 have granted 5,25,000 ESARs to the Employees 
Subsidiary Company w.e.f April 01, 2024. At present, following employee share-based payment scheme is in operation, details 
of which are given below: "
A)	
Details of ESAR grants are summarised below -
S.
No.
Description
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
1
Date of shareholders’ approval
January 27, 2022
January 27, 2022
2
Total number of options approved under ESARs scheme
42,00,000
42,00,000
3
Vesting requirements
Vesting period of one year 
but not later than 4 years 
from the date of grant
Vesting period of one year 
but not later than 4 years 
from the date of grant
4
Exercise price or pricing formula
The Exercise Price per ESAR 
shall be the Market Price of 
the Shares of the Company 
discounted by such 
percentage not exceeding 
50% to be determined by 
the Committee from time 
to time
The Exercise Price per ESAR 
shall be the Market Price of 
the Shares of the Company 
discounted by such 
percentage not exceeding 
50% to be determined by 
the Committee from time 
to time
5
Maximum term of options granted
9 years from the date of 
Grant
9 years from the date of 
Grant
6
Source of shares (primary, secondary or combination)
Primary
Primary
7
Variation of terms of options
No Variations
No Variations
8
Method used to account for ESOS - Intrinsic or fair value
Fair Value Method
Fair Value Method
158  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
S.
No.
Description
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended
 March 31, 2023
1
Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the year
28,80,000
-
2
Number of options granted during the year
9,50,000
31,05,000
3
Number of options forfeited/lapsed during the year
8,07,500
2,25,000
4
Number of options vested during the year
8,64,000
-
5
Number of options exercised during the year
2,85,000
-
6
Number of shares arising as a result of exercise of options
1,21,910
NA
7
Amount realized by exercise of options (`)
2,43,820
-
8
Loan repaid by the Trust during the year from exercise price received
NA
NA
9
Number of options outstanding at the end of the year (out of total number 
of options approved under scheme)
27,37,500
28,80,000
10
Number of options exercisable at the end of the year (out of total number 
of options approved under scheme)
27,37,500
28,80,000
11
Description of the method and significant 
assumptions used during the year to estimate 
the fair value of the options, including the 
following weighted average information
The Black Scholes option-pricing model was developed for 
estimating fair value of traded options that have no vesting 
restrictions and are fully transferable. Since option-pricing models 
require use of substantive assumptions, changes therein can 
materially affect fair value of options. The option pricing models do 
not necessarily provide a reliable measure of fair value of options.
12	
The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model. The assumptions used in the model 
are as follows:
Grant-4
Grant-3
Grant-2
Grant-1
Stock Options granted on
July 31, 2023
June 01, 2023
April 1, 2023
April 1, 2022
Weighted average exercise price (in `)
85.00
85.00
85.00
85.00
Weighted average Fair value (in `)
95.27
70.75
58.93
114.56
Volatility (%)
53.98%
53.18%
53.64%
54.80%
Dividend yield (%)
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Life of Options granted (Years)
4.51
5.01
5.01
5.01
Risk free interest rate (%)
7.04%
6.82%
7.14%
6.15%
13	
The volatility used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model is the annualized standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. The period considered for the working is commensurate with 
the expected life of the options and is based on the daily volatility of the Company’s stock price on NSE.
14 	 There are no market conditions attached to the grant and vest.
51.	 The Company has used four accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility and the same was enabled throughout the year except in case of the following two accounting software 
wherein this feature was enabled from specific date and in case of one softwares audit trail is not enabled for direct changes 
to data when using certain access rights as mentioned below:
Application
Audit trail enablement date
Oracle
Audit trail at application layer is enabled from April 28, 2023, Database level effective throughout the 
year.
Fuel Plus
Audit trail at application layer is enabled from December 13, 2023. Audit trail at Database layer was not 
enabled.
There is no instance of audit trail feature being tampered with was noted in respect of the above accounting softwares
50.	 Employee share-based payment: (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 159
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
52.	 There are no standards that are notified and not yet effective as on the date.
53.	 The Board of Directors in their meeting held on December 21, 2023 has considered and approved the Scheme of Arrangement 
involving Allcargo Logistics Limited (Parent Company), Allcargo ECU Limited( Fellow Subsidiary), Allcargo Gati Limited 
(the Company), Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited (Subsidiary) and Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited (Fellow 
Subsidiary). The Scheme involves merger of fellow subsidiary and subsidiary with the Company effective from appointed date 
of October 01, 2023 and the merger of the Company (post-merger of fellow subsidiary and subsidiary) with the Parent Company 
on the date the Scheme becomes effective. The Scheme has been filed with BSE and NSE and the Company is in the process 
of getting the necessary regulatory and other approvals. The Scheme of Arrangement and other relevant details are available 
on the Company’s website.
54.	 The Board of Directors in their meeting held on December 21, 2023 and Shareholders through postal ballot passed on February 
05, 2024, approved to raise funds through various permissible modes, in accordance with applicable laws. The fund-raising 
will be conducted by issuing Equity Shares, equity-linked instruments, convertible preference shares, fully or partly convertible 
debentures, or through a composite issue of non-convertible debentures and warrants. Warrant holders will have the right to 
apply for equity shares or other eligible securities. The modes include private placement, qualified institutions placements, 
further public issues, preferential issues, rights issues, or any other permissible mode under applicable laws, or a combination 
thereof, up to ` 50,000 lakhs. The funds are intended for growth capital, expansion, capex, working capital, etc.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited 
(formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
160  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Allcargo Gati Limited (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Holding Company”) its subsidiaries (the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and 
its associate comprising of the consolidated Balance sheet 
as at March 31 2024, the consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss, including other comprehensive income, the consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement and the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity for the year then ended and notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements including a summary of 
material accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Consolidated Financial 
Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of reports of other auditors on separate financial statements 
and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and 
associate, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, 
as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a 
true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group and its associate as at March 31, 2024, their 
consolidated profits including other comprehensive loss, their 
consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement of 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(SAs), as specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in 
the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group and associate in accordance with the ‘Code of 
Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our 
audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the 
Act and the Rules thereunder and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our audit opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our 
description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided 
in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be the key 
audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled 
the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, 
our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of 
audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors of 
components not audited by us, as reported by them in their audit 
reports furnished to us by the management, including those 
procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the 
basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Recoverability of trade receivables (as described in Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The gross balance of trade receivables as at March 31, 
2024 amounted to ` 29,733 Lakhs, against which the 
Group has recorded expected credit loss provision of 
` 5,352 Lakhs. The collectability of trade receivables is a 
key element of the Group's working capital management.
The Group has a formal policy for evaluation of 
recoverability 
of 
receivables 
and 
recording 
of 
impairment loss which is applied at every period-end. 
In accordance with Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’, 
the Group applies Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model 
for measurement and recognition of impairment loss 
on trade receivables which is based on the historical 
credit loss experience, current conditions and forecasts 
of future conditions. In calculating expected credit loss, 
the Group has also considered customer accounts as 
well as experience with collection trends and current 
economic and business conditions.
We considered this as key audit matter due to the 
materiality of the amounts and significant estimate and 
judgements as stated above.
Our audit procedures among other things included the following:
•	
We obtained an understanding of the Group's policies, processes and 
financial controls relating to the monitoring of trade receivables and 
review of credit risks of customers, evaluated the design and tested 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
We performed procedures to evaluate the management’s assessment 
of recoverability of receivables including management’s estimates 
and the inputs used for development of the ECL model, analysis of 
ageing of receivables, assessment of material overdue individual trade 
receivables and specific customer balances.
•	
We circularized requests for balance confirmations on sample basis 
and examined responses. Performed alternate procedures where 
confirmations were not received.
•	
We inspected relevant contracts and correspondences with the 
customers on sample basis, assessment of their creditworthiness 
with reference to publicly available information etc., where applicable.
•	
We obtained evidence of receipts from customers after the period end 
on test check basis.
•	
We tested the mathematical accuracy and computation of the 
allowances by using the same input data used by the Group.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures on the trade receivables in 
Note 12.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Allcargo Gati Limited (Formerly known as Gati Limited)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 161
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment of Goodwill (as described in Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The Group has recognised goodwill of ` 42,580 lakhs 
as at the balance sheet date. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment annually.
Management has assessed and determined the 
recoverable amount based on judgments and key 
assumptions relating to identification of impairment 
indicators, revenue growth, operating margin, forecasts 
of future cashflows and discount rates applied to such 
cash flows.
We considered this as key audit matter because the 
assumptions on which the tests are based are highly 
judgmental and are affected by future market and 
economic conditions which are inherently uncertain 
and because of the materiality of the balances to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures among other things included the following:
•	
We obtained an understanding of the Group's processes and policies 
with respect to assessment of impairment, evaluated the design and 
tested the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
We obtained and assessed the cash flow forecasts and evaluated the 
key assumptions and estimates used by Management in preparing 
these forecasts by comparing them with factors such as historical 
financial information and performing inquiries with Management.
•	
We assessed objectivity and independence of external specialist 
engaged by the management for evaluation of recoverable value. We 
obtained and read the report of external specialist to understand the 
work performed on testing of key assumptions and estimates and 
their outcome of testing.
•	
We involved our subject matter experts to assist in evaluating the 
valuation methodology, identifying and testing key assumptions 
and estimates and performing comparative calculations to test the 
reasonableness of key assumptions used in preparing the cash flow 
forecasts.
•	
We also assessed the recoverable value by performing sensitivity 
testing of key assumptions used.
•	
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the calculations and assessed 
the accounting treatment applied.
•	
We assessed whether the disclosures made in Consolidated Financial 
Statements, are in accordance with the requirements of the Indian 
Accounting Standards.
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual report, but does not include 
the Consolidated Financial Statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and in doing so, consider whether such other information 
is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial 
Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We 
have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated 
Financial Statements in terms of the requirements of the Act 
that give a true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial 
position, Consolidated Financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and 
consolidated statement of changes in equity of the Group 
including its associate in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of 
the companies included in the Group and of its associate are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
of the assets of their respective companies and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements by the Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group and of its associate are responsible for assessing the 
ability of their respective companies to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group and of its associate are also responsible for 
overseeing the financial reporting process of their respective 
companies.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs 
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
162  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures made by management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may 
cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its 
associate to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group and its associate of which we 
are the independent auditors, to express an opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible for 
the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of 
the financial statements of such entities included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors. For the other entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been 
audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance 
of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought 
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements and other financial 
information, in respect of four subsidiaries, whose financial 
statements include total assets of ` 210.28 Lakhs as at March 
31, 2024 and total revenues of ` Nil and net cash outflows of 
` 60.65 Lakhs for the year ended on that date. These financial 
statement and other financial information have been audited 
by other auditors, which financial statements, other financial 
information and auditor’s reports have been furnished to us by 
the management. The Consolidated Financial Statements also 
include the Group’s share of net profit of ` Nil for the year ended 
March 31, 2024 as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in respect of one associate, whose financial 
statements, other financial information have been audited by 
other auditors and whose reports have been furnished to us by 
the Management. Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these subsidiaries and associate, and our 
report in terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in 
so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associate, 
is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.
Our opinion above on the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with 
respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the 
other auditors and the financial statements and other financial 
information certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, 
based on our audit and on the consideration of report of 
the other auditors on separate financial statements and 
the other financial information of the subsidiary companies 
and associate company, incorporated in India, as noted in 
the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph we give in the “Annexure 1” a 
statement on the matters specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of 
the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit 
and on the consideration of report of the other auditors 
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 163
on separate financial statements and the other financial 
information of subsidiaries, and associate, as noted in the 
‘other matter’ paragraph we report, to the extent applicable, 
that:
(a)	
We/the other auditors whose report we have relied 
upon have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of 
our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements;
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidation of the financial statements have been 
kept so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books except for the matters stated in the 
paragraph 2(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g);
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement 
of Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account maintained 
for the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements;
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended;
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company as on 
March 31, 2024 taken on record by the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company and the reports 
of the statutory auditors who are appointed under 
Section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary companies 
and associate company, none of the directors of the 
Group’s companies and its associate, incorporated in 
India, is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of 
the Act;
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies and associate company, incorporated 
in India, and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” 
to this report;
(g)	
In our opinion and based on the consideration of 
reports of other statutory auditors of the subsidiaries 
incorporated in India, the managerial remuneration 
for the year ended March 31, 2024 has been paid / 
provided by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries 
incorporated in India to their directors in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule 
V to the Act;
(h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us and based on the consideration of the 
report of the other auditors on separate financial 
statements as also the other financial information of 
the subsidiaries and associate, as noted in the ‘Other 
matter’ paragraph:
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on its Consolidated Financial position of the 
Group and its associate in its Consolidated 
Financial statements – Refer Note 37(i) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements;
ii.	
The Group and its associate did not have 
any material foreseeable losses in long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts during 
the year ended March 31, 2024;,
iii.	
Following are the instances of delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and associate, incorporated in India during the year 
ended March 31, 2024.
Period to which the amount relates
Amount (` in Lacs)
Delay in days Remarks
FY 2006-07
0.32
3,352 During the year Holding 
Company 
has 
deposited 
these amounts in delay 
with Investor Education and 
Protection Fund.
FY 2008-09
0.21
2,892
FY 2009-10
0.30
2,485
FY 2010-11
0.00
2,135
FY 2011-12
0.67
1,590
FY 2012-13
0.65
1,282
FY 2013-14
3.47
940
FY 2014-15
4.29
519
FY 2015-16
8.03
187
FY 2016-17
2.72
85
20.67
iv.	
a)	
The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and associate which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and 
the other auditors of such subsidiaries and associate respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries and associate to or in any other 
person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in 
164  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the respective Holding Company or 
any of such subsidiaries and associate 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
b)	
The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
and associate which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under 
the Act have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries and 
associate respectively that, to the best of 
its knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been received by the respective Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
and associate from any person or entity, 
including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries and associate shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
c)	
Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed by the 
auditors of the subsidiaries and associate 
which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, nothing has come 
to our or other auditor’s notice that has 
caused us or the other auditors to believe 
that the representations under sub-clause 
(a) and (b) contain any material mis-
statement.
v.	
No dividend has been declared or paid during the 
year by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries 
and associate company, incorporated in India.
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks and that performed by the respective 
auditors of the subsidiaries and associate 
which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, the Holding Company and one 
subsidiary has used six accounting softwares 
for maintaining its books of account which has 
a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software except, as explained in note 59 to the 
financial statements, audit trail at application 
level in case of three softwares was enabled 
for substantial part of the year and in case of 
one software audit trail is not enabled for direct 
changes to data when using certain access 
rights. Further, during the course of our audit 
we did not come across any instance of audit 
trail feature being tampered with in respect of 
the accounting software where audit trail was 
enabled.
	
Four subsidiaries have used accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account 
which does not have the feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility, as described in note 
59 to the financial statements, and accordingly, 
reporting on tampering of audit trail does not 
arise.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Aniket A Sohani
Partner
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Membership Number: 117142
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24117142BKDHZP4700
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 165
Annexure ‘1’
referred to in paragraph under the heading “Report on other legal and regulatory requirements” of our report of even date
Re: Allcargo Gati Limited (“the Holding Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Holding Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(xxi) 	Qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the Companies (Auditors Report) Order (CARO) reports of the 
companies included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are:
S.
No
Name
CIN
Holding company/ 
subsidiary
Clause number of the 
CARO report which is 
qualified or is adverse
1
Allcargo Gati Limited
L63011TG1995PLC020121
Holding Company
Clause 3(i)(c) 1,
Clause 3(vii)(a) 2
2
Gati Projects Private Limited
U45400TG2011PTC072399
Subsidiary
Clause 3(xvii) 3
Clause 3(xix) 4
3
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited
U64120DL2007PTC160560
Subsidiary
Clause 3(xvii) 3
Clause 3(xix) 4
4
Gati Import Export Trading Limited
U60232TG2008PLC057692
Subsidiary
Clause 3(i)(c) 1
Clause 3(xvii) 3
Clause 3(xix) 4
5
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited
U63030TG2011PTC072285
Subsidiary
Clause 3(ix)(a)5
Clause 3(xvii) 3
Clause 3(xix) 4
6
Gati Express and Supply Chain Private 
Limited
U62200MH2007PTC390900
Subsidiary
Clause 3(vii)(a)2
1 Clause pertains to title deeds of certain of immovable properties not held in name of the Company.
2 Clause pertains to timely deposit of undisputed statutory dues.
3 Clause pertains to cash losses incurred in current and immediately preceding financial year.
4 Clause pertains to material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet 
date.
5 Clause pertains to outstanding loans or borrowings or interest thereon due to any lender during the year.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Aniket A Sohani
Partner
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Membership Number: 117142
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24117142BKDHZP4700
166  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
ANNEXURE ‘2’ 
TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 
ALLCARGO GATI LIMITED
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Allcargo Gati Limited (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Holding Company”) as of and for the year ended March 31, 2024, 
we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as “the Group”) and its associate, which are companies 
incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based 
on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Holding Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to the respective Company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records and 
the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company's 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the 
Standards on Auditing, specified under Section 143(10) of the Act, to 
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both, 
issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements
A Company's internal financial control with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
Company's internal financial control with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that 
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of 
the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the 
Company are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's 
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Group , which are companies incorporated in 
India, have, maintained in all material respects, adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and such internal financial controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements were operating effectively 
as at March 31,2024, based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Holding Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy 
and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding 
Company, in so far as it relates to four subsidiaries and one 
associate which are Companies incorporated in India, is based 
on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries 
and associate incorporated in India.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Aniket A Sohani
Partner
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Membership Number: 117142
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24117142BKDHZP4700
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 167
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Assets
Non-Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
3A
6,424
7,262
Right-of-use Asset
3B
22,132
18,278
Goodwill
4
42,580
42,580
Other Intangible Assets
5
219
333
Intangible Assets under Development
6
371
59
Financial Assets
Other Financial Assets
7
1,505
1,047
Deferred Tax Assets, net
8
3,568
2,635
Income tax assets, net
9
5,910
6,610
Other Non-Current Assets
10
595
160
83,304
78,964
Current Assets
Inventories
11
215
244
	
Financial Assets
	
Trade Receivables
12
24,381
26,678
	
Cash and Cash Equivalents
13A
8,863
1,893
	
Other Bank Balances
13B
8,676
7,759
	
Other Financial Assets
14
2,153
2,431
Other Current Assets
15
3,406
3,113
47,694
42,118
Assets Held for Sale
16
1,346
7,388
49,040
49,506
Total Assets
1,32,344
1,28,470
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Equity Share Capital
17
2,605
2,603
Other Equity
18
60,940
58,864
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
63,545
61,467
Non Controlling Interest
19
6,469
7,344
70,014
68,811
Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
20
-
1
	
Lease Liabilities
21
19,284
16,052
Provisions
22
2,167
1,920
21,451
17,973
Current Liabilities
Financial Liabilities
	
Borrowings
23
14,425
12,449
	
Lease Liabilities
21
4,900
3,575
	
Trade Payables
24
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises
1,078
1,128
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises
7,761
8,387
Other Financial Liabilities
25
9,665
13,084
Other Current Liabilities
26
1,942
1,742
Provisions
22
1,108
1,321
40,879
41,686
Total Liabilities
62,330
59,659
Total Equity and Liabilities
1,32,344
1,28,470
Material Accounting Policies
2
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited (formerly known 
as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
168  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Particulars
Notes
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
(I)
INCOME
Revenue from Operations
27
1,69,799
1,72,317
Other Income
28
1,151
2,287
TOTAL INCOME (I)
1,70,950
1,74,604
(II)
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses
29
1,11,625
1,05,954
Purchase of Stock-in-trade
21,310
24,744
Changes in Inventories of stock-in-trade
30
29
36
Employee Benefit Expenses
31
17,726
18,815
Finance Costs
32
3,002
2,936
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
33
6,894
5,921
Other Expenses
34
13,919
15,764
TOTAL EXPENSES (II)
1,74,505
1,74,170
(III)
PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND TAX (I-II)
(3,555)
434
(IV)
Exceptional Items
35
3,449
96
(V)
PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (III+IV)
(106)
530
(VI)
TAX EXPENSES
36
Current Tax
235
1,313
Deferred Tax
(895)
347
Tax related to earlier years
(58)
(39)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSES
(718)
1,621
(VII)
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (V-VI)
612
(1,091)
(VIII)
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
a) Re-Measurement gains/ (losses) on defined benefit plans
(151)
(813)
b) Income tax effect on above items
38
201
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (NET OF TAX)
(113)
(612)
(IX)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR (VII+VIII)
499
(1,703)
(X)
Profit/(Loss) for the year
612
(1,091)
Attributable to:
Owners of the company
1,453
(928)
Non-Controlling Interests
(841)
(163)
Other Comprehensive Income for the year
(113)
(612)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company
(79)
(433)
Non-Controlling Interests
(34)
(179)
Total comprehensive income for the year
499
(1,703)
Attributable to:
Owners of the company
1,374
(1,361)
Non-Controlling Interests
(875)
(342)
EARNINGS PER EQUITY SHARE
44
[Nominal value per share  `2/-]
Basic (in `)
1.12
(0.74)
Diluted (in `)
1.12
(0.74)
Material Accounting Policies
2
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited (formerly known 
as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 169
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
(A)
Cash Flow from Operating Activities
Profit/(Loss) Before Taxes after exceptional items as per Statement of Profit 
and Loss
(106)
530
Adjustments For :
Depreciation and Amortisation Expense
6,894
5,921
Finance Costs
3,002
2,936
Interest on Income Tax Refund
(132)
(158)
Interest Income from Deposit with Bank and Others
(600)
(225)
Interest Income from Unwinding of Other Financial Assests
(140)
(89)
Liabilities no longer required - written back
(141)
(1,684)
Impairment charged/(Reversed) of Property, Plant and Equipment
(50)
345
Loss on write off of Property, Plant and Equipment
27
792
Net (gain)/ loss on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
26
(17)
Net gain on Lease Modification
(77)
(22)
Net gain on Sale of Mutual Funds
-
(8)
Relinquishment of the financial liability
(2,360)
-
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
44
2,555
Bad debts and irrevocable balances written off (net of allowances)
10
23
Allowance for other financial assets
70
-
Provision for Employees Share Appreciation Rights
413
924
Net Foreign Exchange gain
15
-
Net gain on disposal of Non-core Assets
(1,066)
(704)
Impairment Reversed in the realisable value of Non-core Assets
-
(529)
Operating profit before working capital changes
5,829
10,590
Decrease In Inventories
29
36
Decrease /(Increase ) In Trade Receivables
2,253
(5,486)
Increase in Other Financial Assets
(25)
(164)
(Increase )/Decrease in Other Assets
(373)
228
(Decrease)/Increase in Provisions
(117)
358
(Decrease)/Increase in Financial Liabilities
(513)
1,040
(Decrease)/Increase In Trade Payables
(689)
5
Increase/(Decrease) in Liabilities
210
(82)
Cash generated from operating Activities
6,604
6,525
Direct Taxes paid (net of refunds)
655
(707)
Net Cash Flows generated from Operating Activities (A)
7,259
5,818
(B)
Cash Flow from Investing Activities
Proceeds from sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
165
117
Proceeds from sale of Non-core Assets
7,779
7,776
Expenditure on Property, Plant and Equipment
(2,062)
(3,295)
Expenditure on Intangible Assets including Intangibles under development
(395)
(21)
Purchase of Current Investments
-
(100)
Proceeds from Sale of Investments
-
1,119
Investment in bank Fixed Deposit, net
(917)
(7,524)
Interest Received
613
295
Net Cash Flows generated/(used) from Investing Activities (B)
5,183
(1,633)
(C)
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
Proceeds from issue of Equity Shares on exercise of ESARs
2
-
Proceeds from allotment of shares against Share Warrants
-
5,250
Repayment of Public Deposits
(111)
(305)
Repayment of Long Term Borrowings
(11)
(1,012)
Proceeds/(repayment) of Short Term Borrowings (Net)
2,085
(1,466)
Transfer of Unpaid Public deposits to Investor Education and Protection 
Fund(IEPF)
(21)
-
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
170  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Payment of Unpaid Dividend and transfer to Investor Education and Protection 
Fund(IEPF)
(18)
-
Payment of Principal portion of Lease Liabilities
(4,400)
(3,394)
Payment of Interest on Lease Liabilities
(1,897)
(1,650)
Interest Paid
(1,101)
(1,296)
Net Cash Flows used in Financing Activities (C)
(5,472)
(3,873)
Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)
6,970
312
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
1,893
1,581
Cash and Cash Equivalents as the end of the year
8,863
1,893
Notes:
	
1. The above Statement of Cash Flow has been prepared under the " Indirect Method" as set out in Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) 7 on Statement of Cash Flow as notified under Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2015.
2. Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balance with Banks:
	
On Current Accounts
3,788
1,878
	
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
5,057
-
	
Cash on hand
18
15
Cash and Cash Equivalents as per Balance Sheet (Refer Note 13A)
8,863
1,893
Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities.
Public Deposits
Short Term 
Borrowings
Long Term 
Borrowings*
Lease liabilities
Balance as at April 1, 2022
404
13,806
1,024
17,201
Cash Flow Changes, net
(306)
(1,466)
(1,013)
(5,044)
On account of Ind AS 116
-
-
-
7,470
Others
-
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2023
99
12,340
11
19,627
Balance as at April 1, 2023
99
12,340
11
19,627
Cash Flow Changes, net
(111)
2,085
(11)
(6,297)
On account of Ind AS 116
-
-
-
10,854
Others
12
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
14,425
-
24,184
(*) Includes current maturities of long term borrowings
Note : Public deposits balance does not include the obligation related to unpaid matured deposits which is Grouped under ”Other 
Current Financial liabilities”.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited 
(formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 171
A)	
Equity Share Capital 
Particulars
No. of Shares
Amount
Balance as at April 01, 2023
13,01,30,117
2,603
Add/(Less): Changes in Equity Share Capital for the year ended March 31, 2024 (Note a)
1,21,910
2
Balance as at March 31, 2024
13,02,52,027
2,605
Particulars
No. of Shares
Amount
Balance as at April 01, 2022
12,29,68,997
2,459
Add/(Less): Changes in Equity Share Capital for the year ended March 31, 2023 (Note b)
71,61,120
144
Balance as at March 31, 2023
13,01,30,117
2,603
Note (a) During the current year upon vesting of Grant 1 shares, the Company has allotted equity shares of 1,21,910 towards exercise of vested ESARs of 2,85,000. For these shares 
allotment, the Company has received ` 2.43 lakhs at face value of ` 2 per share as per the "Gati Employees Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2021(ESAR Plan 2021).
B)	
Other Equity 
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Equity 
attributable 
to owners 
of the 
company
Non 
controlling 
Interest
Total
Securities 
Premium
General 
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Tonnage 
Tax Reserve 
(Utilized)
Share Option 
Outstanding 
account/
ESAR's
Special 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Balance as at April 01, 2023
41,924
10,505
2,084
929
1,649
14,707
(12,934)
-
58,864
7,344
66,208
Profit/(Loss) for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,453
-
1,453
(841)
612
Other Comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
(79)
-
(79)
(34)
(113)
Share based payment expense
-
-
-
-
702
-
-
-
702
-
702
Transfer on account of ESARs not 
exercised
-
26
-
-
(26)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Transfer on account of exercise of ESARs
306
-
-
-
(306)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2024
42,230
10,531
2,084
929
2,019
14,707
(11,560)
-
60,940
6,469
67,409
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
172  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Money 
received 
against 
share 
warrants
Equity 
attributable 
to owners 
of the 
company
Non 
controlling 
Interest
Total
Securities 
Premium
General 
Reserve
Capital 
Reserve
Tonnage 
Tax Reserve 
(Utilized)
Share Option 
Outstanding 
account/
ESAR's
Special 
Reserve
Retained 
Earnings
Balance as at April 01, 2022
35,067
10,505
2,084
929
56
14,707
(11,572)
1,750
53,526
7,686
61,212
Profit/(Loss) for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
(928)
-
(928)
(163)
(1,091)
Other Comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
(433)
-
(433)
(179)
(612)
Share based payment expense
-
-
-
-
1,593
-
-
-
1,593
-
1,593
Issue of shares pursuant to preferential 
allotment (Note b)
6,857
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,750)
5,107
-
5,107
Balance as at March 31, 2023
41,924
10,505
2,084
929
1,649
14,707
(12,934)
-
58,864
7,344
66,208
Note (b) During the previous year, the Company has issued and allotted 71,61,120 Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- each (“Equity Shares”) against share warrants at a price of 
` 97.75/- per Equity Share at a premium of  `95.75/- per Equity Share, aggregating up to  ` 6,857 lakhs.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited (formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 173
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
Corporate and General information:
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise financial 
statements of Allcargo Gati Limited (“the Holding Company” 
or “Gati” or “the Company”) and its Subsidiaries (collectively, 
the Group) for the year ended March 31, 2024. The Holding 
Company is a public limited Company incorporated in 1995 
under provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 having its 
Corporate Office at 4th floor, Western Pearl, Survey No.13(P), 
Kondapur, Hyderabad - 500084, Telangana, India. The Group is 
primarily engaged in the business of Express distribution and 
Supply chain solution through Surface, Air and Rail logistics, 
Supply chain management (SCM), E-Commerce logistics, and 
Fuel stations. The Holding Company is listed on National Stock 
exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE).
During the current year, the Registrar of Companies (ROC), 
Hyderabad and Registrar of Companies (ROC), Mumbai, Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs have approved form INC 22 giving effect to 
the change in the registered office address of the Company from 
“4th floor, Western Pearl, Survey No.13(P), Kondapur, Hyderabad - 
500084, Telangana, India” to "4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, 
CST Road, Kalina, Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400 098" with 
effect from February 27, 2024.
The Subsidiary companies considered in these Consolidated 
Financial Statements are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
% Voting 
Power as 
at March 
31, 2024
% Voting 
Power As 
at March 
31, 2023
1
Gati Express & Supply 
Chain Private Limited 
(Formerly known as 
Gati Kintetsu Express 
Private Limited)
India
70%
70%
2
Gati Import Export 
Trading Limited
India
100%
100%
3
Zen Cargo Movers 
Private Limited
India
100%
100%
4
Gati Logistics Parks 
Private Limited
India
100%
100%
5
Gati Projects Private 
Limited
India
100%
100%
The Group holds an interest in below associate
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
% Voting 
Power as 
at March 
31, 2024
% Voting 
Power As 
at March 
31, 2023
1
Gati Ship Limited
India
47.91%
47.91%
Nature of Business of the subsidiaries and associate are 
as follows:
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited is India’s pioneer 
and leader in Express Distribution and Supply Chain solutions.
Gati Import Export Trading Limited is primarily engaged in the 
trading of food, Non - food, pulses watch movements, cosmetics, 
Automobile spares & Electronic goods & such other products.
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited is primarily engaged to 
carry on the business of International and domestic freight & 
forwarding agents.
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited is primarily engaged to 
set up integrated logistics park to let out and / or to carry on 
activities relating to transport multimodal.
Gati Projects Private Limited is primarily engaged to purchase, 
on lease or in exchange, hire or otherwise any immovable and/
or any rights or privileges.
Gati Ship Limited is primarily engaged to carry on the business 
of operating ships and all other ancillary incidental and related 
activities.
(1)	 Basis of Accounting:
1.1	 Statement of Compliance
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time) 
read with Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
"Act"). The presentation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is based on Division II Schedule III of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
The financial statement are approved for issue by the 
Board of Directors at its meeting held on May 16, 2024.
1.2	 Basis of Measurement
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis using historical cost, 
except as stated below
	
Financial Instruments - Measured at Fair value/ 
Amortised cost;
	
Plan Assets under defined benefit plans–Measured 
at fair value;
	
Employee share-based payments - Measured at fair 
value
1.3	 Functional and Presentation Currency
All financial information presented in Indian rupees (INR) 
which is the Group’s functional currency, has been rounded 
to the nearest lakhs, unless otherwise stated.
1.4	 Use of Estimates and Judgements
The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
requires management to make estimates, judgments and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses, the accompanying 
disclosures and disclosures of contingent liabilities. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Uncertainty about these estimates 
and assumptions could result in outcomes that require 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets 
or liabilities affected in future periods. The application 
of accounting policies that require critical accounting 
estimates involving complex and subjective judgments and 
the use of assumption in these financial statements have 
been disclosed below. Appropriate changes in estimates 
are made as management becomes aware of changes 
in circumstances surrounding the estimates. Revisions 
to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in 
which the estimates are revised and in any future periods 
affected.
174  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
Critical accounting estimates and judgments used are as 
below:
(i)	
Defined benefit obligation
(ii)	
Recognition of current tax and deferred tax
(iii)	 Recognition and measurement of provisions and 
contingencies
(iv)	 Fair value measurement of Financial instruments
(v)	
Allowance for expected credit losses of receivables
(vi)	 Allowance for bad and doubtful advances
(vii)	 Share based payments
(viii)	 Impairment of Goodwill
1.5 Basis of Consolidation
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls 
an investee if and only if the Group has all of the below:
	
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give 
it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of 
the investee)
	
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee, and
	
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect 
its returns
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and 
when the Group has less than a majority of the voting 
or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all 
relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it 
has power over an investee, including:
	
The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee
	
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
	
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights
	
The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights relative 
to the size and dispersion of the holdings of the other 
voting rights holders
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an 
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are 
changes to one or more of the three elements of control. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group 
obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the 
Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed 
of during the year are included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements from the date the Group gains control until the 
date the Group ceases to control on the subsidiary.
Consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other 
events in similar circumstances. If a member of the Group 
uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for like transactions and 
events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments 
are made to that subsidiaries financial statements in 
preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements to ensure 
conformity with the Group’s accounting policies.
The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose 
of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting date as 
that of the Holding Company, i.e., year ended March 31, 
2024. When the end of the reporting period of the Holding 
Company is different from that of a subsidiaries, the 
subsidiary prepares additional financial information as 
on the same date for consolidation purpose to enable the 
Holding Company to consolidate the financial information 
of the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
Consolidation Procedure:
a)	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows of the Group with 
those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income 
and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the 
amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements at the acquisition 
date.
b)	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
Holding Company investment in each subsidiary 
and the Holding Company portion of equity of each 
subsidiary. Eliminate in full intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
relating to transactions between entities of the 
Group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup 
transactions that are recognised in assets, such as 
inventory and Property, Plant and Equipment are 
eliminated in full). Intragroup losses may indicate 
an impairment that requires recognition in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Ind AS12 Income 
Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise 
from the elimination of profits and losses resulting 
from intragroup transactions.
c)	
Profit or loss and each component of other 
comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the 
equity holders of the Holding Company of the Group 
and to the non-controlling interests, even if this 
results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 
balance. When necessary, adjustments are made 
to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring 
their accounting policies into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies.
1.6	 Current Vs Non-Current Classification
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An 
asset is classified as current when it is:
	
Expected to be realized or intended to sell or consume 
in normal operating cycle;
	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	
Expected to be realized within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 175
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period.
All the other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;
	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 
reporting period; or
	
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement 
of the liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period.
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities respectively.
(2)	 Material Accounting Policies:
A summary of the material accounting policies applied in 
the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
are as given below. These accounting policies have been 
applied consistently to all the periods presented in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
2.1	 Property, Plant and Equipment
Recognition and Measurement:
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) held for use in 
the supply of goods or services, or for administrative 
purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at 
acquisition cost, net of accumulated depreciation 
and cumulative impairment losses, if any.
	
The initial cost at cash price equivalent of property, 
plant and equipment acquired comprises its purchase 
price after deducting trade discounts and rebates, 
including import duties and non-refundable purchase 
taxes, any directly attributable costs of bringing the 
assets to its working condition and location and 
present value of any obligatory decommissioning 
costs for its intended use. Administrative, Borrowing 
and other general overhead expenses that are 
specifically attributable to construction or acquisition 
of PPE or bringing the PPE to working condition are 
allocated and capitalized as a part of cost of PPE, 
if PPE meets the criteria of qualifying assets. When 
significant parts of plant and equipment are required 
to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates 
them separately based on their specific useful lives.
Capital work in progress and Capital Advances:
Capital work in progress represents Property, Plant and 
Equipment that are not yet ready for their intended use as 
at the Balance sheet date.
Capital advances given towards purchase/ acquisition of 
PPE outstanding at each balance sheet date are classified 
as capital advances under Other Non-current Assets.
Non-current assets held for sale
Assets are classified as Non-current assets held for sale 
and are presented separately in the Balance Sheet when 
the following criteria are met
- the Group is committed to selling the assets;
- the assets are available for sale immediately;
- an active plan of sale has commenced; and
- sale is expected to be completed within 12 months.
Assets held for sale and disposal Groups are measured at 
the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost 
to sell. Assets held for sale are no longer amortised or 
depreciated from the date of classification.
Subsequent Expenditure:
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the cost incurred 
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any 
component accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognized when replaced.
	
Items such as spare parts, stand by equipments and 
servicing equipments that meet the definition of 
property, plant and equipment are capitalized at cost 
and depreciated over their useful life.
	
Cost in nature of repair and maintenance expenses 
are charged to the statement of profit or loss during 
the reporting period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation:
	
Depreciation on assets is provided on straight-
line method at the rates determined based on the 
useful lives of respective assets as prescribed under 
Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 as follows:
Category
Useful lives 
( in years )
Building
30 to 60
Plant and machinery
5 to 15
Vehicles – Cars
8
Commercial Vehicles
8
Furniture and fixtures
10
Computers
3 to 6
Office equipments
3 to 5
	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
	
Cost of leasehold land is amortised over the period of 
the lease or its useful life, whichever is lower.
	
Depreciation method, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted, 
if appropriate.
	
Depreciation on additions (disposals) during the year 
is provided on a pro-rata basis i.e., from (upto) the 
date on which asset is ready for use (disposed off).
De-recognition Assets:
An item of Property, Plant and Equipment is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any 
gain or loss is recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss.
176  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
2.2.	 Intangible Assets:
Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost net of 
accumulated amortisation and cumulative impairment, if 
any. The Group capitalizes identifiable costs relating to 
development of internally generated software and these 
are stated net of accumulated amortisation. Estimated 
economic useful lives of the intangible assets is 3 to 6 
years. Intangible assets are amortised on straight line 
basis over its estimated useful life.
Intangible assets under development comprise costs 
relating to development of software that are not yet ready 
for their intended use as at the balance sheet date. The 
carrying amount of the intangible asset is derecognized on 
disposal or when no future economic benefit is expected 
from its use. Any gain or loss is recognised in the statement 
of Profit and loss.
2.3.	 Leases:
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a 
contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identifiable asset 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Group as a lessee
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement 
approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and 
leases of low value assets. The Group recognises lease 
liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets 
representing the right to use the underlying assets.
(i)	
Right-of-use Assets (ROU Assets)
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use 
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted 
for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The 
cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount 
of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs 
incurred, and lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease incentives 
received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term 
and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful life of Right-of-use assets range 
from one to seven years.
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the 
Group at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects 
the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation 
is calculated using the estimated useful life of the 
asset. The right-of-use assets are also subject to 
impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in Note 
2.4 Impairment assets.
(ii)	
Lease Liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group 
recognises lease liabilities measured at the present 
value of lease payments to be made over the lease 
term. The lease payments include fixed payments 
(including in substance fixed payments) less any lease 
incentives receivable, variable lease payments that 
depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected 
to be paid under residual value guarantees. The 
lease payments also include the exercise price of a 
purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by 
the Group and payments of penalties for terminating 
the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group 
exercising the option to terminate. Variable lease 
payments that do not depend on an index or a rate 
are recognised as expenses (unless they are incurred 
to produce inventories) in the period in which the 
event or condition that triggers the payment occurs. 
In calculating the present value of lease payments, 
the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at 
the lease commencement date because the interest 
rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. 
After the commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. 
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is re-measured if there is a modification, a change 
in the lease term, a change in the lease payments 
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of 
an option to purchase the underlying asset. Lease 
liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments 
have been classified as financing cash flows.
(iii)	 Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition 
exemption to its short-term leases of properties, 
machinery and equipment (i.e. those leases that 
have a lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a purchase 
option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets 
recognition exemption to leases of office equipment 
that are considered to be low value. Lease payments 
on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets 
are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
2.4.	 Impairment of assets:
a)	
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether 
there is any indication that an asset, may be impaired. 
If any indication exists, the Group estimates the 
asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating 
units (CGU) net selling price and its value in use. Where 
the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds 
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered to 
be impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss. Assessment is also 
done at each Balance Sheet date as to whether there 
is any indication that an impairment loss recognized 
for an asset in prior accounting periods may no longer 
exist or may have decreased and such reversal is 
recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss to the 
extent previously recognized in P&L and remaining 
amount transferred to reserves.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 177
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
b)	
Assets that are subject to depreciation and 
amortisation and assets representing investments 
in associate companies are reviewed for impairment, 
whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
Such circumstances include, though are not limited 
to, significant or sustained decline in revenues 
or earnings and material adverse changes in the 
economic environment.
c)	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are 
tested for impairment annually as at 31 March at the 
CGU level, as appropriate, and when circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired
d)	
CGUs to which goodwill is allocated are tested for 
impairment annually on each balance sheet date, or 
more frequently when there is an indication that the 
unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of 
the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that unit 
and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
basis of carrying amount of each asset in the unit. 
Goodwill impairment loss recognized is not reversed 
in subsequent period.
e)	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, recent market transactions 
are taken into account. If no such transactions can 
be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. 
These calculations are corroborated by valuation 
multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded 
companies or other available fair value indicators.
f)	
Goodwill arising on business combination is 
carried at cost as established at the transaction 
date of business combination. Goodwill is tested 
for impairment annually as at 31 March and when 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may 
be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill 
by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU 
(or Group of CGUs) to which the goodwill relates. 
When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less 
than it’s carrying amount, an impairment loss is 
recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill 
cannot be reversed in future periods. Intangible 
assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for 
impairment annually as at 31 March at the CGU level, 
as appropriate, and when circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may be impaired.
2.5.	 Foreign currency Transactions:
a)	
The financial statements are presented in Indian 
Rupee (INR), which is the functional and presentation 
currency of the Group.
b)	
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are 
recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the date 
of the transaction.
c)	
At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary 
items are restated using the closing exchange rate.
d)	
Any exchange difference on account of settlement 
of foreign currency transactions and restatement 
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency is recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
e)	
Non-monetary items are not retranslated at year-end 
and are measured at historical cost (translated using 
the exchange rates at the transaction date), except for 
non-monetary items measured at fair value which are 
translated using the exchange rates at the date when 
fair value was determined.
f)	
On consolidation of subsidiaries, the assets and 
liabilities of foreign operations are translated 
into INR at the rate of exchange prevailing at the 
reporting date and their statements of profit or loss 
are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. For practical reasons, 
the Group uses an average rate to translate income 
and expense items, if the average rate approximates 
the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. 
The exchange differences arising on translation for 
consolidation are recognized in OCI. On disposal of 
a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating 
to that particular foreign operation is recognized in 
profit or loss.
2.6.	 Inventories:
Cost of Inventories have been computed to include all cost 
of purchases, cost of conversion and other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net 
realizable values.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of 
completion and estimated costs necessary to make the 
sale. Cost are assigned to inventory on “Fist in First out” 
basis.
2.7.	 Revenue Recognition:
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation 
is measured at the amount of transaction price (net off 
variable consideration) allocated to the performance 
obligation. The transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable consideration on account of 
various elements like discounts etc. offered by the Group 
as part of the contract. The variable consideration is 
estimated based on the expected value of outflow.
a)	
Freight services:
Revenue has been recognised when control over 
the services transfers to the customer i.e., when the 
customer has the ability to control the use of the 
transferred services provided and generally derive 
their remaining benefits. The requirement is that 
a contract with enforceable rights and obligations 
exists and, amongst other things, the receipt of 
consideration is likely, taking-into-account the 
customer’s credit quality.
178  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
The revenue corresponds to the transaction price to 
which the Group is expected to be entitled. Variable 
consideration is included in the transaction price 
when it is highly probable that a significant reversal 
in the amount of revenue recognised will not occur 
and as soon as the uncertainty associated with the 
variable consideration no longer exists. The Group 
does not expect to have contracts where the period 
between the transfer of the promised services to the 
customer and payment by the customer exceeds one 
year. Accordingly, the promised consideration is not 
adjusted for the time value of money.
b)	
Sales of Fuel:
Revenue from sale of fuel products is recognized 
when the control on the goods has been transferred 
to the customer.
c)	
Others:
i.	
Interest income from a financial asset is 
recognised when it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and 
amount of income can be measured reliably.
ii.	
Rent income is recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease.
iii.	
Business support charges are recognized as 
and when the related services are rendered.
2.8.	 Trade receivables:
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage 
of time is required before payment of the consideration 
is due). Trade receivables are separately disclosed in the 
financial statements.
2.9.	 Financial instruments:
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset for one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument for another entity.
(i)	
Financial assets:
a)	
Initial recognition and measurement:
On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified 
and measured at:
	
Amortised Cost; or
	
Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 
(FVOCI); or
	
Fair value through Profit or loss (FVTPL)
Financial asset are not reclassified subsequent to 
their initial recognition, except if and in the period 
the Group changes its business model for managing 
financial asset. In the case of financial assets, not 
recorded at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), 
financial assets are recognized initially at fair value 
plus transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset. Purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within a time frame established by regulation 
or convention in the market place (regular way trades) 
are recognized on the trade date, i.e., the date that the 
Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
I.	
Financial assets at amortized cost:
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if 
it meets both of the following conditions and is not 
designated as at FVTPL:
a)	
The asset is held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets to collect contractual 
cash flows; and
b)	
The contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI) 
on the principal amount outstanding.
The Effective Interest Rate (EIR) amortisation is 
included in finance income in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss. This category generally applies to long-
term deposits and long-term trade receivables.
II.	
Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI):
On initial recognition of an equity investment that is 
not held for trading, the Group may irrevocably elect 
to present subsequent changes in the investment’s 
fair value in other comprehensive income (designated 
as FVOCI-equity investment). This election is made 
on an investment-by-investment basis
Financial assets are measured at the FVOCI if both of 
the following conditions are met:
a)	
The objective of the business model is achieved 
both by collecting contractual cash flows and 
selling the financial assets, and
b)	
The asset’s contractual cash flows represent 
SPPI.
Financial assets included within the FVTOCI category 
are measured initially as well as at each reporting date 
at fair value. Fair value movements are recognised in 
the other comprehensive income (OCI).
III.	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL):
All financial assets which are not classified/ measured 
at amortised cost or FVOCI as described above are 
measured at FVTPL. On initial recognition, the Group 
may irrevocably designate a financial asset that 
otherwise meets the requirements to be measured 
at amortised cost or at FVOCI as at FVTPL if doing 
so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting 
mismatch that would otherwise arise.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 179
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ii)	
Financial Liability:
Financial liabilities are classified and measured at 
amortised cost or FVTPL
a)	
Initial Recognition & Subsequent measurement:
I.	
Financial liabilities recognized at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL):
A financial liability is recognized at FVTPL if it is 
classified as held-for-trading, or it is a derivative or it 
is designated as such on initial recognition. Financial 
liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value and net 
gains and losses, including any interest expense, are 
recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
II.	
 Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and 
losses are recognised in Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
Statement of Profit and Loss when the liabilities are 
derecognized as well as through the EIR amortisation 
process. For trade and other payables maturing within 
one year from the balance sheet date, the carrying 
amounts approximates fair value due to the short 
maturity of these instruments.
b)	
Financial guarantee liability:
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are 
those contracts that require a payment to be made to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the 
specified debtor fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially 
as a liability at fair value net off transaction costs 
that are directly attributable to the issuance of the 
guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured 
at the higher of the amount of loss allowance 
determined as per impairment requirements of Ind 
AS 109 and the amount recognised less cumulative 
amortisation.
(iii)	 Impairment of Financial Assets:
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies 
expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss on the financial 
assets which are not fair valued through Statement of 
Profit and Loss. Loss allowance for trade receivables 
with no significant financing component is measured 
at an amount equal to lifetime ECL at each reporting 
date, right from its initial recognition.
For all other financial assets, expected credit losses 
are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month 
ECL, unless there has been a significant increase in 
credit risk from initial recognition in which case those 
are measured at lifetime ECL. If, in a subsequent 
period, credit quality of the instrument improves such 
that there is no longer a significant increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts 
to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 
12-month ECL.
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade 
receivables.
The application of simplified approach does not 
require the Group to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognizes impairment loss allowance 
based on lifetime Expected credit loss at each 
reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
As a practical expedient, the Group uses historically 
observed default rates over the expected life of the 
trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking 
estimates to determine impairment loss allowance on 
portfolio of its trade receivables.
(iv)	 Derecognition:
a)	
Financial Assets:
The Group derecognizes a financial asset only
	
when the contractual rights to the cash flows 
from the asset expire, or
	
It transfers the rights to receive the contractual 
cash flows in a transaction in which substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the 
financial asset are transferred or in which the 
Group neither transfers nor retains substantially 
For purposes of subsequent measurement:
Category
Subsequent measurement and gains and Losses
Financial assets at 
amortised cost
These assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method (EIR).The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses, if any. Interest income, 
foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in Statement of Profit 
and Loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
Equity investments at 
FVOCI
These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are recognised as 
income in Statement of Profit and Loss unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery 
of part of the cost of the investment. Other net gains and losses are recognised in OCI and 
are not reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss.
Financial assets at FVTPL
These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Net gains and losses, including any 
interest or dividend income, are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
An investment in associates is carried at cost in separate financial statements.
180  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
all of the risks and rewards of ownership and 
does not retain control of the financial asset.
b)	
Financial liabilities:
The Group derecognizes a financial liability when its 
contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, 
or expire. The Group also derecognizes a financial 
liability when its terms are modified and the cash 
flows under the modified terms are substantially 
different. In this case, a new financial liability based 
on the modified terms is recognised at fair value. 
The difference between the carrying amount of 
the financial liability extinguished and the new 
financial liability with modified terms is recognised 
in Statement of Profit and Loss.
(v)	
 Offsetting:
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount presented in the balance sheet, 
when and only when, the Group currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
2.10.	Fair Value measurement:
A number of the Group accounting policies and disclosures 
require the measurement of fair values, for financial assets 
and financial liabilities. The Group has an established 
control framework with respect to the measurement of 
fair values. The management has overall responsibility for 
overseeing all significant fair value measurements and 
it regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and 
valuation adjustments.
The Group measures financial assets and financial liability 
at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
- In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
- In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized 
within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based 
on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1- Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2- Inputs other than quoted prices included in 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived 
from prices).
	
Level 3- Inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines 
whether transfers have occurred between levels in the 
hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on 
the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting 
period.
2.11.	Employee benefits:
a)	
Current employee benefits
Employee benefits payable wholly within twelve 
months of availing employee services are classified 
as current employee benefits. These benefits 
include salaries and wages, bonus and ex-gratia. 
The undiscounted amount of current employee 
benefits such as salaries and wages, bonus and ex-
gratia to be paid in exchange of employee services 
are recognized in the period in which the employee 
renders the related service.
b)	
Defined contribution plan:
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment 
benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed 
contributions into a separate entity and will have 
no legal or constructive obligation to pay further 
amounts. The Group makes specified monthly 
contributions of employee provident fund to 
Government administered provident fund and 
Employee State insurance scheme which is defined 
contribution plans. Obligations for contributions 
to defined contribution plans are recognized as an 
employee benefit expense in the statement of Profit 
and Loss in the periods during which the related 
services are rendered by employees.
c)	
Defined benefit plan:
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit 
plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The Group’s gratuity benefit scheme is a defined 
benefit plan. The Group’s net obligation in respect 
of defined benefit plans is calculated by estimating 
the amount of future benefit that employees have 
earned in the current and prior periods, discounting 
that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan 
assets. The calculation of defined benefit obligation 
is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the 
projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a potential asset 
for the Group, the recognized asset is limited to the 
present value of economic benefits available in the 
form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions 
in future contributions to the plan (‘the asset ceiling’). 
In order to calculate the present value of economic 
benefits, consideration is given to any minimum 
funding requirements.
Re-measurements of the net defined benefit liability, 
which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return 
on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect 
of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are 
recognized in Other comprehensive income (OCI).
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 181
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
The Group determines the net interest expense 
(income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) 
for the period by applying the discount rate used 
to measure the defined benefit obligation at the 
beginning of the annual period to the then-net 
defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account 
any changes in the net defined benefit liability 
(asset) during the period as a result of contributions 
and benefit payments. Net interest expense and 
other expenses related to defined benefit plans are 
recognized in Statement of Profit and Loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a 
plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that 
relates to past service (‘past service cost’ or ‘past 
service gain’) or the gain or loss on curtailment is 
recognized immediately in Statement of profit and 
Loss. The Group recognizes gains and losses on 
the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the 
settlement occurs.
The contributions are deposited with the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India based on information 
received by the Group. When the benefits of a plan 
are improved, the portion of the increased benefit 
related to past service by employees is recognized in 
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis 
over the average period until the benefits become 
vested.
d)	
Compensated absences:
As per policy of the Group, employees can carry 
forward unutilized accrued compensated absences 
and utilize it in next service period or receive cash 
compensation. Since the compensated absences 
fall due wholly within twelve months after the end of 
the period in which the employees render the related 
service and are also expected to be utilized wholly 
within twelve months after the end of such period, the 
benefit is classified as a current employee benefit. The 
Group records an obligation for such compensated 
absences in the year in which the employee renders 
the services that increase this entitlement.
The obligation towards the same is measured at 
the expected cost of accumulating compensated 
absences as the additional amount expected to 
be paid as a result of the unused entitlement as 
at the year end. The Group’s liability is actuarially 
determined (using the Projected Unit Credit method) 
at the end of each year. Re-measurements as a result 
of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognized in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
e)	
Short-term employee benefit:
Short-term employee benefit obligations are 
measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed 
as the related service is provided. A liability is 
recognized for the amount expected to be paid, if the 
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
to pay this amount as a result of past service provided 
by the employee, and the amount of obligation can be 
estimated reliably.
2.12.	Exceptional items
Exceptional items refer to items of income or expense 
within the income statement that are of such size, nature 
or incidence that their separate disclosure is considered 
necessary to explain the performance for the period. 
Material item of income or expense are evaluated on a 
case to case basis for disclosure under exceptional items
2.13.	Taxes:
a)	
Income Tax:
The tax expense for the period comprises current and 
deferred tax. Tax is recognised in Statement of Profit 
and Loss, except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in the other comprehensive income or in 
equity. In which case, the tax is also recognised in 
other comprehensive income or equity.
Current tax:
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that 
are enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance 
sheet date.
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside the Statement of Profit and Loss is 
recognised outside the Statement of Profit and Loss 
(either in other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate.
Deferred tax:
Deferred tax is recognized for temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in financial statements and their corresponding 
tax bases. Deferred tax assets are recognized 
for deductible temporary differences, unused tax 
credits, and tax losses, but only to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available to offset 
them. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced if it 
becomes unlikely that sufficient taxable profit will 
be available. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and recognized if 
it becomes probable that future taxable profits will 
allow their recovery.
Deferred tax related to items recognized outside the 
Statement of Profit and Loss is recognized outside 
the Statement of Profit and Loss, either in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred 
tax liabilities and assets are measured using the tax 
rates expected to apply when the liability is settled 
or the asset is realized, based on tax rates and laws 
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period. The carrying amount of deferred tax 
182  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
liabilities and assets is reviewed at the end of each 
reporting period.
b)	
GST/ value added taxes paid on acquisition of 
assets or on incurring expenses:
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the 
amount of sales/ value added taxes paid, except:
When the tax incurred on a purchase of assets 
or services is not recoverable from the taxation 
authority, in which case, the tax paid is recognised 
as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item, as applicable
Where receivables and payables are stated with the 
amount of tax included.
2.14.	Cash and cash equivalents:
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents 
include cash in hand, cheques in hand, demand deposits 
with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less.
2.15.	Provisions and Contingencies:
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that 
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible 
obligations that arise from past events, whose existence 
would be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within 
the control of the Group. Such liabilities are disclosed by 
way of notes to the financial statements.
2.16.	Borrowing cost:
Borrowing costs are interest and other costs (including 
exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an 
adjustment to interest costs) incurred in connection 
with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs directly 
attributable to acquisition or construction of an asset 
which necessarily take a substantial period of time to get 
ready for their intended use are capitalized as part of the 
cost of that asset.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they are incurred.
Where there is an unrealised exchange loss which is treated 
as an adjustment to interest and subsequently there is a 
realised or unrealised gain in respect of the settlement or 
translation of the same borrowing, the gain to the extent 
of the loss previously recognised as an adjustment is 
recognised as an adjustment to interest.
2.17.	Share based payments:
Equity- settled share-based payments to employees are 
measured at the fair value of the employee stock options 
at the grant date.
The fair value of option at the grant date is expensed over 
the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity 
as “Share Option outstanding account”. In case of forfeiture 
of unvested option, portion of amount already expensed is 
reversed. In a situation where the vested option forfeited 
or expires unexercised, the related balance standing to 
the credit of the “Share Option outstanding account” are 
transferred to the “General Reserve”.
When the options are exercised, the Group issues new fully 
paid up equity shares of the Group. The proceeds received 
and the related balance standing to credit of the Share 
Option outstanding account, are credited to equity share 
capital (nominal value) and Securities Premium.
2.18.	Segment Reporting:
Segments are identified based on the manner in which the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) decides about 
resource allocation and reviews performance. Segment 
results that are reported to the CODM include items 
directly attributable to a segment as well as those that 
can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Segment capital 
expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to 
acquire property and equipment and intangible assets 
other than goodwill.
2.19.	Investment in Associate:
An associate is an entity over which the Group has 
significant influence. Significant influence is the power to 
participate in the financial and operating policy decisions 
of the investee but is not control or joint control over those 
policies.
The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted 
for using the equity method. Under the equity method, 
the investment in an associate is initially recognised at 
cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted 
to recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of 
the associate since the acquisition date.
The value of investment in associate had been fully 
provided in the books of accounts.
2.20. Earnings per share:
(i)	
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the 
net profit or loss before other comprehensive Income 
for the period attributable to equity shareholders 
of the Holding Company by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 183
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(ii)	
Diluted earnings per share:
Diluted earnings per share adjust the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
	
The after income tax effect of interest and 
other financing costs associated with dilutive 
potential equity shares, and
	
The weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been outstanding 
assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
2.21. Climate Related Matters
The Company considers climate-related matters in 
estimates and assumptions, where appropriate. This 
assessment includes a wide range of possible impacts 
on the Company due to both physical and transition risks. 
Even though the Company believes its business model 
and products will still be viable after the transition to a 
low-carbon economy, climate-related matters increase 
the uncertainty in estimates and assumptions. Even 
though climate-related risks might not currently have a 
significant impact on measurement, the Company is 
closely monitoring relevant changes and developments, 
such as new climate-related legislation.
2.22. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 
dated 31 March 2023 to amend the following Ind AS which 
are effective from April 1, 2023. the Company applied for 
the first-time these amendments.
i. Ind AS 1 - Disclosure of material accounting policies: The 
amendments related to shifting of disclosure of erstwhile 
"significant accounting policies' to "material accounting 
policies' in the notes to the financial statements and adding 
guidance on how entities apply the concept of materiality 
in making decisions.
The amendments have had an impact on the Group's 
disclosures of accounting policies, but not on the 
measurement, recognition or presentation of any items in 
the Group's financial statements.
ii. Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes: The amendments narrowed 
the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 
15 and 24 of Ind AS 12. At the date of transition to Ind 
ASs, a first-time adopter shall recognise a deferred tax 
asset to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary 
difference can be utilised. Similarly, a deferred tax liability 
for all deductible and taxable temporary differences 
associated with: a) right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, 
b) decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities and 
the corresponding amounts recognised as part of the cost 
of the related asset. Therefore, if a the Group has not yet 
recognised deferred tax on right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities or has recognised deferred tax on net basis, 
the same need to recognise on gross basis based on the 
carrying amount of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.
The amendments had no impact on the Consolidated 
financial statements.
iii. Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors: The amendments clarify the 
distinction between changes in accounting estimates, 
changes in accounting policies and the correction of errors. 
It has also been clarified how entities use measurement 
techniques and inputs to develop accounting estimates.
	
The amendments had no impact on the Consolidated 
financial statements.
2.23. Significant accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions:
The preparation of the Group’s financial statements 
requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the 
carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future 
periods. Some of the significant accounting judgement 
and estimates are given below
i)	
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the 
present value of the gratuity obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation 
involves making various assumptions that may differ 
from actual developments in the future. These include 
the determination of the discount rate, future salary 
increases and mortality rates. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date. The parameter most 
subject to change is the discount rate. In determining 
the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in 
India, the management considers the interest rates of 
government bonds in currencies consistent with the 
currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation.
Future salary increases and gratuity increases are 
based on expected future inflation rates for the 
respective countries. The mortality rate is based on 
publicly available mortality tables for the specific 
countries. Those mortality tables tend to change only 
at interval in response to demographic changes
ii)	
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
When the fair values of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be 
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, 
their fair value is measured using valuation techniques 
including the discounted cash flow (DCF) model. The 
inputs to these models are taken from observable 
markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, 
a degree of judgement is required in establishing 
fair values. Judgements include considerations of 
inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 
Changes in assumptions about these factors could 
affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. 
Refer Note 42 for further disclosures.
184  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
iii)	
Leases - Estimating the incremental borrowing rate
The Group cannot readily determine the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, therefore, it uses its incremental 
borrowing rate (IBR) to measure lease liabilities. The 
IBR is the rate of interest that the Group would have 
to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar 
security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of 
a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar 
economic environment. The IBR therefore reflects 
what the Group ‘would have to pay’, which requires 
estimation when no observable rates are available. 
The Group estimates the IBR using observable inputs 
(such as market interest rates) when available and 
is required to make certain entity-specific estimates 
(such as the credit rating).
iv)	
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant 
proportion of the asset base of the Group. The charge 
in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after 
determining an estimate of an asset's expected 
useful life and the expected residual value at the end 
of its life. The useful lives and residual values of the 
Group assets are determined by management at the 
time the asset is acquired and reviewed periodically, 
including at each financial year end. The lives are 
based on historical experience with similar assets.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 185
3A.	 Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Tangible assets
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2023
 
Additions 
 Assets 
Reclassified 
to  Held for 
Sale 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
As at 
March 
31, 2024 
 As at 
April 01, 
2023 
 
Depreciation 
for the year 
 Impairment 
for the year 
 Assets 
Reclassified 
to  Held for 
Sale 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 31, 
2024 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
Freehold Land
2,171
-
664
869
638
869
-
-
-
869
-
638
1,302
Buildings
41
-
17
-
24
12
1
-
-
-
13
11
29
Lease Hold 
Improvements
231
64
-
-
295
7
17
-
-
-
24
271
224
Vehicles
314
-
-
74
240
194
25
-
-
43
176
64
120
Plant & Machinery
3,703
240
-
469
3,474
1,412
475
-
-
393
1,494
1,980
2,291
Computer
4,091
655
-
842
3,904
3,248
440
-
-
842
2,846
1,058
843
Furniture & Fittings
3,723
167
-
463
3,427
1,688
229
-
-
408
1,509
1,918
2,035
Office Equipment
2,215
226
-
325
2,116
1,797
155
-
-
320
1,632
484
418
Total
16,489
1,352
681
3,042
14,118
9,227
1,342
-
-
2,875
7,694
6,424
7,262
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Additions
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Depreciation 
for the year
Impairment 
for the year
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March
31, 2022
Freehold Land
2,176
-
5
-
2,171
524
-
345
-
-
869
1,302
1,652
Buildings
794
-
459
294
41
138
7
-
57
76
12
29
656
Lease Hold 
Improvements
78
153
-
-
231
1
6
-
-
-
7
224
77
Vehicles
432
35
-
153
314
214
38
-
-
58
194
120
218
Plant & Machinery
4,764
994
-
2,055
3,703
2,501
467
-
-
1,556
1,412
2,291
2,263
Computer
4,234
789
-
932
4,091
3,863
317
-
-
932
3,248
843
371
Furniture & Fittings
3,890
1,352
-
1,519
3,723
2,728
287
-
-
1,327
1,688
2,035
1,162
Office Equipment
2,364
326
-
475
2,215
2,099
161
-
-
463
1,797
418
265
Total
18,732
3,649
464
5,428
16,489
12,068
1,283
345
57
4,412
9,227
7,262
6,664
Notes :
a)	
The amount of Contractual commitments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment is disclosed in Note 37(ii).
b)	
Refer Note 16 for detailed information on assets held for sale.
c)	
No proceedings have been initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 
1988 (as amended in 2016) [formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)] and Rules made thereunder.
d)	
During the current year, the management has identified three non-core immovable properties for monetisation purpose and accordingly classified from Property Plant 
and Equipment to Assets Held for Sale as it meets criteria of Asset held for sale amounting ` 681 Lakhs (March 31, 2023- ` 407 lakhs)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024 
 (All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
186  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024 
 (All amounts in Indian Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
3B.	 Right-of-use Assets (ROU)
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2023 
 
Additions 
 Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
As at 
March 
31, 2024 
As at 
April 01, 
2023 
 Amortization 
for the year 
 Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
 As at 
March 
31, 2024 
As at 
March 
31, 2024 
As at 
March 
31, 2023 
Buildings
24,202
10,090
-
2,874
31,418
6,264
5,303
-
2,049
9,518
21,900
17,938
Vehicles
814
-
-
797
17
808
7
-
798
17
-
6
Vehicles - ALD Cars
22
6
-
7
21
7
10
-
3
14
7
15
Computers
660
-
-
139
521
446
66
-
139
373
148
214
Plant & Machinery
134
-
-
-
134
29
28
-
-
57
77
105
Total
25,832
10,096
-
3,817
32,111
7,554
5,414
-
2,989
9,979
22,132
18,278
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Additions
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
April 01, 
2022
Amortization 
for the year
Assets 
Reclassified 
to Held for 
Sale
Disposals/ 
Adjustment
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2022
Leasehold Land
910
6
916
-
-
78
2
80
-
-
-
832
Buildings
19,059
6,813
-
1,670
24,202
3,389
3,870
-
995
6,264
17,938
15,670
Vehicles
1,327
-
-
513
814
642
471
-
305
808
6
685
Vehicles - ALD Cars
22
7
-
7
22
4
8
-
5
7
15
18
Computers
660
-
-
-
660
324
122
-
-
446
214
336
Plant & Machinery
38
96
-
-
134
2
27
-
-
29
105
36
Total
22,016
6,922
916
2,190
25,832
4,439
4,500
80
1,305
7,554
18,278
17,577
	
The following are the amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation expense of Right-of-use Assets
5,414
4,500
Interest expense on Lease Liabilities
1,897
1,650
Total
7,311
6,150
	
 Notes:
	
a)	
The aggregate depreciation expenses on Right-of-use asset (ROU) is included under depreciation and amortization expenses in the Statement of Profit and Loss. (Refer 
Note - 33)
	
b)	
The Company had total cash outflows for leases of  `6,297 lakhs during the year ended March 31, 2024. The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in note 
21 of these Consolidated financial statements.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 187
4.	
Goodwill
	
Goodwill is recognized as the result of consolidation of our subsidiary, Gati Express and Supply Chain Private Limited and the Business Transfer Agreement executed in 
the financial year 2011-12, representing the excess value of liabilities over the acquired assets. Goodwill arising upon business combinations is not amortised but tested for 
impairment at least annually or more frequently if there is any indication that the cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated is impaired. Gross carrying value and 
accumulated amortisation with respect to goodwill represent Indian GAAP balances, that have been carried forward as such, relating to business combination entered before 
the transition date i.e., April 01, 2016.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Gross carrying value
Opening Balance
 42,580 
 42,580 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance
 42,580 
 42,580 
Accumulated Amortisation
Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
Impairment Loss
 - 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance
 - 
 - 
Net Carrying Value
 42,580 
 42,580 
The carrying value of the subsidiary company's ( Gati Express Supply Chain Private Limited ) net identifiable assets has been classified as a single Cash Generating Unit since 
they represent the smallest collection of assets that generate independent cash flows. As a result, the carrying value of goodwill has been assigned to the single identified 
Cash Generating Unit for the purposes of the impairment test.Impairment testing was performed on 31st March 2024.
The recoverable amounts of the above cash generating units have been assessed using a value-in-use model. Value in use is generally calculated as the net present value of 
the projected post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially, a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate 
the net present value of the post-tax cash flows. Key assumptions upon which the Company has based its determinations of value-in-use include:
a)	
Estimated cash flows for five years, based on management’s projections.
b)	
A terminal value arrived at by extrapolating the last forecasted year cash flows to perpetuity, using a constant long-term growth rate of 5%. This long-term growth rate 
takes into consideration external macroeconomic sources of data.
c)	
The pre tax discount rates used are based on the Company’s weighted average cost of capital 15.69%.
The Company believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which a recoverable amount is based would not cause the aggregate carrying amount 
to exceed the aggregate recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024 
 (All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
188  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
5.	
Other Intangible Assets
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
 As at 
April 01, 
2023 
 
Additions 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
As at 
March 
31, 2024 
As at 
April 01, 2023
 Amortization 
for the year 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
 As at 
March 31, 
2024 
  As at 
March 31, 
2024 
 As at 
March 
31, 2023 
Computer software
 1,773 
 35 
 557 
 1,251 
 1,441 
 138 
 547 
 1,032 
 219 
 333 
Total
 1,773 
 35 
 557 
 1,251 
 1,441 
 138 
 547 
 1,032 
 219 
 333 
Particulars
Gross Block
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Carrying Value
As at 
April 01, 
2022
 Additions 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
April 01, 2022
 Amortization 
for the year 
 Disposals/ 
Adjustment 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
March 31, 
2023 
As at 
March 31, 
2022 
Computer software
 1,752 
 21 
 - 
 1,773 
 1,303 
 138 
 - 
 1,441 
 333 
 450 
Total
 1,752 
 21 
 - 
 1,773 
 1,303 
 138 
 - 
 1,441 
 333 
 450 
6.	
 Intangible Assets under Development 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Software under Development
371
59
Total
371
59
Notes :
Expenses during the year capitalized in respect of intangible Assets under development.
a) Other Expenses.
 371 
 - 
 371 
 - 
	
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule
Amount for a period of
Total
Less than 1 Year
1-2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 3 Years
Projects in progress
As at March 31, 2024
371
-
-
371
As at March 31, 2023
-
59
-
-
59
Notes:
a) The Group does not have any overdue projects as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
b) The Group does not have any projects where its cost has exceeded its original budget value.
c) The Group has expensed off ` 59 Lakhs of Intangible assets under development during the year.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024 
 (All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 189
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
7 	
 Other Non Current Financial Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Security Deposit with Land lords towards leases
1,500
1,012
Term Deposit with Banks (original and remaining maturity more than 12 months)
5
-
Margin Money with Banks (remaining maturity more than 12 months)
-
35
Total (A)
1,505
1,047
Gati Kausar India Limited of  `10/-each (*)
8
8
Less: Impairment Allowance
(8)
(8)
Total (B)
-
-
Total (A)+(B)
1,505
1,047
(*) Gati Kausar India Limited ceased to be a subsidiary with effect from July 14, 2021. The Group has retained 7,518 number of equity 
shares as investment amounting to  `8 lakhs which was fully provided in earlier years.
8 	
Income tax assets, net
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
MAT Credit
10
10
Deferred Tax Assets, net
3,558
2,625
Total
3,568
2,635
8.1.	 Movement in Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities during the year ended  March 31, 2024 and  March 31, 2023
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
Recognised In 
Statement of 
Profit & Loss
Recognised 
In Equity
Others
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)
Property, Plant and Equipment
373
(50)
-
-
323
Assets Held for Sale
(1,051)
1,051
-
-
-
Allowances for Expected Credit Loss
2,020
(345)
-
-
1,675
Employee Benefits - Gratuity and 
Compensated Absences
800
(31)
38
-
807
Right of Use Assets
(4,587)
(978)
(5,565)
Leases Liabilities
4,928
1,147
6,075
Other Temporary Differences
142
101
-
-
243
MAT Credit Entitlement, net
10
-
-
-
10
Net Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)
2,635
895
38
-
3,568
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2022
Recognised In 
Statement of 
Profit & Loss
Recognised 
In Equity
Others
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)
Property, Plant and Equipment
237
136
-
-
373
Assets Held for Sale
-
(1,051)
-
-
(1,051)
Allowances for Expected Credit Loss
1,797
223
-
-
2,020
Employee Benefits - Gratuity and 
Compensated Absences
510
89
201
-
800
Right of Use Assets
(4,213)
(374)
-
-
(4,587)
Leases Liabilities
4,328
600
-
-
4,928
Other Temporary Differences
110
32
-
-
142
MAT Credit Entitlement, net
10
-
-
-
10
Net Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)
2,779
(345)
201
-
2,635
The Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries, will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, Hence 
the Group has not created Deferred Tax Liability on the undistributed subsidary profits.
190  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
9.	
Income tax assets, net
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Advance tax, net
5,910
6,610
Total
5,910
6,610
10.	 Other Non-Current Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Capital Advance
376
21
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Capital Advance
173
173
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Advances
(173)
(173)
Total (A)
376
21
Balances with Statutory Authorities
207
126
Prepaid Expenses
12
13
Total (B)
219
139
Total (A)+(B)
595
160
11.	 Inventories
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(At Lower of Cost and Net Realisable Value)
Stock-in-Trade *
215
244
Total
215
244
* Consists of Petrol, Diesel & Lubricants etc.,
Note: No inventories were pledged as security for liabilities during the current year and previous year.
12.	 Trade Receivables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Unsecured
Considered Good,
25,837
30,547
Credit Impaired
3,896
3,439
Total
29,733
33,986
Less: Allowances for Expected Credit loss (Refer Note: 42(C)(i)(a))
(5,352)
(7,308)
Total
24,381
26,678
Trade Receivable ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Total
Not 
due
Less than 6 
months
6 months 
- 1 Year
1-2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
More than 
3 Years
i) Undisputed Trade Receivable - Considered good
16,128
8,655
650
223
181
-
25,837
ii) Undisputed Trade Receivable - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
141
141
iii) Disputed Trade Receivable - Considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
iv) Disputed Trade Receivable - Credit impaired
-
8
125
459
229
2,934
3,755
Gross Trade Receivables
16,128
8,663
775
682
410
3,075
29,733
Less: Allowances for Expected Credit Loss
(5,352)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
24,381
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 191
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Trade receivable ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Total
Not 
due
Less than 6 
months
6 months 
- 1 Year
1-2 
Years
2 - 3 
Years
More than 
3 Years
i) Undisputed Trade Receivable - Considered good
14,160
12,820
1,470
1,536
561
-
30,547
ii) Undisputed Trade Receivable - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
219
219
iii) Disputed Trade Receivable - Considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
iv) Disputed Trade Receivable - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
143
3,077
3,220
Gross Trade Receivables
14,160
12,820
1,470
1,536
704
3,296
33,986
Less: Allowances for Expected Credit Loss
(7,308)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
26,678
Note:
i)	
No Trade receivables are due from directors and other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person.
ii)	
The Carrying amount of trade receivables is pledged as security for working capital loans. (Refer Note 23)
iii)	
Trade Receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days.
13A 	Cash and Cash Equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with Banks:
	
In Current Accounts
3,788
1,878
	
Term deposits with bank (original maturities less than 3 months)
5,057
-
Cash on hand
18
15
Total
8,863
1,893
13B 	Other Bank Balances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Term deposits with bank (original maturities more than 3 months but less than 12 
months)
8,525
7,637
Margin money with bank (original maturities more than 3 months but less than 12 
months)
114
67
Unpaid Dividend account
37
55
Total
8,676
7,759
14.	 Other Current Financial Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Receivable towards management fees and ESAR from related parties (refer Related 
Party Note 45(C))
881
768
Security Deposit with Land lords towards leases
870
1,196
Security Deposits with vendors
57
293
Accrued Interest on Deposits
88
100
Inter-Corporate Deposits (ICD's)
25
23
Earnest Money Deposits
6
6
Advance to Employees
15
10
Other receivables
211
35
Total (A)
2,153
2,431
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Other receivables
1,911
2,327
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Receivable
(1,911)
(2,327)
Total (B)
-
-
Total (A)+(B)
2,153
2,431
192  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
15 	 Other Current Assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Considered good, unsecured
Advance against Supply of Goods and Services for truck hire charges
1,345
711
Advance against Supply of Goods and Services for others
541
746
Considered doubtful, unsecured
Advance against Supply of Goods and Service
458
458
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Advances
(458)
(458)
Total (A)
1,886
1,457
Prepaid Expenses
729
500
Balances with Statutory Authorities
788
1,148
Others
3
8
Total (B)
1,520
1,656
Total (A)+(B)
3,406
3,113
16	 Assets Held for Sale
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
A)	 Property, Plant & Equipment
	
Land & Building
 1,346 
 7,388 
	
Total
 1,346 
 7,388 
Movement of Assets held for sale 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance of Assets held for sale
7,388
13,260
Classified to Assets held for sale during the year (Refer Note 3A)
681
1,243
Disposal of Assets held for sale during the year
(6,723)
(7,115)
Closing Balance of Assets held for sale
1,346
7,388
Note - The Group has adopted an Asset Light Strategy, basis which the decision was taken to sell the all the non-core 
immovable properties and use the proceeds from such sale to pay the debt. Exceptional item refers to loss/gain on disposal 
of such assets as at March 31, 2024 in line with Ind AS 105. the Group has taken necessary steps and negotiation is ongoing 
with the prospective buyers for the sale of assets classified as AHS which is expected to be concluded in next one year. 
The Group has sold properties of ` 6,723 lakhs and has recorded a gain of ` 1,066 lakhs in exceptional item.The proceeds from sale 
of properties is ` 7,779 Lakhs included net of advances received against Sale of propertes.
B)	
Investments
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number / Units
Amount
Number / Units
Amount
B)	 Investments
	
Investment in an Associate
	
Gati Ship Limited of  ` 10/- each
48,00,000
8,623
48,00,000
8,623
	
Less: Impairment Allowance
(8,623)
(8,623)
	
Total
-
-
Note:
a)	
The Board has taken necessary steps and negotiation is ongoing with the prospective buyers for disposal of the above Property 
Plant & Equipment and investments and transaction is expected to be concluded in next one year.
b)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee), are held in the name of the Holding Company, except for the following:
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 193
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Description of item of 
Property
Gross Carrying 
Value
Title deeds 
held in the 
name of
Whether title deed 
holder is a Promoter, 
director or relative of 
Promoter/director or 
employee of promter
Property 
held Since 
which year
Reason for not being held in the 
name of the Company
Freehold building 
(Chennai Myalpore)
352
Transport 
Corporation 
of India 
Limited
No
2000
The asset was transferred to the 
Company pursuant to the business 
transfer arrangement with Transport 
Corporation of India Limited and the 
same is in the process of sale
Freehold building 
(Sholapur)
0.01
Transport 
Corporation 
of India 
Limited
No
2000
The asset was transferred to the 
Company pursuant to the business 
transfer arrangement with Transport 
Corporation of India Limited and the 
same is in the process of sale
17 	 Equity Share Capital
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Authorized share capital
Equity Shares of ` 2/- each
17,50,00,000
3,500
17,50,00,000
3,500
3,500
3,500
Issued equity capital
Equity Shares of  `2/- each fully paid up
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
2,605
2,603
Subscribed and fully paid-up:
Equity Shares of  `2/- each fully paid up
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
a)	
Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of Shares
Amount
No. of Shares
Amount
Shares at the beginning of the year
13,01,30,117
2,603
12,29,68,997
2,459
Add: Shares isuued on allotment during the year ( Refer (i) 
& (ii) )
1,21,910
2
71,61,120
144
Shares at the end of the year
13,02,52,027
2,605
13,01,30,117
2,603
	
i) Details of shares issued/allotted during the financial year 2023-24 are as follows:
Date of allotment
Mode of Issue/allotment
No. of shares 
allotted
Face Value 
per shares
Nature of 
Consideration
a) August 04, 2023
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
24,866
2
Cash
b) September 02, 2023
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
19,469
2
Cash
c) November 03, 2023
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
62,885
2
Cash
d) February 02, 2024
Employee Stock Appreciation Rights
14,690
2
Cash
Total
1,21,910
	
ii) During the previous financial year, the Board of Directors of the Company have approved the allotment of 71,61,120 (Seventy 
One Lakhs Sixty One Thousand One Hundred and Twenty) Equity Shares of a face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two Only) fully paid up, 
to Allcargo Logistics Limited, Promoter of the Company, pursuant to the exercise of options attached to the Warrants allotted 
on June 17, 2021 and upon the receipt of balance 75% of the subscription money. Consequent to above allotment, the paid-up 
equity shares capital of the Company has increased by ` 1,43,22,240/- (Rupees One Crore Fourty Three Lakhs Twenty Two 
Thousand Two Hundred and Fourty Only) which represents 71,61,120 (Seventy One Lacs Sixty One Thousand One Hundred and 
Twenty) Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two Only) each.
16 	 Assets Held for Sale (contd)
194  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
b)	
Terms /Rights attached to Shareholders
	
The Company has only one class of issued shares i.e. Equity Shares having par value of  2 /- per share. Each holder of Equity 
Shares is entitled to one vote per share and ranks pari passu. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to 
receive the remaining assets of the Company after payment of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding. "
c)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
No. of Shares
% of holding
No. of Shares
% of holding
Allcargo Logistics Limited
6,53,30,095
50.16%
6,53,30,095
50.20%
Mr. Mukul Mahavir Agrawal
70,00,000
5.37%
70,00,000
5.38%
Total
7,23,30,095
55.53%
7,23,30,095
55.58%
d)	
The Company has neither allotted any equity shares for consideration other than cash nor has issued any bonus shares nor 
has bought back any shares during the year of five years preceding the date at which Balance Sheet is prepared.
e)	
No calls are unpaid by any directors or officers of the Company during the year.
f)	
Details of shares held by promoters
Sl. No.	Name of the Promoter
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
% Change 
during the 
Year
Number of 
Shares
% of 
Shareholding
Number of 
Shares
% of 
Shareholding
1
Allcargo Logistics Limited (effective from April 
08, 2020)
6,53,30,095
50.16
6,53,30,095
50.20
0%
2
Neera And Children Trust
23,15,889
1.78
23,15,889
1.78
0%
3
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal
2,24,935
0.17
2,24,935
0.17
0%
4
Tci Finance Limited
2,84,838
0.22
4,88,347
0.38
-42%
5
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal & Sons HUF
4,90,118
0.38
5,41,568
0.42
-10%
6
Mahendra Investment Advisors Private Limited
1,51,577
0.12
1,51,577
0.12
0%
7
Jubilee Commercial & Trading Private Limited
20,000
0.02
20,000
0.02
0%
8
Dhruv Agarwal Benefit Trust
8,750
0.01
8,750
0.01
0%
9
Manish Agarwal Benefit Trust
1,19,728
0.09
24,728
0.02
384%
10
Bunny Investments & Finance Private Limited
-
0.00
-
0.00
0%
Total
6,89,45,930
52.93
6,91,05,889
53.12
Note : During the year, the following Promoter and Promoter Group members have applied for reclassification from "Promoter 
and Promoter Group" category to "Public" category under Regulation 31A of SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015:-
1)	
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal
2)	
Mahendra Kumar Agarwal & Sons HUF
3)	
TCI Finance Limited
4)	
Mahendra Investment Advisors Private Limited
5)	
Jubilee Commercial & Trading Private Limited
6)	
Bunny Investments And Finance Private Limited
18 	 Other Equity
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a)
Securities Premium
42,230
41,924
b)
General Reserve
10,531
10,505
c)
Capital Reserve
2,084
2,084
d)
Tonnage Tax Reserve (Utilized)
929
929
e)
Share based payment reserve (ESARs - Equity)
2,019
1,649
f)
Special Reserve
14,707
14,707
g)
Retained Earning
(11,560)
(12,934)
Total
60,940
58,864
17 	 Equity Share Capital (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 195
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
The description, nature, purpose and movement of each reserve under other equity are as follows:-
a)	
Securities Premium :
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of equity shares. The same can be utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of The Companies Act, 2013.
b)	
General Reserve :
	
General reserve is the retained earnings of the Group, which are kept aside out of the Group profit to meet future obligations, 
if any.
c)	
Capital Reserve :
	
Capital Reserve includes amount received on allotment of convertible warrants was forfeited and transferrred to Capital Reserve 
Account.
d)	
Tonnage Tax Reserve (Utilised) :
	
This reserve is a statutory reserve which is created and will be utilized in accordance with the provisions of Section 115VT of 
Income tax Act 1961 to comply with the provisions of ‘Tonnage Tax Scheme’ under Chapter XII-G of Income tax Act, 1961.
e)	
Share based payment Reserve :
	
The share based payment reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share based payment transactions with 
employees. The amount recorded in this reserve is transferred to securities premium upon exercise of stock appreciation 
rights options by employees. The amount outstanding in the "Share based payment reserve" will be transferred to "General 
Reserve", when the options are lapsed / cancelled .
f)	
Special Reserve:
	
The Hon’ble Andhra Pradesh High Court, approved the Scheme of Arrangement for amalgamation. (The Scheme) vide its 
Order dated March 19, 2013 which interalia, permits creation of a capital reserve to be called Special Reserve to which shall 
be credited excess of value of assets over value of liabilities on amalgamation of the subsidiaries amounting to  55,554 Lakhs 
to be utilized by the Company to adjust therefrom any capital losses arising from transfer of assets and certain other losses, 
any balance remaining in the Special Reserve shall be available for adjustment against any future permanent diminution in the 
value of assets and exceptional items etc. as specified in the Scheme as the Board of directors may deem fit.
g)	
Retained Earnings:
	
Retained earnings comprise of net accumulated profit/ (loss) of the Group, after declaration of dividend.
	
The movement of Other equity as follows:
i)
The movement of Securities Premium
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
41,924
35,067
Add: Issue of shares pursuant to prefential allotment
-
6,857
Add: Transfer on account of exercise of ESARs
306
-
Closing Balance
42,230
41,924
ii)
The movement of General Reserve
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
10,505
10,505
Add: Transfer on account of ESARs not exercised
26
-
Closing Balance
10,531
10,505
iii)
The movement of Capital Reserve
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
2,084
2,084
Add/(Less): Adjustment during year
-
-
Closing Balance
2,084
2,084
196  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
iv)
The movement of Tonnage Tax Reserve (Utilised)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
929
929
Add/(Less): Adjustment during year
-
-
Closing Balance
929
929
v)
The movement of Share based payment reserve (ESARs - Equity)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
1,649
56
Add: Share based payment expense
702
1,593
Less: Transfer on account of ESARs not exercised
(26)
-
Less: Transfer on account of exercise of ESARs
(306)
-
Closing Balance
2,019
1,649
vi)
The movement of Special Reserve
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
14,707
14,707
Add/(Less): Adjustment during year
-
-
Closing Balance
14,707
14,707
vii)
The movement of Retained Earning
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
(12,934)
(11,572)
Add: Profit/(Loss) for the year
1,453
(928)
Add: Other Comprehensive income for the year
(79)
(433)
Closing Balance
(11,560)
(12,934)
19.	 Non controlling interest
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Non controlling interest
7,344
7,686
Add: Loss for the year attributable to Non-controlling interest
(841)
(163)
Add: Other comprehensive income for the year
(34)
(179)
Total
6,469
7,344
20.	 Non Current Borrowings
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Non - Current
Current 
Maturities
Non - Current
Current 
Maturities
Secured
ii) Vehicle Loan from Banks
-
-
1
10
Total (A)
-
-
1
10
Unsecured
Fixed Deposits from Public
-
-
-
99
Total (B)
-
-
-
99
Total (A)+(B)
-
-
1
109
Vehicle loans from Banks is repaid & Fixed Deposits from Public is matured during the year.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 197
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
21.	 Lease Liabilities 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Non- Current
Current
Non- Current
Current
Secured
Lease Obligation
19,284
4,900
16,052
3,575
Total
19,284
4,900
16,052
3,575
Notes:
(a)	
The Company has lease contracts for certain items of Computers, Vehicles, Land & Buildings. The Company’s obligations under 
leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets.
(b)	 Movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Lease liabilities at the beginning of the year
19,627
17,201
Recognition of lease liability during the year
9,801
6,733
Interest cost accrued during the year
1,897
1,650
Payment of lease liabilities including interest
(6,298)
(5,044)
Decognition of right-of-use liability during the year
(843)
(913)
Lease liabilities at the end of the year
24,184
19,627
(c)	 Amounts recognised in the statement of cash flow arising from financing activities
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Total cash outflow for leases
 6,298 
 5,044 
(d)	 Future payment of lease liabilities on an undiscounted basis	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Not later than one year
6,686
5,073
Later than one year but not later than five years
1-2 years
5,923
4,432
2-3 years
4,815
3,819
3-4 years
3,953
3,029
4-5 years
1,760
2,301
Later than five years
10,499
10,306
Total
33,636
28,960
(e)	
Lease payments for less than 1 year lease contracts as well as for low value items for the year ended March 31,2024 is `2,978 
Lakhs (March 31, 2023 -  `3,612 Lakhs)(included in other expenses and operating expenses).
22.	 Provisions
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Non- Current
Current
Non- Current
Current
Employee Benefits
Gratuity (Refer Note 38)
1,678
798
1,500
825
Compensated Absences (Refer Note 38)
489
310
420
496
Total
2,167
1,108
1,920
1,321
198  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
23.	 Current Borrowings
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Secured
i)	
Working Capital facilities from Banks
	
Cash Credit
14,425
12,340
ii)	 Current Maturities of Long term Borrowings
-
109
Total
14,425
12,449
a)	
Working Capital Borrowings in rupees is secured by book debts and other current assets of the Company on pari-passu charge 
with all working capital lenders under multiple banking arrangement. Weighted average rate of interest is 7.45%.
b)	
In case of one of the subsidiary "Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited " where the Company has been sanctioned working 
capital facilities from banks on the basis of security of current assets.The company has filed quarterly returns/ statements 
with such banks are in agreement with the books of account other than those set below for FY 2023-24.
Quarter ended
Name of bank
Particulars
Amount as per 
books of account
Amount as reported 
in the quarterly 
return/ statement
Amount of 
difference
Jun-23
1)	 Axis Bank, 
2)	 IndusInd Bank, 
3)	 Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait, 
4)	 Federal Bank. 
Gross Trade 
Receivables
34,813
34,813
-
Sep-23
35,329
35,329
-
Dec-23
31,214
31,214
-
Mar-24
27,938
27,938
-
Quarter ended
Name of bank
Particulars
Amount as per 
books of account
Amount as reported 
in the quarterly 
return/ statement
Amount of 
difference
Jun-22
1)	 Axis Bank, 
2)	 IndusInd Bank, 
3) 	 Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait,
4)	 Federal Bank, 
5)	 Standard Chartered Bank 
Gross Trade 
Receivables
32,968
32,968
-
Sep-22
33,977
33,977
-
Dec-22
34,938
34,938
-
Mar-23
32,132
32,132
-
c)	
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Public Deposits
Short Term 
Borrowings
Long Term 
Borrowings *
Balance as at March 31, 2023
99
12,340
11
Proceeds/(Repayment) of Short term borrowings (Net)
-
2,085
-
Repayment of Fixed deposits from Public repaid during the year
(99)
-
-
Long term borrowings repaid during the year
-
-
(11)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
14,425
-
(*)Includes current maturities of long term borrowings
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2023
Public Deposits
Short Term 
Borrowings
Long Term 
Borrowings *
Balance as at March 31, 2022
404
13,806
1,024
Proceeds/(Repayment) of Short term borrowings (Net)
-
(1,466)
-
Repayment of Fixed deposits from Public repaid during the year
(306)
-
-
Long term borrowings repaid during the year
-
-
(1,013)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
99
12,340
11
	
(*)Includes current maturities of long term borrowings
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 199
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
d)	
Evaluation of financial covenant compliance and key performance indicators of material subsidiary
Bank
As at 
March 31, 2024
Financial Covenants
Results of performance 
indicators
Covenant Breach
IndusInd Bank
8,650
Allcargo to hold 40% of Allcargo 
Gati Limited and management 
control
-
No
Bank of Bahrain and 
Kuwait
3,500
a)	 Current Ratio - Minimum 1.10 
b)	 TOL/TNW - Maximum 3 times
a)	 Current Ratio - 0.81 
b)	 TOL/TNW - 7.29
Yes
Federal Bank
1,800
a)	 TOL/TNW - Maximum 4 times 
b)	 Debt/Equity - Maximum 2 times 
c)	 Debt/EBITDA - Below 4 times
a)	 TOL/TNW - 7.29 
b)	 Debt/Equity - 0.83 
c)	 Debt/EBITDA - 2.27
Yes
The breach of financial covenants represents instances where the performance indicators did not meet the criteria set by 
bankers for credit line arrangements. The breach of covenants entails 2% penal interest. These breaches with two banking 
partners are in existence since the time of loan sanction and renewal. Further, till the date of approval of these financial 
statements, lenders have not demanded for the penal interest and based on the discussion have agreed to waive off the penal 
interest. Other than penal interest, there are no other implications. Considering the present financial position the company 
maintains a healthy cash flow to meet it's obligations.
Bank
As at 
March 31, 2023
Financial Covenants
Results of performance 
indicators
Covenant Breach
IndusInd Bank
7,050
Allcargo to hold 40% of Allcargo 
Gati Limited and management 
control
-
No
Bank of Bahrain and 
Kuwait
2,500
a)	 Current Ratio - Minimum 1.10 
b)	 TOL/TNW - Maximum 3 times
a)	 Current Ratio - 0.90 
b)	 TOL/TNW - 4.95
Yes
Federal Bank
2,300
a)	 TOL/TNW - Maximum 4 times 
b)	 Debt/Equity - Maximum 2 times 
c)	 Debt/EBITDA - Below 4 times
a)	 TOL/TNW - 4.95 
b)	 Debt/Equity - 0.60 
c)	 Debt/EBITDA - 1.62
Yes
	
"The breach of financial covenants represents instances where the performance indicators did not meet the criteria set by 
bankers for credit line arrangements. The breach of covenants entails 2% penal interest. These breaches with two banking 
partners are in existence since the time of loan sanction and renewal. Further, till the date of approval of these Financial 
statements, lenders have not demanded for the penal interest and based on the discussion have agreed to waive off the penal 
interest. Other than penal interest, there are no other implications. Considering the present financial position the Company 
maintains a healthy cash flow to meet it's obligations."
e)	
The Company had uncommitted lines of credit of  `8,573 lakhs and ` 10,160 lakhs as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, 
respectively, from its banks for working capital requirements. The Company draw upon these lines of credit based on its working 
capital requirements.
24.	 Trade Payables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Total Outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (Refer Note 40)
1,078
1,128
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
7,761
8,387
Total
8,839
9,515
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 
3 Years
Total
i) Undisputed MSME
1,073
5
-
-
1,078
ii) Undisputed Others
7,477
80
23
181
7,761
8,550
85
23
181
8,839
23.	 Current Borrowings (Contd)
200  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Trade payables ageing schedule as at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from the due date of payment
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 Years
2 - 3 Years
More than 
3 Years
Total
i) Undisputed MSME
1,124
4
-
-
1,128
ii) Undisputed Others
8,207
-
48
132
8,387
9,331
4
48
132
9,515
25 	 Other Current Financial Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Accrued Expenses
3,752
3,765
Security Deposits
2,585
2,689
Employee Related Liabilities
1,196
1,993
Interest Accrued but not due on Borrowings
10
16
Unpaid Dividends
37
55
Unpaid matured deposits and interest accured thereon
18
71
Liability towards guarantee invoked #
-
2,360
Others
2,067
2,135
Total
9,665
13,084
# Represents relinquishment of Corporate Guarantee. Refer note 35 of exceptional items for detailed explanation.
26 	 Other Current Liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Statutory liabilities
1,749
1,510
Advance received towards sale of properties classified under AHS
164
174
Others
29
58
Total
1,942
1,742
27.	 Revenue from Operations
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Sale of Services
Freight, E-commerce and Miscellaneous services
1,47,239
1,46,300
Sale of Products
Sale of Diesel, Petrol and Lubricants & Others
21,915
25,444
Total (A)
1,69,154
1,71,744
Other Operating Revenue
Sale of unclaimed goods
194
460
Management Fee from Related parties
451
113
Total (B)
645
573
Total (A)+(B)
1,69,799
1,72,317
A.	
Revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated based on revenue stream.
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue based on product & services
a) Express Distribution and Supply Chain
1,47,433
1,46,592
b) Fuel Stations
21,915
25,444
c) Unallocated
451
281
Total
1,69,799
1,72,317
24.	 Trade Payables (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 201
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue based on Geography
India
1,69,799
1,72,317
Overseas
-
-
Total
1,69,799
1,72,317
Reconciliation of Revenue from Operation with contract price
Revenue as per contract price
1,76,822
1,77,251
Less:
Discounts
(273)
(207)
Credit Notes
(4,093)
(2,447)
Unsatisfied Performance Obligation
(3,302)
(2,853)
Revenue from Operations
1,69,154
1,71,744
Transaction Price - Unsatisfied Performance Obligation
The Group's unsatisfied performance obligations mainly arises on account of undelivered shipments. The aggregate value of 
transaction price allocated to the unsatisfied performance obligations as at March 31, 2024 is  `3,302 lakhs ( previous Year 
`2,853 lakhs), which is expected to be recognised during next year after delivery of shipments.
There are no customers which individually accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the period ended 31 March, 2024
B.	
Contract Balances
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables
29,733
33,986
Less:Allowances for Expected Credit loss
(5,352)
(7,308)
Total
24,381
26,678
28.	 Other Income
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest income
	
On Deposit with Bank and Others
569
225
	
On Inter corporate deposits
31
-
	
On Refund of Income Tax
132
158
	
On Unwinding of Other Financial Assests
140
89
Rental Income
13
53
Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment, net
-
21
Liabilities no longer required - written back
141
1,684
Gain on Lease Modification, net
77
22
Gain on Sale of Mutual Funds, net
-
8
Miscellaneous Income, net
48
27
Total
1,151
2,287
29.	 Operating Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Freight - Linehual services
69,018
66,790
Freight - First mile pickup and last mile delivery charges
27,584
26,614
Freight - Air freight services
4,086
3,960
Handling Charges
5,157
4,528
Supply Chain Management Services
3,740
2,803
Other Operating Expenses
2,040
1,259
Total
1,11,625
1,05,954
202  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
30.	 Changes in Inventories of Stock-in-Trade
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Opening Stock :
Stock-in-trade
244
280
244
280
Closing Stock:
Stock-in-trade
(215)
(244)
(215)
(244)
Decrease in Inventories of Stock-in-trade, net of allowances
29
36
31.	 Employee Benefits Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries, Wages & Bonus
15,782
16,243
Contribution to Provident and other Funds
1,232
1,167
Share Based Payment Expenses (Refer note 58)
413
924
Staff Welfare Expenses
299
481
Total
17,726
18,815
32.	 Finance Costs
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest Expenses 
On Term Loans and Working Capital Loans
 1,102 
 1,251 
On Lease Liabilities
 1,897 
 1,650 
On Public Deposits
 3 
 30 
Others
 - 
 5 
Total
 3,002 
 2,936 
33.	 Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment (Refer Note 3A)
1,342
1,283
Depreciation on Right-of-use Asset (Refer Note 3B)
5,414
4,500
Amortisation of Intangible Assets (Refer Note 5)
138
138
Total
6,894
5,921
34.	 Other Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Lease Rental
2,821
3,164
Office Maintianance
2,375
2,172
Professional and Consultancy Charges
1,762
1,511
Repairs and Maintenance
Computers
1,045
889
Plant and Equipment
129
119
Vehicles
76
97
Buildings
5
16
Others
18
32
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 203
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Management Fee
1,173
624
Electricity Expenses
911
849
Automation Network Expenses
667
600
Travel and Conveyance
558
570
Printing and Stationery
459
369
Advertisements
365
435
Rates and Taxes
170
417
Auditors' Remuneration (Refer Note 34.1)
97
68
Insurance
78
136
Telephone Expenses
52
49
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
44
2,555
Directors' Sitting Fees *
30
9
Loss on Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment, net
26
4
Charity and Donations
22
-
Foreign Exchange Loss, net
15
2
Corporate Social Responsiblity Expenditure ( Refer Note 34.2)
13
12
Allowance for Other Financial Assets
11
30
Bad debts Written off-Others
10
124
Bad debts and Irrevocable Balances Written off
2,000
1,104
Less: Provision for loss allowances recognised in earlier years
(2,000)
(1,082)
Miscellaneous Expenses
988
889
Total
13,919
15,764
*Refer Note 45 for Related Party Information.
34.1	Auditors' Remuneration
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Statutory Audit fees
39
44
Limited review of quarterly results
21
20
Certification fees and other services
31
1
Reimbursement of out of Pocket Expenses
6
3
Total
97
68
34.2	Corporate Social Responsibility Expenditure
	
As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act), the Company, meeting the applicability threshold, needs to spend at 
least 2% of its average net profit for the immediately preceding three financial years on corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
activities. The areas for CSR activities are Education, Community, Environment Sustainability and Rural Development Projects 
& Donations. A CSR committee has been formed by the company as per the Act. The funds were primarily allocated to a corpus 
and utilized through the year on these activities which are specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(a)	
During the year, the Group has incurred `13 lakhs (March 31, 2023 `12 lakhs) on account of Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) included under Other Expenses.
	
(b)	
Gross Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year is `13 lakhs.
	
(c)	
Amount of `13 lakhs, approved by the board to be spent during the year.
	
(d)	
Amount spent during the year on:
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
(i) Construction/acquisition of any asset
-
-
(ii) On purpose other than (i) above
13
12
Total
13
12
34.	 Other Expenses (contd)
204  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(e)	 Unspent Amount:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance as at April 01, 2023
-
-
Amount deposited in specified fund of schedule VII within 6 months
-
-
Amount required to be spent during the year
13
12
Less - Amount spent during the year
(13)
(12)
Closing Balance as at March 31, 2024
-
-
35.	 Exceptional Items
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Loss on write off of Property, Plant and Equipment, net (Refer Note a)
(27)
(792)
Impairment Reversed/(Charged) on Property, Plant & Equipment (Refer Note b)
50
(345)
Relinquishment of Corporate Guarantee (Refer Note c)
2,360
-
Net gain on disposal of non core assets (Refer Note d)
1,066
704
Impairment Reversed in the realisable value of Non-core Assets (Refer Note e)
-
529
Total
3,449
96
The Exceptional items (non-recurring) represents :
a)	
A loss on write off of ` 27 lakhs in Property, Plant and Equipment is on account of discardment of Property, Plant and Equipment 
which have outlived their useful life and those which are no longer required for business operations. (March 31, 2023 -  `792 
lakhs)
b)	
An impairment reversal of ` 50 lakhs was recorded this year, compared to a charge of  `345 lakhs last year, reflecting the 
realisation in the fair value of Property, Plant & Equipment..
c)	
In January 2016, the Holding Company had issued a Corporate Guarantee to IDFC Bank Limited (‘IDFC’) on behalf of GI Hydro 
Private Limited (formerly GATI Infrastructure Private Limited (‘GIPL’)). In FY 2017-18, the Holding Company recorded a liability 
of ` 2,360 lakhs due to the invocation of the Corporate Guarantee by IDFC. Subsequently, IDFC assigned all rights, title, and 
interests in financial assistance of GIPL to Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (‘Edelweiss’) under the SARFAESI 
Act, 2002.
	
During the current year, GIPL has raised funds by issuing bonds and repaid its debts to Edelweiss and thereby on January 
12, 2024, Edelweiss has issued no-due certificate relinquishing the Corporate Guarantee issued by the Holding Company. 
Subsequently the case has been withdrawn. Accordingly, the Holding Company has reassessed its exposure and reversed the 
liability of ` 2,360 lakhs during the current year. This has been treated as exceptional item (gain).
d)	
Net gain on the assets sold during the year which are disclosed as “Assets held for Sale” is of  `1,066 lakhs (March 31, 2023 
-  `704 lakhs).
e)	
In the preivous financial year,  `529 lakhs has been recorded as reversal of Impairment allowance basis on the realisable value 
of Non-core Assets. 
36.	 Tax Expenses
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit Before Tax
(106)
530
Income Tax recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
Current Tax
235
1,313
Deferred Tax
(895)
347
Tax related earlier years
(58)
(39)
Total
(718)
1,621
Income Tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax expenses on Re-Measurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans
(38)
(201)
Total
(38)
(201)
Grand Total
(756)
1,420
34.	 Other Expenses (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 205
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
36.1	Reconciliation of Income Tax expense for the year with book profits
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 31, 2024
Year Ended 
March 31, 2023
Profit before Tax
(106)
530
Applicable Tax Rate
25.17%
27.82%
Tax Expense
(27)
147
Tax Effect of :
Write back of liabilities not claimed as deduction in the earlier years
(672)
-
Tax on capital gain
205
514
Brought forward losses utilised
(157)
-
Deffered tax not recoginsed
(18)
-
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
10
4
Others
(59)
956
Tax Expense in Statement of Profit and Loss
(718)
1,621
Effective Tax Rate
676%
306%
36.2	During the current finanicial year, the Company opted to exercise the option under section 115 BBA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 
as introduced by the Taxation laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 and has taken 25.168% rate of corporate tax in its accounts.
37.	 (A) Contingent liabilities and commitments
	
Contingent liabilities
	
In the ordinary course of business, the Group faces claims and assertions by various parties. The Group assesses such claims 
and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an on-going basis with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever 
necessary. The Group records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated 
and discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material. For potential losses that are considered possible, but not 
probable, the Group provides disclosure in the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss 
becomes probable. The following is a description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable.
(i)	 Contingent Liabilities (to the extent not provided for)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)	 Claim against the Company not acknowledged as debt
	
(i)	 Income tax Demand disputed in appeals and others (includes amount 
paid under protest and adjustments of  `2,970 lakhs, previous year -  
`2,970 lakhs) (1)
4,082
4,095
	
(ii)	 Indirect Tax demand disputed in appeals (Includes amount paid under 
protest  `91 Lakhs, previous year -  `43 Lakhs) (2) (3) (4)
5,388
4,768
	
(iii)	Others(#)
690
609
	
Total
10,160
9,472
(1) The Group has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and these disputes majorly related to tax treatment of 
certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation or eligibility of tax incentives and allowances. Accordingly the Group has 
recognised contingent liability in respect of the tax demands received from income tax authorities in India of ` 4,082 Lakhs 
and ` 4,095 Lakhs as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively. Against these demands Group has paid ` 2,970 lakhs 
under protest and adjustments thereon. These demand orders are being contested by the Group based on the management 
evaluation and advise of tax consultants.
(2) Indirect taxes related matters:
Nature of Indirect 
taxes
Amount
Period to which 
amount pertains
Status
Service Tax
4,445
2009 - 2017
The Group has received various demand notices from 
Commissionere of Service Tax towards non payment of service 
tax on freight forwarding services, non payment of service 
tax on voyage charter service excess availment of Cenvat 
credit which are being contested by the Group based on the 
management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
206  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Nature of Indirect 
taxes
Amount
Period to which 
amount pertains
Status
Goods and Service 
tax
557
2017 - 2020
The Group has received various demand notices for a sum of 
` 557 lakhs for FY 2017-18 & 2018-19 majorly towards excess 
input claim which are being contested by the Group based on 
the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Sales Tax
386
2013 - 2018
The Group has received various demand notices for a sum of 
` 386 lakhs from Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Tax, 
Mathur and Haryana towards non payment of Commercial Tax 
on TDF which are being contested by the Group based on the 
management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Total
5,388
(3) The Group has received a show cause notice on GST tax matters from the “Office of the Commissioner of Central Tax Audit, 
Bengaluru Audit – II”. The Group has evaluated the legal position internally in respect of the same and believes that it has a 
strong case and hence no adjustment are required in the Financial Statements
(4) Based on the expert legal opinion obtained by the Company, management is of the view that Company has a strong ground 
to defend the case, thereby, estimated interest of  `1,100 lakhs pertaining to exceptional item of GST related expense provision 
has not been provided in books.
The Group has reviewed all its pending litigations and proceedings and has adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where applicable, in its financial statements. The Group believes that none of the 
contingencies described above would have a material adverse effect on the Group's financial condition, results of operations 
or cash flows. Pending resolution of the above proceedings, it is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timing of cash 
outflows, if any, in respect of the above as it is determinable only on receipt of judgments / decisions pending with various 
forums / authorities. Also, the Group does not expect any reimbursement in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
# Other Claims
The Group is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant. There are claims which the Company does not 
believe to be of a material nature, other than those described below:
A) Neera Children Trust (‘NCT’) Vs. Gati Limited. & 29 Ors. (NCLT 535 of 2019), NCLT Hyderabad
Neera Children Trust (NCT) has filed a case alleging oppression and mismanagement against Gati Limited, its promoters, and 
directors, with the case currently under the purview of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Hyderabad. Various Interim 
Applications (IAs) have been submitted by different parties during the proceedings, addressing matters such as maintainability, 
waiver, the legality of postal ballots, shifting the registered office, and adding other respondents. In one significant development, 
Gati Limited filed an IA requesting the relocation of its registered office from Telangana to Maharashtra, which was granted 
by the NCLT on April 25, 2023.
As the litigation proceeds, Allcargo Gati Limited's counter to the interim reliefs sought by NCT has been recorded, and the main 
petition is scheduled for a hearing on June 24, 2024. The case has seen six IAs filed by various parties, focusing on issues of 
maintainability, waiver, the legality of the postal ballot, the shifting of the head office, and the addition of other respondents. 
According to the assessment by the learned counsel, there is a high possibility of obtaining a favorable order in this case. 
However, the final resolution and its potential impact on Gati Limited's financial position depend on the NCLT's final verdict.
Until the NCLT reaches a decision, the ultimate impact on Allcargo Gati Limited's financial standing cannot be determined with 
certainty. The Company is committed to monitoring the proceedings closely and will assess any potential financial implications 
as they arise.
	
(b) 	 Bank Guarantee (*)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 674 	
 500
(*) Bank Guarantee is issued to meet certain business obligations towards government agencies and certain customers.
(ii)	 Commitments
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Commitment for acquisition of Property, Plant & Equipments (Net of advances)
Towards Property, Plant & Equipment
219
82
Towards intangible Assets and intangible under Development.
2,780
-
Total
2,999
82
37.(A) Contingent liabilities and commitments (Contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 207
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(B)	 There has been a Supreme Court (SC) judgement dated February 28, 2019, relating to components of salary structure that need 
to be taken into account while computing the contribution to provident fund under the EPF Act. There are interpretative aspects 
related to the Judgement including the effective date of application. From the previous year ended March 31, 2022, the Group 
is in compliance with same. The Group will continue to assess any further developments in this matter for the implications on 
financial statements, if any. Further, pending decision on the subject review petition and directions from the EPFO, the impact 
for the past period, if any, was not ascertainable and consequently no effect was given in the accounts.
(C)	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (Code) related to employee benefits during employment and post-employment received 
Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India; however, the date on which the 
Code will come into effect has not been notified and the final rules/ interpretation have not yet been issued. The Group will 
assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes 
effective. However, the Group envisages that the impact of the above would not be material.
38.	 Disclosure as required under Ind AS 19 on Employee Benfits:
Defined Benefit Obligation
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Statement of Assets and Liabilities for defined benefit obligation
Present value of funded obligations
(2,535)
(2,361)
Fair value of plan assets
59
36
Net defined benefit liability recognised
(2,476)
(2,325)
Defined contribution
The expense for defined contribution plans amounted to  `888 lakhs and  `930 lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 
31, 2023 respectively.
Defined benefits - Gratuity
The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in continuous 
service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/ termination is the employees 
last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number of years of service. The 
gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Group makes contributions to recognised funds in India.
These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as currency risk, interest risk and market (investment) risk. 
The Group expects to contribute ` 868 lakhs to Gratuity Fund in the next year.
Defined benefits - Compensated absences
The Group's provides for accumulation of leaves by certain categories of its employees. These employees can carry forward a portion 
of the unutilised leaves and utilise them in future periods or receive cash in lieu thereof as per the Groups policy. The Group's records 
a liability for such leaves in the period in which the employee renders the services that increases this entitlement. The total liability 
recorded by the Group's towards this obligation was ` 799 lakhs and ` 912 lakhs as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively.
Inherent risk
The plan is defined benefit in nature which is sponsored by the Group and hence it underwrites all the risks pertaining to the plan. In 
particular, this exposes the Group, to actuarial risk such as adverse salary growth, change in demographic experience, inadequate 
return on underlying plan assets. This may result in an increase in cost of providing these benefits to employees in future.
37.(A) Contingent liabilities and commitments (Contd)
208  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
38.	 Disclosure as required under Ind AS 19 on Employee Benefits: (contd)
The following tables analyse present value of defined benefit obligations, expense recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss, 
actuarial assumptions and other information.
Reconciliation of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
(I)
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation
(a)
Balance at the beginning of the year
2,361
1,671
(b)
Current service cost
209
161
(c)
Interest on defined obligations
141
82
(d)
Benefits paid
(332)
(346)
(e)
Benefit payments directly by employer
-
(15)
(f)
Acquisition / Divestiture
2
(g)
Actuarial (gains)/ losses recognised in other comprehensive income
change in demographic assumptions
4
(15)
change in financial assumptions
(140)
(79)
experience adjustments
290
902
Balance at the end of the year
2,535
2,361
(II)
Reconciliation of Fair value of plan assets
(a)
Balance at the beginning of the year
36
198
(b)
Actual return on plan assets
2
11
(c)
Investment Income
-
(5)
(d)
Contributions by the employer
350
178
(e)
Benefits paid
(332)
(346)
(f)
Actuarial (gains)/ losses on plan assets
3
-
Balance at the end of the year
59
36
(III)
Gratuity cost recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss
(a)
Current service cost
209
161
(b)
Interest on defined obligations
141
82
(c)
Interest income on plan assets
(2)
(11)
Gratuity cost recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss
348
232
(IV)
Remeasurements recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
(a)
Actuarial gain / (loss) on defined benefit obligation
154
808
(b)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on plan assets
(3)
5
Amount recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
151
813
(V)
Net Asset/ (Liability) recognised in the Balance Sheet
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(a)
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(2,535)
(2,361)
(b)
Fair value of plan assets
59
36
Net defined benefit obligations in the Balance Sheet
(2,476)
(2,325)
(VI)
Plan assets
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Plan assets comprise of the following:
(a)
Investments with LIC
100%
100%
(VII)
Actuarial assumptions
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted 
averages)
(a)
Discount rate
7.17%
7.3% - 7.31%
(b)
Future salary growth
5.00% first 2 years;
8.00% first 2 years;
5.00% thereafter
6.00% thereafter
(c)
Retirement age (years)
58
58
(d)
Withdrawal rates
8% - 31.25%
10% - 36%
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 209
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(VIII) Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, 
would have affected the defined benefit obligations by the amounts shown below:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Increase
(a)
Discount rate (1% movement)
(58)
61
(47)
52
(b)
Future salary growth (1% movement)
70
(68)
59
(54)
(c)
Withdrawal assumption (1% movement)
1
(1)
1
2
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an 
approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions as shown.
Expected Cash Flows over the next (valued on Undiscounted Cash Flows)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
1 year
868
862
2 to 5 years
1,625
1,532
6 to 10 years
484
363
More than 10 years
83
48
Defined Contribution
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Provident/Pension Fund
816
829
Superannuation Fund
2
3
Employee State Insurance
70
98
Total
888
930
39.	 Segment information
A.	
Basis for segmentation
	
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group other components, and 
for which discrete financial information is available. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by the 
Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and 
assess their performance.
	
The Group has two reportable segments, as described below, which is the Group’s primary business segment. These business 
units are managed separately because they require different marketing strategies. For these businesses, the Group (designation 
of the person who reviews) reviews internal management reports at quarterly basis.
Reportable segments
Operations
Express Distribution & Supply Chain
Covers integrated cargo services - Road, Air transportation, E-commerce logistics 
and supply chain solutions
Fuel Stations
Covers fuel stations dealing in petrol, diesel and lubricants, etc.
B.	
Information about reportable segments
	
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included below. Performance is measured based on segment 
profit (before tax), as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Company's CODM. Segment profit 
is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results 
of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an 
arm’s length basis. The Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) has identified business segments are Express 
distribution, Fuel Stations and Others.
38.	 Disclosure as required under Ind AS 19 on Employee Benefits: (contd)
210  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
Summary of Segment Information for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 is as follows:
1.
Segment Revenue (Net Sales / Income from each Segment)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)	 Express Distribution & Supply Chain
1,47,433
1,46,592
b)	 Fuel Station
21,915
25,444
c)	 Unallocated
451
281
Total
1,69,799
1,72,317
Less: Inter Segment Revenue
-
-
Total Revenue from Operations
1,69,799
1,72,317
2.
Segment Results (Profit (+) / Loss (-) before tax and interest from each 
Segment)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)	 Express Distribution & Supply Chain
(448)
3,745
	
Less: Exceptional Items - Income/(expense)
-
(807)
Total (A)
(448)
2,938
b)	 Fuel Station
243
378
	
Less: Exceptional Items - Income/(expense)
-
-
Total (B)
243
378
Total (A+B)
(205)
3,316
Add/Less:	 (i)	 Finance Cost
(3,002)
(2,936)
	
	
	
(ii)	 Other un-allocated Income/(expense), net
(348)
(753)
	
	
	
(iii)	Exceptional Items - Income/(expense), net
3,449
903
Profit/(Loss) Before tax
(106)
530
Less: Tax Expenses
(718)
1,621
Profit after Tax as per statement of profit and loss
612
(1,091)
3.
Segment Assets and Liabilities
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023 
Segment Assets
a)	 Express Distribution & Supply Chain
67,280
58,363
b)	 Fuel Stations
1,191
1,175
c)	 Unallocated
63,873
68,932
Total Assets
1,32,344
1,28,470
Segment Liabilities
a)	 Express Distribution & Supply Chain
61,569
56,629
b)	 Fuel Stations
45
46
c)	 Unallocated
716
2,984
Total Liabilities
62,330
59,659
Capital Employed
70,014
68,811
4. 
Depreciation and Amortization Expense		
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a) Express Distribution & Supply Chain
 6,882 
 5,908 
b) Fuel Stations
 12 
 13 
Total
 6,894 
 5,921 
5.
Significant Non - Cash Expenditure
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a) Express Distribution & Supply Chain
1,198
2,969
b) Fuel Stations
13
-
Total
1,211
2,969
39.	 Segment information (Contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 211
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
39.	 Segment information (Contd)
6.
Captial Expenditure
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)	 Express Distribution & Supply Chain
 1,382 
 3,613 
b)	 Fuel Stations
 5 
 36 
Total
 1,387 
 3,649 
C.	
Geographical Information	
1.
Revenue from External Customers
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a)	 India
1,69,799
1,72,317
b)	 International
-
-
Total
1,69,799
1,72,317
2.
Segment Non Current assets *
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a) India
73,826
69,719
b) International
-
-
Total Assets
73,826
69,719
* Non Current Assets are excluding IncomeTax Assets, Deferred Tax Asset, net
40.	 Due to Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises		
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(i)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of the accounting year :
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,058 
 1,114 
Interest due on above
 20 
 14 
Total
 1,078 
 1,128 
(ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED Act 
2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the 
appointed day during the accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act 2006.
 - 
 - 
(iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the 
accounting year.
 20 
 14 
(v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the 
small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under 
section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information 
collected by the Management.
41.	 There are no standards that are notified and not yet effective as on the date.
212  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
42.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management
A.	
Category wise classification of financial instruments and fair values
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
FVOCI
Other 
financial 
assets 
at amortised 
cost
Other 
financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost
Total 
carrying 
amount
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Assets
Other Financial Assets 
(Refer Note 7 & 14)
-
3,658
-
3,658
-
-
-
-
Trade Receivables (Refer 
Note 12)
-
-
24,381
-
24,381
-
-
-
-
Cash and Cash 
Equivalents (Refer Note 
13A)
-
-
8,863
-
8,863
-
-
-
-
Other Bank Balances 
(Refer Note 13B)
-
-
8,676
-
8,676
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
45,578
-
45,578
-
-
-
-
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings (Refer Note 
20 & 23)
-
-
-
14,425
14,425
-
-
-
-
Trade Payables (Refer 
Note 24)
-
-
-
8,839
8,839
-
-
-
-
Other Financial Liabilities 
(Refer Note 25)
-
-
-
9,665
9,665
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
32,929
32,929
-
-
-
-
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as at March 31, 
2023	
Particulars
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
FVOCI
Other 
financial 
assets 
at amortised 
cost
Other 
financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost
Total 
carrying 
amount
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Assets
Other Financial Assets 
(Refer Note 7 & 14)
-
-
3,478
-
3,478
-
-
-
-
Trade Receivables (Refer 
Note 12)
-
-
26,678
-
26,678
-
-
-
-
Cash and Cash 
Equivalents (Refer Note 
13A)
-
-
1,893
-
1,893
-
-
-
-
Other Bank Balances 
(Refer Note 13B)
-
-
7,759
-
7,759
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
39,808
-
39,808
-
-
-
-
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings (Refer Note 20 
& 23)
-
-
-
12,450
12,450
-
-
-
-
Trade Payables (Refer 
Note 24)
-
-
-
9,515
9,515
-
-
-
-
Other Financial Liabilities 
(Refer Note 25)
-
-
-
13,084
13,084
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
35,049
35,049
-
-
-
-
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 213
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
B.	
Measurement of fair values
	
i.	
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
	
	
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, bank balances, trade receivables, loans, investments in Debt instrument, 
borrowings, lease liabilities, trade payables and other financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount 
largely due to the short-term nature of these instruments. The Group loans have been contracted at market rates of 
interest. Accordingly, the carrying value of such loans approximate fair value.
	
	
Investments in equity instruments, which are classified as FVOCI are based on market price at the respective reporting 
date.
	
ii.	
Level 1 fair values
	
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 1 fair values.
Particulars
Fair values Equity 
instruments
Balance at March 31, 2022
 1,011 
Current Investments during the year
 100 
Net Gain on investments measured at FVTPL
 8 
Equity Investments through Other Comprehensive Income
 - 
Sale proceeds of Non-Current Investments
 (1,119)
Balance at March 31, 2023
 - 
Current Investments during the year
 - 
Net Gain on investments measured at FVTPL
 - 
Equity Investments through Other Comprehensive Income
 - 
Sale proceeds of Non-Current Investments
 - 
Balance at March 31, 2024
 - 
	
	
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
	
	
The carrying amount of the financial asset and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost in the financial statements 
are a reasonably approximation of their fair value since the Company does not anticipate that the carrying amount would 
be significantly different from the values that would eventually be received or settled.
C.	
Financial risk management
	
The Group's has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
	
(i)	
Credit risk
	
(ii)	
Liquidity risk
	
(iii)	 Market risk
	
Risk management framework
	
The Group's principal financial liabilities includes borrowings, lease liabilites, trade payable and other financial liabilities. 
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group's operations. The Group's principal financial assets 
include trade receivables, loans, cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets that derive directly from its operations. 
The Group's activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. The Group's primary risk management focus is to 
minimise potential adverse effects of market risk on its financial performance. The Group's exposure to credit risk is influenced 
mainly by the individual characteristic of each customer and the concentration of risk from the top few customers. The Group's 
risk management assessment and policies and processes are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, 
to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor such risks and compliance with the same. Risk assessment and 
management policies and processes are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group's activities."
	
(i)	
Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and loans given. Credit risk 
arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to customers, including outstanding 
accounts receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of the financial assets. The 
objective of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses in financial assets. The Group assesses the credit 
quality of the counterparties, taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors.
42.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
214  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
42.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
(a)	 Trade receivables
	
As per simplified approach, the Group makes provision of expected credit losses on trade receivables using a provision matrix 
to mitigate the risk of default payments and makes appropriate provisions at each reporting date whenever is for longer period 
and involves higher risk. The Group uses expected credit loss model to assess the impairment loss or gain in accordance with 
Ind AS 109. The Group uses a provision matrix to compute the credit loss allowance for trade receivables.
	
The movement of Trade Receivables and Expected Credit Loss are as follows :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Trade Receivables (Gross)
 29,733 
 33,986 
Less: Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
 (5,352)
 (7,308)
Trade Receivables (Net)
 24,381 
 26,678 
Reconciliation of Expected Credit Loss (Trade receivables)
Amount
Expected Credit loss as at March 31, 2022
5,835
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
2,555
Bad debts and Irrecoverable Balances Written off
(1,082)
Expected Credit loss as at March 31, 2023
7,308
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
44
Bad debts and Irrecoverable Balances Written off
(2,000)
Expected Credit loss as at March 31, 2024
5352
(b)	 Loans and Advances
	
The movement of Advances and Expected Credit Loss are as follows :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Advances Receivables (Gross)
 3,003 
 3,130 
Less: Expected Credit Loss
 (1,911)
 (2,327)
Loans and advances (Net)
 1,092 
 803 
Reconciliation of Loss Allowance on Advances
Amount
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2022
2,321
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
6
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2023
2,327
Allowance for Expected Credit Loss
(416)
Expected Credit Loss as at March 31, 2024
1,911
	
b)	
Other Financial Assets (Security Deposits given)
	
	
The Company has security deposits with lessors for leased premises at the year end. The credit worthiness of such lessors 
is evaluated by the management on an ongoing basis and is considered good. This include security deposits given to 
lessors with whom Letter of intent is signed.
(ii)	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group will not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at reasonable price. 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding 
through an adequate amount of credit facilities to meet obligations when due. The Group's finance team is responsible for 
liquidity, funding as well as settlement management. In addition, processes and policies related to such risks are overseen by 
senior management. Management monitors the Group's liquidity position through rolling forecasts on the basis of expected 
cash flows. Besides, it generally has certain undrawn credit facilities which can be accessed as and when required; such credit 
facilities are reviewed at regular intervals. Thus, no liquidity risk is perceived at present.
	
The Group's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its 
liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking 
damage to the Group's reputation.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 215
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
The table below provides details regarding the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date 
based on contractual undiscounted payments.
March 31, 2024
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
Amount
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 to 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Borrowings
14,425
14,425
14,425
-
-
Trade Payables
8,839
8,839
8,839
-
-
Other Financial Liabilities
9,665
9,665
9,665
-
-
Total
32,929
32,929
32,929
-
-
March 31, 2023
Contractual cash flows
Carrying 
Amount
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 to 5 
years
More than 
5 years
Borrowings
12,450
12,450
12,449
1
-
Trade Payables
9,515
9,515
9,515
-
-
Other Financial Liabilities
13,084
13,084
13,084
-
-
Total
35,049
35,049
35,048
1
-
(iii)	 Floating exchange rate and Interest risk:
	
Floating exchange rate
Floating exchange rate with reference to Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices - such as foreign exchange rates 
and interest rates - will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market 
risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
	
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. The total unhedged foreign currency exposure at the year end towards Trade Receivable & Trade Payable is 
`9 Lakhs (Previous year `2 Lakhs) and `24 Lakhs (Previous Year `3 Lakhs) respectively. The Group does not have significant 
foreign currency exposure and hence, is not exposed to any significant foreign currency risk.
	
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in 
market interest rates. The Group's exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group's long 
term and short term borrowing with floating interest rates. The Group constantly monitors the credit markets and rebalances 
its financing strategies to achieve an optimal maturity profile and financing cost.
	
The interest rate profile of the Group interest bearing financial instruments at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Fixed rate instruments
Financial Liabilities
	
Term Loan From Banks
-
11
	
Deposits from Public
-
99
-
110
Variable rate instruments
Financial Liabilities
	
Cash Credit
14,425
12,340
14,425
12,340
Total
14,425
12,450
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
Fixed rate instruments that are carried at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk for the purpose of sensitive analysis.
	
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in variable rate instruments at the reporting dates would have increased or 
decreased profit or loss by the amounts shown below:
42.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
216  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
42.	 Financial instruments - fair values and risk management (contd)
Particulars
Effect on Profit before tax
Consequential effect on Equity 
before tax
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Variable rate instruments - decrease by 100 basis 
points
144
123
144
123
Variable rate instruments - increase by 100 basis 
points
(144)
(123)
(144)
(123)
	
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined for borrowings assuming the amount of borrowings outstanding at the 
end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year.
	
Equity risk
	
The Group's quoted equity instruments are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of 
the investment securities. The reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group's senior management on a regular 
basis. The senior management reviews and approves all equity investment decisions.
43.	 Capital management
	
The Group's policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity so as to maintain investors, 
creditors and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. In order to maintain the capital 
structure the Group monitors the return on capital, as well as the level of dividends to equity shareholders. The Group aims 
to manage its capital efficiently so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to all its 
shareholders. For the purpose of the Group's capital management, capital includes issued capital and all other equity reserves 
attributable to the equity holders and debt includes borrowings.
	
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the following gearing ratio.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Borrowings (Including Current maturities of Long term Borrowings)
14,425
12,450
Less:
Cash and Cash Equivalents
(8,863)
(1,893)
Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents
(8,676)
(7,759)
Net Debt
(3,114)
2,798
Equity
63,545
61,467
Debt to Equity ratio
(0.05)
0.05
44.	 Earning Per Share
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Net profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders
1,453
(928)
Weighted Basic average number of shares outstanding (Nos.)
13,01,86,061
12,54,41,055
Weighted Diluted average number of shares outstanding (Nos.)
13,12,58,292
12,54,41,055
Basic & Diluted EPS *
Basic Earnings Per Share (In `)
1.12
(0.74)
Diluted Earnings Per Share (In `)
1.12
(0.74)
Nominal value of shares outstanding (In `)
2
2
In the current year, in the computation of Diluted EPS, the Company has considering diluted weighted average shares of 
10,72,231 shares (ESARs).
In previous year, in the computation of Diluted EPS, after considering diluted weighted average shares of 12,59,130 share 
(ESARs), it was determined that the EPS is anti-dilutive. As a result we have treated Basic EPS as Diluted EPS.
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 217
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
45.	 Related party disclosures
(A)
Names of related parties and related party relationship for the year ended March 31, 2024
i)
Parent Company
1. Allcargo Logistics Limited
ii)
List of Directors & Key 
Managerial Personnel
1. Mr Shashi Kiran Shetty
– Chairman and Mangaing Director
2. Mr Yasuhiro Kaneda
– Nominee Director (Resigned w.e.f July 01, 2022 )
3. Mr Kaiwan Kalayaniwalla
– Director
4. Ms. Cynthia D'Souza
– Independent Director (Resigned w. e. f. June 08, 
2023)
5. Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
– Independent Director
6. Mr. Yasuyuki Tani
– Nominee Director (Resigned w.e.f. June 08, 2023)
7. Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
– Independent Director
8. Ms. T S Maharani
– Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
9. Mr. Pirojshaw Sarkari (Phil)
– Stepped down as CEO w.e.f. May 31, 2023 and 
appointed as Director w. e. f. June 08, 2023)
10. Mr. Anish T Mathew
– Chief Financial Officer (Appointed w.e.f Feb 04, 
2022)
11. Mr. Adarsh Hegde
– Executive Director (Resigned w.e.f May 31 , 2023)
12. Mr Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
– Independent Director (Appointed w. e. f. June 09, 
2023)
13. Mr Ravi Jakhar
– Director ( Appointed w.e.f. June 09, 2023)
14. Ms Vinita Dang Mohoni
– Independent Director ( Appointed w. e. f. June 17, 
2023)
15. Mr. R Ramachandran
– Independent Director (resigned w.e.f. April 27, 2022)
16. Ms. Sheela Bhide
– Independent Director ( resigned w. e. f. June 08, 
2023)
iii)
Fellow Subsidiaries
1. Allcargo Inland Park Private Limited
2. Comptech Solutions Private Limited
3. Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited *
4. Gati Cargo Express (Shanghai) Co. 
Limited
5. Allcargo Logistics Park Private Limited
6. Allcargo Multimodal Private Limited #
7. Prism Global Limited
8. Allcargo Terminals Ltd
9. AGL Warehousing Private Limited
10. Allcargo Corporate Services Pvt Ltd
11. ECU Hold NV
12.Gati Hong Kong Limited
13. Allcargo Belgium N.V.
iv)
Associate
1. Gati Ship Limited
v)
Entities in which 
significant influence 
exists
1. Talentos ( India) Private Limited
2. Conserve Buildcon LLP (w.e.f Nov 01, 
2022)
3.National Institute of Industrial 
Engineering (w.e.f March 17, 2022)
vi)
Entities under common 
influence with the 
Company
1. Kintetsu World Express (India) Private 
Limited **
*Avvashya Supply Chain Private Limited was demerged from Avvashya CCI Logistics Private Limited w.e.f March 01, 2023 and from 
March 30, 2023 the name was changed to Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited.
** Ceased to be related party on June 08th, 2023 due to disinvestment by Kintetsu World Express (India) Pvt. Ltd
#Allcargo Multimodal Private Limited is Ceased to be related party on March 07, 2024 due to controling stake disposal
218  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(B)	 Summary of the transactions with related parties
SL. 
No
Nature of Transaction
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP) & 
Relatives
Fellow Subsidiaries 
& Entities in which 
having significant 
influence and 
common influence
Parent Company
Total
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
 a) 
EXPENDITURE
Lease Rentals
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
17
7
17
7
Allcargo Inland Park Private 
Limited
-
-
-
(9)
-
-
-
(9)
Allcargo Multimodal Private 
Limited #
-
-
378
378
-
-
378
378
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
98
115
-
-
98
115
Comptech Solutions Private 
Limited
-
-
50
42
-
-
50
42
Talentos (India) Private Limited
-
-
127
45
-
-
127
45
AGL Warehousing Private 
Limited
-
-
9
-
-
-
9
-
-
-
662
571
17
7
679
578
Freight Expenses
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
-
2
-
2
-
-
-
-
-
2
-
2
Other Expenses
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
2
3
-
-
2
3
Conserve Buildcon LLP
-
-
242
100
-
-
242
100
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
-
33
-
33
Prism Global Limited
-
-
-
16
-
-
-
16
'National Institute of Industrial 
Engineering
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
Kintentsu World Express 
(India) Private Limited **
-
-
3
16
-
-
3
16
Allcargo Multimodal Private 
Limited #
-
-
94
91
-
-
94
91
Comptech Solutions Private 
Limited
-
-
5
6
-
-
5
6
ECU Hold NV
-
-
-
0
-
-
-
0
-
-
346
233
-
33
346
266
Remuneration-Short term 
employee benefits
Mr. Adarsh Hedge
25
150
-
-
-
-
25
150
Ms. T S Maharani
40
39
-
-
-
-
40
39
Mr.Pirojshaw A Sarkari
375
288
-
-
-
-
375
288
Mr Anish T Mathew
141
99
-
-
-
-
141
99
581
576
-
-
-
-
581
576
45. 	Related party disclosures (contd)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 219
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
SL. 
No
Nature of Transaction
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP) & 
Relatives
Fellow Subsidiaries 
& Entities in which 
having significant 
influence and 
common influence
Parent Company
Total
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
Management Fees
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
282
140
-
-
282
140
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
766
502
766
502
Allcargo Corporate Services 
Private Ltd
-
-
119
-
-
-
119
-
-
-
401
140
766
502
1,167
642
Directors Sitting Fee-Short 
term employee benefits
Ms. Cynthia D'Souza
0
1
-
-
-
-
0
1
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Lal
10
3
-
-
-
-
10
3
Mr. Nilesh Shivji Vikamsey
9
4
-
-
-
-
9
4
Ms. Sheela Bhide
1
1
-
-
-
-
1
1
Mr. R Ramachandran
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Vinita Dang Mohoni
5
-
-
-
-
-
5
-
Mr Hetal Madhukant Gandhi
5
-
-
-
-
-
5
-
30
9
-
-
-
-
30
9
Capitalization
Conserve Buildcon LLP
-
-
-
492
-
-
-
492
-
-
-
492
-
-
-
492
-
-
 b) 
INCOME
Freight
Kintentsu World Express 
(India) Private Limited **
-
-
213
1,362
-
-
213
1,362
Gati Cargo Express 
(Shanghai) Co. Limited
-
-
26
18
-
-
26
18
Allcargo Logistics Park Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
8
1
-
-
8
1
Allcargo Logistics limited
-
-
-
-
4
9
4
9
-
-
247
1,381
4
9
251
1,390
Warehouse Income
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited*
-
-
16
20
-
-
16
20
Kintentsu World Express (India) 
Private Limited
-
-
1
6
-
-
1
6
Gati Cargo Express (Shanghai) 
Co. Limited
-
-
53
71
-
-
53
71
-
-
70
97
-
-
70
97
45. 	Related party disclosures (contd)
220  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
45. 	Related party disclosures (contd)
SL. 
No
Nature of Transaction
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP) & 
Relatives
Fellow Subsidiaries 
& Entities in which 
having significant 
influence and 
common influence
Parent Company
Total
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
Management Fees
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
134
191
134
191
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
317
91
-
-
317
91
-
-
317
91
134
191
451
282
Rent
Gati Ship Limted
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
Interest Income
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
31
-
-
-
31
-
-
-
31
-
-
-
31
-
Sale of Assets
Allcargo Logistics Limited
-
-
-
-
-
23
-
23
Allcargo Supply Chain Private 
Limited *
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
1
-
-
23
1
23
(C)	 Summary of closing balances with related parties
SL. 
No
Particulars
Parent Company
Fellow Subsidiaries, 
Associates & Entities 
in which having 
significant influence 
and common influence
Total
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
a)
Trade Receivable
Kintentsu World Express (India) Private 
Limited **
-
-
-
163
-
163
Gati Cargo Express (Shanghai) Co Limited
-
-
23
40
23
40
Allcargo Logistics Limited
8
11
-
-
8
11
8
11
23
203
31
214
Other Receivables
Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited*
-
-
3
40
3
40
Allcargo Logistics Limited
876
728
-
-
876
728
Allcargo Corporate Services Pvt Ltd
-
-
-
-
-
-
Gati Ship Limited
-
-
2
0
2
0
876
728
5
40
881
768
b)
Deposit Given
Comptech Solutions Private Limited
-
-
24
24
24
24
Talentos ( India) Private Limited
-
-
31
23
31
23
AGL Warehousing Private Limited
-
-
27
-
27
-
Allcargo Multimodal Private Limited #
-
-
-
157
-
157
-
-
82
204
82
204
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 221
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
45. 	Related party disclosures (contd)
(C)	 Summary of closing balances with related parties
SL. 
No
Particulars
Parent Company
Fellow Subsidiaries, 
Associates & Entities 
in which having 
significant influence 
and common influence
Total
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 31, 
2023
c)
Other Payables
Allcargo Logistics limited
127
104
-
-
127
104
Comptech Solutions Private Limited
-
-
-
5
-
5
Kintentsu World Express (India) Private 
Limited **
-
-
-
3
-
3
Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited *
-
-
29
23
29
23
Allcargo Multimodal Private Limited #
-
-
-
48
-
48
Talentos ( India) Private Limited
-
-
-
4
-
4
Prism Global Limited
-
-
-
6
-
6
Conserve Buildcon LLP
-
-
22
47
22
47
AGL Warehousing Private Limited
-
-
36
-
36
-
Allcargo Corporate Services Pvt Ltd
-
-
129
-
129
-
127
104
216
136
343
240
d)
Investment held for sale
Gati Ship Limited - Equity Shares
-
-
8,623
8,623
8,623
8,623
Impairment on Gati Ship Limited - Equity 
shares
-
-
(8,623)
(8,623)
(8,623)
(8,623)
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
(i)	
This is to confirm that the above transactions are (a) comprehensive and have been reviewed by Internal Auditors of the 
Company; (b) in the ordinary course of Business and at arm's length; (c) in compliance with applicable regulatory / statutory 
requirements including the Company's policy on Related Party Transactions.
	
(ii)	
The Management confirms that requisite test to determine the arms length has been done and documented and where 
required confirmation from the external experts has been obtained for such determination.
	
(iii)	 Related Party Transactions for which approval of the Audit Committee has been taken are well within the ambit of Omnibus 
Approval given by the Audit committee.
	
(iv)	 The remuneration of directors is determined by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee having regard to the 
performance of individuals and market trends.
	
(v)	
Post employment benefits are actuarially determined on overall basis and hence not separately provided for the key 
managerial personnel.
	
(vi)	 Wherever amounts are "0" , the value is less than rupees fifty thousand.
46.	 The value of the Holding Company's investment in an associate had been fully provided in earlier years therefore the share of 
loss in that has not been considered in consolidated accounts.
47.	 During the current financial year, the Company had signed an out of court settlement with AIR India, pertaining to an ongoing 
legal matter before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court. As a result, the Company has received a sum of  `42 lakhs towards the final 
settlement, which has been recognised as Other Income. Pursuant to the settlement, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court accepted 
the Company's petition for withdrawal of the case and released the original bank guarantee, amounting to `2,200 lakhs, which 
is equivalent to the disputed arbitral award. The mentioned bank guarantee has been released by the banking partner.
48.	 The Board of Directors in their meeting held on December 21, 2023 has considered and approved the Scheme of Arrangement 
involving Allcargo Logistics Limited (Parent Company), Allcargo ECU Limited( Fellow Subsidiary), Allcargo Gati Limited 
(the Company), Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited (Subsidiary) and Allcargo Supply Chain Private Limited (Fellow 
Subsidiary). The Scheme involves merger of fellow subsidiary and subsidiary with the Company effective from appointed date 
of October 01, 2023 and the merger of the Company (post-merger of fellow subsidiary and subsidiary) with the Parent Company 
on the date the Scheme becomes effective. The Scheme has been filed with BSE and NSE and the Company is in the process 
of getting the necessary regulatory and other approvals. The Scheme of Arrangement and other relevant details are available 
on the Company’s website.
222  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
49.	 The Board of Directors in their meeting held on December 21, 2023 and Shareholders through postal ballot passed on February 
05, 2024, approved to raise funds through various permissible modes, in accordance with applicable laws. The fund-raising 
will be conducted by issuing Equity Shares, equity-linked instruments, convertible preference shares, fully or partly convertible 
debentures, or through a composite issue of non-convertible debentures and warrants. Warrant holders will have the right to 
apply for equity shares or other eligible securities. The modes include private placement, qualified institutions placements, 
further public issues, preferential issues, rights issues, or any other permissible mode under applicable laws, or a combination 
thereof, up to ` 50,000 lakhs. The funds are intended for growth capital, expansion, capex, working capital, etc.
50.	 During the current year, the name of the Company has been changed to "Allcargo Gati Limited", pursuant to the approval of the 
Board of Directors vide their Meeting held on August 04, 2023 and the shareholders of the Company at the Annual General 
Meeting held on September 04, 2023. The Registrar of Companies, Telangana, approved and accordingly issued fresh certificate 
of incorporation pursuant to the change of the name w.e.f. October 19, 2023.
51.	 During the current financial year, Allcargo Logistics Limited ("Parent Company") has acquired a 30% stake (1,50,000 Equity 
Shares) in "Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited" (formerly known as Gati Kintetsu Express Private Limited), a material 
subsidiary. The acquisition comprises 1,30,000 Equity Shares (26% stake) from KWE-Kintetsu World Express (S) Pte Ltd and 
20,000 Equity Shares (4% stake) from KWE Kintetsu Express (India) Private Limited. The name of the Subsidiary Company " 
Gati Kintetsu Express Private Limited" has been changed to "Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited" w.e.f. July 27, 2023, 
duly approved by the Registrar of Companies, Mumbai, Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
52.	 The Board of directors in their meeting held on May 16, 2024 and May 19, 2023 has given the Company approval to explore 
the sale/disposal of fuel station business and an in-principle consent to transfer the fuel station business to one of its wholly 
owned subsidiary, Gati Projects Private Limited, respectively subject to consent from the respective Oil Marketing Companies 
and the necessary approvals from the shareholders of the Company.
53.	 There are no subsequent events after reporting date.
54.	 Other statutory information
	
(i)	
The Group has no transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 
of the Companies Act, 1956 except for the following:
Name of Company
Nature of 
transactions
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023
M G Corporation
Receivables
10
-
Mayur Enterprises
Receivables
3
-
Mrp Logistics
Receivables
3
-
Advance Valves Private Limited
Receivables
3
-
Laxmi Enterprises
Receivables
3
-
Entex Shipping Private Limited
Receivables
2
-
Sew Eurodrive Inida Private Limited
Receivables
2
-
Rahul Enterprises
Receivables
2
-
Nova Enterprises Private Limited
Receivables
16
-
Indo American Vitamin Foods Private Limited
Receivables
-
310
Alok Leasing Private Limited
Receivables
-
1
Apurva Organics Limited
Receivables
-
1
Bgrg Electrosoft Private Limited
Receivables
-
1
Crown Closures Private Limited
Receivables
-
0
Danfoss Industries Private Limited
Receivables
38
67
Ford India Private Limited
Receivables
-
73
Gilard Electronics Private Limited
Receivables
-
0
Inox India Private Limited
Receivables
-
2
Jassonia Enterprises India Private Limited
Receivables
-
2
Madura Coats
Receivables
2
2
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 223
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of Company
Nature of 
transactions
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024
Balance as at 
March 31, 2023
Thermadyne Private Limited
Receivables
-
0
Welspun India Limited
Receivables
-
1
Total
84
460
Interglobe Aviation Limited
Payables
10
-
Sb Enterprises
Payables
1
-
Progressive Logistics
Payables
1
-
3S Enterprises
Payables
1
-
Total
13
-
Note : 	
1)	
Wherever amounts are "0", the value is less than rupees fifty thousand.
	
	
2)	
None of the above mentioned party is related party as per the definition of "related party" under section 
2(76) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
(ii)	
The Company is in the continuous process of filing the charge satisfaction e-form with MCA, within the timelines, as and 
when it receives NOCs from the respective charge holders.
	
(iii)	 The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person or entity, including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries)during current or previous financial year with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(iv)	 The Group has not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) during current 
or previous financial year with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
(v)	
The Group does not have any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during current or previous financial year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, 
search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
	
(vi)	 Loans or Advances in the nature of loans are granted to Promoters ,Directors , KMPs and the Related Parties
Type of Borrower
Amount of loan or advance in the 
nature of loan outstanding
 Percentage to the total Loans and 
Advances in the nature of loans  
Nil 
Nil 
Nil
	
(vii)	 The Group has not revalued it’s Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of use assets) or intangible assets or both 
during current or previous financial year.
54.	 Other statutory information (contd)
224  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
55.	 Additional Information, as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of enterprises 
consolidated as Subsidiary/ Associates
Name of the Enterprise
2023-24
Net Assets, i.e., Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
Share in Profit/( Loss)
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit/( Loss)
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit/( Loss)
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit/( Loss)
Amount
Holding Company
Allcargo Gati Limited
105%
73,622
559%
3,417
-2%
2
685%
3,419
Subsidiaries
Indian
1. Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Gati 
Kintetsu Express Private 
Limited)"
31%
21,562
-320%
(1,959)
71%
(80)
-409%
(2,039)
2. Gati Import Export Trading 
Limited
0%
43
-1%
(4)
0%
(0)
-1%
(4)
3. Zen Cargo Movers Private 
Limited
0%
(44)
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
4. Gati Logistics Parks Private 
Limited
-2%
(1,446)
0%
(1)
0%
(0)
0%
(1)
5. Gati Projects Private Limited
0%
(4)
0%
(1)
0%
-
0%
(1)
93,733
1,453
(79)
1,374
Inter Company Elimination and 
Consolidation Adjustment
-43%
(30,188)
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Sub Total
63,545
1,453
(79)
1,374
Non Controlling Interest in all 
Subsidiaries
9%
6,469
-138%
(841)
30%
(34)
-175%
(875)
Total
100%
70,014
100%
612
100%
(113)
100%
499
Name of the Enterprise
2022-23
Net Assets, i.e., Total 
Assets minus Total 
Liabilities
Share in Profit/( Loss)
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net Assets
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit/( Loss)
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit/( Loss)
Amount
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit/( Loss)
Amount
Holding Company
Allcargo Gati Limited
101%
69,503
50%
(543)
2%
(15)
33%
(558)
Subsidiaries
Indian
-
1. Gati Express & Supply Chain 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Gati 
Kintetsu Express Private 
Limited)
36%
24,479
35%
(380)
68%
(418)
47%
(798)
2. Gati Import Export Trading 
Limited
0%
47
0%
(5)
0%
-
0%
(5)
3. Zen Cargo Movers Private 
Limited
0%
(44)
0%
(3)
0%
-
0%
(3)
4. Gati Logistics Parks Private 
Limited
-2%
(1,445)
0%
(1)
0%
-
0%
(1)
5. Gati Projects Private Limited
0%
(3)
0%
(1)
0%
-
0%
(1)
92,537
(933)
(433)
(1,366)
Inter Company Elimination and 
Consolidation Adjustment
-45%
(31,070)
0%
5
0%
-
0%
5
Sub Total
61,467
(928)
(433)
(1,361)
Non Controlling Interest in all 
Subsidiaries
11%
7,344
15%
(163)
29%
(179)
20%
(342)
Total
100%
68,811
100%
(1,091)
100%
(612)
100%
(1,703)
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 225
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
as at and for the Year Ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
56.	 Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
PART "A": SUBSIDIARIES
Sl. 
No.
Name of the subsidiary
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if 
different from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency and 
Exchange rate as 
on the last date 
of the relevant 
Financial year 
in the case 
of foreign 
subsidiaries.
Share 
capital
Reserves 
& surplus
Total 
assets
Total 
Liabilities Investments Turnover
Profit/
(Loss) 
before 
taxation 
before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
Items
Profit/
(Loss) 
before 
taxation 
and 
exceptional 
Items
Provision 
for 
taxation
Profit/
(Loss) 
after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend
% of 
shareholding
1
Gati Express & Supply 
Chain Private Limited #
April-March
INR
50
21,515
87,605
66,040
-
1,47,859
(4,243)
782
(3,461)
(660)
(2,801)
-
70% held by 
the Company
2
Gati Import Export 
Trading Ltd.^
April-March
INR
230
(187)
187
144
-
-
(4)
-
(4)
-
(4)
-
100% held by 
the Company
3
Zen Cargo Movers 
Private Limited ^
April-March
INR
36
(80)
23
67
-
-
0
-
0
0
(0)
-
100% held by 
the Company
4
Gati Logistics Parks 
Private Limited ^
April-March
INR
1
(1,447)
0
1,446
-
0
(1)
-
(1)
-
(1)
-
100% held by 
the Company
5
Gati Projects Private 
Limited ^
April-March
INR
1
(5)
0
5
-
0
(1)
-
(1)
-
(1)
-
100% held by 
the Company
Names of the subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations
Sl. 
No. Name of the companies
1
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited 
2
Gati Projects Private Limited
# The accounts of the Subsidiary Companies have been audited by the respective statutory auditors and the financial statements of these Companies have been considered in the consolidation.
^The accounts of the Subsidiary Companies have been certified by the management and the financial statements of these Companies have been considered in the consolidation.
PART “B”: ASSOCIATES
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Associate/ 
Joint Venture
Shares of Associate/ Joint Ventures held by the Company on the year end
Profit/loss for the year
Latest audited 
Balance Sheet 
date
No. of 
shares
Amount of 
Investment
Extent of 
holding %
Description of how there 
is a significant influence
Reason why the associate/joint 
venture is not consolidated
Net worth 
attributable to 
Shareholding 
as per latest 
audited 
Balance Sheet
Considered in 
consolidation
Not 
considered in 
consolidation
1
Gati Ship Limited
31-Mar-24
48,00,000
8,623
47.95%
There is no significant 
control over the Company. 
So the results are not 
consolidated.
The company ceases to have 
significant control after the sale of 
stake of 12.09% on May 16, 2014. 
Hence the same is not considered 
in consolidation.
50
-
(1)
226  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
57.	 The Subsidiary Companies considered in the Financial Statements are as follows:
Sl. 
No. Name of the subsidiary 
Country of 
Incorporation
% Voting Power as at 
March 31, 2024
% Voting Power as at 
March 31, 2023
1
Gati Express & Supply Chain Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Gati Kintetsu Express Private 
Limited)
India
70%
70%
2
Gati Import Export Trading Limited
India
100%
100%
3
Zen Cargo Movers Private Limited
India
100%
100%
4
Gati Logistics Parks Private Limited
India
100%
100%
5
Gati Projects Private Limited
India
100%
100%
58.	 Employee share-based payment:
	
The Holding Company has formulated employee share-based payment schemes with objective to attract and 
retain talent and align the interest of employees with the Group as well as to motivate them to contribute to its 
growth and profitability. The Group view employee stock options as instruments that would enable the employees 
to share the value they create for the Group in the years to come. For the year ended March 31, 2024 the Group 
recognised total expenses of ` 413 lakhs (March 31, 2023 ` 924 lakhs) related to Share based Payment schemes. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company during the FY 2023-24 have granted 
9,50,000 ESARs to the Employees of its Holding Company and Subsidiary Company. The necessary accounting for the above has 
been made in the books of accounts in the respective periods. Furthermore, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Board of Directors of the Company vide its meeting held on March 07, 2024 have granted 5,25,000 ESARs to the Employees 
Subsidiary Company w.e.f April 01, 2024. At present, following employee share-based payment scheme is in operation, details 
of which are given below: 
	
A)	
Details of ESAR grants are summarised below -
Sl. 
No. Description
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
1
Date of shareholders’ approval
January 27, 2022
January 27, 2022
2
Total number of options approved under ESARs scheme
42,00,000
42,00,000
3
Vesting requirements
Vesting period of one year 
but not later than 4 years 
from the date of grant
Vesting period of one year 
but not later than 4 years 
from the date of grant
4
Exercise price or pricing formula
The Exercise Price per 
ESAR shall be the Market 
Price of the Shares of 
the Company discounted 
by such percentage 
not exceeding 50% to 
be determined by the 
Committee from time to 
time has context menu
The Exercise Price per 
ESAR shall be the Market 
Price of the Shares of 
the Company discounted 
by such percentage 
not exceeding 50% to 
be determined by the 
Committee from time to 
time has context menu
5
Maximum term of options granted
9 years from the date of 
Grant
9 years from the date of 
Grant
6
Source of shares (primary, secondary or combination)
Primary
Primary
7
Variation of terms of options
No Variations
No Variations
8
Method used to account for ESOS - Intrinsic or fair value
Fair Value Method
Fair Value Method
Sl. 
No. Description
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Year ended
March 31, 2023
1
Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the year
28,80,000
-
2
Number of options granted during the year
9,50,000
31,05,000
3
Number of options forfeited/lapsed during the year
8,07,500
2,25,000
4
Number of options vested during the year
8,64,000
-
5
Number of options exercised during the year
2,85,000
-
6
Number of shares arising as a result of exercise of options
1,21,910
NA
7
Amount realized by exercise of options (`)
2,43,820
-
8
Number of options outstanding at the end of the year (out of total 
number of options approved under scheme)
27,37,500
28,80,000
9
Number of options exercisable at the end of the year (out of total 
number of options approved under scheme)
27,37,500
28,80,000
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24  | 227
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(All amounts in Indian Rupees Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
10
Description of the method and significant 
assumptions used during the year to 
estimate the fair value of the options, 
including the following weighted average 
information
The Black Scholes option-pricing model was developed for estimating 
fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and 
are fully transferable. Since option-pricing models require use of 
substantive assumptions, changes therein can materially affect fair 
value of options. The option pricing models do not necessarily provide 
a reliable measure of fair value of options.
	
	
11	
The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model. The assumptions used in 
the model are as follows:
Grant-4
Grant-3
Grant-2
Grant-1
Stock Options granted on
July 31, 2023
June 1, 2023
April 1, 2023
April 1, 2022
Weighted average exercise price (in `)
85.00
85.00
85.00
85.00
Weighted average Fair value (in `)
95.27
70.75
58.93
114.56
Volatility (%)
53.98%
53.18%
53.64%
54.80%
Dividend yield (%)
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Life of Options granted (Years)
4.51
5.01
5.01
5.01
Risk free interest rate (%)
7.04%
6.82%
7.14%
6.15%
	
12 	
The volatility used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model is the annualized standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the stock over a period of time. The period considered for the working is commensurate 
with the expected life of the options and is based on the daily volatility of the Company’s stock price on NSE.
	
13 	
There are no market conditions attached to the grant and vest.
59.	 The Holding Company and Gati Express and Supply Chain Private Limited financial (subsidiary) has used six accounting 
softwares for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same was 
enabled throughout the year except in case of the following three accounting softwares wherein this feature was enabled from 
specific date and in case of one software audit trail is not enabled for direct changes to data when using certain access rights 
as mentioned below:
Application
Audit trail enablement date
GEMS
Audit trail at application layer is enabled from May 17, 2023, Database level effective throughout the year.
Oracle
Audit trail at application layer is enabled from April 28, 2023, Database level effective throughout the year.
Fuel Plus
Audit trail at application layer is enabled from December 13, 2023. Audit trail at Database layer was not 
enabled.
	
There is no instance of audit trail feature being tampered with was noted in respect of above accounting softwares
	
The Company’s other four subsidiaries, has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which does not 
have the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, which are not material to the Group
58.	 Employee share-based payment: (contd)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Allcargo Gati Limited 
(formerly known as Gati Limited)
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
For S.R. BATLIBOI & ASSOCIATES LLP
Shashi Kiran Shetty
Pirojshaw Sarkari
Chartered Accountants
Chairman & Managing Director
Director
ICAI Firm Registration No: 101049W/
E300004
DIN: 00012754
DIN: 00820860
Per Aniket A Sohani
Anish T Mathew
T S Maharani
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership no: 117142
M. No. 211965
M No. F8069
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Place: Hyderabad
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
Date: May 16, 2024
228  |  Allcargo Gati Limited
Allcargo Gati Limited
Registered Office: 
4th Floor, B Wing, Allcargo House, CST Road, 
Kalina Santacruz (East), Mumbai – 400098, 
Maharashtra, India
Tel: 022 66798100
Corporate Office:
Western Pearl, 4th Floor, Survey No. 13(p), 
Kondapur. Hyderabad, Rangareddi – 
500084, Telangana, India
Tel: 040 7120 4284
Email: 
investor.services@allcargologistics. com
Website: www.gati.com
CIN: L63011MH1995PLC420155
