IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
Registered Oﬃce: Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor, Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai - 400099, India. | T +91 22 4315 7000 | contact@indostarcapital.com | 
www.indostarcapital.com  |    CIN: L65100MH2009PLC268160 
ICFL/LS/0112/2024-25 
September 06, 2024 
BSE Limited 
Listing Department, 1st Floor, 
P J Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai - 400 001. 
Scrip Code: 541336 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400 051. 
Symbol: INDOSTAR 
Sub.:   Notice convening 15th Annual General Meeting of the Company along with the Annual Report for the 
financial year 2023-24 and closure of Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
Ref.:    Regulation 30 and Regulation 34(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 and Regulation 34(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed the following documents, which are being 
sent to the shareholders of the Company through electronic mode: 
1.
Notice of the 15th Annual General Meeting of the Company (“AGM Notice”) scheduled to be held on
Monday, September 30, 2024 at 3:00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing / Other Audio Visual Means;
and
2.
The Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2023-24 (“Annual Report”).
The AGM Notice and Annual Report are also available on the website of the Company at 
www.indostarcapital.com. 
Further, we wish to intimate that Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain 
closed from Tuesday, September 24, 2024 to Monday, September 30, 2024 (both days inclusive) for the 
purpose of the Annual General Meeting. 
Request you to kindly take the above on record and disseminate the same on your website. 
Thanking you, 
Yours faithfully, 
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
Shikha Jain 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
(Membership No. A59686) 
SHIKHA 
JAIN
Digitally signed 
by SHIKHA JAIN 
Date: 2024.09.06 
21:21:06 +05'30'
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
1
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Registered & Corporate Office: Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor,
Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road,
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099
Corporate Identity Number: L65100MH2009PLC268160 | Tel: +91 22 43157000
Website: www.indostarcapital.com; Email: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
NOTICE is hereby given that the 15TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Members of INDOSTAR CAPITAL 
FINANCE LIMITED (“the Company”) is scheduled to be held on MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2024 at 3:00 P.M. 
(IST) through Video Conferencing / Other Audio-Visual Means, to transact the below mentioned business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024, along with the report(s) of the Board of Directors and the Auditors 
thereon.
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 and the reports of the Board of Directors and Statutory Auditors thereon, as circulated 
to the Members, be and are hereby considered and adopted.”
2.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024 and the report of the Auditors thereon.
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 and the report of the Statutory Auditors thereon, as circulated to the Members, be 
and are hereby considered and adopted.”
3.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Aditya Joshi (DIN: 08684627), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT Mr. Aditya Joshi (DIN: 08684627), who retires by rotation at the 15th Annual General 
Meeting in accordance with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Articles of Association of 
the Company and being eligible has offered himself for re-appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as a 
Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.”
4.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri (DIN: 02018124), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri (DIN: 02018124), who retires by rotation at the 15th Annual General 
Meeting in accordance with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Articles of Association of 
the Company and being eligible has offered himself for re-appointment, be and is hereby re-appointed as a 
Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.”
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
2
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.	
ISSUE OF NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES UNDER PRIVATE PLACEMENT
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a 
Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to (i) the provisions of Sections 23, 42, 71, 180(1)(c) and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the applicable Rules framed thereunder including 
the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Share Capital 
and Debentures) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory amendment(s), modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force); (ii) the applicable provisions of the Memorandum of Association and 
the Articles of Association of the Company; (iii) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021, as amended; (iv) the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended; (v) the 
Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) 
Directions, 2023, as amended; and (vi) all other applicable laws, acts, rules, regulations, guidelines, circulars, 
directions and notifications, and subject to such other consent(s) / permission(s) / sanction(s), as may be 
required, consent of the Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to the Board of Directors of 
the Company (hereinafter referred to as the “Board” which term shall be deemed to include any committee 
constituted / may be constituted by the Board of Directors of the Company or any other person(s), for 
the time being exercising the powers conferred on the Board of Directors by this resolution and as may 
be authorised by the Board in this regard) to create / invite / offer / issue / allot up to such number of 
non-convertible debentures (“NCDs”) including but not limited to subordinated / perpetual debentures, 
under private placement, with or without security, in one or more modes or combinations thereof and in 
one or more series or tranches, to such eligible person(s), on such terms and conditions as the Board may 
determine and think fit, such that the aggregate principal amount of NCDs to be issued during a period of 1 
(one) year commencing from the date of passing of this Special Resolution does not exceed ` 6000 crore 
(Rupees Six Thousand Crore only) within the overall borrowing limits of the Company;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised to undertake all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things, as it may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, proper or desirable to 
give full effect to the aforesaid resolution and to settle all questions / doubts / queries / difficulties that 
may arise in this regard, at any stage without being required to seek any further consent or approval of 
the Members of the Company to the end and intent that they shall be deemed to have given their approval 
thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.”
6.	
ALTERATION OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THE COMPANY
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a 
Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 5 and 14 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and 
the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014 and all other applicable provisions under the Act, (including any 
statutory amendment(s), modification(s), clarification(s), substitution(s), enactment(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force) and all other rules, regulations, guidelines, statutory notifications made 
by any statutory authorities and modifications thereof and recommendation of the Board of Directors 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, which term shall include any duly constituted committee(s) thereof 
or such other person(s) authorised by the Board), the consent of the Members of the Company be and is 
hereby accorded to alter the Articles of Association of the Company as detailed below:
	
(i)	 Existing Article 152 be renumbered as Article 152A:
	
(ii)	  Insertion of Article 152B after the renumbered Article 152A as below:
	
152B On receipt of communication from the Debenture Trustee of the proposed nomination of any person 
as a director, pursuant to clause (e) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the Board of Directors shall appoint such a person 
as nominee director on the Board of Directors of the Company. Such nominee director shall neither be liable 
to retire by rotation nor be required to hold any qualification shares.”
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
3
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised to undertake all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things, as it may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, proper or desirable to 
give full effect to the aforesaid resolution and to settle all questions / doubts / queries / difficulties that 
may arise in this regard, at any stage without being required to seek any further consent or approval of 
the Members of the Company to the end and intent that they shall be deemed to have given their approval 
thereto expressly by the authority of this resolution.
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Place: Mumbai
Date: September 06, 2024
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No.: ACS 59686
Registered Office:
Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor,
Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal 
Gracious Road, Chakala,
Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099
CIN: L65100MH2009PLC268160
Tel: +91 22 43157000
E-mail:investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
Website: www.indostarcapital.com
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
4
NOTES:
1. 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) vide its General Circular no. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020, 
17/2020 dated 13th April, 2020, 20/2020 dated 5th may, 2020, 2/2022 dated 5th May, 2022, 10/2022 
dated 28th December, 2022, 09/2023 dated 25th September, 2023 and the previous circulars on COVID-19 
related relaxations issued in this regard (collectively referred as “MCA Circulars”) and the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide its Circular no. SEBI/HO/ CFD/ CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 
May 13, 2022 and Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated 7th October, 2023 (“SEBI 
Circulars”), has permitted companies to hold annual general meetings through Video Conferencing (“VC”) 
or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) without the physical presence of members at a common venue, till 
September 30, 2024. Accordingly, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), 
circulars issued by SEBI read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and the MCA Circulars, the 15th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company (“AGM”) is being conducted through VC / OAVM, which does not require 
physical presence of the Members at a common venue. In accordance with the Secretarial Standard 2 on 
General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) read with Clarification 
/ Guidance on applicability of Secretarial Standards - 1 and 2 dated April 15, 2020 issued by the ICSI, the 
proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office of the Company which 
shall be the deemed venue of the AGM. Since the AGM will be held through VC / OAVM, the Route Map is 
not annexed to this Notice. The Company has engaged the services of Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (“CDSL”) for providing the facility for remote e-voting, for participation in the AGM through VC / 
OAVM and for e-voting during the AGM. The procedure for participating in the AGM through VC / OAVM is 
explained at Note No. 19 below.
2.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Act, the Secretarial Standards on General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“Secretarial Standards”) and the Listing 
Regulations, for business at Item No. 5 and Item No. 6 as set out in the Notice convening the AGM (“AGM 
Notice”) is annexed hereto and forms part of the AGM Notice.
	
The Board of Directors has considered and decided to include the Item No. 5 and Item No. 6 given above as 
Special Business in the forthcoming AGM, as they are unavoidable in nature.
3.	
Information with respect to Mr. Aditya Joshi and Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri seeking re-appointment as Director(s) 
as required under Regulation 36(3) of the Listing Regulations and the Secretarial Standards is annexed 
hereto and forms part of the AGM Notice.
4.	
In terms of the MCA Circulars, since the requirement of physical attendance of Members has been dispensed 
with, there is no requirement of appointment of proxies. Accordingly, the facility of appointment of proxies 
by Members under Section 105 of the Act will not be available for the AGM and hence Proxy Form and 
Attendance Slip are not annexed to this AGM Notice. However, in pursuance of Section 112 and Section 113 
of the Act, Corporate/ Institutional Members are entitled to appoint authorized representatives to attend 
the AGM through VC / OAVM on their behalf and for voting through remote e-voting or e-voting during the 
AGM. Corporate/ Institutional Members are requested to send the relevant Board Resolution / Authority 
letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory who are authorized 
to vote and Demat Account details, to the Company at investor. relations@indostarcapital.com.
5. 
Members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum 
under Section 103 of the Act.
6.	
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company shall remain closed from September 24, 
2024 to September 30, 2024.
7. 
SEBI vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/131 dated 31st July, 2023 and SEBI/HO/OIAE/
OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated 4th August, 2023, read with Master Circular No. SEBI/HOOIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/145 dated 31st July, 2023, has established a common online dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR 
Portal”) for resolution of dispute arising in the Securities Market. Pursuant to above-mentioned circulars, 
post exhausting the option to resolve their grievances with the RTA/Company directly and through existing 
SCORES platform, the investors can initiate dispute resolution through the ODR Portal and the same can 
also be accessed through the Company’s website https://www.indostarcapital.com.
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
5
8. 
Members can join the AGM through VC / OAVM, 15 minutes before the scheduled time of commencement 
of the AGM and during the AGM, by following the procedure mentioned in the AGM Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC / OAVM will be made available to at least 1,000 Members on a 
first-come-first-served basis. Large shareholders (shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoters, 
Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairperson(s) of the Audit Committee, 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. 
are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on account of first-come­ first-served principle.
9.	
The Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent for its share registry work (Physical and Electronic) is Link 
lntime India Private Limited (“Link lntime”) having their office at C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400083.
10.	 ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF AGM NOTICE AND ANNUAL REPORT: In compliance with the MCA Circulars 
and SEBI Circulars, the AGM Notice along with the Annual Report for the financial year 2023-24 (“Annual 
Report”) are being sent through electronic mode to those Members whose email addresses are registered 
with the Company/ Depository Participants/ Registrar and Transfer Agent - Link lntime. Members are 
requested to note that the AGM Notice and Annual Report are also available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-services, the website of the Stock Exchanges 
i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.
com, respectively. The AGM Notice is also disseminated on the website of CDSL at www.evotingindia.com.
11. 
The following documents / registers will be available for online inspection by the Members of the Company 
up to the date of the AGM:
	
a.	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their Shareholding and Register of 
Contracts or arrangement in which Directors are interested;
	
b.	
All the documents referred to in the AGM Notice and the Explanatory Statement annexed to the 
AGM Notice; and
 
c. 
A certificate from Mehta & Mehta Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company, in terms of Regulation 13 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“the SBEB Regulations”), certifying that the Employee 
Stock Options Plans of the Company have been implemented in accordance with the SBEB Regulations 
and the respective resolution(s) passed in the general meeting(s) of the Company in this regard.
	
Members who wish to inspect any of the abovementioned documents may write to the Company Secretary 
& Compliance Officer at investor.relations@indostarcapital.com.
12. Members holding shares in physical mode and desirous of nominating any person as his / her nominee may 
send the duly filed nomination form in SH-13 or desirous of cancelling the earlier nomination and recording 
fresh nomination may send the duly filled form SH-14 to Link lntime. Members can obtain the blank form 
SH-13 and SH-14 from Link lntime. Members holding shares in electronic / dematerialised mode can contact 
their respective Depository Participants to either nominate any person as a nominee or cancel the earlier 
nomination and record fresh nomination.
13.	 Members are requested to:
 
a. 
register/ notify any change in their registered address/ Permanent Account Number/ bank mandates 
to Link lntime, in case of shares held in physical form;
 
b. 
register/ notify any change in their registered address / Permanent Account Number / bank mandates 
to the respective Depository Participants, in case of shares held in electronic/ dematerialised form;
 
c. 
quote their folio number(s) / Client ID and DP ID/ Beneficiary ID in all their correspondence.
14.	 Members are requested to note that dividend which remains unpaid or unclaimed for 7 (seven) consecutive 
years from the date of transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account are liable to be transferred to 
the Investor Education & Protection Fund (“IEPF”) and all shares on which dividend has not been paid or 
claimed for 7 (seven) consecutive years shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority, in terms of the provision 
of Section 124 of the Act read with Rules made thereunder. In view of this, Members who have not claimed 
their dividend are requested to claim their dividend within the stipulated timeline by corresponding with 
Link lntime or the Company Secretary by writing at investor.relations@indostarcapital.com.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
6
PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING, ATTENDING THE AGM AND E-VOTING DURING THE AGM:
15.	 In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time, Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations 
read with Circular dated December 9, 2020 issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India on e-voting 
facility provided by Listed Entities, the Secretarial Standards, the MCA Circulars, Members have the option 
to vote electronically either before the AGM (“remote e-voting”) or during the AGM on the resolutions set 
out in the AGM Notice.
16. The facility of e-voting shall be available during the AGM for Members attending the AGM through VC / 
OAVM and who have not already cast their vote by remote e-voting. However, Members who have cast 
their vote through remote e-voting may attend the AGM but shall not be entitle to vote during the AGM.
17.	 The remote e-voting period commences on Wednesday, September 25, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. (IST) and ends 
on Sunday, September 29, 2024 at 5:00 p.m. (IST), after which the facility will be blocked by CDSL and the 
remote e-voting shall not be allowed beyond the said end date and time. Members of the Company holding 
shares either in the physical mode or electronic / dematerialised mode as on the cut-off date i.e., Monday, 
September 23, 2024 shall be entitled to cast votes on the resolutions set out in the AGM Notice by remote 
e-voting or e-voting at the AGM. Any person who is not a Member as on the cut-off date i.e., Monday, 
September 23, 2024 should treat the AGM Notice for information purpose only.
18.	 The voting rights of the Members shall be in proportion of the amount paid-up on the equity shares 
held by a Member with the total equity share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date i.e., Monday, 
September 23, 2024.
19.	 Procedure and instructions for remote e-voting on the resolutions proposed in the AGM Notice:
 
In terms of the SEBI circular dated December 09, 2020 on “e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies”, 
e-voting process has been enabled for all the individual demat account holders, by way of single login 
credential, through their demat accounts / websites of depositories and depository participants (DPs), in 
order to increase the efficiency of the voting process.
	
Individual demat account holders would be able to cast their vote without having to register again with 
the e-voting service provider (ESP) thereby not only facilitating seamless authentication but also ease and 
convenience of participating in the e-voting process. Members are advised to update their mobile number 
and email ID in their demat accounts in order to access e-voting facility.
	
A.	
Login method for remote e-voting for Individual Members holding shares in dematerialised mode:
Type of Members Login Method
Individual 
Members 
holding shares in 
dematerialised 
mode with CDSL
A.	
Users already registered for Easi / Easiest facility:
 
1. 
URL for login to Easi / Easiest are https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/
home/login or visit www.cdslindia.com. and click on New System Myeasi. 
Members can login through their existing user ID and password. Option will 
be available to reach e-voting page without any further authentication;
 
2. 
After successful login on Easi / Easiest, the user will be able to see the 
e-voting Menu. The Menu will have links of all e-voting service providers 
(“ESP”) i.e. CDSL / NSDL / KARVY / Link Intime etc. Click on CDSL to cast 
your vote.
B.	
Users who have not opted for Easi / Easiest facility:
 
1. 
Option to register for Easi / Easiest is available at https://web.cdslindia.
com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration.
 
2. 
Proceed with completing the required fields;
	
3.	
After successful registration, please follow steps given in Point No. A 
above to cast your vote.
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
7
Type of Members Login Method
C.	
Visit the e-voting website of CDSL:
	
1.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing 
Demat Account Number and Permanent Account Number from a e-voting 
link available on www.cdslindia.com home page.
	
2.	
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered 
Mobile and e-mail as recorded in the Demat Account.
	
3.	
After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting 
option where the E-voting is in progress. Click on options available 
against the Company name: IndoStar Capital Finance Limited or select 
e-voting service provider name – CDSL to cast your vote.
Individual 
Members holding 
share(s) in 
dematerialised 
mode with NSDL
A.	
Users registered for NSDL IDeAS facility
 
1. 
Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices. 
nsdl.com. Once the home page of e-services is launched, click on the 
“Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ 
section;
	
2.	
A new screen will open. Enter your User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see E-voting services. Click on “Access 
to e-voting” under e-voting services and user will be able to see e-voting 
page.
	
3.	
Click on options available against Company name: IndoStar Capital 
Finance Limited or e-voting service provider name – CDSL and you will 
be re-directed to CDSL e-voting website for casting vote during the 
remote e-voting period.
B.	
Users not registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
	
1.	
Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.
	
2.	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.
nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
 
3. 
Proceed with completing the required fields.
	
4.	
After successful registration, please follow steps given in Point No. A 
above to cast your vote
C.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL
 
1. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder / Member’ section.
	
2.	
Enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held 
with NSDL), Password / OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen.
	
3.	
After successful authentication, user will be redirected to NSDL depository 
site wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on options available against 
Company name: IndoStar Capital Finance Limited or e-voting service 
provider name – CDSL.
	
4.	
User will be redirected to e-voting website of CDSL for casting your vote 
during the remote e-voting period.
Individual 
Members 
(holding share(s) 
in dematerialized 
mode) login 
through their 
Depository 
Participants
1.	
User can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through 
your Depository Participant registered with NSDL / CDSL for e-voting facility.
2.	
After Successful login, user will be able to see e-voting option. Click on 
e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after 
successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
3.	
Click on option available against Company’s name: IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited or e-voting service provider – CDSL and user will be redirected to 
e-voting website of CDSL for casting vote during the remote e-voting period
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
8
	
Important note:
 
Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding shares in dematerialized mode for any technical issues related 
to login through Depository i.e. CDSL and NSDL
Login Type
Helpdesk Details
Securities held with NSDL
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in 
or call at Toll free nos.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30
Securities held with CDSL
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@
cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33.
	
B.	
Login method for remote e-voting for Members other than Individual Members holding shares in 
demat mode and Members holding shares in physical mode:
	
	
a)	
The Members should log on to the e-voting website at www.evotingindia.com.
	
	
b)	
Click on “shareholders / Members” tab.
	
	
c)	
Now enter your User ID, as detailed below:
 
 
 
a. 
For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID;
	
	
	
b.	
For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID;
	
	
	
c.	
Members holding shares in physical mode should enter “Folio Number” registered 
with the Company.
 
 
d. 
 Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on “Login”.
	
	
e.	
Please follow the following steps after clicking on “Login”.
Existing Users
New Users
•	
In 
case 
a 
Member 
has 
already used the remote 
e-voting facility of CDSL for 
any other company, should 
use their existing User ID 
and Password.
•	
If a Member has forgotten 
his / her password, they can 
retrieve the same by clicking 
on “Forgot Password”
•	
Members 
who 
have 
updated 
their 
PAN 
with 
the 
Company / Depository 
Participants / 
Link 
Intime, 
please 
enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric PAN issued by Income Tax 
Department (applicable for both the Members holding shares 
in electronic / dematerialized mode or physical mode)
•	
Members who have not updated their PAN with the 
Company / Depository Participants / Link Intime are requested 
to use the sequence number sent by Company. In case a 
Member has not received sequence number, he / she can obtain 
the same by writing to the Company at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com.
AND
• 
Enter the Dividend Bank Details OR Date of Birth (in dd/mm/
yyyy format) as recorded with your Depository Participants / 
Company / Link Intime. In case the said details are not recorded, 
Members are requested to use the Folio No. (in case of shares 
in physical mode) and Beneficiary ID / DP ID and Client ID. (in 
case of shares held in electronic / dematerialised mode).
	
f.	
After entering these details appropriately, click on “SUBMIT” tab.
 
g. 
Members holding shares in physical form will then directly reach the EVSN selection screen. The details 
can be used only for using the remote e-voting facility for the resolutions contained in the AGM Notice.
 
h. 
Members holding shares in electronic / dematerialised mode will now reach ‘Password Creation’ 
menu wherein they are required to mandatorily enter their login password in the new password field. 
Kindly note that this password is to be also used for voting for resolutions of any other company on 
which they are eligible to vote, provided that company opts for e-voting through CDSL platform. It is 
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
9
strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to 
keep your password confidential.
	
i. 
Click on the EVSN 240904109 of the Company on which you choose to vote.
 
j. 
On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option “YES 
/ NO” for voting. Select the option “YES” or “NO” as desired. The option YES implies that you assent 
to a particular resolution and option NO implies that you dissent to a particular resolution.
	
k.	
If you wish to view the entire resolution details, click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK”.
	
l.	
After selecting the resolution, you have decided to vote on, click on “SUBMIT”. A confirmation box 
will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on “OK”, else to change your vote, click on 
“CANCEL” and accordingly modify your vote.
	
m.	 Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
 
n. 
You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on “Click here to print” option on the Voting page.
	
o.	
If a demat account holder has forgotten the login password then enter the User ID and the image 
verification code and click on Forgot Password and enter the details as prompted by the system.
	
p.	
Note for Non – Individual Members and Custodians:
	
	
•	
Non-Individual members (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to 
log on to www.evotingindia.com and register themselves in the Corporates.
	
	
•	
A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the stamp and sign of the entity should be 
emailed to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com.
	
	
•	
After receiving the login details a Compliance User should be created using the admin login and 
password. The Compliance User would be able to link the account(s) for which they wish to vote on.
	
	
•	
The list of accounts linked in the login should be mailed to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com and 
on approval of the accounts they would be able to cast their vote.
	
	
•	
A scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power of Attorney (POA) which they have issued in 
favour of the Custodian, if any, should be uploaded in PDF format in the system for the scrutinizer 
to verify the same.
 
 
• 
Alternatively, Non-Individual Members are required to send the relevant Board Resolution / 
Authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory 
who are authorized to vote and Demat account details to the Company at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com, if have voted from individual tab and not uploaded same in the CDSL e-voting 
system for the scrutinizer to verify.
20.	 Process for Members whose email addresses are not registered with the Company / Depositories:
	
I.	
Members holding shares in physical form - Please provide necessary details like Folio No., Name of 
Member, scanned copy of the share certificate (front and back) and PAN (self-attested scanned copy 
of PAN card) by email to investor.relations@indostarcapital.com;
	
II.	
Members holding shares in dematerialised form (other than individuals) - Please update your email 
address and mobile no. with your respective depository participant.
	
III.	 Individual Members holding shares in dematerialised form - Please update your email address and mobile 
no. with your respective depository participant which is mandatory while e-voting and joining the AGM.
21.	 Instructions for Members attending the AGM through VC / OVAM and e-voting on the resolutions proposed 
in the AGM Notice, during the AGM are as under:
 
a) 
The procedure for attending the AGM through VC / OVAM and e-voting during the AGM is same as the 
instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
	
b)	
Members who have voted through remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they 
will not be eligible to vote during the AGM.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
10
 
c) 
Only those Members, who are present in the AGM through VC / OAVM facility and have not casted their 
vote on the resolutions proposed in the AGM Notice through remote e-voting and are otherwise not 
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-voting system available during the AGM.
 
d) 
After successful login as per the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting, the link for VC / 
OAVM to attend AGM will be available where the EVSN of Company will be displayed.
 
e) 
Members are encouraged to join the AGM through Laptops / IPads for better experience.
	
f)	
Members will be required to allow Camera (in case of speakers) and use Internet with a good speed to 
avoid any disturbance during the meeting.
	
g)	
Members connecting from mobile devices or tablets or through laptop connecting via mobile hotspot 
may experience audio / video loss due to fluctuation in their respective network. Members are therefore 
requested to use internet facility with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the AGM.
 
h) 
Members who would like to express their views / ask questions during the AGM may register themselves 
as a speaker by sending a specific request for the same from their registered email address mentioning 
their name, DP ID and Client ID  /  folio number, PAN and mobile number at investor.relations@
indostarcapital.com in advance, at least 7 days prior to the date of AGM.
	
i)	
Only those Members who have registered themselves as a ‘speaker’ will be allowed to express their 
views / ask questions during the AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of 
speakers depending on the availability of time for the AGM.
 
j) 
The Members who do not wish to speak during the AGM but have any queries relating to the resolutions 
set out in the AGM Notice may send their queries from their registered email address mentioning their 
name, DP ID and Client ID / folio number, PAN and mobile number at investor.relations@indostarcapital.
com in advance, at least 7 days prior to the date of AGM. These queries will be replied to by the 
Company suitably via email.
 
Details of persons to be contacted for any issues / queries / grievances relating to remote e-voting, e-voting 
during the AGM and attending the AGM through VC / OAVM:
	
CDSL:
	
Members may refer to the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) and e-voting user manual available at 
www.evotingindia.com, under “Help” section or may contact Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. Manager, (CDSL, ) Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited, A Wing, 25th Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill Compounds, N M 
Joshi Marg, Lower Parel (East), Mumbai - 400013 or send an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
call on toll free no. 1800 21 099 11.
	
Company:
 
Ms. Shikha Jain Company Secretary & Compliance Officer at Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor, Unit No 301-A, Opposite 
P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099 or send an email at investor.
relations@indostarcapital.com or call at 022-43157000.
22.	 Ms. Alifya Sapatwala, of Mehta & Mehta, Practicing Company Secretaries, have been appointed as 
the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote e-voting process and e-voting during the AGM in a fair and 
transparent manner.
23.	 The Scrutinizer shall, not later than 48 hours from the conclusion of the AGM, submit a consolidated 
Scrutinizer’s Report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or any other person 
authorized by the Chairman in this behalf, who shall countersign the same.
24.	 The Chairman or any other person authorized by the Chairman in this behalf shall forthwith on receipt of 
the consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report, declare the results of the voting within 48 hours of the conclusion of 
the AGM. The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the Company’s website 
at www.indostarcapital.com and on the website of CDSL e-voting at www.evotingindia.com immediately 
after the results are declared by the Chairman or any other person so authorized. Simultaneously, the same 
will also be communicated to the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited, where the 
equity shares of the Company are listed.
25.	 The resolutions as set out in the AGM Notice shall be deemed to be passed on the date of the AGM i.e. 
Monday, September 30, 2024, subject to receipt of the requisite number of votes in favour of the resolution(s).
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
11
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE CONVENING THE 15TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“AGM NOTICE”)
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, THE 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2015 AND THE SECRETARIAL STANDARDS ON GENERAL MEETINGS ISSUED BY THE 
INSTITUTE OF COMPANY SECRETARIES OF INDIA
ITEM NO. 5
ISSUE OF NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES UNDER PRIVATE PLACEMENT
Members at the 14th Annual General Meeting of the Company held on September 18, 2023, had accorded their 
approval to create / invite / offer / issue / allot up to such number of Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”), 
under private placement, in one or more series or tranches, on such terms and conditions as may be determined 
by the Board, such that the aggregate principal amount of such NCDs issued during a period of 1 (one) year 
commencing from the date of passing of special resolution at the aforesaid 14th Annual General Meeting, does 
not exceed ₹ 7,500 crore (Rupees Seventy Thousand Five Hundred Crore only).
Members are requested to note that the aforesaid approval accorded by the Members of the Company for 
the issue of NCDs under private placement is valid for a period of one year from the date of approval by the 
Members of the Company i.e. upto September 17, 2024.
Members are requested to note that in order to enable the Company to raise funds by way of issuance of NCDs 
under private placement, the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on April 29, 2024, subject 
to the approval of the Members of the Company, accorded its approval to create / invite / offer / issue / allot 
upto such number of NCDs, under private placement, in one or more series or tranches, such that the aggregate 
principal amount of such NCDs to be issued during a period of 1 (one) year commencing from the date of passing 
of the Special Resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the AGM Notice, does not exceed ` 6,000 crore. Further, the 
Board of Directors have authorised the Borrowing Committee to undertake all acts, deeds, matters and things as 
it may in its absolute discretion deem necessary, expedient, proper or desirable, in respect of issuance of NCDs 
under private placement including but not limited to determine the terms and conditions of the NCDs to be 
issued, number of NCDs to be issued, issue price, face value, issue size, coupon, tenor, objects of the issue, etc.
Members are requested to note that in terms of Section 42 of the Act read with Rule 14 of the Companies 
(Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014, a company shall not make an offer or invitation to subscribe 
to securities (including NCDs) through private placement unless the proposal has been previously approved by 
the members of the company, by way of special resolution. Further, in case of offer or invitation to subscribe 
NCDs it shall be sufficient if the company passes a previous special resolution only once in a year for all the 
offers or invitations to subscribe NCDs during the year.
Accordingly, approval of the Members of the Company is sought in terms of Section 42 of the Act read with 
Rule 14 of the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014, to create / invite / offer / issue 
/ allot up to such number of NCDs, under private placement, in one or more series or tranches, such that the 
aggregate principal amount of such NCDs to be issued during a period of 1 (one) year from the date of passing 
of the Special Resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the AGM Notice, does not exceed ` 6,000 crore within the 
overall borrowing limits of the Company.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the AGM Notice to the Members for 
their consideration and approval, by way of Special Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives are, in any way, concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Special Resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the AGM Notice, except 
to the extent of the NCDs that may be subscribed by any Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
or their relatives or any entity in which any of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their 
relatives may be concerned or interested in any capacity.
ITEM NO. 6
ALTERATION OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THE COMPANY
Members are requested to note that as per the Regulation 23(6) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021 (“NCS Regulations”) and Notification No. 
SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/119 issued by Securities and Exchanges Board of India on February 02, 2023 (“SEBI 
Notification”), a listed company issuing non-convertible debt securities is required to ensure that its Articles of 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
12
Association enables the Board of Directors to appoint a person nominated by the debenture trustee(s) in terms 
of clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture 
Trustees) Regulations, 1993 as a director on its Board of Directors in the event of:
(i)	 two consecutive defaults in payment of interest to the debenture holders; or
(ii)	 default in creation of security for debentures; or
(iii)	 default in redemption of debentures
Members are further requested to note that present Article 152 of the Articles of Association of the Company 
states that whenever the Company enters into an agreement or contract with the Central or State Government, 
a local authority, bank or any financial Institutions, or any person or persons or any Body Corporate (hereinafter 
referred to as “the appointer”) for borrowing any money or for providing any guarantee or security or for 
underwriting Shares or Debentures or other securities of the Company, the Board shall have, the power to agree 
that such appointer shall have and to the extent provided by the terms of such agreement or contract, the right 
to appoint or nominate, by a notice in writing addressed to the Company, one or more Directors on the Board, 
for such period and upon such conditions as may be mentioned in the agreement or contract.
Members are further requested to note that, though the above Article 152 gives powers, inter-alia, to the Board 
of Directors to appoint a person as nominated by the Debenture Trustee as Nominee Director on the Board of 
Directors of the Company, it is proposed to include specific article in Articles of Association of the Company 
authorizing the Board of Directors to appoint person as nominated by the Debenture Trustee in terms of clause 
(e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) 
Regulations, 1993.
The proposed alteration in Articles of Association of the Company is as under:
(i)	 Existing Article 152 be renumbered as Article 152A:
(ii)	 Insertion of Article 152B after the renumbered Article 152A as below:
152B On receipt of communication from the Debenture Trustee of the proposed nomination of any person as 
a director, pursuant to clause (e) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the Board of Directors shall appoint such a person as nominee 
director on the Board of Directors of the Company. Such nominee director shall neither be liable to retire by 
rotation nor be required to hold any qualification shares.”
Members are requested to note that in terms of Section 14 of the Companies Act, 2013, the consent of the Members 
by way of a Special Resolution is required to approve alteration of Articles of Association of the Company.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out at Item No. 6 of the AGM Notice to the Members for 
their consideration and approval, by way of a Special Resolution.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives are, in any way, concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Special Resolution set out at Item No. 6 of the AGM Notice.
 By the Order of the Board of Directors
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
 Shikha Jain
Place: Mumbai 
 Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Date: September 06, 2024	
Membership No.: ACS 59686
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
13
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE CONVENING THE 15TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OF DIRECTOR(S) SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE 15TH ANNUAL GENERAL 
MEETING WITH RESPECT TO ITEM NOs. 3 & 4 OF THE AGM NOTICE
Name of the Director
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
Age
43 Years
55 Years
Date of first Appointment 
on the Board of the 
Company
July 10, 2020
September 2, 2010
Brief Resume, 
Qualifications, Experience 
and Nature of his 
expertise in functional 
areas
Mr. Aditya Joshi is also a Managing 
Partner 
in 
Brookfield’s 
Private 
Equity Group and heads the private 
equity business for Brookfield in 
India. Mr. Joshi was responsible for 
conceptualizing Brookfield’s private 
equity strategy for India, nurturing 
and 
developing 
a 
high-quality 
team, building a robust sourcing 
engine, and leading deal execution 
and ongoing portfolio monitoring. 
Mr. Josh joined Brookfield in March 
2019. Prior to Brookfield, he was a 
Principal at Apax Partners in India, 
and led and participated in deals 
across 
healthcare, 
technology 
services, 
and 
financial 
services. 
Prior to Apax, he worked at The 
Blackstone Group in India, where he 
focused on investment opportunities 
primarily across technology services 
and business services. Prior to 
Blackstone, Mr. Joshi worked at JM, 
Morgan Stanley in India, where he 
worked on fund raising and mergers 
and acquisitions across technology 
services, business services, telecom, 
amongst 
other 
industries. 
Mr. 
Joshi holds a Master of Business 
Administration degree from The 
Wharton 
School, 
University 
of 
Pennsylvania, a bachelor’s degree 
in accounting and finance from the 
University of Pune, and is a Chartered 
Accountant and member of The 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India. Mr. Joshi is a member of 
FICCI’s 
National 
Committee 
on 
Private Equity and is a member of 
the IVCA’s Private Equity Council.
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri has over three decades 
of experience in investments, strategy, M&A 
and investment banking. Currently, he is 
the Vice Chairman of the Everstone Group. 
Dhanpal is also the Co-Founder and CEO 
of Eversource Capital, a leading climate 
investment manager with investment focus in 
India and now South-east Asia. Being India’s 
largest climate investment fund, Eversource 
Capital has an AUM of $ 841 Mn pioneering 
climate-responsive investments in industrial 
decarbonisation, energy transition, and urban 
sustainability. Prior to joining Everstone, a 
premier investment group focused on India 
and South-east Asia, with assets in excess of 
$8 Bn across private equity, real estate, credit, 
climate investments and venture capital. 
Mr. Jhaveri worked as Director (Corporate 
Strategy) with Vedanta Resources Plc. His 
previous assignments include being the Head 
of Investment Banking at ICICI Securities 
and Partner for Corporate Finance at KPMG. 
Mr. Jhaveri holds a degree in Bachelor of 
Commerce from the University of Mumbai and 
an MBA from Babson College, USA.
Terms and Conditions 
of appointment / re-
appointment
Liable to retire by rotation.
Liable to retire by rotation.
Remuneration sought to 
be paid
NIL
NIL
Remuneration last drawn 
(FY 2023-24)
NIL
NIL
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
14
Name of the Director
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
Shareholding in the 
Company
NIL
1000 shares jointly with his spouse Ms. Neeru 
Jhaveri.
Relationship with other 
Directors / Managers / 
Key Managerial Personnel
Not related to any Director or 
Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company
Not related to any Director or Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company
No. of Board Meetings 
attended during the 
financial year 2023-
24 (No. of Meetings 
held during tenure of 
directorship)
11(12)
4(12)
Other Directorships
Nil
•	
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
•	
Onward Technologies Limited
•	
Interarch Building Products Limited
•	
Amulya Corporation Private Limited
•	
EverSource Capital Private Limited
•	
Everock Realty Private Limited
•	
Everock Real Estate Private Limited
•	
JSW MG Motor India Private Limited
•	
Avasara Leadership Institute
•	
IMC Chamber of commerce and Industry
•	
Asian Genco Pte. Ltd
Membership / 
Chairmanship of 
Committees of other 
Boards
Nil
Indostar Capital Finance Limited
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee – 
Chairman
•	
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Committee – Member
•	
Asset liability management committee- 
Member
Interarch Building Products limited
•	
Audit committee- member
•	
Nomination and remuneration committee- 
Member
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee - 
Member
•	
Risk management committee- Member
•	
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Committee – Member
Onward technologies Limited
•	
Audit committee- Member
•	
Nomination and remuneration committee- 
Chairman
Everstone Capital Advisors Private Limited
•	
Investment committee- Member
Eversource Capital Private Limited
•	
Investment committee- Member
Listed entities from which 
resigned in past three 
years
Nil
Nil
Notice
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
15
The Company has received declaration from Mr. Aditya Joshi and Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri confirming that they are 
not debarred from holding office of director(s) pursuant to any order issued by SEBI or any other authority and 
they are not disqualified from being re-appointed as Director(s) of the Company under Section 164(2) of the Act.
Mr. Aditya Joshi and Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri comply with the ‘Fit and Proper’ criteria prescribed by RBI vide its 
Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 
2023 - RBI/DoR/2023-24/106, DoR.FIN.REC.No.45/03.10.119/2023-24 dated 19th October, 2023.
The Board of Directors recommend the resolution(s) set out at Item No. 3 & 4 of this Notice to the Members for 
their consideration and approval, by way of Ordinary Resolution(s).
Except Mr. Aditya Joshi and Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri or their relatives, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, 
in the Resolution set out at Item No. 3 & 4 of AGM Notice.
Annual Report 
2023-24
Enhancing Capabilities.  
Enriching  
Connections.
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
To get this report online and for any other 
information, log on to:
www.indostarcapital.com
Inside the Report 
CORPORATE  
OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
01
121
02	 Fulfilling Dreams.  
Serving Unique Needs.
06	 Chairman’s Message 
to Shareholders
08	 CEO’s Message to Shareholders
10	 Key Highlights of FY2024 
12	 Key Business Segments
18	 Our Board and Key Personnel
20	 Ensuring Meaningful 
Socio-Economic Development
22	 Corporate Information
Standalone Financials  
121	 Auditor’s Report
134	 Balance Sheet
135	 Statement of Profit and Loss
136	 Cash Flow Statement
138	 Statement of Changes  
in Equity (SOCIE)
139	 Notes to Accounts
Consolidated Financials
210	Auditor’s Report
220	Balance Sheet
221	 Statement of Profit and Loss
222	Cash Flow Statement
224	Statement of Changes  
in Equity (SOCIE)
225	Notes to Accounts
STATUTORY  
REPORTS
23
23	 Management 
Discussion and Analysis
41	 Board’s Report
62	 Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
82	 Report on Corporate 
Governance
Key Numbers defining IndoStar Capital Finance 2.0
` 8,763 Crore
AUM
` 5,497 Crore
Disbursement
` 710.2 Crore
Net Total Income
28.9%
CRAR
5.9%
Net Interest Margin
` 115.8 Crore
Profit After Tax
` 963.1 Crore
Cash and Cash Equivalent
515
Number of Branches
Standalone
Whether it is buying a commercial vehicle or 
buying the first affordable home fuelling growth 
of SME entrepreneurs, we aim to fulfil the dream 
of every Indian and become a catalyst in serving 
their aspirations.
Enroute our journey of planned transformation,  
we continue to enhance our capabilities, enrich our 
connections to further sharpen our business model 
and deliver superior return on equity. We are making 
judicious use of capital and fine-tuning the balance 
between all our business segments.
In alignment with our retailisation strategy, and to 
further bolster our core retail lending and serve 
the middle-income customers, we remain focussed 
on ramping up our presence and accelerating our 
growth journey in the core markets of vehicle finance, 
affordable housing finance and SME finance.
Enhancing Capabilities. 
Enriching  
Connections.
At IndoStar Capital Finance, we are a robust, well-balanced and diversified 
lending institution in India’s financial services landscape, leading the 
company to quality growth, led by an experienced leadership team and a 
highly professional and execution-oriented management team.
WE AIM TO GROW OUR RETAIL 
LOAN BOOK AND ASSETS UNDER 
MANAGEMENT FASTER BY 
CONTINUING TO EXECUTE ON OUR 
FOCUSSED GROWTH STRATEGY 
AND DRIVING VALUE CREATION 
TO BUILD OUR BUSINESS TO ITS 
FULL POTENTIAL.
FULFILLING DREAMS.  
SERVING UNIQUE NEEDS.
INDOSTAR – AT A GLANCE
We are a Non-Banking Finance Company (“NBFC”) registered with Reserve Bank 
of India categorised as middle layered NBFC. With Brookfield & Everstone as 
co-promoters, we are professionally managed and institutionally owned entity 
dealing in comprehensive range of financial products like Commercial Vehicle, 
Construction Equipment, Farm Equipment, Car/MUV, Insurance and Micro LAP 
- (Small ticket business loans). We offer end-to-end lending, financing, credit 
solutions and caters to the aspirations of the growing consumer base in India, and 
deliver greater value to our Stakeholder(s). 
Our diversified portfolio
Through our diversified 
portfolio, we provide access to 
financial products and serve 
their aspirations.
The IndoStar Capital Finance 
Value System
Credit Rating
CRISIL rated long-term 
rating at AA-/Negative and 
short-term rating at A1+
CARE rated long-term rating 
to AA-/ Stable and short-term 
rating re-affirmed at A1+
Vision
Partner with our customers
on their journey to financial  
success.
Mission
To be a major financial service 
provider to our target customers, 
through empowered happy 
employees, and deliver a 
competitive shareholder return 
while maintaining the highest 
ethical behaviour standards.
We serve  
1,00,000+ customers and provide:
	 Used and new vehicle financing 
for transporters; 
	 Home finance solutions to 
home loan borrowers (through 
our wholly-owned subsidiary 
IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited). 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
02
Map not to scale.  
For Illustrative purpose only.
OUR PRESENCE
515 Branches  
in 23 States
Employee base 
of 3,999
IndoStar Capital Finance: ICF
IndoStar Housing Finance Company: HFC
2
9
23
28
27
19
23
19
9
6
12
14
1
9
26
20
59
1
30
32
1
9
1
13
6
26
6
22
12
35
3
HIMACHAL PRADESH
PUNJAB
RAJASTHAN - 34
GUJARAT - 36
MAHARASHTRA - 53
GOA
KARNATAKA - 25
KERALA
UTTARAKHAND
UTTAR PRADESH - 33
ASSAM
MEGHALAYA
TELANGANA - 31
ANDHRA PRADESH - 45
TAMIL NADU - 94
WEST 
BENGAL
BIHAR
MADHYA PRADESH 
ODISHA
JHARKHAND
CHHATTISGARH
NEW DELHI - 2
12
HARYANA
Core Values
R
Resilience
Ability to 
withstand and 
bounce back from 
difficult, adverse 
or challenging  
situation
E
Ethics
Understanding 
the essence of 
Code of Conduct 
and governing 
business principle
A
Accountability
Responsibility 
and ownership to 
the committed 
actions, decisions, 
and the outcomes 
of those actions
C
Collaboration
Work as a 
team towards a 
common goal,  
through shared 
knowledge, 
to achieve a 
desired outcome
H
High Performance
Achieving exceptional  
results by exceeding  
expectations,  
and consistent  
performance
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
01-22
121-283
23-120
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 03
CV Finance
Financing for Used and New 
Commercial Vehicles
Housing Finance
Affordable Home Finance 
Solutions to Self-Employed and 
Salaried Individuals
SME Finance
Financiers for SME enterprises to help them 
fulfil their business growth plans
BUSINESS SNAPSHOT
Our Financial Services Solutions
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
04
SEGMENT-WISE REVENUE CONTRIBUTION
Assets Under Management
Gross Disbursement
Revenue
77%
CV Finance
` 5,594 Crore
64%
` 8,763  
Crore
4%
26%
0%
6%
Housing Finance
` 2,270 Crore
SME Finance
` 485 Crore
Corporate Lending
` 388 Crore
Others
` 26 Crore
` 5,497  
Crore
17%
6%
CV Finance
` 4,253 Crore
Housing Finance
` 937 Crore
Corporate Lending
` 307 Crore
62%
` 1,398  
Crore
6%
21%
4%
7%
SME Finance
` 102.96 Crore
Corporate Lending
` 84.92 Crore
Others
` 52.35 Crore
CV Finance
` 866.88 Crore
Housing Finance
` 290.43 Crore
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 05
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE TO  
SHAREHOLDERS
Dear Shareholders,
I take pleasure in presenting the Annual Accounts of 
the Company for the fiscal year under review. As we 
move forward on our ongoing transformative journey, 
we are enroute to becoming a well-balanced and 
diversified lending institution.
FY2024 marks a significant milestone for our 
community of customers and partners, who have 
shared a remarkable journey with us and contributed 
to our success. Similarly, our entire workforce 
brought tremendous passion and conviction and has 
taken us to this inflection point.
Focussed on superior results and excellent 
asset quality, we will always be committed to 
the success of our customers and that of all our 
other stakeholders. These core values are our 
foundation and continue to remain the mainstay of 
IndoStar as a company.
A growing economy
The Indian economy continues to be on a positive 
trajectory buoyed by increased government 
spending, and led by robust performance 
in manufacturing and services sectors. 
Consumer demand has been robust driving growth 
across various sectors. It increased with moderation 
in inflation and led to elevated consumer confidence. 
At 8.2% growth in FY2024, with other high-frequency 
indicators showing healthy economic momentum, 
India consolidated its position as the fastest growing 
major economy globally. With a substantial focus on 
the CV space, where the performance of the sector is 
a function of the state of the economy, our business 
has continued to do well.
During the year, IndoStar approved issue of 
warrants to the private equity investor Brookfield 
Asset Management, our promoter, and also to a 
non-promoter investor, Florintree Tecserv LLP.  
This demonstrates the support from our majority 
shareholder and interest of new shareholders to 
take stake in the Company.  Their investments will 
enable the company to accelerate its journey in 
its core markets of vehicle finance and affordable 
housing finance..  
Strengthening capabilities
Over the last couple of years, we further 
strengthened our capabilities by leveraging on our 
core strengths of customer relationships, adaptability 
and innovation. Our focus was to de-layer the 
organisation and invest in front-end headcount, while 
automating our backend processes. Further, we also 
FY2024 marks a significant 
milestone for our community 
of customers and partners, 
who have shared a remarkable 
journey with us and contributed 
to our success.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
06
relooked at our processes, reviewed policies, and 
strengthened controls. Our aim is to remain well 
staffed with highly experienced individuals with  
domain expertise and experience in relevant markets 
at both ends of the organisation structure.
Today, IndoStar enjoys strong credit ratings, having 
been upgraded by CARE to AA- (Stable) during the 
year.  The Company’s  funding costs have reduced 
steadily over the past few quarters, thanks to the 
diversification of the Company’s funding profile, 
rigorous ALM management and the enhanced 
confidence that the lenders have got based on the 
Company’s performance over the last few quarters.
Going forward, we are well capitalised for growth. 
We also remain geared up to enhance our 
technology capabilities across all areas – right from 
loan origination and credit appraisal to disbursal 
and collection, and remained committed in our 
focus on analytics to ensure the model remains 
agile and scalable.
Future outlook
The outlook for the Company remains positive and 
strong, with faster growth expected across all our 
business segments. Our expanding branch presence 
and employee base should allow us to deliver on 
retail growth that we have targeted to achieve. 
We are building the business in a highly scalable 
manner with our retail strategy progressing well 
as we continue to surge with our wide bouquet of 
products – Commercial Vehicle finance, Affordable 
Housing finance and small ticket Micro LAP finance.
We are working on our goal of introducing more 
products and addressing the entire customer 
lifecycle. We are targeting at opening micro branches 
that operate with greater efficiency and make finance 
affordable to the people and are also continuing 
to make investments in technology to improve the 
speed of loan origination and reduce customer 
service costs. 
In Conclusion
I thank all our shareholders for their continued faith in 
our strength and capabilities, our customers for their 
valuable support and trust, our lenders and  banks for 
their continued support and our employees for their 
tireless efforts towards achieving our goals. 
We remain committed to delivering value to all our 
stakeholders and to provide them with the best 
possible financial solutions. We continue to tread on 
an exciting journey towards becoming a diversified 
lending powerhouse. I welcome you all to be part of 
this voyage of responsible growth and value creation.
We remain in gratitude to all our stakeholders.
Bobby Parikh
Chairman
We are building the 
business in a highly 
scalable manner with 
our retail strategy 
progressing well as we 
continue to surge with 
our wide bouquet of 
products – Commercial 
Vehicle finance, 
Affordable Housing 
finance and small ticket 
Micro LAP finance.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 07
CEO’s MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS
Dear Shareholders,
In FY2024, Team IndoStar demonstrated enormous 
character and agility in responding to changing 
business needs and ensured that our customers 
continue to benefit from our services. Looking back, 
the greatest learning of the year was to look at the  
challenges as opportunities.
Enhancing capabilities. Enriching connections.
At IndoStar, our primary focus was that of enhancing 
the lives of our customers, delivering world-class 
service and sustainable value to all our stakeholders. 
To uphold this commitment, we enhanced our 
capabilities and enriched the connections built in the 
past decade. We reinforced new initiatives aimed at 
bolstering our services and expanding our presence. 
Leveraging technology has also been instrumental 
in driving our efforts, and we remain committed in 
our focus on analytics to ensure the model remains 
agile and scalable.
We are working on our goal of introducing more 
products to address the entire customer lifecycle 
comprehensibly, enabling us to secure funding at 
competitive rates and reducing dependency on 
unorganised players. 
Our FY2024 performance
During the year ended March 2024, Total Revenue 
stood at ` 1,393 crore vs ` 1,174 crore in the 
earlier year ended March 2023, while Gross Loan 
Disbursement was ` 5,497 crore vis-à-vis ` 2,099 
crore in the earlier year. Assets Under Management 
(AUM) stood at ` 8,763 crore vs ` 7,813 crore in 
the previous fiscal year. Profit After Tax (PAT) 
was ` 116 crore.
We adopted concrete steps to ensure our balance 
sheet becomes cleaner, strengthens financial 
stability, increase business yields and get more 
retailised in our journey. We also made steady 
progress in improving our liquidity position by raising 
incremental funding by ` 5,790 crore. The change in 
portfolio mix helped us reduce our cost significantly.
With aggressive collection, excellent credit appraisal 
and control measures, we have been able to reduce 
our delinquencies aided by a vibrant economy. 
Our improved Gross NPA stood at 4.1% vis-à-vis 
6.8% in the earlier year, which will help costs to go 
down even further. Net NPA was 1.8% vs 3.2% in 
FY2023. Our capital adequacy at 28.9% provided us 
with the resources and flexibility to pursue future 
growth opportunities.
Our business performance
We engineered a turnaround in the Commercial 
Vehicle Finance business and remained focussed on 
the Commercial Vehicle portfolio, with significant 
growth in AUM and disbursement. During the year, 
we actively pursued our goal of decreasing our Gross 
NPA and further increased the granularity of our loan 
book with an increased focus on retail lending. In a 
strategic development, we successfully executed 
on our strategy of moving towards retailisation by 
We engineered a turnaround in 
the Commercial Vehicle Finance 
business and remained focussed 
on the Commercial Vehicle 
portfolio, with significant growth 
in AUM and disbursement.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
08
selling a part of our corporate portfolio and SME 
Portfolio, thus minimising risk, fortifying our financial 
position and improving our NPAs.
We are gradually moving our branch network to 
hinterland in order to serve the customers in Tier 3&4 
cities by launching our Micro Branches, which will 
serve as one-stop shop for enhancing our customer 
experience. We also enhanced our asset quality by 
improving our underwriting processes; introduced 
tech-enabled collections minimising cash handling; 
optimised collection infrastructure; reduced stressed 
non-core assets across Corporates/SMEs. We aimed 
at achieving a diversified liability franchise, and 
also focussed on cost optimisation by leveraging 
technology across the loan lifecycle and optimising 
the physical footprint of our branches.
Industry overview
The Commercial Vehicle industry witnessed peak of 
the cycle and a rise in cost-efficient tonnage vehicles, 
driven primarily by infrastructure growth and 
replacement demand. The uptick in the market was 
triggered by medium & heavy commercial vehicle, 
propelling a strong push for ICV and assisted hub-to-
spoke transportation.
The scrappage policy provided significant 
growth opportunities in the Used CV segment. 
Consumer preferences are leaning towards used 
cars, reflecting rising aspirations and focus on cost 
effectiveness. The used CV market is becoming more 
organised, and accessibility is increasing with dealer 
expansion in Tier 2&3 cities and online platforms.
Replacement demand is anticipated to be favourable 
with certain replacement sales anticipated. 
We enhanced disbursement in Used CV, focussing 
primarily on Tier 3&4 markets. We also scaled our 
operations to drive growth and maintain asset quality.
Moving forward, we are anticipating steady growth in 
Used CV segment, with used vehicle EMIs becoming 
more affordable leading to significant rise in demand 
for BS-IV. We are leveraging the opportunity by 
increasing penetration in rural markets and enhancing 
reach in smaller geographies. This is further 
strengthening our position and ideally places us to 
take advantage of future growth opportunities.
Witnessing strong momentum in Home Finance
Our total disbursement in the Home Finance business 
stood at ` 937 crore with Assets Under Management 
of ` 2,270 crore, reflecting 40% growth on a year-on-
year basis. Our Loan Book stands at ` 1,837 crore 
currently. With a branch count of 124 branches, our 
customer base increased to 28,000,  depicting the 
granular nature of our assets with an average ticket 
size of ` 9 lakh.
We rationalised our brand structure by introducing 
3-tiered, full-fledged, integrated and digital 
brand structure, leading to more efficient branch 
operations. We also converted 10  physical branches 
into digital locations with the aim of further 
enhancing operational efficiency and embracing 
digital transformation.
Aiming for Profitable Growth 
Moving ahead, we remain focussed on achieving 
profitable growth and also further stabilising 
the asset quality and improving our operational 
performance. We continue to prioritise on improving 
our efficiency across branches and reaching an 
all-time high collection efficiency.
We continue to strenghen our processes and using 
technology to grow, and are leveraging Tier 3&4 
markets and using the opportunity to fill the gap. 
Further, we also remain nimble-footed on the cost 
front in order to manage our profitability.
Going forward, we expect Net Interest Margins (NIM) 
to remain stable.
Way forward
IndoStar shall continue to focus on all the above 
aspects to stay ahead of the curve and continue to 
deliver solutions to customers. Going forward, an 
added focus will be to enlarge the customer base in 
existing and new business areas with adjacencies to 
the existing competencies. 
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome 
Randhir Singh as the Executive Vice Chairman to 
IndoStar Capital Finance.
In conclusion, the summary of FY2024 would be 
incomplete without recognising the selfless services 
rendered by our employees  and everyone involved 
in our journey of becoming IndoStar 2.0. A special 
thank you to each one of them. With support from 
our shareholders, lenders, debenture holders, and 
partners, we will move ahead excitedly.
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 09
KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF FY2024
Assets Under  
Management
(` Crore)
FY 
2020
10,150
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
8,998
9,658
7,813
8,763
Gross Loan  
Disbursement 
(` Crore)
FY 
2020
3,505
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
1,827
4,947
2,099
5,497
Total  
Income 
(` Crore)
FY 
2020
1,599
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
1,287
1,174
1,180
1,398
Profit After Tax 
(` Crore)
FY 
2020
(325)
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
(214) (737)
225
116
FY 
2020
(2.9)
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
(2.0)
(7.5)
2.4
1.2
FY 
2020
(10.9)
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
(5.8) (20.9)
7.4
3.6
ROAA
(%)
ROE
(%)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
10
KEY FOCUS AREAS
Digitalisation
Expanding  
distribution footprint
Continuously 
evolving 
product offerings
Expanding 
customer lifetime  
value
Expanding  
the use of 
data and systems
Automating 
controls and alerts 
to minimise risk
Ensuring a 
robust balance  
sheet
Being agile 
and future ready
Net Interest  
Margin 
(%)
FY 
2020
6.1
FY 
2021
FY 
2022
FY 
2023
FY 
2024
5.1
6.2
6.1
5.9
Gross and Net NPA
(%)
FY 
2020
4.8
3.8
FY 
2021
4.4
2.1
FY 
2022
13.6
6.4
FY 
2023
6.8
3.2
FY 
2024
4.1
1.8
Gross NPA
Net NPA
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
11
KEY BUSINESS SEGMENTS
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FINANCING SOLUTIONS
` 5,594 Crore
AUM
QUICK FACTS
` 8.0 Lakhs
Average Ticket Size
98%
Used Vehicle Disbursement
23 States
Presence across 
73.8%
Average Loan to Value Ratio 
18.2%
Disbursement Yield 
Overview of the CV industry
Demand for medium and high commercial vehicles 
rebounded during the year, driven predominantly 
by infrastructure growth and replacement 
demand. With consumer demand being robust, 
the Commercial Vehicle industry is poised for 
consolidation in FY2026, as it witnessed peak of 
the cycle and an increase in high tonnage vehicles. 
Consumer preference is leaning towards used 
vehicles, reflecting growing aspirations and cost 
effectiveness. The Used CV industry is gradually 
becoming more structured and organised, and is 
growing with dealer expansions and digital platforms 
enhancing accessibility.
Key highlights of FY2024
To uphold our commitment of enhancing lives of our 
customers and delivering world-class service to our 
customers, we have embarked on new initiatives to 
bolster our services and further expand our footprint. 
Furthermore, we are committed in our focus on 
analytics to ensure our model remains agile and 
scalable. Our approach blends physical and digital 
touchpoints, catering to customers who are still 
adapting to evolving technologies. Our ability to 
collect payments has remained exceptionally strong, 
reinforcing the resilience of our business model and 
trust the customers have in us.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
12
Key Drivers  
for Growth
Rising GDP growth
Rising interest rates
Good monsoon
Fuel prices
Increasing vehicle 
prices
Regulatory 
changes
Strategic focus on Used CV
We are expanding our retail operations with a 
particular emphasis on the used commercial vehicle 
segment, focussing primarily on Tier 3&4 markets. 
We are dedicated to scaling up our operations to 
drive growth, while maintaining our asset quality. 
Our goal is to sustain progress in profitability by 
steadily increasing our targeted return on total assets. 
We anticipate steady growth in the used vehicle 
segment. With the EMI of new vehicles exceeding 
` 1 lakh, used vehicle EMIs are becoming more 
affordable, leading to a significant rise in the demand 
for BS-IV vehicles. The transition from BS-IV to BS-VI 
has further fuelled the demand, with a notable price 
differential of 25%-30%.
Future Outlook
We expect robust growth in the Used CV industry by 
FY2026 with the entry of BS-VI vehicles, driven by 
their ability to transport the same volume of goods 
at a lower tonne per cost and reduce downtime. 
Furthermore, the useful life of CVs has increased, 
enabling NBFCs to fund up to 12-year-old vehicles. 
Our strategic direction remains unchanged and we 
are actively exploring new products and strategies 
to enhance returns and generate additional income. 
By diversifying our product range, we are maintaining 
our competitive advantage and constantly delivering 
value to our stakeholders.
Our Strategic Imperatives:
	 To introduce more products to address the entire 
customer lifecycle comprehensibly
	 To secure funding at competitive rates, reducing 
dependency on unorganised market players
	 To leverage technology and focussing on analytics 
to ensure our model remains agile and scalable
Focussing on digitisation to drive employee 
productivity
The company maintains its acute focus on digitisation 
which has helped drive employee productivity and 
reducing processing time. This has reduced typical 
turnaround time from 7 days to 2 days. The average 
employee productivity scaled up from ` 26 lakh 
a month to ` 53 lakh a month within 12 months, 
delivering 104% jump in productivity.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
13
` 26 Lakh Per Month
April 2023
` 53 Lakh Per Month
March 2024
103.8%
Change
LOAN VALUE DISBURSED PER MONTH PER EMPLOYEE
EXPANDING THE CV PORTFOLIO
AUM 
(` Crore)
FY 
2022
4,908
FY 
2023
3,672
FY 
2024
5,594
Loan to Value Ratio  
(%)
FY 
2022
76.8
FY 
2023
72.7
FY 
2024
73.8
Average Ticket Size  
(` Lakh)
FY 
2022
7.9
FY 
2023
6.2
FY 
2024
8.0
Disbursement  
(` Crore)
FY 
2022
3,743
FY 
2023
1,435
FY 
2024
4,253
Disbursement Mix  
Geography-wise AUM Mix
98%
2%
20%
26%
33%
21%
New
Used
North
South
East
West
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
14
KEY BUSINESS SEGMENTS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCING SOLUTIONS
QUICK FACTS
` 2,270 Crore
AUM
` 9 Lakh
Average Ticket Size
` 937 Crore
Disbursement
7.7%
NIM
57.4%
CRAR
` 182.8 Crore
Net total Income
` 44.1 Crore
PAT
124
No. of Branches
48.7%
Average Loan to Value Ratio
15.2%	
Blended Yield
Customer profile
49%	
Salaried
51%
Self-employed
Core geographies
Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana and Maharashtra, 
accounting for 84% of 
total portfolio
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
01-22
121-283
23-120
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
15
SEIZING THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FINANCE MARKET OPPORTUNITY
Ecosystem play
	 Remote access to customers 
through Home Hub app 
	 Fully-enabled payment 
methods for customer leading 
to cash component using 3-4% 
of overall transactions
Robust underwriting
	 Centralised underwriting 
framework with informal 
income underwriting play 
developed from start
	 Aversion to categories such 
as ‘plot + construction’ 
and other with higher 
delinquency probabilities
Micro LAP play
	 Presence in tier 3 and 4 towns 
in southern states with large 
Micro LAP opportunity
Geographic focus
	 Geographical focus on 
South and West India 
with the cluster-based 
approach to address 
concentration challenges
	 Targeting states with the 
highest demand-supply gap for 
affordable housing
Management team
	 Seasoned management 
team supported by regional 
teams with conservative 
background recruited from 
other affordable housing 
finance companies
Key highlights of FY2024
Housing finance continued to be 
a key area of focus for IndoStar 
Capital. Our commitment to 
innovation, efficiency and 
maintaining high asset quality 
continued to drive success in 
the Housing Finance portfolio, 
and helped us witness strong 
momentum across metrics.
Assets Under Management of 
IndoStar Home Finance reached 
` 2,270 crore, representing a 
robust growth of 40% YoY, and 
our Disbursements stood at  
` 937 crore. Our customer base 
has increased to 28,923 with 
an average ticket size of ` 9 
lakh, depicting the granularity 
of our business.
Enhancing operational 
efficiency
To enhance operational 
efficiency and embrace digital 
transformation, we rationalised 
our brand structure with the 
introduction of a 3-tiered, 
full-fledged integrated and digital 
brand structure. This has resulted 
in a more efficient branch 
operations from volume and cost 
perspective. We converted 10 of 
our physical branches into digital 
locations, and our total branch 
count now stands at 124. 
Expanding digital footprint
We made a significant milestone 
in our digital journey by 
completing the transition to 
100% digital and paperless loan 
journey. With the implementation 
of the automated loan kit, 
our entire loan process is 
now paperless, making it 
hassle-free for a customer 
experience perspective.
Future outlook
We are indeed optimistic 
about the future and remain 
dedicated to delivering 
sustained value to our 
investors and stakeholders. 
Looking ahead, we remain 
focussed on executing 
our strategic initiatives to 
further enhance operational 
excellence, expand our 
customer base and explore 
opportunities for growth. 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
16
GROWING OUR HOUSING FINANCE BOOK
AUM 
(` Crore)
FY 
2022
1,406
FY 
2023
1,623
FY 
2024
2,270
Loan to Value Ratio  
(%)
FY 
2022
53%
FY 
2023
49%
49%
FY 
2024
Average Ticket Size  
(` Lakh)
FY 
2022
8.9
FY 
2023
8.9
FY 
2024
9.0
Disbursement  
(` Crore)
FY 
2022
579
FY 
2023
487
FY 
2024
937
Geographical Distribution
35%
11%
23%
15%
6%
4%3%3%
(%)
Tamil Nadu
Andhra Pradesh
Gujarat
Karnataka
Maharashtra
Telangana
Rajasthan
Others
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
17
OUR BOARD AND KEY PERSONNEL
MR. BOBBY PARIKH
Chairman and Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Mr. Bobby Parikh is the Chairman 
and Non-Executive Independent 
Director  of IndoStar. He has nearly 
three decades of experience 
in financial services industry/
reorganisations. Mr. Parikh’s area 
of focus is providing tax and 
regulatory advice in relation to 
transactions and other forms of 
business reorganisations. He has 
founded Bobby Parikh Associates, a 
boutique firm focussed on providing 
strategic tax and regulatory 
advisory services. Mr.  Parikh is a 
qualified Chartered Accountant 
from the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India and holds a 
Bachelor of Commerce degree from 
the University of Mumbai.
MR. DHANPAL JHAVERI
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri is a Non–
Executive Non-Independent Director 
of IndoStar. He has over three 
decades of experience in investments, 
strategy, M&A and investment 
banking. Currently, he is the Vice 
Chairman of the Everstone Group. 
Dhanpal is also the Co-Founder and 
CEO of Eversource Capital, a leading 
climate investment manager with 
investment focus in India and now 
South-east Asia. Being India’s largest 
climate investment fund, Eversource 
Capital has an AUM of US$ 841 
million pioneering climate-responsive 
investments in industrial 
decarbonisation, energy transition, 
and urban sustainability.
Prior to joining Everstone, a premier 
investment group focussed on India 
MR. VIBHOR KUMAR TALREJA
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Vibhor Talreja is a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of 
IndoStar. He is a Senior Managing 
Director & Co-CIO at Eversource. 
He has been with the Everstone 
Group for 5 years and joined as a 
Managing Director-Investments in 
Private Equity. With an extensive 
experience of 20+ years, he was 
previously with Temasek Holdings 
for 12 years where he made 
investments of over US$ 2 billion 
in 10+ transactions across sectors 
and styles, including control, co 
control and minority investments. 
Prior to Temasek, Vibhor has 
worked with JM Morgan Stanley 
and Tata Administrative Services. 
He is an alumnus of IIT Kanpur 
and IIM Bangalore.
MR. ADITYA JOSHI
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Aditya Joshi is a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of 
IndoStar. He is also a Managing 
Partner in Brookfield’s Private 
Equity Group and heads the private 
MR. HEMANT KAUL
Non-Executive Independent  
Director
Mr. Hemant Kaul is a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of IndoStar. 
He has vast experience as an 
independent management 
consultant, having worked with 
private equity firms to evaluate 
investments in the financial sector. 
Earlier, Mr. Kaul has also been 
the MD & CEO of Bajaj Allianz 
General Insurance Co Ltd. and the 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
18
and South-east Asia, with assets 
in excess of US$ 8 billion across 
private equity, real estate, credit, 
climate investments and venture 
capital. Mr. Jhaveri worked as 
Director (Corporate Strategy) with 
Vedanta Resources Plc. His previous 
assignments include being the 
Head of Investment Banking at ICICI 
Securities and Partner for Corporate 
Finance at KPMG. Mr. Jhaveri holds 
a degree in Bachelor of Commerce 
from the University of Mumbai and 
an MBA from Babson College, USA. 
equity business for Brookfield in 
India. Mr. Joshi was responsible for 
conceptualising Brookfield’s private 
equity strategy for India, nurturing 
and developing a high-quality 
team, building a robust sourcing 
engine, and leading deal execution 
and ongoing portfolio monitoring. 
Mr. Joshi joined Brookfield in 
March 2019. Prior to Brookfield, he 
was a Principal at Apax Partners 
in India, and led and participated 
in deals across healthcare, 
technology services, and financial 
services. Prior to Apax, he worked 
at The Blackstone Group in India, 
where he focussed on investment 
opportunities primarily across 
technology services and business 
services. Prior to Blackstone, 
Mr. Joshi worked at JM, Morgan 
Stanley in India, where he worked 
on fund raising and mergers and 
acquisitions across technology 
services, business services, 
telecom, amongst other industries.  
Mr. Joshi holds a Master of Business 
Administration degree from The 
Wharton School, University of 
Pennsylvania, a bachelor’s degree 
in accounting and finance from 
the University of Pune, and is a 
Chartered Accountant and member 
of The Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. Mr. Joshi 
is a member of FICCI’s National 
Committee on Private Equity and 
is a member of the IVCA’s Private 
Equity Council.
MS. NAINA KRISHNA  
MURTHY
Non-Executive Independent  
Director
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy is a 
Non-Executive Independent 
Director of IndoStar. She is a 
seasoned corporate lawyer and 
the Founding Partner of K Law, 
a leading full-service law firm in 
India. She began her career with 
Arthur Anderson and later served 
as in-house counsel at Biocon. 
With over 28 years of expertise, 
Naina specialises in corporate 
commercial law, with a focus on 
mergers and acquisitions, joint 
ventures, collaborations, and private 
equity/venture capital investments. 
She is recognised as a trusted legal 
advisor, representing prominent 
Indian and international clients in 
their operations both within India 
and globally. In her role as an 
independent director, Naina serves 
on the boards of several esteemed 
companies, including Den Networks 
Limited, IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited, and Bandhan Mutual Fund 
Trustee Limited. She has been a 
board member of Sterling and 
Wilson Renewable Energy Limited 
since April 7, 2022. Additionally, 
Naina holds the position of Vice 
Chair (Membership) for the South 
Asia/Oceania & India Committee 
at the American Bar Association 
(ABA), further underscoring her 
significant influence and leadership 
in the legal field.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
19
MR. DEVDUTT MARATHE
Non-Executive  
Non-Independent Director 
Mr. Devdutt Marathe is a 
Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director of IndoStar. He is an 
investment professional with over 
fourteen years of experience in 
the Private Equity space. He is 
currently a Senior VP at Brookfield 
Asset Management focussed on 
the Private Equity business in 
the India / Middle East region. 
Previously, Devdutt Marathe was a 
Principal at Apax Partners, where 
he led or participated in several 
transactions across financial 
services, healthcare and technology 
sectors. Devdutt Marathe holds 
B.Tech. and MS degrees in Electrical 
Engineering from IIT Madras and 
Caltech (USA) respectively, and a 
PGDM from IIM Ahmedabad.
MR. KARTHIKEYAN  
SRINIVASAN
Whole-time Director &  
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan is 
the Chief Executive Officer and 
Whole time Director at IndoStar 
Capital. He is a qualified Cost 
Accountant from the Institute 
of Cost Accountants of India 
and holds an MBA in Finance & 
Marketing from Alagappa Institute 
of Management. He has over 25 
years of experience in the areas 
of Retail Sales, Client Servicing, 
Credit / Portfolio Management and 
People Management in banking and 
financial services sector and has 
handled a wide range of financial 
products including Commercial 
MR. RANDHIR SINGH
Executive Vice Chairman &  
Whole time Director
Mr. Randhir Singh is a seasoned 
financial leader with 29 years of 
experience in MSME/Corporate/FIG 
Lending, Structured Finance, Debt 
Capital Markets, Treasury, Sales 
and Trading, FX and Interest Rate 
derivatives, Risk Management and 
Banking Operations.
Randhir started his career with 
Citibank India in 1995 and worked 
there till 2007 in various roles. 
He then worked in Deutsche 
Bank as Managing Director and 
India Head of Financing between 
2007 and 2016.  He subsequently 
worked in Edelweiss as CEO of 
Commercial Lending & Structured 
Finance from 2016 to 2018. Prior to 
joining IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited, Randhir was Jt. CEO and 
Co-Founder of APAC Financial 
Services from 2018 to 2024.
Executive Director of Axis Bank. 
Mr. Kaul holds a Bachelor’s degree 
in Science and a Master’s degree 
in Business Administration from 
Rajasthan University.
Vehicle Loans, Construction 
Equipment Loan, Tractor Loans, 
Two-wheeler Loans etc. He has 
worked with various Banks like ICICI 
Bank Ltd, Kotak Mahindra Finance 
Limited, Cholamandalam Investment 
and Finance Company Ltd.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
01-22
121-283
23-120
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
19
ENSURING MEANINGFUL  
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
At IndoStar Capital, we believe all are born with equal potential, but not  
equal opportunity. Through our CSR initiatives, our vision is to empower people 
and communities, build self-reliance through purpose, while ensuring the values of 
fairness, equity and respect for human rights.
We remain steadfast in our mission to connect 
people to opportunities, while building equitable, 
inclusive pathways for all – especially women and 
youth. Through our CSR initiatives and programmes, 
we continue to address the pressing needs of the 
society and bridge the opportunity gap for people 
and communities.
With an objective to proactively support meaningful 
socio-economic development in India and enable a 
larger number of people to participate in and benefit 
from India’s economic progress, we have touched 
the lives of 6,000+ beneficiaries, with the main 
KEY CSR PROJECTS
#EVERY CHILD IN SCHOOL
Implementing Agency
Smile Foundation
No. of Beneficiaries
700
Location
Multiple locations
areas of our CSR focus being education, women 
empowerment and social development.
We support the cause of women empowerment 
as empowering women helps create a more just 
and equitable society for everyone. When woman 
have access to education and healthcare, they can 
better take care of themselves and their families 
and this is also important for promoting health and 
well-being. We also support the cause of education 
as we believe an educated society is an enlightened 
and empowered one, which can make well-informed 
choices in its social, political and economic welfare. 
This is a national level project co-funded by multiple 
corporates providing quality education and benefiting 
~8,500+ children. The programme is implemented through 
44 local partner NGOs utilising funds on providing education, 
distribution of learning material, teachers’ salary, and quality 
infrastructure, among others. 
Smile Foundation, the implementing CSR Agency, is a national 
level development organisation which directly benefits 
4,00,000+ children and their families each year in 950+ 
remote villages and slums across 25 states in India. It engages 
in 200 welfare projects on education, healthcare, livelihood 
and women empowerment.
Project Objective
Improving  
learning level 
of children and  
holistic  
development  
of children
Capacitating  
teachers on  
effective classroom  
engagement  
and pedagogy
Enhancing  
capacities of  
grassroots  
organisations  
towards self- 
sustainability
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
20
Key Initiatives
Regular engagement of children 
through academic facilitators
Procurement and distribution of 
Teaching Learning Materials
Local Fund Raising (LFR)  
training to local NGO partners
Project Monitoring
Smile Foundation shares a narrative report highlighting the activities of the education programme at a national 
level and case stories during the project period, with a consolidated fund utilisation certificate.
#SWABHIMAAN
Implementing Agency
Smile Foundation
No. of Beneficiaries
5,000
Location
Modgaon, Palghar, Maharashtra
Project Objective
The project aims at generating awareness on the 
issues of reproductive and sexual health covering 
issues such as safe motherhood, child health, and 
family planning in the reproductive age.
Key Initiatives
Through this project, we are working towards 
improving the reproductive and sexual health of 
women by conducting periodic health camps and 
demonstration workshops. We also aim to capacitate 
under-privileged women by imparting business skills 
and entrepreneurship development training and 
helping them start income generation activities.
Project Monitoring
Smile Foundation shares a half-yearly report and a 
project cycle completion report with fund utilisation 
certificate during the operation period.
#SCHOOL REDEVELOPMENT
Implementing Agency
Balak Mandir Sanstha
No. of Beneficiaries
700
Location
Kalyan
Project Objective 
The project aims at constructing new primary 
building in the school, benefiting ~700 students from 
Standard 1st to 4th through Balak Mandir Sanstha 
Kalyan, which is a 74-year-old educational institute in 
Kalyan rendering education thousands.
Project Monitoring
Balak Mandir Sanstha conducts regular monitoring 
through half-monthly visits at the project site to 
assess the progress on planned objectives and 
milestones. Quarterly progress reports are submitted 
to the CSR team based on these visits.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
21
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Non-Executive Independent Chairman
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Executive Directors
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Whole-time Director & Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Randhir Singh
Whole-time Director & Executive Vice Chairman
(appointed with effect from July 22, 2024)
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Non-Executive Independent Directors
Mr. Hemant Kaul
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker 
COMPANY SECRETARY & COMPLIANCE 
OFFICER
Ms. Shikha Jain 
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M S K A & ASSOCIATES
CIN:
L65100MH2009PLC268160
REGISTERED & CORPORATE OFFICE
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No 301-A,
Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099
Tel No.: +91 22 4315 7000
E-mail: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
Website: www.indostarcapital.com
DEBENTURE TRUSTEE
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
Asian Building, Ground Floor, 17, R Kamani Marg,
Ballard Estate, Mumbai – 400 001
Tel No.: +91 22 40807000
Fax No.: +91 22 66311776
E-mail: itsl@idbitrustee.com
REGISTRAR & TRANSFER AGENT
Link Intime India Private Limited
C - 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West),
Mumbai – 400083
Tel No.: +91 22 49186270
Fax No.: +91 22 49186060
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
BANKERS / FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS / 
MUTUAL FUNDS
State Bank of India
IndusInd Bank
Catholic Syrian Bank
Indian Bank
State Bank of India
IDFC First Bank Ltd
Development Bank of Singapore
Yes Bank
ICICI Bank Ltd
AU Small Finance Bank
Karnataka Bank
Bank of Maharashtra
Central Bank of India
Ratnakar Bank Limited
Bank of India
South Indian Bank
Union Bank of India
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd
Axis Bank Ltd
Aditya Birla Sun Life Fund
Axis Mutual Fund
Baroda BNP Paribas Mutual Fund
DSP Mutual Fund
Franklin Mutual Fund
ICICI Mutual Fund
Invesco Mutual Fund
Kotak Mutual Fund
Mahindra Manulife Mutual Fund
Mirae Asset Mutual Fund
Nippon Mutual Fund
PGIM Mutual Fund 
SBI Mutual Fund
Shriram Mutual Fund
Sundaram Mutual Fund
TATA Mutual Fund
TRUST Mutual Fund
UTI Mutual Fund
Hero Fincorp Ltd
Small Industries Development Bank of India
Bajaj Finance Ltd
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
22
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
23
Economic Overview
Global Economy
The global economy demonstrated greater resilience 
than 
anticipated 
in 
2023, 
despite 
significant 
interest rate hikes by central banks to curb inflation. 
This resilience was driven by steady job growth 
and rising incomes, supported by robust consumer 
demand, increased government spending, and higher 
labour force participation.
According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
the global economy grew 3.2% in 2023 and is expected 
to grow at similar rates through 2024 and 2025. 
However, several factors, including high borrowing 
costs, 
reducing 
fiscal 
support, 
the 
long-term 
after-effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, geopolitical 
tensions, and slow productivity growth, contribute 
to a less optimistic forecast. Advanced economies 
played a crucial role in maintaining global resilience, 
benefiting from steady employment growth and 
increased consumer confidence despite significant 
monetary tightening. In 2023, advanced economies 
grew by 1.6% and are expected to witness growth 
of 1.7% in 2024 and 1.8% in 2025. In 2023, emerging 
markets and developing economies (EMDE) faced 
challenges including geopolitical tensions, high public 
debt, and unstable inflation rates. EMDE grew by 4.3% 
in 2023 and are expected to grow by 4.2% in both 
2024 and 2025. 
World Economic Growth (%)
 
2023
2024P
2025P
World Output
3.2
3.2
3.2
Advanced Economies
1.6
1.7
1.8
Emerging Market and 
Developing Economies
4.3
4.2
4.2
India
7.8
6.8
6.5
P - Projected 
Global inflation is projected to decrease gradually 
from 6.8% in 2023 to 5.9% in 2024, and further decline 
to 4.5% in 2025. However geopolitical conflicts such 
as the Russia-Ukraine war and ongoing war in Gaza 
between Israel and Palestine and the brewing tensions 
with Iran, may cause further supply chain disruptions. 
The 
global 
economy 
is 
expected 
to 
witness 
medium-term fiscal consolidation amidst growing 
multilateral cooperation among nations to overcome 
these challenges.
Indian Economy Overview 
India’s economic growth has been fuelled by increased 
domestic demand and strong expansion across 
various sectors. India’s GDP grew by 8.2%, surpassing 
Management Discussion & Analysis
the previous year’s growth of 7.0%, according to the 
National Statistics Organisation (NSO). This growth 
was driven by significant expansions in key sectors, 
including 
industrial, 
construction, 
and 
financial 
services. The industrial sector saw remarkable growth, 
particularly in manufacturing, mining, and construction. 
Mining activity increased by 7.1% in FY2024, compared 
to 1.9% in FY2023. The manufacturing sector grew by 
9.9% in FY2024, recovering from a 2.2% decline in 
FY2023. Additionally, the financial, real estate, and 
professional services industries contributed to GDP 
growth with an 8.4% increase in FY2024.
India’s GDP Growth (%)
E - Estimated   P - Projected 
Source: NSO estimates dated May 31, 2024
RBI (Reserve Bank of India) MPC (Monetary Policy 
Committee) report dated June 07, 2024
FY22
FY23
FY24E
FY25P
9.1
7.0
8.2
7.2
Inflation in India is influenced by various factors, 
including food prices, fuel prices, and global 
economic conditions. An increase in the repo rate 
raises borrowing costs, which reduces the money 
supply and helps control inflation. The Monetary 
Policy Committee (MPC) maintained their stance on 
withdrawing accommodation by keeping the policy 
repo rate at 6.5% for FY2024. The MPC aims to 
gradually align the inflation rate with the target level 
of 4%. The inflation rate stood at 5.4% in FY2024 and 
is projected to decline to 4.5% in FY2025.
Government policies and central bank actions are 
crucial in linking inflation and financial inclusion. 
Financial inclusion in India has significantly advanced 
through initiatives like the Pradhan Mantri Jan 
Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), which has extended banking 
services to the unbanked and underprivileged 
sections of society. Under the PMJDY, about 52.5 
crore beneficiaries have deposited `  2.30 trillion as 
of June 19, 2024. The resilience and strength of the 
Indian economy, supported by recent reforms, have 
established a strong foundation for sustained growth. 
The Indian economy is expected to grow by 7.2% in 
FY2025. High-frequency indicators such as auto sales 
and GST (Goods and Service Tax) collections continue 
to show robust performance, reinforcing the positive 
economic outlook.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
24
Source: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetailm.
aspx?PRID=2022323
https://pmjdy.gov.in/account
https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2025877
Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) Industry
NBFCs have become a crucial source of financing for 
broad segments of the economy, including Small and 
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and individuals with limited 
access to traditional banking services. NBFCs excel 
in meeting diverse borrower needs quickly and 
efficiently, leveraging their extensive geographical 
reach, deep category-specific financial expertise, and 
rapid processing capabilities. NBFCs play a pivotal 
role in promoting financial inclusion by supporting 
the growth of millions of Micro, Small, and Medium 
Enterprises (MSMEs) and self-employed individuals.
The NBFC sector has experienced substantial growth, 
marked by the emergence of numerous players 
employing diverse business models. Recent years 
have seen a transformative shift in India’s financial 
services landscape, driven by increased adoption of 
neo-banking, digital authentication, the popularity of 
UPI, and widespread mobile phone usage with internet 
access. These factors have streamlined financial 
services, particularly in credit, making them more 
accessible and adaptable to diverse consumer needs.
In FY2024, NBFCs maintained strong credit growth, 
albeit with a moderation observed in the latter half of 
the year. This moderation was influenced by regulatory 
requirements mandating higher risk weights on 
certain categories of consumer credit and reduced 
bank lending to NBFCs. Consequently, NBFCs faced 
increased overall funding costs during this period.
In the 11 months leading up to FY2024, the gross 
bank credit offtake for NBFCs grew by 18.5% year-on-
year (YoY), up from 13.1% in the corresponding 
period of FY2023. Personal loans saw robust 
growth, increasing by 26.0% YoY in FY2024, driven 
by the digital transformation of the financial sector, 
including enhanced credit bureau usage for quicker 
decisions and validation, and increased e-commerce 
transactions influencing credit demand.
Housing loans also experienced significant growth, 
rising by 36.7% YoY in FY2024 compared to 15.2% in the 
previous year, supported by strong sales of high-value 
residential properties, a robust pipeline of new projects, 
and developer incentives. Vehicle loans, however, 
showed slower growth at 17.5% YoY in February 2024, 
down from 23.3% in February 2023, despite increased 
sales of passenger vehicles and two-wheelers.
Within the services segment, there was a notable 
21.2% YoY increase in credit uptake in FY2024, driven 
by expansions in trade and commercial real estate. 
The industry segment also grew by 7.6% YoY during 
this period, compared to 4.2% in FY2023, with growth 
particularly strong among MSMEs.
Sectoral Distribution of Credit as of February 2024
Particulars 
O/s Credit
Chg
% Growth in Credit
% Growth in Inc. Credit
As of 
Feb 23, 2024
M-o-M(%)
Feb 23 vs 
Feb 22
Feb 24 vs 
Feb 23
Feb 23 vs 
Mar 22
Feb 24 vs 
Mar 23
Gross Bank Credit 
162.1
1.0
15.5
20.5
13.1
18.5
Non-Food Credit
161.7
1.0
15.9
20.5
13.3
18.4
Agriculture & Allied
20.4
1.1
15.0
20.1
13.2
17.8
Industry 
36.7
0.4
6.8
9.1
4.2
7.6
Services
44.9
1.6
20.5
24.0
16.9
21.2
Personal Loans
52.7
1.0
20.6
28.3
18.9
26.0
Source: CareEdge April 2024 report
During FY2024, the NBFC sector saw a significant 
shift in loan composition and performance indicators. 
According to the RBI report, the share of unsecured 
loans extended by NBFCs decreased notably, declining 
from 32.2% to 22.9% of total loans. Retail lending by 
NBFCs also moderated, decreasing from 16.6% in 
March 2023 to 14.8% in March 2024.
In terms of gross advances in FY2024, NBFCs allocated 
2.1% to Agriculture, 36.8% to Industry, 14.9% to Services, 
33.5% to Personal loans, and 12.7% to other sectors. 
The Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPA) ratio for 
NBFCs, including those under resolution, continued 
to decline post-pandemic, dropping from 9.3% in 
March 2022 to 6.8% in March 2023, and further down 
to 4.0% in March 2024. In FY2023, NBFCs exhibited 
more than three times the YoY growth in MSME Assets 
Under Management (AUM) compared to banks. As of 
FY2024, the MSME AUM for NBFCs was estimated to 
have surpassed ` 3.4 trillion, with projections to reach 
` 4.2 trillion by FY2025, up from ` 2.7 trillion in FY2022, 
as per the CareEdge June 2024 report.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
25
Growth Drivers for NBFC Industry
Customised Product Offerings: NBFCs have tailored 
their product offerings to cater to specific customer 
groups, meticulously analysing their needs and 
customising pricing models to effectively meet those 
requirements. 
NBFCs 
offer 
specialised 
financial 
products, such as microfinance, consumer loans, and 
vehicle financing, to meet specific market demands.
Supportive Government Initiatives: The Government 
of India has launched various initiatives aimed 
at addressing structural issues in small business 
lending. These include licensing account aggregators, 
implementing the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana 
(PMMY), introducing UPI platforms, and establishing 
platforms like (Trade Receivables Discounting System) 
TReDS, Government e-Marketplace (GeM), and Open 
Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), alongside 
GST implementation.
Expanding market reach: NBFCs are expanding their 
reach into Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 markets, extending 
loans through multiple customer touchpoints. They are 
also developing an interconnected channel experience 
that offers a seamless, omnichannel sales and service 
experience available 24/7.
Increasing 
Collaborations: 
The 
RBI 
introduced 
co-lending norms in November 2020, enabling 
banks and NBFCs to collaborate for priority sector 
lending, 
thereby 
facilitating 
increased 
credit 
availability to underserved sectors. The ongoing 
trend of consolidation has benefited the NBFC sector, 
marked by an increase in mergers and acquisitions. 
Larger entities aim to expand their reach, while smaller 
ones look to scale up operations. Collaborations with 
banks, fintech firms, and other financial institutions 
offer 
NBFCs 
opportunities 
to 
diversify 
their 
product range, extend market reach, and leverage 
shared resources.
Strong Role in Financial Inclusion: NBFCs have 
carved out a niche by operating in unorganised and 
underdeveloped segments of the economy, where 
they excel in understanding the segment-specific 
customer needs and ensuring prompt delivery of 
goods and services. NBFCs have the potential to 
significantly advance financial inclusion by catering to 
underserved and unbanked segments, providing them 
with access to credit and financial services.
Technology and Fintech Advancements: NBFCs are 
leveraging technology to enhance efficiency in credit 
assessment and improve overall customer experience. 
This includes integrating advanced technologies within 
their operations to streamline processes and offer 
more personalised financial solutions. Many NBFCs 
have pioneered digital platforms that allow customers 
to apply for loans online, significantly enhancing the 
speed and convenience of the process. This innovation 
has particularly resonated with a younger, tech-savvy 
customer base. By embracing digital technologies, 
NBFCs have improved operational efficiency, reduced 
costs, and expanded their customer base through 
online platforms and digital lending.
The outlook for the NBFC industry, especially for 
those 
focussed 
on 
small-ticket-size 
MSMEs, 
is 
promising. With approximately 64 million MSMEs in 
India, the total funding requirement for the sector is 
projected to reach ` 134.40 trillion in the near future. 
Of this, the total debt demand is estimated at ` 106.11 
trillion, with ` 56.24 trillion, or 53%, expected to be 
addressable through formal funding sources such as 
banks and NBFCs.
Source: 
https://bfsi.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/
nbfc/how-big-is-the-msme-lending-opportunity-for-banks-
and-nbfcs/111272115
Industry Overview
Automobile Industry – A growth engine for India’s 
economy
The Indian automobile industry, particularly the 
commercial vehicle segment, has shown robust 
performance, growing by approximately 12.5% YoY in 
FY2024. Total domestic sales reached 23.85 million 
units in FY2024 as compared to 21.20 million units 
sold in FY2023. Domestic sales reflected strong 
growth across all segments, with commercial vehicles 
achieving 0.97 million units sold in FY2024, an increase 
of approximately 0.6%.
Total Automobile Sales (in million units)
Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM)
3.89
Passenger Vehicles
Two-Wheelers
Three-Wheelers
Commercial Vehicles
Total Vehicles
4.22
15.86
0.49
17.97
0.69
0.96
0.97
21.20
23.85
FY2023
FY2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
26
The demand for CVs is driven by factors such as 
economic growth, increased infrastructure projects, 
and the need for efficient logistics and transportation 
solutions. India’s rapidly growing auto market is 
poised to hit a milestone, with projections indicating 
it will reach US$ 300 billion by 2026. This growth is 
fuelled by various factors, including rising income 
levels, 
urbanisation, 
and 
a 
rapidly 
growing 
middle class with increasing purchasing power. 
Overall, the growth in the CV segment reflects the 
potential for continued expansion and innovation within the 
CV financing industry. 
Source: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetailm.
aspx?PRID=2014849#:~:text=During%20this%20FY%20
2023%2D24,in%20this%20FY%202023%2D24.
https://pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=1991568
https://www.siam.in/pressrelease-details.
aspx?mpgid=48&pgidtrail=50&pid= 
562#:~:text=Commenting%20on%20sales%20data%20
of,12.5%25%20during%20the%20last%20Financial
Commercial Vehicle (CV) Finance
The CV market in India has grown significantly 
due to the exponential rise in online retailing, new 
product introductions, enhanced logistics services, 
an expanded network of improved highways, and the 
implementation of BS-VI norms. Rising incomes and 
a growing young population are contributing to the 
demand for vehicles. Additionally, the availability of 
more credit and financing options is making vehicle 
purchases more accessible. The significant increase 
in activity within the infrastructure sector is driving a 
heightened demand for commercial vehicles.
According to a CRISIL report, the AUM for vehicle 
financing by NBFCs are projected to grow by 17%, 
reaching ` 8.1 lakh crore by March 31, 2025, up from 
` 5.9 lakh crore as of March 31, 2023. Growth in the 
vehicle financing sector is expected to be driven by 
rising demand for CVs, cars, utility vehicles, and two-/
three-wheelers. This growth will be accompanied by 
larger ticket financing and the government’s focus 
on infrastructure spending. Financing of cars/utility 
vehicles and two-/three-wheelers is also projected 
to see robust growth of 23-25% per annum, due 
to rising sales of premium models and significant 
replacement volume anticipated for two-wheelers. 
However, tractor financing will grow at a moderate 
pace of 8-10% per annum, due to the impact of uneven 
monsoon conditions. With the harmonisation of 
regulations, electrification, and increasing technology 
penetration in vehicles, the Indian CV industry has 
great potential to tap into both domestic and global 
growth opportunities.
Source: 
https://www.crisilratings.com/en/home/newsroom/
press-releases/2023/12/vehicle-loan-aum-to-vroom-past-rs-
8-lakh-crore-next-fiscal.html
Trends in the CV Industry
Exploring New Opportunities
The commercial vehicle industry is experiencing 
significant changes due to major technological 
trends. This transformation, part of broader shifts in 
the global automotive industry, is happening in areas 
such as alternative fuels, electrification, connected 
and autonomous technologies, and overall industry 
modernisation. Both legacy automobile OEMs and 
emerging startup brands are exploring new products 
for the CV market. From electric battery to hydrogen, 
a variety of new products are entering the market this 
year and beyond. This influx of innovative vehicles 
presents new opportunities for newer CVs to explore 
and utilise these advanced technologies.
Favourable Macro Tailwinds
Increasing household consumption, manufacturing, 
construction activity, and increased business investment 
are enhancing the CV market. Operators of commercial 
vehicles are prioritising service, maintenance, and 
Vehicle Financing Assets Under Management growth 
(in ` lakh crore)
Source: CRISIL
FY2025
FY2023
FY2013
2.4
5.9
8.1
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
27
operational efficiency improvements, influenced by 
economic conditions. Economic growth is set to 
increase vehicle-miles-travelled, boosting demand in 
the CV service, maintenance, and repair market as 
vehicles require more frequent and effective upkeep 
to operate efficiently.
Source: https://www.automotive-fleet.com/10218248/5-fleet-
commercial-vehicle-market-trends-for-2024
https://auto.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/
commercial-vehicle/how-technology-megatrends-will-
shape-the-future-of-indian-cv-industry/102178504
Used Commercial Vehicle Financing
While the sale of new commercial vehicles is 
experiencing 
robust 
growth 
in 
the 
post-Covid 
period, the used or pre-owned CV market has 
also been gaining strong traction in recent years. 
Limited availability of vehicles compared to higher 
demand, along with the continuous increase in prices 
of new trucks, are reported to be the key factors 
driving growth and price hikes in the used truck 
market. Moreover, the demand for used CVs has also 
been fuelled by individuals purchasing their first CVs 
and entering the market as first-time buyers, drawn 
by the affordability and cost-effectiveness compared 
to purchasing new vehicles. Buying a used CV is an 
attractive proposition because it allows transporting 
the same volume of goods at a lower per-tonne cost. 
The maintenance costs of these vehicles have also 
decreased, thanks to better-engineered components 
in BSIV vehicles. Meanwhile, leading commercial 
vehicle manufacturers have also intensified their 
focus on the used CV segment, through their branded 
re-sale operations.
Despite rising prices of pre-owned vehicles, the 
used commercial vehicle market in the country is 
anticipated to sustain its growth momentum. Over the 
past two years, there has been an increase in the 
prices of used commercial vehicles, and this trend is 
expected to continue in the near term. This robust 
demand is supported by the industry’s transition 
from BS IV to BS VI, which has introduced a price 
differential of 25 to 30%. 
While the growth outlook for the used CV market is 
promising in FY2025, sales of new CVs during the first 
half of FY2025 are likely to be flat compared to the 
same period of FY2024 due to the general elections 
and associated developments. However, the second 
half of FY2025 may see strong traction in used CV 
sales. Used CV financing is expected to maintain its 
strong growth momentum from the increased sales of 
used CVs in FY2025.
Source: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/money-and-
banking/used-truck-market-to-stay-in-positive-growth-
curve-amid-rise-in-prices-of-vehicles/article68149800.ece
While the growth outlook 
for the used CV market is 
promising in FY2025, sales of 
new CVs during the first half 
of FY2025 are likely to be flat 
compared to the same period 
of FY2024 due to the general 
elections and associated 
developments. However, the 
second half of FY2025 may 
see strong traction in used 
CV sales. Used CV financing is 
expected to maintain its strong 
growth momentum from the 
increased sales of used CVs in 
FY2025.
https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/money-and-
banking/demand-for-used-trucks-offers-huge-financing-
opportunity-for-nbfcs/article67508910.ece
Housing Finance
Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) are essential to 
the real estate sector, providing the financial services 
needed 
for 
homeownership 
and 
infrastructure 
development. This, in turn, drives economic growth 
and improves living standards across communities. 
The important role of HFCs is evident in the rise 
of individual housing loans and disbursements by 
Primary Lending Institutions (PLIs), indicating a strong 
recovery in housing credit. 
According to a CareEdge report, home loans are 
projected to constitute 75.2% of the portfolio in FY2024 
and 74.5% in FY2025, compared to 75.4% in FY2023 
for HFCs. The share of Loans Against Property (LAP) is 
estimated to reach 17.5% in both FY2024 and FY2025, 
up from 16.7% in FY2023. Additionally, the AUM size is 
expected to grow by 12.3% in FY2024 and by 13.5% in 
FY2025, compared to 8.9% growth in FY2023.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
28
The GNPA is estimated to decline to 2.9% in FY2024 
and further to 2.6% in FY2025 from 4.1% in FY2022 
and 3.3% in FY2023. The provision coverage ratio 
for HFCs, which stood at 42% as of March 31, 2023, 
is anticipated to remain strong, ranging between 44% 
and 46% during FY2024 and FY2025. This indicates 
that HFCs are maintaining adequate provisions to 
mitigate credit risks. HFCs have fuelled this growth by 
adapting to market changes and meeting the housing 
finance needs of a growing population. Their ongoing 
support has created a more stable and accessible 
housing market, mirroring their importance in the 
financial landscape.
Portfolio Mix of HFCs (%)
Source: CareEdge March 2024 report
Home Loans
Builder Loans
LAP
Others
120
100
80
65.4
66.8
68.1
72.6
75.4
75.2
74.5
18.4
19.0
18.7
17.0
16.7
17.5
17.5
13.8
12.5
11.6
9.3
7.1
6.7
8.0
60
40
20
Mar-19
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24E
Mar-25E
0
Percentage
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 29
Affordable Housing Finance (AFHC)
Affordable housing and affordable housing finance are expected to be key drivers of continued growth in the 
real estate sector, aligning with broader socio-economic objectives and fostering sustainability in the housing 
market. With over 3.8 crore houses sanctioned under PMAY-Urban as of December 2023, there has been a 
significant increase in housing supply, reflecting the government’s commitment to reducing the housing 
deficit. The ambitious goal of completing 1 crore houses under PMAY-Urban by 2024 further demonstrates the 
government’s dedication to stimulating growth in the real estate sector and meeting the housing requirements 
of urban populations.
According to the CareEdge report, AHFCs are expected to see their overall AUM growth of 29% for FY2024 
and 30% for FY2025, compared to the 27% growth achieved in FY2023. Amid intensified competition and the 
need to protect margins, AHFCs have seen an expansion in the share of their non-housing portfolio, increasing 
from 17% as of March 31, 2019, to 26% by March 31, 2023. This share is projected to further rise to 27% by 
March 31, 2024, highlighting the sector’s diversification and resilience.
AHFCs AUM Growth
Affordable Housing Finance (AFHC)
Source: CareEdge March 2024 report
Mar-19
Total GNPA (%)
Total NNPA (%)
Mar-20
Mar-21
Mar-22
Mar-23
Mar-24E
Mar-25E
Percentage
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
1.2
2.5
3.7
4.1
3.3
2.9
2.6
1.4
1.7
2.0
2.5
2.2
1.5
0.0
0.5
Source: CareEdge February 2024 report
AUM (Growth)
Off Book
On Book
` crore
FY19
0
20000
40000
60000
80000
29%
20%
89%
86%
86%
86%
14%
14%
14%
15%
85%
85%
85%
15%
15%
11%
21%
20%
27%
29%
30%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
100000
120000
140000
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
FY24P
FY25P
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
30
On November 16, 2023, the RBI issued directives aimed 
at managing the rapid expansion in specific consumer 
credit segments. These guidelines mandate banks 
and NBFCs to mitigate risks by increasing the risk 
weights for NBFCs rated A and above on consumer 
credit exposures, excluding certain categories such as 
housing loans, education loans, vehicle loans, and loans 
secured by gold and gold jewellery. While housing 
loans remain exempt, this exemption helps reduce 
sectoral vulnerability. However, tightening liquidity 
conditions are expected to keep the cost of funds 
elevated in the short to medium term.
Insurance Industry
The Indian insurance industry is experiencing a surge 
driven by several key factors such as rising disposable 
income, urbanisation, technological advancements, 
product innovation, expansion of distribution channels, 
health and wellness trends, corporate insurance 
demand, and government initiatives. The entry of 
private companies has heightened competition, 
offering consumers more choices and potentially better 
deals. Moreover, a favourable regulatory environment 
crafted by the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (IRDAI) is encouraging growth. 
Insurance companies are also innovating with new 
products and processes, allowing for customisation 
to better meet individual needs. The rise in group 
insurance options for businesses further expands the 
market’s reach.
In FY2024, India’s life insurance industry premiums 
grew by 2%, with first-year premiums totalling ` 3,780 
billion and 29.2 million policies sold. Both the life 
insurance and non-life insurance sectors are crucial 
components of the broader insurance landscape, 
providing comprehensive coverage against diverse 
risks for individuals and businesses alike.
The entry of private companies 
has heightened competition, 
offering consumers more 
choices and potentially better 
deals. Moreover, a favourable 
regulatory environment  
crafted by the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (IRDAI) is 
encouraging growth. 
The non-life insurance industry saw significant growth 
in FY2024, particularly in the health and motor 
insurance segments. The total industry premium 
reached ` 2,897 billion, up from ` 2,569 billion in the 
previous period, by registering a growth rate of 12.8% 
YoY. Factors such as increasing disposable income and 
supportive regulations are expected to drive future 
growth. Additionally, efforts to enhance distribution 
networks and investments will further contribute 
to this growth.
Source: IRDAI
Insurance Premiums (` billion)
Total Non-Life Insurance Premium
Total Life Insurance Premium
FY2023
FY2024
2,208
3,705
2,569
3,780
2,897
2,589
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
2,783
1,987
3,143
1,564
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
31
Company Overview
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (hereafter referred 
to as ‘IndoStar’ or ‘our Company’) is a middle-layered 
NBFC and a systematically important non-deposit 
taking institution. Our Company operates under 
professional management and institutional ownership. 
We aim to establish our Company as a leading NBFC 
in retail lending, with a strong focus on financing 
commercial vehicles. Our Company provides financing 
for both new and used CVs, affordable home loans 
through its subsidiary IndoStar Home Finance Private 
Limited, and loans to SMEs.
IndoStar began as an NBFC focussed on corporate 
financing in 2011 but shifted its strategy to become a 
retail-focussed NBFC. As of March 31, 2024, our AUM 
totalled ` 8,763.0 crore, with ` 8,412.5 crore in retail 
financing. We are committed to improving overall 
asset quality and enhancing collections. 
IndoStar’s majority ownership by Brookfield has 
strengthened its capital base and given it additional 
financial flexibility. In FY2024, Brookfield held a 
majority stake of 56.20% in our Company’s equity, 
while Everstone Group’s ownership contributed 
to 18.8%. Public shareholding in IndoStar stood at 
25.0% during the same period. During FY2024, the 
Board approved the issuance of 2.5 crore warrants 
to Brookfield and Florintree at ` 184 per share. 
This investment will enable the company to accelerate 
its journey in its core markets of vehicle finance and 
affordable housing finance
Expansion of Services
In FY2024, IndoStar received a certificate of registration 
to act as a Corporate Agent from IRDAI. This will allow 
our Company to cross-sell insurance products to its 
customers, generating additional fee income.
IndoStar Capital Business Overview – AUM
Business Segments
Details
AUM as on  
March 31, 2024
Commercial 
Vehicle Finance
We offer financing for both used and new 
commercial vehicles.
` 5,594 crore
Housing Finance
Our wholly-owned subsidiary, IndoStar Home Finance, 
provides affordable home loans to self-employed and 
salaried customers.
` 2,270 crore
SME Finance
We are also a financier for small and medium enterprises, 
helping them achieve their business growth plans.
` 485 crore
Corporate Lending 
` 388 crore
Others 
` 26 crore
Total
` 8,763 crore
Effective Retailisation Strategy
As of March 31, 2024, our consolidated AUM was ` 8,763 crore, up from ` 7,813 crore on March 31, 2023. Of this, 
the retail book accounted for ` 8,349 crore (96% of total AUM), compared to ` 6,588 crore (85% of AUM) on 
March 31, 2023. Our retailisation process, which began in FY2018, continues to progress. Our corporate loan 
book decreased from ` 4,604 crore on March 31, 2019, to ` 388 crore on March 31, 2024.
Share in AUM – By Accounts Type (in %)
FY2019
FY2024
38%
62%
Retail
Corporate
Retail
Corporate
4%
96%
AUM -  
` 12,054 Crore
AUM -  
` 8,763 Crore
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
32
IndoStar prioritises financing pre-owned commercial 
vehicles as a key strategic segment of our business 
operations. We have established ourselves as a leading 
player in this market, leveraging a deep understanding 
of borrower profiles and credit behaviours to maintain 
a sustainable competitive advantage. Our efforts 
involved a thorough review and refinement of our 
strategy, processes, and underwriting policies to 
enhance operational efficiency and responsiveness 
to market dynamics during FY2024. Looking ahead, 
we anticipate strong growth in this sector, driven 
by economic expansion and increasing demand 
across 
small, 
medium, 
and 
heavy 
commercial 
vehicle categories.
The rise in long-distance Medium and Heavy 
Commercial Vehicles (M&HCV) is expected to boost 
demand for light commercial vehicles, complementing 
the 
hub-and-spoke 
model 
of 
transportation. 
Recent enhancements in road infrastructure have 
facilitated the operation of larger long-distance trucks, 
which primarily transport goods to warehouses on 
the outskirts of major cities. Meanwhile, intra-city 
transport increasingly relies on CNG-powered small 
trucks, benefiting from unrestricted travel times.
Used Commercial Vehicle Segment
We expect used commercial vehicle prices to remain 
stable in future, especially with the introduction of 
BS-VI vehicles into the retail market. They enable 
transporting the same volume of goods at a lower 
cost per tonne. Moreover, the extended lifespan of 
CVs now allows NBFCs like us to finance vehicles up to 
12 years old. Our robust payment collection capability 
reflects the strength of our business model, and the 
trust customers place in us. 
Business Segments
Commercial Vehicle Finance
Commercial Vehicle Finance Overview
` 5,594 Crore
` 8.0 Lakhs
Average Ticket Size
23 States
Presence across 
AUM
In addition, the adoption of technologies like FASTag, 
along with the elimination of Octroi and Checkposts, 
has extended asset lifespans, reduced downtime, 
thereby boosting resale values. Additionally, there is a 
notable increase in the resale of BS-VI vehicles due to 
their enhanced technical performance.
Key Initiatives to expand Used CV segment:
Our company has introduced new digital loan 
origination processes with the aim to broaden our 
market presence, extend into smaller geographies, 
and deepen penetration in rural areas. This initiative 
has boosted the productivity of our sales team.
We plan to maximise our current reach by deepening 
market penetration and strengthening our customer 
relationships. We are strategically and actively 
exploring new products and strategies to boost 
returns and generate additional income in the used 
CV segment. We will maintain our competitive edge 
and consistently deliver value to our stakeholders by 
diversifying our product range for used CV.
Business Review in FY2024
The demand for medium and heavy commercial 
vehicles, coupled with a surge in light commercial 
vehicles, is driving growth in the used vehicle segment. 
This trend is largely influenced by the government’s 
scrappage policy, which imposes a 15-year age limit 
on vehicles. The fact that the new vehicles are getting 
expensive is also driving the demand for used CVs. 
In response, we are enhancing our capabilities, 
infrastructure, and operational processes within the 
CV finance sector. Our objective is to establish a 
nationwide presence, serving the pre-owned vehicle 
needs of all our customers. We envision substantial 
growth in our AUM, leveraging the substantial potential 
in the used CV segment.
Our company has introduced 
new digital loan origination 
processes with the aim 
to broaden our market 
presence, extend into smaller 
geographies, and deepen 
penetration in rural areas. 
This initiative has boosted the 
productivity of our sales team.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
33
IndoStar Home Finance, a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of IndoStar Capital Finance, specialises in affordable 
housing finance, offering high-yielding home loans in 
the range of 13% to 14% and Loans against Property 
(LAP) in the 17% to 18% range, with an average 
ticket size of approximately ` 9 lakh. During FY2024, 
our AUM grew from ` 1,623 crore to ` 2,270 crore, 
growing by 40% YoY.
Over the past seven years, we have developed a 
robust branch network and a dedicated workforce. 
Throughout 
the 
year, 
we 
have 
enhanced 
our 
leadership team with industry experts in Finance, 
Human Resources, and Technology. Our Branch 
network grew to 124 in FY2024 from 77 in FY2023. 
Moreover, we enrolled 175 net additions in our 
employee base during FY2024. With a team of 932 
employees and a strong emphasis on direct customer 
engagement, we are poised to expand our business 
ambitiously. Our strategic focus is on increasing loan 
disbursements while ensuring strong liquidity and 
a reliable funding pipeline, all the while maintaining 
excellent asset quality. 
Housing Finance
AUM
Net Total Income
` 182.8 Crore
` 2,270 Crore
` 937 Crore
7.7%
` 44.1 Crore
124 Branches
PAT
Branches
Disbursements
NIMs
FY2023: ` 144.0 Crore
FY2023: ` 1,623 Crore
FY2023: ` 487 Crore
FY2023: 8.9%
FY2023: ` 37.8 Crore
FY2023: 77
`
`
`
`
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
34
SME Finance
Business Review in FY2024 
Strategic Actions to Reduce Stressed Portfolio 
During FY2024, we took a decisive step forward in 
reducing our stressed portfolio by selling a portion 
of our SME loan portfolio, totalling ` 332 crore in 
principal outstanding, to Encore Asset Reconstruction 
Company. Also, as a part of the retailisation strategy, 
a substantial part of the legacy corporate loan 
portfolio amounting to ` 915 crore to Phoenix Asset 
Our Key Business Strengths
•	
Our seasoned management team is complemented by regional teams with 
a conservative background, recruited from other prominent companies 
in the industry.
•	
Strategically focussing on South and West India using a cluster-based 
approach to manage concentration challenges. 
•	
Targeting states where there is the greatest demand-supply gap for 
affordable housing.
•	
We offer a diverse range of payment methods for customers, resulting in 
cash payments accounting for only 3-4% of total transactions.
•	
Emphasising Income Assessment from Informal Sources
•	
Targeting New-to-Credit Customers and Loans under ` 20 lakhs, while 
deprioritising Higher Delinquency Categories.
•	
Tapping into Significant Micro LAP Opportunities in Tier 3 & 4 Cities.
Experienced  
Management 
Team
Increasing 
Geographical 
Footprint
Flexible 
Payment 
Options
Centralised 
Underwriting 
Framework
Increasing 
Loan against 
Property (LAP) 
portfolio
Reconstruction Company, in line with our focus on 
bolstering our core lending operations.
We monetised our Security Receipts (SR) from a 
previous asset reconstruction transaction on our 
legacy CV book, realising ` 96.6 crore, continuing our 
efforts to grow our interest-bearing assets.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
35
Key Achievements of Indostar in FY2024
Strong Liquidity Position
We have made significant progress in improving 
our 
liquidity 
position 
by 
raising 
incremental 
funding of approximately ` 5,790 crore in FY2024. 
IndoStar maintains healthy liquidity, with cash and 
cash equivalents, including investments in mutual 
funds and treasury bills, totalling ` 940 crore as of 
March 31, 2024. As we accelerate our disbursement 
engine, we aim to raise funds, bringing our current low 
debt-to-equity ratio closer to industry norms. 
Accelerating Retailisation Strategy
As part of our retailisation strategy, retail loans 
increased from 78% in FY2021 to 96% in FY2024, 
even with low disbursement of retail loans this 
year. Our net profit was driven by lower credit cost 
provisions in the commercial vehicle loan segment. 
In FY2024, collections totalled ` 4,059 crore, achieving 
a gross collection efficiency including overdues and 
prepayments of 136.1%. Collections in the Commercial 
Vehicle division were ` 2,642 crore in FY2024, up 
14% from `2,326 crore in FY2023. We focussed 
on reducing our stress book by actively pursuing 
customer settlements and selling nearly 50% of it. As a 
result, the stress book now constitutes approximately 
4% of our total vehicle finance AUM. Additionally, our 
Company made a decisive move in our retailisation 
strategy by selling a substantial portion of our legacy 
corporate book to Phoenix ARC.
Refining Underwriting Policies 
IndoStar is revising its underwriting policies to focus 
more on individual first-time light CV owners, resulting 
in greater granularity. On the product side, we are 
shifting our focus from heavy CVs to used medium 
and small CVs. This change will lead to greater 
granularity in our business. We anticipate robust 
future growth driven by these segments, alongside 
enhanced performance in our affordable housing 
finance business.
Healthy Financials
As of March 31, 2024, our consolidated net worth was 
`  3,235.2 crore, up from ` 3,111.6 crore on March 31, 
2023. Our gearing level remained at 2.3 times on the 
same date. With the retailisation of our portfolio, the 
gearing is expected to increase from current levels. 
The Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) was well above the 
regulatory requirement at 28.9% as of March 31, 2024, 
compared to 31.5% on March 31, 2023, both well above 
the regulatory requirement of 15%. 
Ratings Upgrade from CARE and CRISIL
On July 28, 2023, CRISIL removed ‘Rating Watch 
with Negative Implications’ from our Company’s debt 
instruments and long-term bank facilities. Our ratings 
were reaffirmed at ‘CRISIL AA-’, with CRISIL assigning 
a ‘Negative’ outlook to the long-term rating. 
Moreover, on November 28, 2023, the long-term 
rating of our Company’s facilities and instruments 
was rated by CARE, from ‘A+; Stable’ to ‘AA-; Stable’ 
and the short-term rating of commercial paper is 
reaffirmed at ‘A1+’.
As of March 31, 2024, our 
consolidated net worth was 
` 3,235.2 crore, up from 
` 3,111.6 crore on March 
31, 2023. Our gearing level 
remained at 2.3 times on 
the same date. With the 
retailisation of our portfolio, 
the gearing is expected to 
increase from current levels. 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
36
Driving Profitable and Sustainable Growth in FY2024
Expanding Geographically
Our goal is to serve the used CV market with higher 
yields, as we believe that Tier 3 and 4 markets remain 
underserved by larger organised players. We aim 
to capitalise on this opportunity by expanding our 
branch network into these areas, reaching customers 
in Tier 3 and 4 cities.
We have enhanced our hub-and-spoke model by 
relocating more branches to Tier 3 and Tier 4 cities. 
Our focus has been on establishing smart branches that 
have lower fixed costs and operate with leaner teams. 
We have continued to improve efficiencies across our 
branch network and expand our reach for profitable 
growth. Our emphasis is on automating all processes 
to improve productivity and achieve cost efficiency. 
Driving Efficiency Through Digital Transformation
We remain agile in managing profitability through 
cost efficiency. Our investment in technology and 
digitalisation is helping us improve turnaround 
times, productivity, and operating cost efficiencies. 
We undertook the rationalisation of our brand structure 
by introducing a 3-tiered, fully integrated, and digital 
brand framework to enhance operational efficiency 
and embrace digital transformation. This initiative has 
significantly improved branch operations in terms of 
both volume and cost efficiencies.
During FY2024, we strengthened our business by 
revamping our processes, reviewing our policies, 
and upgrading our technology systems – from loan 
origination to credit appraisal, disbursal, and collection 
processes. We also made sustained efforts to reduce 
our stressed book and strengthened our collection 
mechanism by adding more staff and establishing a 
dedicated Collection Call Centre. In FY2024, we have 
consistently achieved over 120% collection efficiency 
including overdues and prepayments, indicating a 
successful clearance of earlier delinquencies.
Operational Performance in FY2024
Assets Under Management (` Crore)
CV Finance
Home Finance
SME Finance
Corporate Lending
Total
March 2020
4,643
832
1,746
2,930
10,150
March 2021
4,194
996
1,849
1,932
8,998
March 2022
4,908
1,406
1,776
1,543
9,658
March 2023
3,672
1,623
1,293
1,200
7,813
March 2024
5,594
2,270
485
388
8,763
Disbursements (` Crore)
Retail Lending
Corporate Lending
Total
March 2020
2,356
1,149
3,505
March 2021
1,609
218
1,827
March 2022
4,885
61
4,947
March 2023
1,937
162
2,099
March 2024
5,190
307
5,497
Financial Performance In FY2024
IndoStar has established a presence in 23 states 
with 515 branches, including Tier 3 and 4 cities. 
We remain focussed on opening micro branches that 
operate with greater efficiency and less manpower, 
concentrating on CV Finance and HFC. Last year, we 
revamped our processes, reviewed policies, upgraded 
our technology systems and applied and extended 
digitisation across our various branches. 
In FY2024, we successfully executed our strategy of 
moving towards retailisation by selling a portion of 
our corporate portfolio to an Asset Reconstruction 
Company (ARC). As a result, our corporate portfolio 
stood at ` 388 crore in FY2024. On a consolidated basis, 
we recorded revenue of ` 1,393.0 crore, representing 
a year-over-year increase of 18.6%. In FY2024, other 
income stood at ` 4.6 crore as compared to ` 5.3 crore 
in FY2023. Finance costs were ` 687.3 crore, 18.5% 
higher. The Net Total Income grew to ` 710.2, growing 
by 18.5%. Our Net Interest Margin (NIM) improved 
substantially as we shifted focus to Tier 3 and 4 cities. 
The NIM for FY2024 stood at 5.9% as compared to 
6.1% recorded in FY2023.
In FY2024, about 98% of our total CV disbursements 
were for used CVs, where yields are significantly 
better. This strategy improved overall yields and 
spread, increased the granularity of the book, and 
reduced risk. Operating expenses were ` 492.2 crore, 
about 22.7% higher compared to the previous year. 
Operating expenses have increased primarily due 
to our Company’s expansion of branches and hiring 
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
37
more employees to drive growth in CV Finance and 
HFC segments. The management team has initiated 
a strategic cost control initiative to rationalise and 
control costs in the coming period.
Pre-Provisioning Operating Profit was ` 218.0 crore, 
representing a growth of 9.9% YoY. While the AUM 
has seen a growth of good quality portfolio, the sale 
of large portion of the Corporate book to an ARC, the 
higher interest costs and the increased operating costs 
due to increase in branches and manpower, certain 
one-off reversals in the previous year, all led to a the 
growth of PPOP being muted. Profit After Tax (PAT) 
stood at ` 115.8 crore as compared to ` 225.2 crore 
recorded in FY2023. AUM was ` 8,763 crore compared 
to ` 7,813 crore in the previous year.
Our capital adequacy stood at 28.9%, providing the 
resources and flexibility to pursue future growth 
ambitions. Our debt-equity ratio of 2.3 times, leaving 
enough headroom to source external debt and grow 
the book profitably. We recorded gross collections 
of ` 4,059 crore, up 0.4% from ` 4,043 crore in the 
previous year. Gross collection efficiency including 
overdues and prepayments was 136.1%, reflecting our 
commitment to maintaining high credit standards and 
efficient operations. Collections against the pool sold 
to ARC give us confidence in achieving write-backs in 
the next few quarters.
Our 
Company 
has 
demonstrated 
significant 
improvement in asset quality over the last year, with 
consolidated Gross Stage 3 assets at 4.1% in FY2024, 
down from 6.8% in FY2023. Standalone Gross Stage 3 
assets improved significantly from 8.1% in March 2023 
to 5.0% in March 2024. This improvement was driven 
by a keen focus on CV and SME collections and 
structural steps taken to sell down non-performing 
assets in the legacy SME business.
Segmental Performance
In Commercial Vehicle Finance, with a strong 
focus on the CV portfolio and significant growth in 
disbursements, AUM has increased by 52%, reaching 
`  5,594 crore in FY2024. We recorded a total 
disbursement of ` 4,253 crore as compared to ` 1,435 
crore recorded during the previous year. The loan to 
value ratio stood at 73.8% in March 2024, as compared 
to 72.7% in March 2023. Our average ticket size for 
loans given has also increased considerably from ` 6.2 
lakhs in FY2023 to ` 8.0 lakhs in FY2024.
In Housing Finance, we recorded a total revenue 
of ` 290 crore in FY2024, up from ` 208.3 crore the 
previous year, while PAT grew by 16.7% to ` 44.1 crore 
compared to ` 37.8 crore in FY2023. AUM stood at 
` 2,270 crore, up from ` 1,623 crore the previous year. 
We disbursed ` 937 crore in FY2024 compared to 
` 487 crore last financial year. Gross Stage 3 trended 
downwards to 1.1% as of March 31, 2024, a significant 
improvement from 1.3% in March 2023. Net Stage 3 was 
0.8%, with healthy spreads on the portfolio. Our capital 
adequacy ratio was strong at 57.4%, indicating 
sufficient capital to support business growth.
In SME Finance, we have strategically reduced our 
high-ticket SME portfolio to ` 485 crore from ` 1,293 
crore in FY2023, by selling to an ARC, thereby 
minimising risk and enhancing our financial position. 
These efforts have also led to significant improvements 
in our NPA ratios. Gross NPA of the SME book 
reduced from ` 200 crore in FY2023 to `  39 crore 
in FY2024. The management team is focussed on 
driving recoveries and reversals, enhancing the SME 
collections functions with additional legal resources 
to drive the Securitisation and Reconstruction of 
In Commercial Vehicle Finance, 
with a strong focus on the CV 
portfolio and significant growth 
in disbursements, AUM has 
increased by 52%, reaching 
` 5,594 crore in FY2024. We 
recorded a total disbursement 
of ` 4,253 crore as compared to 
` 1,435 crore recorded during 
the previous year. The loan to 
value ratio stood at 73.8% 
in March 2024, as compared 
to 72.7% in March 2023. 
Our average ticket size for 
loans given has also increased 
considerably from ` 6.2 lakhs 
in FY2023 to ` 8.0 lakhs in 
FY2024.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
38
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest 
Act (SARFAESI) recovery process and liquidate 
recovered assets through an open-auction process.
Business Outlook
At IndoStar, we have a strong vision for growth and 
are committed to achieving this in a calibrated and 
customer-centric manner. In the near future, our goal 
is to introduce more products that comprehensively 
address the entire customer lifecycle. This strategy will 
enable our customers to secure funding at competitive 
rates and reduce their dependency on unorganised 
market players. We are leveraging technology to 
streamline processes and enhance efficiency, playing 
a crucial role in driving these efforts. As a result, 
we anticipate exceptional results moving forward, 
with enhanced customer experiences and increased 
operational effectiveness.
We are expanding our retail operations with a 
particular emphasis on the used CV segment, 
focussing primarily on Tier 3 and Tier 4 markets. 
We are committed to scaling up our operations to drive 
growth while maintaining asset quality. Our goal is to 
sustain progress in profitability by steadily increasing 
our targeted return on total assets.
Furthermore, we are committed to focussing on 
analytics to ensure our model remains agile and 
scalable. Our approach blends physical and digital 
touchpoints, catering to customers who are still 
adapting to evolving technologies. We will continue 
the path of retailisation and aim for profitable growth 
over the next few quarters.
Human Resources
IndoStar Capital holds the firm belief that its people 
are integral to maintaining a competitive edge. 
Our Company is dedicated to creating an environment 
where every employee can achieve their maximum 
potential. IndoStar upholds a meritocratic culture, 
rewarding performance as a cornerstone of its 
approach. To support its rapid growth trajectory, our 
Company actively recruits individuals with robust 
domain expertise. Continuous training programmes 
ensure that employees gain skills with evolving 
products, 
processes, 
systems, 
and 
compliance 
requirements. IndoStar also places a strong emphasis 
on on-the-job training for younger team members 
and encourages supervisors to actively mentor their 
teams. As of March 31, 2024, IndoStar had a workforce 
of 3,999 employees.
Information Technology
IndoStar has successfully transitioned to a seamless 
digital lending process by adopting a next-generation 
loan origination system (LOS). This upgrade has 
significantly enhanced transparency throughout the 
lending lifecycle. Automated Know your Customer 
(KYC) processes, data-driven underwriting, and 
deep API integrations have collectively improved 
operational efficiencies. Collaborations with fintech 
developers have yielded successful outcomes for our 
Company, including the launch of a customer app 
that eliminates the necessity for frequent visits to 
branches. Additionally, our sales team’s productivity 
has seen a significant enhancement thanks to a newly 
introduced sales app. Key feature introductions such 
as bank-ledger auto reconciliation and PAN and 
Aadhaar verification for customer validation have 
addressed crucial regulatory compliance gaps.
The implementation of Robotic Process Automation 
(RPA) has provided faster outcomes at reduced 
costs across incentive calculations, data entry 
automation, KYC document management, and daily 
reporting. A systematic shift to cloud infrastructure 
and the gradual migration from ageing on-premises 
systems have enabled IndoStar to manage costs 
effectively 
while 
leveraging 
state-of-the-art 
cloud benefits for critical business applications. 
Rigorous 
security 
measures, 
including 
firewall 
installations in branches, adoption of 16-digit complex 
passwords, and continuous monitoring of the dark 
web, have enhanced IT infrastructure against cyber 
threats. Additional security tools like mobile device 
management and secure email gateways have further 
strengthened data leak prevention efforts.
RISK MANAGEMENT
At IndoStar, our approach to risk identification is 
guided by our Company objectives, the external 
environment, and the needs of our stakeholders. 
We systematically assess strategic, financial, and 
operational risks to ensure comprehensive coverage. 
Following identification, we develop detailed plans 
that outline mitigation strategies tailored to each 
identified risk. This proactive approach helps us 
effectively manage and minimise potential impacts on 
our business operations.
Interest Rate Risk
Interest risk refers to the potential for the value of an 
investment to decline due to changes in benchmark 
interest rates. 
Mitigation
IndoStar evaluates critical factors such as customer 
profiles, competitive dynamics, and growth goals 
while determining adjustments to interest rates. 
Our 
Company 
closely 
monitors 
interest 
rate 
fluctuations and implements necessary measures to 
safeguard its business interests.
Asset Liability Management (ALM) Risk
The ALM risk arises from a discrepancy in the maturity 
profiles of assets and liabilities, caused by varying loan 
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 39
tenures for customers compared to debt obligations 
raised by our Company.
Mitigation
The Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) 
monitors this risk by tracking market trends. As per 
our Company’s Risk Management Framework, ALCO 
employs strategies concerning assets and liabilities. 
The ALM support group convenes regularly to assess 
liquidity. Our Company always holds sufficient 
liquidity assets and reserves to support growth 
and meet obligations. Additionally, it ensures 
continual access to funds to maintain liquidity in 
unforeseen circumstances.
Credit Risk
Credit Risk arises from borrower default, stemming 
from liquidity crises, economic downturns, bankruptcy, 
or other factors.
Mitigation
Our 
Company 
utilises 
a 
comprehensive 
and 
well-defined credit policy that includes rigorous 
credit approval processes and guidelines to mitigate 
associated risks. A robust post-sanction monitoring 
and collection process is also in place to identify credit 
portfolio trends and early warning signals, further 
enhancing risk mitigation efforts.
Operational Risk
Operational Risk pertains to operational failures, 
including breakdowns in processes and controls, which 
can adversely affect business continuity, reputation, 
and profitability of our Company.
Mitigation
Our Company has implemented a robust control and 
audit mechanism to identify and mitigate operational 
risks effectively. Our Company maintains a strong 
operating model supported by well-documented 
Standard 
Operating 
Procedures 
(SOPs) 
and 
a 
comprehensive reporting framework. These measures 
ensure that operational risks are minimised and always 
managed efficiently.
Regulatory Risk
In the financial sector, there are intricate regulatory 
requirements. 
Failure 
to 
comply 
with 
these 
regulations can lead to financial penalties and harm 
our Company’s reputation.
Mitigation
Our Company maintains strict adherence to relevant 
rules and regulations through a robust internal control 
framework, strong IT systems, and a skilled team. 
It closely monitors developments and proactively 
adjusts to government policy changes to mitigate 
regulatory risks.
Fraud Risk
We may encounter various fraud risks, including loan 
fraud, identity theft, internal fraud, and cyber fraud. 
These risks can lead to financial losses and damage 
to our reputation due to deliberate deception or 
misrepresentation by individuals or entities, both 
internally and externally.
Mitigation
Our Company has established a control framework 
to 
prevent, 
detect, 
investigate, 
and 
manage 
fraud effectively. Our dedicated Risk Control Unit 
(RCU) oversees these efforts, actively monitoring, 
investigating, and preventing fraud. We uphold 
a zero-tolerance policy towards fraud, ensuring 
awareness and implementing strong controls to 
mitigate risks. Our Fraud Risk Management reports to 
the Chief Risk Officer, overseeing all fraud risks, while 
our Audit Committee and Board of Directors oversee 
fraud cases identified by regulators.
Information Security Risk
We may encounter risks such as data breaches, 
cyberattacks, and unauthorised access, potentially 
compromising sensitive information and harming 
our reputation.
Mitigation
We 
have 
implemented 
rigorous 
information 
classification and controls, including Data Leak 
Prevention (DLP) measures, to prevent unauthorised 
data disclosures. Our Security Operations Centre (SOC) 
monitors and responds to security incidents, while we 
regularly conduct vulnerability assessments for all our 
infrastructure and applications. We actively monitor 
our brand for potential risks and threats, ensuring 
comprehensive oversight and protection. In addition, 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
40
we maintain robust email and network security 
measures to safeguard our communications and data. 
Furthermore, we have developed comprehensive 
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans to 
ensure resilience and preparedness in the face of any 
disruptions. Additionally, we have established Risk 
Appetite Statement (RAS) parameters specifically 
tailored to our IT systems.
Internal Financial Controls
Our Company adheres to a robust policy framework 
designed to ensure rigorous control over all business 
processes. We have implemented a strong internal 
control mechanism to safeguard our assets, enhance 
operational efficiency, and ensure strict compliance 
with regulatory requirements, as well as accuracy in 
financial reporting and management information.
We have taken proactive measures to strengthen 
controls, review policies, and upgrade our technology 
systems in response to identified deficiencies in our 
control framework. We ensure that areas identified as 
critical through our audit plans undergo comprehensive 
review by our internal audit function by upholding 
our commitment to sound corporate governance and 
effective risk management practices. Subsequently, 
these findings are scrutinised and approved by the 
Audit Committee.
Our audit plans are strategically formulated based on 
thorough risk assessments to prioritise areas requiring 
scrutiny. Both our Management Committee and the 
Audit Committee of the Board diligently evaluate 
internal audit findings. Subsequently, corrective 
actions are proposed and implemented across 
relevant functional areas by process owners, thereby 
continuously enhancing the robustness of our internal 
control framework.
Cautionary Statement
This 
document 
includes 
statements 
regarding 
anticipated future events, financial and operational 
outcomes of IndoStar, which are forward-looking. 
Due to their nature, forward-looking statements 
necessitate our Company to make assumptions and 
are susceptible to inherent risks and uncertainties. 
There is a substantial risk that these assumptions, 
predictions, and other forward-looking statements may 
prove inaccurate. Readers are advised against placing 
undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, 
as several factors could cause actual future results and 
events to differ significantly from those expressed in 
these statements. Therefore, this document is subject 
to the disclaimer and is qualified in its entirety by the 
assumptions, qualifications, and risk factors outlined 
in IndoStar’s Management Discussion and Analysis in 
the Annual Report for FY2024.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
41
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
Your Directors are pleased to present the 15th Annual Report on the affairs of your Company together with the 
audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
The key highlights of the audited standalone financial statements of your Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024 and comparison with the previous financial year ended March 31, 2023 are summarized below:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Standalone
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023 
Total income
1,125.23
993.08
Total expenditure
1,053.62
805.81
Profit/(loss) before taxation
71.61
187.27
Less: Provision for taxation
- Current tax
-
-
- Deferred tax asset
-
-
- Tax of earlier years
-
-
Net profit/(loss) after taxes
71.61
187.27
Other comprehensive income, net of tax
(0.24)
0.76
Total comprehensive income
71.38
188.03
Transfer to statutory reserve fund pursuant to Section 45-IC of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
(14.32)
(37.45)
Appropriation towards dividend and dividend distribution tax
-
-
Surplus in the statement of profit and loss
57.06
150.58
Balance brought forward from previous period
(379.70)
(530.28)
Balance carried to balance sheet
(322.64)
(379.70)
Earnings per share (Face Value ` 10/- each)
Basic (`)
5.26
13.76
Diluted (`)
5.26
13.76
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND COMPANY’S 
STATE OF AFFAIRS
The financial highlights tabulated above are based 
on the requirement of the Reserve Bank of India 
(“RBI”) Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India 
(Non-Banking Financial Company –Scale Based 
Regulation) Directions, 2023, the circulars, directions, 
notifications issued by the RBI from time to time (“RBI 
Directions”) and provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”) read with Rules made thereunder. 
For details of Reserves and Surplus of the Company, 
please refer Note No. 21 of the audited standalone 
financial statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024.
Details on performance of your Company has also 
been covered in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report which forms part of the Annual Report.
DIVIDEND 
AND 
DIVIDEND 
DISTRIBUTION 
POLICY
In terms of the Dividend Distribution Policy of the 
Company, dividend shall be declared / recommended 
on the equity shares of the Company, keeping in view 
the Company’s objective of meeting the long-term 
capital requirement for the business from internal cash 
accruals and appropriately rewarding shareholders. 
Details of the Dividend Distribution Policy have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report and is also available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/inv
estors-corner#investor-services.
Due to carry forward losses of previous years and 
in-availability of sufficient profits of the current year, 
directors do not recommend any dividend for the 
financial year under review.
ACCOUNTING METHODS
The financial statements of the Company have been 
prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (“Ind AS”) notified under Section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from time to time.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
42
In terms of Section 129 of the Act read with Rules 
framed thereunder, audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries shall 
be laid before the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
of the Company along with the audited standalone 
financial statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024.
The audited standalone and consolidated financial 
statements together with Auditor’s Report(s) thereon 
along with the salient features of the financial 
statements of the subsidiaries of the Company in the 
prescribed Form AOC – 1 forms part of the Annual 
Report and are also available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/invest
ors-corner#investor-relations.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS
In terms of Section 186(11) of the Act read with 
Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 
2014, the provisions of Section 186 in respect of loans 
made, guarantees given or securities provided or any 
investment made by the Company are not applicable 
to the Company.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
186(4) of the Act, the details of investments 
made by the Company are given in the Note no. 
6 of the audited standalone financial statements.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES & THEIR FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
Your Company has 2 (two) wholly-owned subsidiaries 
namely, IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited 
(“IHFPL”) and IndoStar Asset Advisory Private 
Limited (“IAAPL”). Your Company does not have any 
joint venture(s) / associate company(ies) within the 
meaning of Section 2(6) of the Act.
During the year under review, there has been no 
change in the nature of business of the subsidiary 
companies and there were no additions / deletions in 
the number of subsidiaries of your Company.
The audited standalone financial statements of each 
of the subsidiaries are available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner. Members interested in obtaining a 
copy of the audited standalone financial statements of 
the subsidiaries may write to the Company Secretary 
at the Registered & Corporate Office of the Company 
or at investor.relations@indostarcapital.com.
In terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligation and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing 
Regulations”) and Company’s Policy for Determining 
Material Subsidiary, IHFPL continue to be a material 
subsidiary of your Company. Further, pursuant to the 
requirement of appointing an Independent Director of 
the Company on the board of directors of IHFPL in 
terms of explanation to Regulation 24(1) of the Listing 
Regulations, Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy, Independent 
Director of the Company, has been appointed as 
Independent Director on the Board of IHFPL w.e.f. 
April 22, 2024.
The Audit Committee reviews the financial statements 
of subsidiaries of the Company, the investments 
made by its subsidiaries and the statement of all 
significant transactions and arrangements entered 
into by the subsidiaries, if any, in terms of the Listing 
Regulations. The minutes of board meetings of the 
unlisted subsidiary companies and presentations 
on financial performance of material subsidiary, are 
placed before the Board.
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited (“IHFPL”)
IHFPL is registered with the National Housing Bank to 
carry on the business as a housing finance institution 
without accepting public deposits and primarily 
focuses on providing affordable home finance. 
IHFPL commenced business operations in mid of 2017 
and has built a quality and profitable portfolio of over 
` 2,270 crore as on March 31, 2024. IHFPL operates 
in 9 states across India through various branches and 
has an employee base of over 932 employees as on 
March 31, 2024.
During the year under review, the total income of 
IHFPL was ` 290.43 crore (previous year: ` 209.24 
crore). The operations of IHFPL during the year 
under review has resulted in profit after tax of ` 44.10 
crore (previous year: ` 37.78 crore). The other key 
performance indicators of IHFPL are: (a) Return on 
Assets: 2.9%; (b) Capital to Risk Weighted Assets 
Ratio: 57.35%; (c) Debt-Equity Ratio: 2.64x; (d) Assets 
Under Management: ` 2,270 crore which is 40% YoY 
growth; (e) Disbursements: ` 937 crore; (f) Gross 
Stage 3 assets: 1.13%; and (g) Cash & cash equivalent 
including undrawn lines: ` 397 crore.
The Board of Directors and Members of the IHFPL in 
order to rebrand the Company with the Company’s 
undertakings in the housing finance business, which 
will also aid in building its individual recognition and 
goodwill in the market has approved the name of 
the Company to be changed from “IndoStar Home 
Finance Private Limited” to “Niwas Housing Finance 
Private Limited” which shall become effective from 
the date of issue of fresh certificate of incorporation 
by the Registrar of Companies and approval of the 
other regulatory authority(ies) as may be required.
Subsequent to the year under review, IHFPL 
received the certificate of registration to act as 
Corporate Agent from the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) dated 
19 August 2024.
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited (“IAAPL”)
IAAPL is enabled under its objects to carry on the 
business of inter-alia advising, managing, providing 
investment advisory services, financial advisory 
services, 
management 
and 
facilitation 
services. 
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 43
IAAPL acted as an investment manager to IndoStar 
Credit Fund and IndoStar Recurring Return Credit 
Fund, both, Category II Alternative Investment Funds 
registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (“SEBI”) and has applied to SEBI for surrendering 
the registration of IndoStar Credit Fund and IndoStar 
Recurring Return Credit Fund and the applications 
are under process.
During the year under review, the total income of 
IAAPL was ` 0.19 crore (previous year: ` 0.16 crore) 
and the Profit after tax was ` 0.12 crore (previous 
year: Profit after tax was ` 0.10 crore).
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
REPORT
In terms of the Listing Regulations and the RBI 
Directions, the Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report for the year under review is presented in a 
separate section forming part of the Annual Report.
BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, 
detailed BRSR report, in the format as prescribed 
by Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), 
describing various initiatives taken by the Company 
towards the Environmental, Social and Governance 
aspects forms part of this Report and has been 
provided at Annexure V to this Boards report and 
is also available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#i
nvestor-relations.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Governance Report for the year under 
review, including disclosures as stipulated under 
Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of the Listing 
Regulations and the RBI Directions is annexed to and 
forms an integral part of this Board’s Report.
A certificate from M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company 
Secretaries, 
confirming 
compliance 
with 
the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as prescribed 
under the Listing Regulations is annexed to the 
Corporate Governance Report.
REGISTRATION AS A CORPORATE AGENT
During the year under review, the Company 
received the certificate of registration to act as 
Corporate Agent from the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) dated 
21 February 2024.
LAUNCH OF NEW PRODUCT – MICRO LOAN 
AGAINST PROPERTY
The Company, subsequent to the year under review, 
launched new product viz. Micro Loan Against 
Property with an intention to diversify portfolio 
in different products. The Company introduced 
Micro LAP (Loan Against Property) product as a 
risk mitigation strategy for the Company which 
is primarily focused on commercial vehicle loans 
financing activities, justification for the same includes: 
diversification of portfolio, collateral security, stable 
asset class, market demand etc.
SHARE CAPITAL
Authorized Share Capital
The Members, at its Extra-Ordinary General Meeting 
of the Company held on 22 March 2024 approved 
increase in authorized share capital of the Company 
from (i) ` 1,650,000,000/- (Indian Rupees One 
Hundred and Sixty Five Crore only) divided into: 
(a) 152,500,000 (Fifteen Crore Twenty Five Lakh) 
equity shares of ` 10 (Indian Rupees Ten only) each, 
amounting to 1,525,000,000 (Indian Rupees One 
Hundred and Fifty Two Crore and Fifty Lakh Only); 
and (b) 12,500,000 (One Crore Twenty Five Lakh) 
preference shares of ` 10 (Indian Rupees Ten only) 
each, amounting to 125,000,000 (Indian Rupees 
Twelve Crore Fifty Lakh Only) to (ii) ` 2,000,000,000 
[Indian Rupees Two Hundred Crore Only] divided 
into (a) 187,500,000 (Eighteen Crore Seventy Five 
Lakhs) equity shares of ` 10 (Indian Rupees Ten only) 
each, amounting to ` 1,875,000,000 (Indian Rupees 
One Hundred Eighty Seven Crores Fifty lakhs); 
and (b) 12,500,000 (One Crore Twenty Five Lakh) 
preference shares of ` 10 (Indian Rupees Ten only) 
each, amounting to 125,000,000 (Indian Rupees 
Twelve Crore Fifty Lakh Only) and consequent 
alteration in Clause v(a) of the Memorandum of 
Association of the Company.
Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital
As on March 31, 2024 and as on the date of this report, 
the issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital of 
the Company stands at ` 1,360,792,950 divided into 
136,079,295 equity shares of ` 10 each.
Your Company has not issued any sweat equity 
shares or equity shares with differential voting rights. 
None of the Directors on the Board of the Company as 
on March 31, 2024, holds any instruments convertible 
into Equity Shares of the Company.
Issue and allotment of convertible warrants
Subsequent to the year under review, pursuant to the special resolutions passed at the Extra Ordinary General 
Meeting of the Company held on 22 March 2024, the Company issued and allotted convertible warrants as per 
following details:
Sr. 
No Name of allottee
Category of Allottee
No. of 
warrants
Price per 
warrant
Consideration 
received*
1
Florintree Tecserv LLP
Non-Promoter Entity
10,869,565
` 184
` 499,999,990
*25% of the total consideration. Balance 75% to be received upon conversion of warrants into Equity shares.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
44
DEPOSITS
Your Company has not accepted any public deposits 
during the year under review and shall not accept 
any deposits from the public without obtaining prior 
approval of the RBI. Further, your Company being an 
NBFC, the disclosure requirements under Chapter V 
of the Act read with Rule 8(5)(v) and 8(5)(vi) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are not applicable 
to your Company.
RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
Your Company has diversified funding sources 
including public sector banks, private sector banks, 
mutual funds, insurance companies and financial 
institutions. Funds were raised through various 
modes including bank borrowings, issuance of 
non-convertible debentures on private placement 
basis, issue of commercial paper and sale / assignment 
/ securitization of loan assets of the Company etc.
During the year under review, your Company has raised 
additional funds from inter-alia, following sources (i) 
762.50 crore as bank borrowings (outstanding as on 
March 31, 2024: ` 1,306.01 crore); (ii) ` 2,455 crore 
through issuance of non-convertible debentures 
(outstanding as on March 31, 2024: ` 3,248.00 crore); 
and (iii) ` 1,090 crore by securitization of loan assets 
of the Company. Subsequent to the year under 
review, the Company raised ` 660.00 crore through 
issue of commercial paper. Funds raised through 
private placement of debentures were utilized 
for the purpose mentioned in the respective offer 
documents. Till the pending utilization of funds for 
stated purpose, the funds were temporarily invested 
in mutual funds/Banks FDs/ maintained a balance in 
current accounts.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
at its meeting held on 24 January 2024, approved 
issue 
of 
listed, 
rated, 
secured, 
redeemable, 
non-convertible debentures (“NCDs”), aggregating 
up to ` 500 crore (Rupees Five hundred crore) in 
one or more series/ tranches including option of 
oversubscription (Greenshoe Option), if any, to 
investors eligible under applicable law by way of 
public issue (“the Public Issue”), which is within 
the limit approved by the shareholders of the 
Company at the Annual General Meeting held on 
30 August 2019 and the draft prospectus for issue 
of NCDs aggregating up to ` 300 crore (Rupees 
Three hundred crore was filed on 29 July 2024 and 
In-principle approval for the same was received on 
12 August 2024 from Bombay Stock Exchange.
Your 
Company 
continues 
to 
be 
adequately 
capitalized and is in compliance with capital 
adequacy norms prescribed by the Reserve Bank 
of India. Your Company has sufficient liquidity to 
satisfy its short-term and long-term liabilities.
CREDIT RATING(S)
Credit Ratings assigned to the Company as on March 31, 2024 is summarized below:
Particulars / Rating Agencies
Rating
Remarks
Long Term:
• Debt Programme
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE AA(-)
Securities with this rating are considered to have high 
degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial 
obligations. Such securities carry very low credit risk.
CRISIL Ratings Limited
CRISIL AA(-)
• Market Linked Debentures
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE PP-MLD AA(-)
Securities with this rating are considered to have high 
degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial 
obligations. Such securities carry very low credit risk.
• Short Term Debt Programme 
/ Commercial Paper:
CRISIL Ratings Limited
CRISIL A1(+)
Securities with this rating are considered to have very 
strong degree of safety regarding timely servicing of 
financial obligations. Such securities carry very lowest 
credit risk.
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE A1(+)
During the year under review, CARE Ratings Limited 
upgraded the long-term rating to “CARE AA-”; 
re-affirmed short-term rating at “CARE A1+” while 
retaining outlook as “Stable”.
During the year under review, while CRISIL did not 
revise the long-term or short term rating and retained 
them at CRISIL AA- and CRISIL A1+ respectively; while 
it removed Rating Watch with Negative Implications 
and assigned “Negative” outlook.
DEBT EQUITY RATIO
Your Company’s Debt Equity ratio as on March 31, 
2024 stood at 1.96
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 45
CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO
Your Company is well capitalized to provide adequate 
capital for its continued growth. As on March 31, 2024, 
the Capital to Risk Assets Ratio (“CRAR”) of your 
Company stood at 28.87% well above the regulatory 
limit of 15% as prescribed by the RBI for NBFCs.
NET OWNED FUNDS
The Net Owned Funds of your Company as on 
March 31, 2024 stood at ` 1,741.26 crore.
RBI DIRECTIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF 
CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER
Your Company endeavors to comply with the 
direction(s), circular(s), notification(s) and guideline(s) 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India as applicable to 
your Company as a Middle-layer non-deposit taking 
non-banking financial company (“NBFC”).
Your Company has complied with the provisions of 
the extent circulars, regulations and guidelines related 
to foreign investment in India, with respect to the 
downstream investments.
In terms of the RBI Circular dated 11 April 2022 on 
Compliance Function and Role of Chief Compliance 
Officer (CCO) – NBFCs, the Board of Directors, on 
recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, through circular resolution, approved 
appointment of Ms. Rashmita Prajapati as Chief 
Compliance Officer of the Company for a period of 5 
(five) years with effect from 7 August, 2023.
ALTERATION OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 
OF THE COMPANY
Pursuant to the special resolution passed at its 
Extra-Ordinary General Meeting of the Company held 
on 22 March 2024, the Company, during the year 
under review, altered its Articles of Association of the 
Company with respect to the issuance of warrants 
convertible into equity shares of the Company, and for 
other ancillary matters in respect thereof, along with 
a clarificatory amendment to the article pertaining to 
further issue of shares by the Company.
Further, subsequent to the year under review, 
pursuant to the special resolution passed through 
postal ballot on 28 June 2024, the Company altered 
it Articles of Association of the Company with 
respect to increase in total number of directors from 
to the maximum of eight directors to maximum of 
nine directors.
COMPLIANCE 
WITH 
MINIMUM 
PUBLIC 
SHAREHOLDING
During the year under review, IndoStar Capital and 
Everstone Capital Partners II LLC, members of the 
promoter and promoter group of the Company, have 
sold the 19,340,000 equity shares of the Company 
representing 14.21% of the total paid-up equity 
share capital through offer for sale by way of stock 
exchange mechanism and the public shareholding 
in the Company has now increased upto 25% and 
accordingly the Company is in compliance with the 
minimum public shareholding norms with effect from 
May 5, 2023, as required under Regulation 38 of the 
Listing Regulations.
SHIFTING OF REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE 
COMPANY
During the year under review, the Company shifted its 
registered office from “Unit No. 505, 5th Floor, Wing 
2/E, Corporate Avenue, Andheri - Ghatkopar Link 
Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400099 to 
Silver Utopia, 3rd Floor, Unit No 301-A, Opposite P & 
G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, Chakala, Andheri (E), 
Mumbai - 400099 with effect from December 5, 2023.
DIRECTORS 
AND 
KEY 
MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL
At present, the Board of Directors of your Company 
comprises 9 (nine) Directors of which 3 (three) are 
Non-Executive Independent Directors of whom one 
is a Woman Director, 4 (four) are Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Directors 
and 
2 
(two) 
are 
Executive Directors. The Chairman of the Board of 
Directors is a Non-Executive Independent Director. 
The Board composition is in compliance with the 
requirements of the Act, the Listing Regulations 
and the RBI Directions. Detailed composition of 
the Board of Directors of the Company has been 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of 
this Board’s Report.
Appointment and Cessation:
All 
appointments 
of 
Directors 
are 
made 
in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Act, the Listing Regulations, the RBI Directions and 
other laws, rules, guidelines as may be applicable 
to the Company. The Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee 
(“NRC”) 
exercises 
due 
diligence 
inter-alia to ascertain the ‘fit and proper’ status of 
person who is proposed to be appointed on the 
Board of Directors of the Company, and if deemed 
fit, recommends their candidature to the Board of 
Directors for consideration.
During the year under review, Mr. Munish Dayal, 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, resigned 
from the Board of Directors of the Company with 
effect from 8 September 2023. The Board of Directors 
places on record its sincere appreciation for the 
valuable contribution and guidance provided by 
Mr. Dayal, during his association with the Company.
Subsequent to resignation of Mr. Dayal, upon 
nomination by BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd., 
in terms of the shareholder’s agreement dated 31 
January 2020 executed among the Company, BCP 
V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd. and Indostar Capital, 
the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, through 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
46
circular resolution passed on 8 September 2023 
approved appointment of Mr. Devdutt Marathe as 
Additional Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
with effect from 8 September 2023. Further, in 
terms of notice(s) received under Section 160 of 
the Act, proposing candidature of Mr. Marathe, the 
shareholders at the 14th Annual General Meeting of 
the Company held on 18 September 2023 approved 
the appointment of Mr. Marathe, as Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of the Company, liable to 
retire by rotation.
Subsequent to the year under review, the Board of 
Directors, upon recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, at their meeting held on 13 
May 2024, approved and recommended appointment 
of Mr. Randhir Singh as the Whole Time Director 
and Executive Vice Chairman of the Company to 
the shareholders of the Company. The shareholders 
approved the appointment of Mr. Randhir Singh as the 
Whole Time Director and Executive Vice Chairman by 
passing a special resolution through postal ballot on 28 
June 2024 effective from the date as may be decided 
by the Board of Directors/its committee. Mr. Randhir 
Singh assumed office as the Whole Time Director and 
Executive Vice Chairman of the Company with effect 
from 22 July 2024.
Director(s) Retiring by Rotation
In terms of Section 152(6) of the Act read with 
the Articles of Association of the Company, 
Mr. 
Dhanpal 
Jhaveri 
(DIN: 
02018124) 
and 
Mr. Aditya Joshi (DIN: 08684627), shall retire by 
rotation and being eligible, have offered themselves 
for 
re-appointment 
at 
the 
ensuing 
Annual 
General Meeting of the Company. Brief profiles of 
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri and Mr. Aditya Joshi have been 
included in the notice convening the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
Re-appointment of Independent Directors
None of the Independent Director(s) on the Board of 
Directors of the Company is due for re-appointment.
Resignation of Independent Director(s)
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
none 
of 
the 
Independent Director(s) on the Board of Directors of 
the Company had resigned before the expiry of their 
respective tenure(s).
Director(s) Declaration and Disclosures
Based 
on 
the 
declarations 
and 
confirmations 
received in terms of the provisions of the Act, 
the Listing Regulations and the RBI Directions, 
none of the Directors on the Board of your 
Company are disqualified from being appointed / 
continuing as Directors.
A certificate from H Choudhary & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretary, confirming that none 
of the Directors on the Board of the Company as on 
March 31, 2024 have been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as Director on 
the Board of the Company by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs or any such statutory authority, forms part 
of the Governance Report which is annexed to and 
forms an integral part of this Board’s Report.
The Company has received the necessary declaration 
from each Independent Director in accordance with 
Section 149(7) of the Act and Regulations 16(1)(b) and 
25(8) of the Listing Regulations, that he/she meets 
the criteria of independence as laid out in Section 
149(6) of the Act and Regulations 16(1)(b) of the 
Listing Regulations. In the opinion of the Board, there 
has been no change in the circumstances which may 
affect their status as Independent Directors of the 
Company and the Board is satisfied of the integrity, 
expertise, and experience (including proficiency in 
terms of Section 150(1) of the Act and applicable 
rules thereunder) of all Independent Directors on the 
Board. Further, in terms of Section 150 read with Rule 
6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, Independent 
Directors of the Company have included their names 
in the data bank of Independent Directors maintained 
with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”)
During the year under review, Mr. Jitendra Bhati 
resigned as Company Secretary and Compliance 
officer 
of 
the 
Company 
with 
effect 
from 
close of business hours of April 17, 2023 and 
Ms. Shikha Jain was appointed as Company 
Secretary and Compliance officer of the Company 
with effect from April 18, 2023.
Following are the KMPs of the Company as on date of 
this Board’s Report:
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
MEETINGS
The Board and Committees meet at regular intervals 
inter-alia to discuss, review and consider various 
matters including business performance, strategies, 
policies 
and 
regulatory 
updates 
and 
impact. 
During the year under review, the Board met 12 
(twelve) times and several meetings of Committees 
including the Audit Committee were held. Details with 
respect to the meetings of the Board of Directors 
and Committees held during the year under review, 
including attendance by Directors / Members at 
such meetings have been provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report which is annexed to and forms an 
integral part of this Board’s Report.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 47
COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
In terms of provisions of Section 118 of the Act, your 
Company is in compliance with Secretarial Standards 
on Meetings of the Board of Directors and Secretarial 
Standards on General Meeting issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board of Directors, in compliance with the 
requirements of various laws applicable to the 
Company, as part of good corporate governance 
practices and for operational convenience, has 
constituted several committees to deal with specific 
matters and has delegated powers for different 
functional areas to different committees.
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
has 
amongst 
others, 
constituted the following:
•	
Audit Committee,
•	
Risk Management Committee,
•	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee,
•	
Asset Liability Management Committee,
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee,
•	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee,
•	
Grievances Redressal Committee,
•	
IT Strategy Committee,
•	
IT Steering Committee,
•	
Borrowing Committee (erstwhile 
Debenture Committee),
•	
Credit Committee,
•	
Management Committee,
•	
Internal Complaints Committee(s),
•	
Banking Committee,
•	
ESG Working Review Committee and
•	
Disciplinary Committee.
•	
Debt- Public Issue Committee
•	
Retail Lending Committee 
•	
Corporate Lending Committee
Detailed note on the composition of the Board and 
its committees, including its terms of reference 
and meetings held are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report. The composition and terms 
of reference of the Committees of the Board of the 
Company is in line with the provisions of the Act, the 
Listing Regulations and RBI Directions.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, the Board of Directors adopted a 
Board Performance Evaluation Policy to set out a 
formal mechanism for evaluating performance of 
the Board, that of its committee(s) and individual 
Directors including the Chairperson. Additionally, 
in order to outline detailed process and criteria 
to be considered for performance evaluation, the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee has put in 
place the ‘Performance Evaluation Process – Board, 
Committees and Directors’, which forms an integral 
part of the Board Performance Evaluation Policy.
In terms of the requirement of Schedule IV of the 
Act and Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, a 
separate meeting of the Independent Directors was 
held on 26 March 2024 to review the performance 
of the Non-Independent Directors including the 
Chairman and the Board, as a collective entity.
Subsequent to the year under review, the Board of 
Directors evaluated the performance of the Directors 
including Independent Directors, Committee(s) of the 
Board and the Board as a collective entity, during the 
year under review.
A statement indicating the manner in which formal 
evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
Committee(s) of the Board, individual Directors 
including the Chairman during the year under 
review was carried out, is provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report which is annexed to and forms an 
integral part of this Board’s Report.
The Board of the Company was satisfied with 
the functioning of the Board and its Committees. 
The Committees are functioning well and besides 
covering the Committees’ terms of reference, as 
mandated by applicable laws, important issues are 
brought up and discussed in the Committee Meetings. 
The Board was also satisfied with the contribution of 
Directors in their individual capacities. The Board has 
full faith in the Chairman leading the Board effectively 
and ensuring participation and contribution from all 
the Board Members.
FAMILIARISATION 
PROGRAMME 
FOR 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
In compliance with the requirements of the Listing 
Regulations, the Company has adopted and put in 
place a Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors 
to 
familiarize 
Independent 
Directors 
inter-alia with the industry in which your Company 
and 
its 
subsidiaries 
operate, 
the 
Company’s 
business model and its operations in order to give 
them an insight into the Company’s business and 
its functioning. A formal letter of appointment 
is given to Independent Directors at the time of 
their appointment which lays down the fiduciary 
duties, roles and responsibilities of an Independent 
Director. The terms and conditions of appointment of 
Independent Directors is available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/in
vestors-corner#investor-services.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
48
In terms of Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations, 
the details of familiarization programmes imparted 
to the Independent Directors during the year under 
review including details of number of programmes 
and number of hours spent by each Independent 
Director are available on the website of the Company 
at https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner
#investor-services.
POLICY ON APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS 
AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
In terms of Section 178 (2) of the Act, the Listing 
Regulations and the RBI Directions, the Board of 
Directors adopted a ‘Policy on Selection Criteria 
/ “Fit & Proper” Person Criteria’ inter-alia setting 
out parameters to be considered for appointment 
of Directors and Senior Management Personnel 
of the Company.
Subsequent to the year under review, the Board of 
Directors approved amendment to the above Policy 
in order to align the same with the Act, Listing 
Regulations and RBI Directions. Details of the Policy on 
Selection Criteria / “Fit & Proper” Person Criteria have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report and is also available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/inv
estors-corner#investor-services.
REMUNERATION 
POLICY, 
DISCLOSURE 
OF 
REMUNERATION 
& 
PARTICULARS 
OF 
EMPLOYEES
Remuneration Policy
In terms of Section 178 of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, the Board of Directors adopted a 
Remuneration Policy inter-alia setting out the criteria 
for determining remuneration of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors, Senior Management and 
other employees of the Company.
During and subsequent to the year under review, 
the Board of Directors approved amendment to 
the above Policy in order to align the same with the 
RBI Directions. Details of the Remuneration Policy 
have been provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report which is annexed to and forms an integral 
part of this Board’s Report. The Remuneration Policy 
is also available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#i
nvestor-services.
Employee Remuneration
In terms of Section 197 of the Act read with Rule 5 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the disclosures 
with respect to the remuneration of Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel and employees of the 
Company have been provided at Annexure III to this 
Board’s Report.
Statement containing details of employees as 
required in terms of Section 197 of the Act read 
with Rule 5(2) and Rule 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, is available for inspection at 
the Registered & Corporate Office of the Company 
during working hours for a period of 21 days before 
the date of the ensuing 15th Annual General Meeting. 
A copy of the statement may be obtained by 
shareholders by writing to the Company Secretary at 
the Registered & Corporate Office of the Company 
or at investor.relations@indostarcapital.com.
The Board of Directors confirm that remuneration 
paid to the Directors was as per the Remuneration 
Policy of the Company.
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLANS (“ESOP 
PLANS”)
Your Company believes that its success and ability 
to achieve its objectives is largely determined by the 
quality of its workforce and recognises that not only 
good employment opportunities but also additional 
motivating mechanisms are needed to incentivize 
employees and aligning their interest with the interest 
of the Company. In recognition of the said objective, 
the Company adopted and implemented IndoStar 
ESOP Plan 2012 (“ESOP 2012”), IndoStar ESOP Plan 
2016 (“ESOP 2016”), IndoStar ESOP Plan 2016-II 
(“ESOP 2016-II”), IndoStar ESOP Plan 2017 (“ESOP 
2017”) and IndoStar ESOP Plan 2018 (“ESOP 2018”) 
(collectively referred to as “ESOP Plans”) to attract, 
retain, motivate and incentivise employees of the 
Company and its holding / subsidiary companies.
The ESOP Plans of the Company are implemented 
and 
administered 
by 
the 
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration Committee.
The Board of Directors confirms that the ESOP Plans 
are in compliance with the provisions of the act and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021, as amended (“SBEB & SE Regulations”).
Subsequent to the year under review, pursuant to 
the special resolution passed through Postal Ballot 
on 28 May 2024, the shareholders of the Company 
approved the amendment to the IndoStar ESOP Plan 
2018 (“ESOP 2018”), to retain top talent and to ensure 
that the NRC has the requisite powers to ensure that 
the ESOP 2018 provides the NRC the flexibility to 
customise the grant, vesting and exercise conditions 
for the various levels of employees and those which 
meet industry remuneration standards.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 49
Disclosures in terms of Regulation 14 of the SBEB & 
SE Regulations , are available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/invest
ors-corner#investor-services.
AUDITORS
Statutory Auditors & their Report
During the year under review, in terms of the 
provisions of the Act and in order to comply with 
the guidelines issued by RBI on 27 April 2021 for 
appointment of statutory auditors for NBFCs, the 
Deloitte Haskins and Sells LLP ceased to hold the 
office of Statutory Auditors of the Company from 
the conclusion of 14th Annual General Meeting and 
M S K A & Associates, Chartered Accountants, (Firm 
registration no. 105047W), Mumbai were appointed 
as the Statutory Auditors of the Company, for a 
period of three (3) consecutive years from the 
conclusion of the 14th Annual General Meeting until 
the conclusion of the 17th Annual General Meeting.
The Statutory Auditors have issued their unmodified 
opinion, both on standalone and consolidated financial 
statements, for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024. They have not highlighted any qualifications, 
reservations, 
adverse 
remarks 
or 
disclaimers. 
The Statutory Auditors have not reported any 
incidents of material fraud to the Audit Committee of 
the Board during the financial year 2023-24. The notes 
to the accounts referred to in the auditor’s report are 
self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any 
further explanation and comments.
Secretarial Auditors & their Report
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 204(1) of the 
Act read with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, the Company had appointed M/s. Mehta & Mehta, 
Company Secretaries, to conduct the Secretarial 
Audit for the financial year under review.
The Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3 for 
the financial year under review, as received from 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, is attached 
as Annexure I to the Board’s Report.
Ms. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries, in their 
report on the secretarial audit of your Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024 have submitted 
following remarks/qualifications:
a.	
As per Regulation 24A (2) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulation, 2015, the Company shall submit a 
secretarial compliance report to stock exchanges 
within sixty days from end of each financial year 
however the report in pdf and xbrl formats have 
been filed on a delayed date.
b.	
As per Regulation 47 (3) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulation, 2015, the Company shall publish in 
newspaper the financial results within 48 hours of 
conclusion of the meeting of board of directors 
at which the financial results were approved 
however the same was delayed by one day.
c.	
As per Regulation 60(2) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulation, 2015, delayed notice has been given 
to the stock exchange for the record date.
d.	
As per Regulation 29 (2) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulation, 2015, prior intimation to be given to 
the Stock Exchange for fund raising has not been 
given by the Company.
e.	
As per Regulation 30 of SEBI (LODR) Regulation, 
2015, delayed intimation has been given to the 
National Stock Exchange for the appointment 
of Mr. Devdutt Marathe & Resignation of 
Mr. Munish Dayal.
Director’s Response to the remarks/qualification in 
Secretarial Audit Report:
The delay in submissions were inadvertent and due to 
human error. The Company has since been working 
to put in place adequate systems and automation 
tools to strengthen its governance and to ensure no 
such instances were repeated in future. The Company 
would be more cautious and ensure the compliance 
are done on time.
In terms of Regulation 24 A(2) of the Listing 
Regulations, Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 
with respect to all applicable compliances under 
regulations and circulars / guidelines issued by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India from 
M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Company Secretaries in 
prescribed format for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024 has been submitted to the 
stock exchanges.
A copy of the secretarial audit report for the financial 
year 2023-24 issued to IndoStar Home Finance Private 
Limited, a material unlisted subsidiary of the Company 
is attached as Annexure II to the Board’s Report.
Cost record and cost audit
Maintenance of cost records and requirements of cost 
audit as prescribed under the provisions of section 
148(1) of the Act is not applicable for the business 
activities carried out by the Company.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY / VIGIL MECHANISM
In terms of Section 177(9) and Section 177(10) of 
the Act and the Listing Regulations, the Board of 
Directors adopted a Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil 
Mechanism, inter-alia to provide a mechanism 
for Directors and employees of the Company to 
approach the Audit Committee of the Company and 
to report genuine concerns related to the Company. 
The Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism provides 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
50
for adequate safeguards against victimization of 
Director(s) or employee(s) who report genuine 
concerns under the mechanism.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
approved amendment to Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil 
Mechanism to replace the name of Vigilance and Ethics 
Officer pursuant to resignation of Mr. Jitendra Bhati 
and appointment of Ms. Shikha Jain as Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company. 
Details of the Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism 
have been provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report which is annexed to and forms an integral part 
of this Board’s Report.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
In terms of Section 135 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 (“CSR Rules”), the Board of Directors have 
constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Committee and in light of your Company’s philosophy 
of being a responsible corporate citizen, the Board 
of Directors adopted a CSR Policy which lays down 
the principles and mechanism for undertaking various 
projects / programs as part of Company’s CSR 
activities. During the year under review, the Company 
was not required to spend any amount towards CSR 
activities as required under Section 135 of the Act and 
hence, disclosure pursuant to Section 134(3)(o) of the 
Act is not applicable to the Company.
Subsequent to the year under review, the Board of 
Directors approved amendment to Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy to include “promotion of sports” 
as of the CSR project/activity and other regulatory 
amendments in line with the Act. Details of the 
composition of the CSR Committee and the CSR Policy 
have been provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report which is annexed to and forms an integral part 
of this Board’s Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Your Company has in place a mechanism to identify, 
assess, monitor and mitigate various risks associated 
with the business of the Company. Major risks 
identified by the business and functions, if any, are 
systematically addressed through mitigating actions 
on a continuing basis. The Board of Directors have 
adopted a Risk Management Framework and Policy 
which inter-alia integrates various elements of risk 
management into a unified enterprise-wide policy.
The Risk Management Committee of the Company 
has not identified any elements of risk which in their 
opinion may threaten the existence of your Company. 
Details of the risks and concerns relevant to the 
Company are discussed in detail in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report which forms part of 
the Annual Report.
In terms of the RBI Directions and in order to have 
strengthen the risk management framework, the 
Company has appointed Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) 
and have adopted a policy on Independence of the 
CRO. In order to ensure that the Company maintains 
high standards of risk management practices, the CRO 
functions independently with no relationship with 
business verticals of the Company and reports to the 
Risk Management Committee. The CRO is inter-alia 
entrusted with the responsibility of identifying, 
measuring and mitigating risks which may affect the 
Company and putting in place and monitoring the risk 
management policies and practices of the Company.
Subsequent to the year under review, the Board of 
Directors approved amendment to Risk Management 
Framework of the Company with the intention make 
it more robust and to meet the requirement of the 
today’s business environment.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
through resolution passed through circulation, on 
recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee 
and 
Risk 
Management 
Committee, 
appointed Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani as Chief Risk 
Officer of the Company with effect from 17 July 2023 
for the period of 5 years.
Details of the Risk Management Framework and Policy 
have been provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report which is annexed to and forms an integral part 
of this Board’s Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL / INTERNAL FINANCIAL 
CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY
Your 
Company’s 
well-defined 
organizational 
structure, documented policies, defined authority 
matrix and internal controls ensure efficiency 
of operations, compliance with internal system 
/ 
policies 
and 
applicable 
laws. 
The 
internal 
control system / policies of your Company are 
supplemented with internal audits, regular reviews 
by the management and checks by external auditors. 
It provides reasonable assurance in respect of 
financial and operational information, compliance 
with applicable statutes, safeguarding of assets of 
the Company, prevention and detection of frauds, 
accuracy and completeness of accounting records 
and also ensuring compliance with the Company’s 
policies. The Audit Committee monitors the internal 
controls system / policies of your Company. The Risk 
Management Committee and the Audit Committee 
periodically review various risks associated with the 
business of the Company along with risk mitigants 
and ensure that they have an integrated view of risks 
faced by the Company. The Board of Directors is of 
a view that your Company’s internal control systems 
are commensurate with the nature of its business, 
size and complexity of operations.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
51
The Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors 
of the Company also provide their confirmation 
that the internal financial control framework is 
operating effectively.
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors 
have not reported any instances of material fraud in 
the Company committed by officers or employees of 
the Company to the Audit Committee under Section 
143(12) of the Act.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Company has in place an effective Internal 
Audit Framework to monitor the efficacy of internal 
controls with the objective of providing to the 
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, an 
independent and reasonable assurance on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the organisation’s 
Risk Management, internal control and governance 
processes. The framework is commensurate with the 
nature of the business, size, scale and complexity 
of its operations with a Risk Based Internal Audit 
(RBIA) approach.
The Company has implemented a RBIA Programme 
in accordance with the requirements of RBI circular 
dated 3rd  February 2021. The Internal audit plan is 
approved by the Audit Committee and Internal audits 
are undertaken on a periodic basis to independently 
validate 
the 
existing 
controls. 
Internal 
Audit 
Reports are regularly reviewed by the management 
and corrective action is initiated to strengthen 
controls and enhance the effectiveness of existing 
systems. Significant audit observations, if any, are 
presented to the Audit Committee along with the 
status of management actions and the progress of 
implementation of recommendations.
CEO & CFO CERTIFICATE
Compliance Certificate in terms of Regulation 17(8) 
of the Listing Regulations on the audited financial 
statements and other matters prescribed therein, 
submitted to the Board of Directors by the CEO 
and CFO of the Company, for financial year ended 
March 31, 2024, is enclosed herewith at Annexure IV 
to this Board’s Report.
CONTRACTS / ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED 
PARTIES AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION 
POLICY
During the financial year under review, all transactions 
entered into by the Company with related parties 
were in ordinary course of business and on arm’s 
length basis and were not considered material as per 
the provisions of Section 188 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014. Hence, disclosure in Form AOC-2 under 
Section 134(3) (h) of the Act, read with the Rule 8 of 
the Companies (Accounts of Companies) Rules, 2014, 
is not applicable.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is obtained 
for all Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) including 
omnibus approval for transactions which are of a 
repetitive nature and entered into in the ordinary 
course of business and at arm’s length in accordance 
with the Policy on Related Party Transactions of the 
Company. A statement on RPTs specifying the details 
of the transactions pursuant to each omnibus approval 
granted, is placed on a quarterly basis for review by 
the Audit Committee.
Pursuant to Regulation 23(9) of Listing Regulations, 
disclosures of RPTs are submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges on a half-yearly basis and published on the 
Company’s website at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner/#investor-relations.
Disclosure of the related party transactions as 
required under Ind AS - 24 are reported in Note 32 
of the audited standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
Details of the Related Party Transaction Policy have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which is annexed to and forms an integral part of this 
Board’s Report.
ANNUAL RETURN
In terms of Section 134(3)(a) and Section 92(3) of 
the Act read with the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, the Annual Return as at 
financial year ended March 31, 2024 in prescribed form 
No. MGT-7 is available on the website of the Company 
at https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner
#investor-services.
DISCLOSURES UNDER SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION & REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
Your Company is committed to create an environment 
in which all individuals are treated with respect and 
dignity and promote a gender sensitive and safe work 
environment. Accordingly, the Board of Directors 
adopted a Care & Dignity Policy and also constituted 
an Internal Complaints Committee, in compliance 
with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & 
Redressal) Act, 2013.
Considering geographic diversification across the 
country and increase in number of employees, 
the Board of Directors have constituted Regional 
Internal Complaints Committees for North, West, East 
and South regions.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
52
During the year under review, one complaint 
related to sexual harassment was received by the 
Internal Complaints Committee and the Regional 
Internal Complaints Committees and the same was 
disposed off. There are no complaints pending as on 
March 31, 2024.
INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION 
FUND (IEPF)
Details of unclaimed dividends and equity shares 
which are transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund and Investor Education and 
Protection Fund authority are mentioned in the 
General Shareholders’ Information which forms a part 
of the Corporate Governance Report.
OTHER DISCLOSURES
During the year under review, there has been no 
change in the nature of business of your Company.
No material changes and commitments affecting the 
financial position of your Company have occurred 
between the end of year under review and date of this 
Board’s Report.
During the year under review, no orders have been 
passed against your Company by any regulator(s) 
or court(s) or tribunal(s) which would impact the 
going concern status and / or the future operations 
of your Company.
During the year under review, your Company, in the 
capacity of a financial creditor, has not filed petitions 
before the National Company Law Tribunal under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 for recovery 
of outstanding loans against its customers, being 
corporate debtors.
During the year under review, there has been no 
instance of one-time settlement with any Bank(s) or 
Financial Institution(s).
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION 
AND 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The operations of the Company are not energy 
intensive nor does they require adoption of specific 
technology and hence information in terms of Section 
134(3)(m) of the Act read with the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is not applicable to the 
Company. The Company has, however, implemented 
various energy conservation measures across all its 
functions which are highlighted in the BRSR forming 
part of this Report.
During the year under review, your Company did not 
have any foreign exchange earnings and incurred 
foreign currency expenditure of ` 12.28 crore (Previous 
year foreign exchange expenditure: ` 40.19 crore).
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
To the best of our knowledge and belief and according 
to the information and explanations obtained by 
us, pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) 
read with Section 134(5) of the Act, your Directors 
hereby confirm that:
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts for 
the year ended March 31, 2024, the applicable 
accounting 
standards 
have 
been 
followed 
and 
no 
material 
departures 
have 
been 
made from the same;
b)	
they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company at the end of the financial year 
and of the profits of the Company for that Period;
c)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
d)	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
e)	
the directors, had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems are required to 
be strengthened.
APPRECIATION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The Directors take this opportunity to express their 
appreciation to all stakeholders of the Company 
including the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India, the 
National Housing Bank, the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
the Government of India and other Regulatory 
Authorities, the BSE Limited, the National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited, the Depositories, Bankers, 
Financial Institutions, Debenture Trustees, Credit 
Rating Agencies, Members, Employees and Customers 
of the Company for their continued support and trust.
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Bobby Parikh
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 29, 2024
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
53
To,
The Members,
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Office No- 301, Wing A, CTS No 477
Silver Utopia, Chakala Road,
Opposite Proctor and Gamble, Andheri (E),
Sahargaon, Mumbai- India 400099
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and 
the adherence to good corporate practices by 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (hereinafter called 
“the Company”). Secretarial audit was conducted 
in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conduct/statutory 
compliance and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minutes books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, 
complied with the statutory provisions listed here 
under and also that the Company has proper Board 
processes and compliance mechanism in place to the 
extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2024, according to the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws Framed there under;
(iv)	 The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
and the rules and regulations made there under 
to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, 
Overseas Direct Investment;
Annexure I
FORM MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2024
{Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014}
(v)	 The 
following 
Regulations 
and 
Guidelines 
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’);
	
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
	
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
	
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (during 
the period under review not applicable 
to the Company);
	
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client 
(during 
the 
period 
under 
review 
not 
applicable to the Company);
	
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2021 (during the period under review not 
applicable to the Company);
	
(i)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 
2018 (during the period under review not 
applicable to the Company);
	
(j)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 2021;
(vi)	 Master 
Direction 
- 
Non-Banking 
Financial 
Company - Systemically Important Non-Deposit 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
54
taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016; (up to the period it was effective) and 
thereafter Master Direction – Reserve Bank of 
India (Non-Banking Financial Company – Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023;
(vii)	Master Direction - Know Your Customer (KYC) 
Direction, 2016;
(viii) Master 
Direction 
- 
Non-Banking 
Financial 
Company Returns (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016; (up to the period it was effective) 
and thereafter Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Filing of Supervisory Returns) 
Directions – 2024;
(ix)	 Master 
Direction 
– 
Non-Banking 
Financial 
Companies Auditor’s Report (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016;
(x)	 Master Direction – Information Technology 
Framework for the NBFC Sector; (up to the period 
it was effective) and thereafter Master Direction 
on Information Technology Governance, Risk, 
Controls and Assurance Practices;
(xi)	 Master Direction – Monitoring of Frauds in NBFCS 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016.
We have examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
(i)	 Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India;
(ii)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
During the period under review the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines etc except:
a.	
As per Regulation 24A (2) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company shall submit 
a 
secretarial 
compliance 
report 
to 
stock 
exchanges within sixty days from end of each 
financial year however the report in pdf and xbrl 
formats have been filed on a delayed date.
b.	
As per Regulation 47 (3) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company shall publish in 
newspaper the financial results within 48 hours of 
conclusion of the meeting of board of directors 
at which the financial results were approved 
however the same was delayed by one day.
c.	
As per Regulation 60(2) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, delayed notice has been 
given to the stock exchange for the record date.
d.	
As per Regulation 29 (2) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, prior intimation to be given 
to the Stock Exchange for fund raising has not 
been given by the Company.
e.	
As per Regulation 30 of SEBI (LODR) Regulation, 
2015, delayed intimation has been given to the 
National Stock Exchange for the appointment 
of Mr. Devdutt Marathe & Resignation of 
Mr. Munish Dayal.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted with proper balance of the Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notices are given to all Directors to schedule 
the Board / Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in 
advance to all the Directors. Meetings held at shorter 
notice are in compliance with the provisions of the Act 
and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation 
at the meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the 
dissenting members’ views are captured and recorded 
as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems 
and processes in the company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company passed the following special / ordinary 
resolutions which are having a major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
a.	
Issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures on 
Private Placement basis.
b.	
Approval of Material Related Party Transactions 
with BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd, the holding 
Company of the Company.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
55
c.	
Appointment of Mr. Devdutt Marathe as a 
Non-Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director 
of the Company.
d.	
Re-appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Hemant 
Kaul 
as 
Non-Executive Independent Director for a second 
consecutive term of five years.
e.	
Re-appointment of Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy as 
Non-Executive Independent Director for a second 
consecutive term of five years.
f.	
Appointment of Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan 
as a Whole-Time Director on the Board of 
Directors of the Company designated as Chief 
Executive Officer.
g.	
Increase in the Authorized Share Capital of 
the Company and consequent alteration of 
clause V(A) of the Memorandum of Association 
of the company.
h.	
Alteration 
of 
the 
Articles 
of 
Association 
of the Company.
i.	
Issuance of Warrants to BCP V Multiple Holdings 
Pte Ltd and/or BCP V Multiple FVCI Holdings 
Pte Ltd, promoters of the Company on a 
preferential basis.
j.	
Issuance of Warrants to Florintree Tecserv LLP, a 
Non-Promoter Entity on a preferential basis.
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company has transacted the following activities 
through the approval of the Board / Committee 
resolutions which are having major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
a.	
The Company has issued and allotted 10,000 
(Ten Thousand) Unsecured, Redeemable, Rated, 
Listed, Taxable, Non-Convertible Debentures 
of Face Value of ` 100,000 (Rupees One Lakh) 
amounting 
upto 
` 
1,000,000,000 
(Rupees 
Hundred Crore Only) on Private Placement basis.
b.	
The Company has issued and allotted 165,500 
(One Lakh Sixty Five Thousand Five Hundred) 
Secured, Redeemable, Rated, Listed, Senior, 
Taxable, Non-Convertible Debentures of Face 
Value of ` 100,000 (Rupees One Lakh) amounting 
upto ` 16,550,000,000 (Rupees One Thousand 
Six Hundred and Fifty Crore Only) on Private 
Placement basis.
c.	
The Board of Directors at their meeting held 
on January 08, 2024 approved the issuance 
of 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
by 
way 
of public issue.
For Mehta & Mehta,
Company Secretaries
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
Atul Mehta
Partner
FCS No: 5782
CP No: 2486
PR No: 3686/2023
UDIN: F005782F000271509
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2024
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as ‘ANNEXURE A’ and forms an integral 
part of this report.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
56
Annexure A
To,
The Members,
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Office No- 301, Wing A, CTS No 477
Silver Utopia, Chakala Road,
Opposite Proctor and Gamble, Andheri (E),
Sahargaon, Mumbai- India 400099
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1)	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to 
ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices 
we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts 
of the Company.
4)	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules 
and regulations and happening of events etc.
5)	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6)	
As regard the books, papers, forms, reports and returns filed by the Company under the provisions referred 
to in points (vi) to (x) of our Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3 the adherence and compliance to the 
requirements of the said regulations is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to 
checking the execution and timeliness of the filing of various forms, reports, returns and documents that 
need to be filed by the Company with various authorities under the said regulations. We have not verified 
the correctness and coverage of the contents of such forms, reports, returns and documents.
7)	
The secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Mehta & Mehta,
Company Secretaries
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
Atul Mehta
Partner
FCS No: 5782
CP No: 2486
PR No: 3686/2023
UDIN: F005782F000271509
Place: Mumbai
Date: April 29, 2024
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
57
To,
The Members,
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited 
CIN: U65990MH2016PTC271587
Unit No. 305, 3rd Floor, Wing 2/E, Corporate Avenue,
Andheri - Ghatkopar Link Road, Chakala,
Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400093
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by IndoStar 
Home Finance Private Limited (hereinafter called the 
“Company”) for the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on March 31, 2024. Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that 
in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on March 31, 
2024, complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and, subject to our comments 
hereinafter, compliance-mechanism in place to the 
extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company for the financial year 
ended on March 31, 2024 according to the relevant & 
applicable provisions of:
1.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the 
rules made thereunder;
2.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(“SCRA”) and the rules made thereunder (Not 
Applicable during the Audit Period);
3.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
4.	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
and the rules and regulations made thereunder to 
the extent of Indirect Foreign Investment.
Annexure II
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
5.	
The 
following 
Regulations 
and 
Guidelines 
prescribed 
under 
the 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
Act, 
1992 
(“SEBI Act”) to the extent applicable:
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirement) Regulations, 2015 (To the 
extent applicable);
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (Not Applicable 
during the Audit Period);
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2018 
(Not 
Applicable during the Audit Period);
	
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 as amended; (Not 
Applicable during the Audit Period);
	
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021 as amended;
	
g)	
The Securities and Exhcnage Board of India 
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993
	
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client (Not 
Applicable during the Audit Period);
	
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 
(Not Applicable during the Audit Period); and
	
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 
(Not Applicable during the Audit Period).
6.	
Based on the representations made by the 
Company and its officers and our verification 
of the relevant records on test check basis, the 
Company has adequate systems and process 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
58
in place for compliance with the following laws 
applicable specifically to the Company:
	
a)	
The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 as 
applicable to Housing Finance Companies;
	
b)	
Master Direction – Non-Banking Financial 
Company – Housing Finance Company 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2021
	
c)	
Master Direction - Know Your Customer 
(KYC) Direction, 2016;
	
d)	
The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002 and the Rules made thereunder;
	
e)	
Various Circulars, Notifications, Directions, 
Guidelines, Master Circulars issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India/National Housing 
Bank from time to time in respect of Non - 
Deposit taking Housing Finance Company to 
the extent applicable.
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the following:
i.	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India;
ii.	
The Listing Agreement entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited;
Other Statutes, Acts, Laws, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines and Standards as applicable to the 
Company are given below:
(i)	 Labour Laws and other incidental laws related to 
employees appointed by the Company either on 
its payroll or on contract basis, as related to wages, 
gratuity, provident fund, ESIC, compensation etc.;
(ii)	 Stamp Acts and Registration Acts of respective 
states;
(iii)	 Acts as prescribed under Direct Tax and Indirect 
Tax;
(iv)	 Labour Welfare Acts of respective states;
(v)	 Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, 
Prohibition 
and 
Redressal) 
Act, 2013; and
(vi)	 Such other Local laws as applicable to the 
Company and its offices/ branches.
We further report that during the period under 
review the Board of Directors of the Company was 
duly constituted with proper balance of Executive 
Director 
and 
Non-Executive 
Directors, 
except 
regarding absence of a woman director on the Board 
of Directors of the Company. There was no change in 
the composition of the Board of Directors during the 
period under review.
Adequate notice was given to all Directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent in compliance with the provisions 
of the Act and Rules made thereunder and Secretarial 
Standards on Board Meetings, and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
During the period under review, decisions were carried 
out through unanimous approval and no dissenting 
views were observed while reviewing the minutes.
We further report that, subject to our observations 
herein before, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, 
circulars, notifications, directions and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company has undertaken following event / action 
having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs in 
pursuance of the above referred laws, acts, rules, 
regulations, 
circulars, 
notifications, 
directions, 
guidelines, standards:
(i)	 The Company has issued following Listed 
Non-convertible Debentures:
	
- 	
3000 Secured, Redeemable, Rated, Listed, 
Senior, Taxable Non-Convertible Debentures 
having face value of INR 1,00,000/- each.
	
-	
2500 Secured, Rated, Listed, Fully Paid up, 
Redeemable, Transferable, Non-Convertible 
Debentures having a face value of INR 
1,00,000/- each.
(ii)	 On 
September 
18, 
2023, 
the 
members 
at 
the 
Annual 
General 
Meeting 
inter-alia 
approved the following:
	
a.	
Re-appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Shreejit 
Menon 
(DIN: 08089220) as whole-time director 
designated 
as 
Chief 
Executive 
Officer 
of the Company;
	
b.	
Issue of Non - Convertible Debentures 
(NCDs) under Private Placement such that 
the aggregate principal amount of such 
NCDs does not exceed ` 10,000,000,000 
(Rupees One Thousand crore only) during 
a period of 1 (one) year from the date of 
passing Special Resolution;
(iii) 	On January 22, 2024, Board of Directors 
considered and approved the change of name of 
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 59
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited and the 
proposal to undertake a rebranding exercise.
(iv)	 On January 31, 2024, the members at the 
Extraordinary General Meeting approved the 
following:
	
(a)	 Adoption of Indostar Home Finance Private 
Limited ESOP Scheme 2024
	
(b)	 Approval of the Indostar Home Finance 
Private 
Limited 
ESOP 
Scheme 
2024 
(“plan”) for eligible employees of Holding 
Company(ies) or Subsidiary Company(ies).
	
(c)	 Approval of the grant of options to the 
employee exceeding 1% of the issued capital 
of the Company.
(v)	  Nomination & Remuneration committee vide 
circular resolution dated February 7, 2023 
considered and approved grant of 1,77,27,750 
stock options under Indostar Home Finance 
Private Limited ESOP Plan 2024.
(vi)	 On March 27, 2024, the members at the 
Extraordinary 
General 
Meeting 
approved 
alteration to object clause of the Memorandum of 
Association of the Company.
H Choudhary & Associates
(Practicing Company Secretaries)
CS Harnatharam Choudhary
Proprietor 
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No: F8274
Date: 26 July 2024 	
C P No.: 9369
UDIN: F008274F000846507
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
60
Annexure III
Disclosures in terms of sub-section 12 of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024
Sr. 
No.
Requirement
Disclosure
1.
The ratio of the remuneration of each 
Director to the median remuneration of the 
employees of the Company for the financial 
year
Name of Director
Ratio
Mr. Bobby Parikh
-
Mr. Hemant Kaul
-
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
-
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
-
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja
-
Mr. Aditya Joshi
-
Mr. Munish Dayal*
-
Mr. Devdutt Marathe^
-
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
46.24
2.
The percentage increase in remuneration of 
each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 
Executive Officer and Company Secretary 
in the financial year
Name of Director 
/ CEO / CFO/ CS
Percentage Increase in their 
remuneration during the 
financial year under review
Mr. Bobby Parikh
-
Mr. Hemant Kaul
-
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
-
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
-
Mr. Vibhor Talreja
-
Mr. Aditya Joshi
-
Mr. Munish Dayal*
-
Mr. Devdutt Marathe^
-
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan (CEO)
10%
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker (CFO)
17%
Mr. Jitendra Bhati (CS)$
-
Ms. Shikha Jain (CS)**
43%
3.
The percentage increase in the median 
remuneration of employees in the financial 
year
2%
4.
Number of permanent employees on the 
rolls of Company at the end of financial year
3,067
5.
Average percentile increases already made 
in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial 
year and its comparison with the percentile 
increase in the managerial remuneration 
and justification thereof and point out if 
there are any exceptional circumstances for 
increase in the managerial remuneration
The average salaries of employees other than managerial 
personnel, has decreased by 13.71% as compared to average 
salaries paid in the financial year 2022-23 due to increase in 
number of employees in lower salary bracket. 
There has been an average increase in the Managerial 
Remuneration by 10% for the financial year 2023-24.
6.
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per 
Remuneration Policy of the Company
It is affirmed that remuneration paid is as per the Remuneration 
Policy of the Company.
Note:
* Ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from September 8, 2023
^ Appointed as Director of the Company with effect from September 8, 2023.
$ Resigned as Company Secretary of the Company with effect from close of business hours of April 17, 2023, hence there was 
no increase in remuneration.
** Appointed as Company Secretary of the Company with effect from April 18, 2023.
Further, sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Independent Directors has not been included for calculation of 
remuneration paid to them.
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
61
Annexure IV
CEO and CFO Compliance Certificate
To
The Board of Directors
lndoStar Capital Finance Limited
We, Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Chief Executive Officer and Vinodkumar Panicker, Chief Financial Officer 
hereby certify that:
A.	
we have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the financial year ended March 31, 
2024, and to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
1)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading;
	
2)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance 
with existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year under 
review are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C.	
we accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we 
have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting 
and we have disclosed to the auditors and the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of 
such internal controls, of which we are aware and the steps taken to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
we have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit committee
	
1)	
Significant changes, if any, in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
2)	
Significant changes, if any, in accounting policies during the year requiring disclosures in the notes to 
the financial statements of the Company; and
	
3)	
Instances of significant fraud, if any, of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if 
any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control 
system over financial reporting.
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai 
Date: April 29, 2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
62
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURE
I.	
Details of the Listed Entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed 
Entity
L65100MH2009PLC268160
2
Name of the Listed Entity
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
3
Year of incorporation
2009
4
Registered office address
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No 301-A, 
Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099
5
Corporate address
Same as registered office address
6
E-mail
icf.secretarial@indostarcapital.com
7
Telephone
022 – 4315 7000
8
Website
www.indostarcapital.com
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2023-24
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares  
are listed
BSE Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11
Paid-up Capital
` 1,36,07,92,950
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Ms. Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Phone: 022 – 4315 7039
Email id: sjain4@indostarcapital.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures  
under this report made on a standalone basis  
(i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis 
(i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a 
part of its consolidated financial statements,  
taken together).
Disclosures made in this report are on a 
standalone basis and relates only to the 
Company
14
Name of assurance provider
Not applicable for the financial year 2023-24
15
Type of assurance obtained
Not applicable for the financial year 2023-24
II.	
Product and Services
	
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business 
Activity
% of Turnover 
of the entity
 1
Financial and Insurance Service
Other financial activities
100%
	
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of Turnover 
of the entity
1
Non-Banking Financial Company engaged in lending and  
allied activities
 649
 100%
III.	 Operations
	
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
 -
391
 391
International
 -
 -
 -
Annexure V
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 63
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
23
International (No. of Countries)
 -
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
Nil. The Company does not have export business.
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
The Company being a non-banking finance company mainly focuses on retail lending, particularly 
in vehicle finance, housing finance, corporate lending and SME finance. Following are the types of 
customers based on products:
	
	
Commercial Vehicle Finance: The Company primarily focuses on transport entrepreneurs mainly Small 
Road Transport Operators (SRTO) including finance for farm equipment, two wheelers, four wheelers 
and constructions vehicles and desires to be a lender of choice for them. The Company aims to enhance 
its market presence in this segment and provide relatively affordable credit to customers, garnering 
healthy demand and also factoring in the risks.
	
	
Housing Finance: The Company, through its 100% subsidiary i.e., IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited 
(IHFPL) - a non-deposit taking housing finance company registered with National Housing Bank (NHB), 
focuses on customers in Tier 2 & 3 cities and those on the outskirts of urban markets. It serves those 
seeking loans for purchase and self-construction of residential properties.
	
	
SME Finance: IndoStar’s SME Finance business is primarily aimed at lending to small and medium 
enterprises for their business financing needs, including working capital, business expansion or other 
requirements. SME loans are predominantly offered against the collateral of a self-occupied residential 
or commercial property. Our key customers in this segment are traders, manufacturers, self-employed 
professionals and service businesses. Nearly 40% of our SME loans are being disbursed to customers 
qualifying under the Priority Sector lending (PSL) category.
	
	
Corporate Lending: IndoStar Capital Finance specialises in offering customised structured solutions 
to meet funding requirements of mid-to-large corporates. IndoStar has financed projects across 
several sectors including real estate, steel, cement, media and entertainment, dairy, financial services, 
pharmaceuticals, FMCG and more.
IV.	 Employees
	
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total 
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
3,067
2,947
96%
120
4%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
126
119
94%
7
6%
3
Total employees (D + E)
3,193
3,066
127
WORKERS
1
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable
2
Other than Permanent (G)
3
Total employees (F+G)
The Company being in financial service sector is not required to employ workers.
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers: Nil
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
64
	
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total 
(A)
No. and percentage of 
Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
8
1
12.50%
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33%
	
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
	
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2023-24
(Turnover rate  
in current FY)
FY 2022-23
(Turnover rate in 
previous FY)
FY 2021-22
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male Female
Total
Male Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
23%
1%
24%
50%
2%
52%
26%
2%
28%
Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
	
23. (a)	
Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding Company
56.20%
No
 2
IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned 
subsidiary
100%
No
3
IndoStar Asset Advisory 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned 
subsidiary
100%
No*
	
	
*Presently, IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited does not have any business and have applied for closure of 
Alternate Investment Funds being managed by it.
VI.	 CSR Details
24.	 (i)	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
No*
	
(ii)	 Turnover (in Lakhs.)
112,522.67
	
(iii)	 Net worth (in Lakhs.)
308,971.01
	
*The Company was not required to spend any amount on CSR activities during the financial year 2023-24 as the Company 
had average net losses during the preceding three financial years.
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
	
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder group 
from whom complaint 
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
-
 -
-
-
-
-
-
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Shareholders
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 65
01-22
121-283
23-120
Stakeholder group 
from whom complaint 
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Employees and 
workers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Customers
https://www.
indostarcapital.
com/contact-us
 640
19
-
687
2
-
Value Chain Partners
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other (please specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues 
	
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to 
environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for 
identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as 
per the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt 
or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
 1
Corporate 
Governance
Opportunity
The Company continues 
to maintain the highest 
standards of integrity and 
transparency in operations, 
excellence in service to all 
stakeholders and strong 
Corporate Governance 
standards.
-
 Positive
2
Data Privacy 
and Cyber 
Security
Risk
The Company’s technology 
infrastructure plays a big 
role in its operations. Most 
transactions are completed 
digitally, which raises the risk 
for cyber and information 
security like malware attacks 
and ransomware attacks, can 
lead to data loss and negative 
impact on operations.
We have adopted 
measures to 
mitigate the cyber 
security risks 
included through 
appropriate 
firewalls, providing 
regular advisories, 
providing 
training to users, 
taking adequate 
backups, review 
of the information 
technology assets, 
etc.
Negative
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
66
Sr. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity
In case of risk, 
approach to adapt 
or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
3
Employee 
Well-being 
(Health and 
Safety)
Opportunity
Enables employees to 
develop health as a personal 
asset and emphasizes the 
Company as an organization 
that prioritizes employee 
well-being. The Company 
ensures that all employees 
are consistently provided 
with opportunities for 
empowerment and growth 
to further promote a culture 
of innovation and people-
centricity. This includes 
promoting active health 
management through the 
health insurance to all the 
employees of the Company.
-
Positive
4
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility
Opportunity
Corporate Social 
Responsibility is one of the 
key areas through which the 
Company endeavours to give 
back to society. The core 
focus areas under Corporate 
Social Responsibility include 
health care, education and 
women empowerment.
-
Positive
5
Branding and 
Reputation
Opportunity
Enhances credibility and trust 
among diverse stakeholders 
and emphasizes the 
Company’s reputation as an 
ethically managed business.
-
Positive
6
Diversity and 
Inclusiveness
Opportunity
The Company encourages 
social inclusion and merit-
based engagement of 
employees, customers, 
suppliers etc.
-
Positive
7
Regulatory 
Compliance
Risk
Regulatory Compliance 
occupies a crucial position in 
determining the Company’s 
responsibility towards its 
stakeholders. Any lapse in 
regulatory compliance can 
affect the reputation of the 
Company negatively. The 
Company has always focused 
on ensuring that it is fully 
compliant with all laws and 
regulatory provisions relating 
to its operations, which has 
enabled it to earn the respect 
of all stakeholders.
Adequate steps 
have been taken 
to identify, assess, 
manage and report 
all instances of 
compliance risk 
across the various 
levels in the 
Company. Senior 
Management 
plays a crucial 
role in effective 
compliance of risk 
management.
Negative
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 67
01-22
121-283
23-120
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURE
Disclosure Questions
P 
1
P 
2
P 
3
P 
4
P 
5
P 
6
P 
7
P 
8
P 
9
1
Policy and management processes
a. Whether your entity’s policy/
policies cover each principle and 
its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Y
NA
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
b. Has the policy been approved 
by the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
NA
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
c. Web Link of the Policies, if 
available
https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#investor-services
2
Whether the entity has translated 
the policy into procedures. (Yes / 
No)
Y
NA
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
3
Do the enlisted policies extend to 
your value chain partners? (Yes/
No)
No. However, the Company encourages participation by its business 
associates and representatives in the Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the Company.
4
Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest 
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest 
Alliance, 
Trusts) 
standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
NA
5
Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with 
defined timelines, if any.
Our Company recognises the importance of predefined goals and 
commitments as a barometer for assessing the Company’s progress 
towards the principles of the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC). Our Company has already taken short 
and medium-term initiatives primarily focusing on sustainability. We 
fully acknowledge the responsibility we have towards our community 
and intend to set targets and goals in the future reporting cycles. We 
are taking concerted efforts in anticipating the adverse effects of our 
business operations and are dedicated towards taking appropriate 
actions to mitigate the negative implications of ESG-related factors 
across all our business operations.
6
Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals 
and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
Considering we are in the initial years of implementing the ESG 
Framework, we anticipate to provide a thorough and extensive update 
in the upcoming reporting cycles. We look forward to achieving our 
business targets along with our sustainability goals. Digitisation is 
being done for various Loans Approval processes to ensure minimum 
usage of paper. Replaced all the CFL lighting with LED sensor lights at 
the corporate office.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related 
challenges, targets and achievements
	
We take pride in presenting the BRSR Report of our Company IndoStar Capital Finance Limited for the FY 
2023-24. Led by a retail focused business model and having a strong liquidity and capital position, we are 
competitively placed in the industry. The range of services provided by us include vehicle finance, housing 
finance, SME finance, corporate lending and Micro Loan Against Property. We strongly believe that integrating 
ESG considerations into our day-to-day decision-making processes are essential towards achieving long 
term sustainability. The Company is committed to remain compliant with sound corporate governance and 
risk management practices. Thus, we strive to constantly monitor the impact our operations and investments 
have on the environment. We are focused on bringing about a meaningful change in the communities. 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
68
Towards this end, we work towards supporting initiatives like education, women empowerment, health 
care, sanitation and environment protection which drive value creation. We extend our support to various 
organisations in their initiatives towards education, inequity reduction, learning improvement, dropout 
reduction and psychological support through the Company or its subsidiaries. Woman empowerment is 
one of our utmost priorities and thus we have contributed to projects which encourage and train women 
to become professional commercial drivers alongside enhancing their awareness in legal rights, first aid, 
self-defence, English language, personal presentation, hygiene and financial literacy. We expressly advocate 
that commitment to corporate governance is essential for delivery of strategic priorities and enhancement 
of shareholder value. We have also adopted an Anti-Corruption Policy to further affirm the Company’s 
zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and to conduct business in an honest and ethical manner.
	
We are also committed to employee welfare and provide comprehensive benefits like medical and term 
insurance. We also conduct various seminars and engagement programmes to encourage the overall 
well-being of our employees.
	
Our ultimate goal is to incorporate Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) factors in every facet of 
our business operations to achieve continued success and sustainability while adhering to sound corporate 
governance practices.
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
	
(a)	 Details of the Director / Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy / policies
	
	
Name: Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
	
	
Designation: Whole-time Director and Chief Executive Officer
	
	
DIN: 10056556
	
(b)	 Details of the BR head*
	
	
Name: Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker
	
	
Designation: Chief Financial Officer
	
	
*Chief Financial Officer of the Company is the BR Head as per the Company’s Internal Policy.
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
	
Yes, the Board of Directors have constituted an ESG Working Committee with an object to implement 
and oversee the Business Responsibility Policies. The Committee comprises of Ms. Shikha Jain, Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer, Ms. Priya Prasad, Chief Human Resources Officer, Mr. Mihir Bhavsar, Chief 
Information Security Officer and Mr. K V Bharadwaj, Chief Credit Officer.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review 
was undertaken by Director 
/ Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/Half 
yearly/Quarterly/ any other – 
please specify)
P 
1
P 
2
P 
3
P 
4
P 
5
P 
6
P 
7
P 
8
P 
9
Performance against above policies and follow up 
action
Policies, as stated, have been approved by the Board, it’s 
Committees or the Senior Management of the Company. 
Policies 
are 
reviewed 
annually 
considering 
various 
parameters like statutory requirements and the frequency 
as stated in the policy document.
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements 
of 
relevance to the principles, and, rectification of any 
non-compliances
The Company complies with all the statutory requirements 
to the extent applicable.
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
	
No. All policies and processes are subject to audits and reviews done internally in the Company from time to time.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 69
01-22
121-283
23-120
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 
1
P 
2
P 
3
P 
4
P 
5
P 
6
P 
7
P 
8
P 
9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Any other reason (please specify)
 -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicator
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial 
year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
12
Business strategy, Risk Management System, 
Regulatory changes, recent developments 
in operations and IT of the Company, new 
initiatives taken by the Company, corporate 
governance and succession planning
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
 1
Management Leadership Programme
100%
Employees other than 
BoD and KMPs
 3
POSH training, training on Whistle Blower 
Policy, training on Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption and Anti Money Laundering Law
47%
Workers
Not Applicable
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in 
the financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality 
as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 
and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
	
Please refer section on details on non-compliance under General Disclosure of Report on Corporate 
Governance which form part of this Annual Report.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
	
None.
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company believes in conducting its business in an honest and ethical manner. The Company has a 
zero-tolerance approach to corruption, is committed to act professionally with integrity in all its business 
dealings and relationships wherever it operates and to that effect is inclined towards implementing and 
enforcing effective systems to prevent / counter corruption. Consistent with its core values, the Company 
is committed to complying with applicable anti-corruption and sanction laws and has adopted an 
Anti-Corruption Policy. The policy is available on the website of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Anti-Corruption20Policy.pdf.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
70
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Directors
-
-
KMPs
-
-
Employees
-
-
Workers
-
-
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
	
None
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts 
of interest.
	
Not Applicable
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of days of accounts payables
NA*
NA*
	
*Considering the nature of business, cost of goods sold/services procured cannot be ascertained and hence the said ratio 
cannot be computed.
9.	
Open-ness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties 
along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
(Current  
Financial Year)
FY 2022-23
(Previous  
Financial Year)
Concentration 
of Purchases
Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
-
-
Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
-
-
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
-
-
Concentration 
of Sales
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
-
-
Number of dealers / distributors to whom sales 
are made
-
-
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers/ distributors
-
-
Share of RPTs in
a.	
Purchases	
(Purchases with related parties 
/ Total Purchases)
-
-
b.	
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
-
-
c.	
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given 
to related parties / Total loans & advances)
0%
0%
d.	
Investments (Investments in related parties / 
Total Investments made)
29%
31%
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
71
01-22
121-283
23-120
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicator
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
(In lacs)
Current 
Financial Year
Previous 
Financial Year
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
-
-
 -
Capex
28.82
23.24
As the Company is in the financial services sector, CAPEX 
investments are mostly in information technology. Investments 
in capital assets in the form of IT infrastructure like equipment 
and software were made.
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No): No
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
The consumption of resources is limited to running the operations and therefore the Company follows 
sustainable sourcing practices whenever feasible.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, it does not manufacture any products hence this 
indicator is not applicable to its operations.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If 
yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan 
submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
Essential Indicator
1	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
100 % of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / 
A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / 
A)
Number 
E
% (E / 
A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / 
A)
Permanent employees
Male
2,947
2,947
100%
2,947
100%
-
-
2,947
100%
 -
-
Female
120
120
100%
120
100%
120
100%
 -
-
Total
3,067
3,067
100%
3,067
100%
 120
4%
2,947
96%
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
119
119
100%
119
100%
-
 -
119
100%
-
-
Female
7
7
100%
7
100%
7
100%
-
-
-
-
Total
126
126
100%
126
100%
7
6%
119
94%
-
-
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
72
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / 
A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / 
A)
Number 
€
% (E / 
A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / 
A)
Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Other than Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format –
FY 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Cost incurred on well- being measures as a % of 
total revenue of the company
0.57%
0.49%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
FY 2023-24 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Previous Financial Year
Benefits
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
-
Y
100%
-
Y
Gratuity
100%
-
Y
100%
-
Y
ESI
21%
-
Y
20%
-
Y
Others – please specify
Not Applicable
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees 
and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether 
any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Currently, the Company does not have any differently abled employees. However, the shared premises in 
which corporate offices of the Company are located has necessary provisions for differently abled persons 
and the Company is committed to take necessary steps to make the work place safe and friendly for 
differently abled persons as and when the need arises.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
No, while the Company does not have Equal Opportunity Policy, the Company is committed to treat all 
employees and job applicants equally.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to 
work
Rate
Return to 
work
Rate
Return to 
work
Rate
Return to 
work
Rate
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
2
100%
2
100%
-
-
-
-
Total
2
100%
2
100%
 -
 -
 -
 -
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
73
01-22
121-283
23-120
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No 
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
-
-
The Company has a Risk Control Unit which gives a platform to raise any 
concerns pertaining to work by any employee of the Company. Additionally, 
an employee can also convey his/her grievances to their respective 
departmental heads. Further, the grievances could also be addressed to the 
Vigilance and Ethics Officer under Whistle Blower Policy or to chairperson 
of the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) committee, as the case 
may be. Grievances are investigated based on the procedures under each 
policy and appropriate corrective actions are taken.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent 
Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
	
Though not prohibited, the employees are currently not part of any employee associations.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. 
(B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / 
A)
No. 
(E)
% (E/ D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
2,947
-
-
1335
45%
1,963
 -
 -
 623
32%
Female
120
-
-
65
54%
 94
 -
 -
 33
35%
Total
3,067
-
-
1,400
46%
 2,057
 -
 -
 656
32%
Workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
2,947
2,031
69%
 1,963
 1,750
89%
Female
120
102
85%
 94
 77
81%
Total
3,067
2,133
70%
 2,057
 1,827
89%
Workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
	
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable. however, the 
Human Resources team constantly work to ensure the overall health and well being of employees.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
74
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
	
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, the Company provides medical and term insurance for employees of the Company.
11.	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working conditions
Nil
Health and safety
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
Not Applicable
Working Conditions
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) 
and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working 
conditions.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicator
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Individuals or a group of individuals, agencies and institutions who are interested or impacted by the activities 
of the Company’s businesses and vice-versa now or in the future are identified as key stakeholders by the 
Company. The key stakeholders thus identified are customers, investors, lenders, government, shareholders, 
regulators, value chain partners, Board of Directors, employees and the society.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly 
/ others 
– please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
 Customers
No
Digital platforms and 
application, in-person 
engagement at branches
Periodic
To achieve customer satisfaction, 
grievances resolution, feedback for 
product customization and customer 
relationship management
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
75
01-22
121-283
23-120
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/
No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly 
/ others 
– please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Investors/ 
Shareholders
No
Press releases and 
publications, Investor 
meets, Annual General 
Meeting, SMS and Email 
Communication, Stock 
exchange communication, 
Website disclosures, 
Through RTA (Registrar 
and Transfer Agent)
Quarterly
To inform about the Company’s 
performance, business developments, 
address investor queries and general 
updates
Lenders
No
Press releases and 
publications, Investor 
meets, Stock exchange 
communication, Website 
disclosures
Periodic
To inform about the Company’s 
performance, business developments 
and to address queries
Regulators
No
Statutory filings, meetings
Periodic
To achieve compliance with statutory 
requirements and industry updates
Value chain 
Partners
No
E-mails, Meetings, Training 
Programs
Periodic
To achieve an understanding of the 
portfolio of services offered by the 
business
Employees
No
Emails and meetings, 
Internal portals, Employee 
satisfaction survey, 
Training programmes, 
Performance appraisal, 
Grievance redressal 
mechanisms
Periodic
To provide a safe and secure work 
environment and merit-based 
opportunities towards fulfilment of 
the Company’s vision, mission and 
achieving sustainability objectives and 
for professional capacity building
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the 
entity, in the following format:	
Category
 FY 2023-24
 FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
No. of employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / 
A)
Total (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / 
C)
Employees
Permanent
Please refer note below
Other than permanent
Total Employees
Workers
Permanent
Not Applicable
Other than permanent
Not Applicable
Total Workers
Not Applicable
	
Note: The Company through its Code of Conduct for Directors and Employees mandates every employee of 
the Company to work honestly, ethically and with integrity and requires every employee to follow principles 
of mutual respect, privacy, equal opportunities and non-discrimination, health and safe environment and 
prevention of sexual harassment.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
76
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2023-24 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Previous Financial Year
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum 
Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum 
Wage
More than 
Minimum 
Wage
No. 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
No. 
(C)
% (C/ 
A)
No. €
% (E / 
D)
No. 
(F)
% (F / 
D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
2,947
-
-
2,947
100%
 1,963
-
-
1,963
100%
Female
120
-
-
120
100%
 94
-
-
94
100%
Other than Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Workers
Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other than Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages,
	
a.	
Median remuneration / wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
1
21,500,000
-
-
Key Managerial Personnel
1
12,780,800
1
1,354,100
Employees other than BoD  
and KMP
2,945
462,211
120
551,150
Workers
Not Applicable
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2023-24 
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23 
Previous Financial Year
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
4%
4%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or 
issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Grievances related to human rights can be raised with the respective Head of the Department. 
Further, grievances could also be addressed to the Chairman of Audit Committee under whistle blower 
policy or to Chairperson of the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Committee, as the case may 
be. Grievances are investigated based on the procedures under each policy and appropriate corrective 
actions are taken.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
77
01-22
121-283
23-120
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
1
-
-
-
-
-
Discrimination at workplace
-
-
-
-
-
-
Child Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary 
Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Wages
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other human rights related 
issues
-
-
-
-
-
-
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23
Previous Financial Year
Total Complaints reported under Sexual 
Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 
(POSH)
1
-
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees 
/ workers
0.83
-
Complaints on POSH upheld
1
-
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The whistle blower policy and the Code of conduct include relevant clauses that no harm will be caused to 
the complainant in case of discrimination and harassment cases. The mechanism also provides for adequate 
safeguards against victimization of complainants.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
No.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Other human rights related issues
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 9 above.
	
Nil
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
78
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicator
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable resources
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
-
-
From non-renewable sources
-
-
Total electricity consumption (D)
2,048,694.00
1,536,383.19
Total fuel consumption (E)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+E+F)
2,048,694.00
1,536,383.19
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
2,048,694.00
1,536,383.19
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations)
-
-
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set 
under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial 
action taken, if any.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
	
The Company’s usage of water is limited to employees’ and visitors’ consumption only. Given that most offices/ 
branches of the Company are present in shared premises, total freshwater consumption is not accounted. 
Efforts have been made to ensure that water is consumed judiciously in the office/ branch premises.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide 
details.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 79
01-22
121-283
23-120
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
	
As the Company is in the financial services sector, it does not manufacture any products hence this indicator 
is not applicable to its operations.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and 
processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
As the Company is in the financial services sector it does not generate any hazardous and toxic chemicals 
due to nature of its business. However, we take appropriate steps to reduce the negative implications that 
waste generation can have on our environment in the following ways:-
	
•	
Paper – Most of our processes are digitalized to avoid use of paper. In addition, shredded paper is 
also recycled. Additionally, with a view to leverage technology and to contribute to environment 
conservation, your Company has adopted an electronic Board / Committee Meetings application where 
the agenda and all supporting documents are hosted online.
	
•	
E-waste – LED lights are installed instead of conventional lights, which reduce the harmful effects of 
mercury as well as the negative impacts on health and environment.
	
•	
Plastic – The Company has reduced the usage of plastic items to the extend viable and opts to use 
glass items instead.
	
•	
Water – The Company promotes conscious use of water and encourages employees to be 
conscious users as well.
11.	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable 
laws, in the current financial year:
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such 
as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, 
in the following format:
	
The Company is in compliance with environmental norms which are applicable to the nature of its business.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicator
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
Nil
2.	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
Not Applicable
3.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct 
by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
	
Nil
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
80
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicator
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year.
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
	
Given that the Company is in the financial services sector, this indicator is not applicable.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
We would like to inform that our Company hasn’t received any grievances from the communities in which 
we carry on business operations. However, we have sound processes in place and will actively strive to 
implement an efficient and effective community grievance redressal mechanism should we receive any 
grievances in the near future.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
	
As a financial services organisation, the Company does not require any substantial input material to conduct 
financial service business.
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost
Location
FY 2023-24
Current Financial Year
FY 2022-23
Previous Financial Year
Metro
65%
69%
Urban
28%
25%
Semi-urban
6%
5%
Rural
1%
1%
Grand Total
100%
100%
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicator
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
Customer complaints are received in 3 ways:-
	
1.	
Direct customer complaints received in CRM
	
2.	
Escalations via email to PNO
	
3.	
RBI & CP Grams Complaints received via CMS portals.
	
	
All these complaints are addressed via the respective channels. In case of RBI complaints, the concerned 
Branch/Operations/Legal/Collections team are informed along with relevant Senior Management 
personnel. The status of the loan, subject matter of complaint and communications exchanged in 
this regard are collated and replies are sent to the customers/regulatory bodies along with relevant 
documentary evidences.
	
	
There is no separate mechanism for feedback monitoring as of now. In case the customer is not satisfied 
with our revert/resolution, they write back to us seeking further processing/clarification.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry 
information about:
	
Transparency and fairness in dealings with customers is followed across the Company. None of the products 
withhold any relevant information needed by the customers to make informed decisions.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
81
01-22
121-283
23-120
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
	
Nil
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
	
Nil
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
There were no corrective actions taken as there were no issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches: Nil
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: Nil
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: Nil
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
82
Report on Corporate Governance
Corporate governance is about commitment to values 
and ethical business conduct. It is also about how 
an organization is managed viz., its corporate and 
business structure, culture, policies, and the manner 
in which it deals with various stakeholders. Timely and 
accurate disclosure of information regarding the 
financial position of the Company, performance and 
ownership forms part of the corporate governance.
I.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
At IndoStar we believe that sound corporate 
governance practices are the bedrock for the 
functioning of the Company and creation of 
value for its stakeholders on a sustainable and 
long-term basis. This philosophy guides us in 
defining and maintaining an ethical framework 
within which we operate. At a macro level, your 
Company’s governance philosophy rests on five 
basic tenets, viz., Board accountability to the 
Company and Members, strategic guidance and 
effective monitoring by the Board, protection 
of minority interests and rights, equitable 
treatment of all Members and transparency and 
timely disclosures.
	
The 
Corporate 
Governance 
framework 
of 
your Company is based on an effective and 
independent Board, separation of the Board’s 
supervisory role from the Senior Management 
team and constitution and functioning of Board 
Committees, as required under applicable laws.
	
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for 
its directors and employees including the Chief 
Executive Officer, Whole-time Directors and Non- 
Executive Directors. In addition, the Company 
has adopted a Code of Conduct for Independent 
Directors that suitably incorporates the duties 
of Independent directors as laid down in the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
	
The Company believes in conducting its business 
in an honest and ethical manner. The Company 
has a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and 
is committed to act professionally with integrity 
in all its business dealings and relationships 
wherever it operates and to that effect is inclined 
towards implementing and enforcing effective 
systems 
to 
prevent 
/ 
counter 
corruption. 
Consistent with its core values, the Company 
is committed to complying with applicable 
anti-corruption and sanction laws and has 
adopted an Anti-Corruption Policy.
	
The Company has in place various Information 
Security related policies that ensure proper 
utilization of IT resources and security of the data 
of the Company.
	
The details of compliance with the requirements 
stipulated under Chapter IV read with Schedule 
V of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
(“Listing 
Regulations”) and Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company 
– Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 
(“RBI Directions”) with respect to corporate 
governance are as follows:
II.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
	
Your 
Company’s 
Board 
of 
Directors 
has 
a 
fiduciary 
role 
to 
protect 
and 
enhance 
stakeholders’ 
value 
through 
strategic 
supervision. The Board of Directors provides 
direction and exercises appropriate controls over 
the business and operations of the Company 
to achieve its objectives.The Board is a blend 
of members having diverse skills, experience, 
knowledge, capabilities, expertise, attributes 
and educational qualifications, amongst others. 
The composition of the Board comprises highly 
experienced and knowledgeable persons with 
good repute and eminence. It has a diverse mix 
of executive, non-executive and independent 
directors 
representing 
an 
optimal 
mix 
of 
professionalism, 
knowledge 
and 
experience 
required for the financial services industry. 
The corporate governance principles of your 
Company have been formulated to ensure 
that the Board of Directors remain informed, 
independent and participate actively in the 
affairs of your Company.
	
In addition to the basic governance practices, 
the Board of Directors of your Company lays a 
strong emphasis on transparency, accountability 
and 
integrity. 
Your 
Company 
also 
strives 
to 
enhance 
stakeholders’ 
value 
by 
taking 
measures to continuously improve its corporate 
governance standards.
A.	
Composition of the Board
	
Your Company recognises and embraces the 
importance of diverse culture of the Board. 
The Company believes that the Board enhances 
the quality of the decisions made by it, which is 
necessary for achieving desired objectives and 
sustainable results.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 83
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
As on March 31, 2024, the Board of Directors of 
your Company comprised 8 Directors of which 
3 were Non-Executive Independent Directors 
of whom one was a Woman Director, 4 were 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors and 
1 was an Executive Director. The composition of 
the Board of your Company is governed by and 
is in compliance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules framed 
there under (“Act”), Regulation 17 of the Listing 
Regulations, RBI Directions and the Articles 
of Association of the Company. In terms of the 
provisions of the Act and Listing Regulations, 
the 
Directors 
submit 
necessary 
disclosures 
regarding the positions held by them on the 
Board and/ or Committees of other Companies, 
from time to time.
	
On the basis of such disclosures, it is confirmed 
that as on the date of this report, none of 
the Directors: -
	
a)	
hold Directorships in more than 10 (Ten) 
public Companies;
	
b)	
hold Directorships in more than 7 (Seven) 
listed entities;
	
c)	
serve as an Independent Director in more 
than 7 (Seven) listed entities;
	
d)	
is a Member of more than 10 (Ten) Committees 
or Chairperson of more than 5 (Five) 
Committees (i.e. Audit and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee) across all the public 
Companies in which he/she is a Director; and
	
e)	
are related to each other.
	
The brief profile of the present Directors on the 
Board is available on the Company’s website at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/about-us/
	
Based on the disclosures received from the 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors do not hold 
any shares/ Non-Convertible Debentures of the 
Company, except Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri, who holds 
1,000 equity shares of the Company, jointly with 
his spouse Ms. Neeru Jhaveri.
	
The details of the Directors of the Company with regard to their outside Directorships, Committee 
positions, including that in listed entities, as on March 31, 2024 are as follows:
Name of 
Director
Category in the 
Company
No. of outside 
Directorship(s) 
held *
Committee
positions held@
Names of other listed entities 
where Director
holds Directorship (excluding 
the Company and the category 
of directorship held in such 
other listed entity)#
Number of 
equity shares 
held in the 
Company as 
on 31 March 
2024
Member Chairperson
Mr. Bobby 
Parikh
Chairman & 
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
6
5
3
Infosys Limited
(Independent Director)
Biocon Limited (Independent 
Director)
-
Mr. Dhanpal 
Jhaveri
Non-Executive 
Director
7
3
-
Onward Technologies Limited 
(Independent Director)
1,000*
Mr. Hemant 
Kaul
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
10
3
2
Transcorp International 
Limited
(Independent Director)
-
Ms. Naina 
Krishna 
Murthy
Non-Executive 
Independent 
Director
3
3
-
Sterling and Wilson 
Renewable Energy Limited 
(Independent Director)
Den Networks 
Limited(Independent Director)
-
Mr. Vibhor 
Kumar 
Talreja
Non-Executive 
Director
4
3
-
-
-
Mr. Aditya 
Joshi
Non-Executive 
Director
1
-
-
-
 -
Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Non-Executive 
Director
-
-
-
-
-
	
Composition as on March 31, 2024
 Executive Director
 Non- Executive 
Non-Independent 
Director
 Independent 
Director
 Women 
Independent 
Director
12.5%
50.0%
25.0%
12.5%
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
84
Name of 
Director
Category in the 
Company
No. of outside 
Directorship(s) 
held *
Committee
positions held@
Names of other listed entities 
where Director
holds Directorship (excluding 
the Company and the category 
of directorship held in such 
other listed entity)#
Number of 
equity shares 
held in the 
Company as 
on 31 March 
2024
Member Chairperson
Mr. 
Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Whole-Time 
Director (Chief 
Executive 
Officer)
-
-
-
-
100
Mr. Randhir 
Singh**
Whole- Time 
Director 
(Executive Vice 
Chairman)
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Includes directorship(s) in public companies and private companies, but does not include directorship(s) in 
foreign companies.
	
# Listed entities includes entities whose equity shares are listed on a recognised stock exchange(s).
	
@ Includes membership(s) and chairmanship(s) in Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in all public 
limited companies. If a Director is a Chairman of a Committee, the same is being included in Membership count also
	
** Mr. Randhir Singh has been appointed as an Whole-Time Director and Executive Vice Chairman effective from 22 July 2024.
	
Skills / Expertise / Competencies of the Board 
of Directors
	
The diverse skills, expertise and competencies of 
Board of Directors ensures that the Company retains 
its competitive advantage. The Board composition 
represents an optimal mix of professionalism, 
knowledge, 
expertise 
and 
experience 
which 
enables the Board to discharge its responsibilities 
and provide effective leadership to the business. 
The following is the list of core skills / expertise / 
competencies identified by the Board of Directors 
as required in the context of the Company’s 
business(es) for it to function effectively:
	
•	
Leadership
	
•	
Experience in the Financial Services Industry
	
•	
Strategic Planning
	
•	
Knowledge of Regulatory Environment
	
•	
Financial and Accounting Expertise
	
•	
Board Service, Corporate Governance and 
Risk Management
	
•	
Knowledge in the field of Information  
Technology
	
The names of directors who have the above skills / expertise / competencies are as follows:
Name of Director
Category
Skills/expertise/expertises/competencies
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Chairman & Non-Executive 
Independent Director
Taxation and Advisory to financial services industry and 
Strategic Transactions
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
Non-Executive Director
Investment Banking, Corporate Strategy, PE Investments 
and Mergers /Amalgamations
Mr. Hemant Kaul
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
Financial Services – Banking and Insurance sector,
Business Management
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy Non-Executive Independent 
Director
Legal sector - corporate commercial law, specifically in 
the areas of mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, 
collaborations and PE / VC investment
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja
Non-Executive Director
Private Equity, Financial Services and Investment Banking
Mr. Aditya Joshi
Non-Executive Director
Private Equity, Sectors – Financial Services, 
Healthcare,Technology and Consumer
Mr. Munish Dayal#
Non-Executive Director
Private Equity,Business Management, Financial 
Services,Technology and Commercial Real Estate
Mr. Devdutt Marathe*
Non-Executive Director
Private Equity, Financial Services, Healthcare and 
technology services
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Whole-Time Director (Chief 
Executive Officer)
Retail sales, client servicing, Financial services & banking, 
Financial product management
Mr. Randhir Singh**
Whole-Time Director
(Executive Vice Chairman)
Financial Services - Banking and Non Banking Finance 
Sector
	
# Mr. Munish Dayal- Resigned as the director of the Company effective from September 8, 2023.
	
*Mr. Devdutt Marathe- Appointed as the director of the Company effective from Spetember 8, 2023.
	
**Mr. Randhir Singh- Appointed as the director of the Company effective from July 22, 2024.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 85
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
Formal induction and familiarisation programme 
for directors
	
The 
Company’s 
independent 
directors 
are 
eminent professionals with several decades of 
experience in banking and financial services 
industry, 
technology, 
finance, 
governance, 
risk management, analytics, data science and 
management areas and are fully conversant 
and familiar with the business of the Company. 
The Company has an ongoing familiarisation 
programme for all directors with regard to 
their roles, duties, rights, responsibilities in the 
Company, nature of the industry in which the 
Company operates, the business model of the 
Company, etc. The programme is embedded 
in the regular meeting agenda where alongside 
the review of operations, information on the 
industry, competition and company strategy are 
presented on a quarterly basis. The details of the 
familiarisation programme attended by directors 
are available on the website of the Company.
	
As part of the initial familiarisation programme, a 
formal letter of appointment is being issued by the 
Company to the independent directors outlining 
the role, functions, duties and responsibilities 
of the independent directors being appointed. 
The Terms & Conditions of appointment of the 
independent directors is available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner/.
	
Further, there is a detailed quarterly discussion 
and presentation on review of operations of the 
Company and the regulatory updates impacting 
the business which helps the director familiarize 
himself / herself with the Company, its business, 
and the regulatory framework in which the 
Company operates.
	
The 
number 
of 
Directorship(s), 
Committee 
Membership(s) & Chairmanship(s) of all Directors 
on the Board of your Company are within 
respective limits prescribed under the Act and 
the Listing Regulations.
	
Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
	
A certificate from H Choudhary & Associates, 
Practicing 
Company 
Secretary, 
confirming 
that none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company as on March 31, 2024 have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as director on the Board of the 
Company by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (“SEBI”), the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
or any such statutory authority, is annexed to this 
Corporate Governance Report.
B.	
Board meetings and Board procedure
	
The Board meets at least once in every quarter 
to review the quarterly results and other items on 
the agenda and additional Meetings are held to 
address specific needs and business requirements 
of your Company. The information as required 
under Schedule V (c) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations is made available to the Board.
	
The schedule of the Board / Committee meetings 
to be held in a financial year is circulated in 
advance to enable the Directors / Committee 
Members to plan their schedule and ensure 
highest participation at Board / Committee 
Meetings. Directors are given an option of 
attending Board / Committee meetings through 
video conference or other audio-visual means in 
order to ensure effective decision making through 
increased participation. The agenda along with 
detailed notes are circulated to the Directors 
/ Members well in advance and all material 
information is incorporated in the agenda for 
facilitating meaningful and focused discussions 
at meetings of the Board and Committees. With a 
view to leverage technology and to contribute 
to environment conservation, your Company 
has adopted an electronic Board / Committee 
Meetings application where the agenda and all 
supporting documents are hosted online.
	
During the year under review, 12 (Twelve) 
meetings of the Board of Directors were 
convened and held on April 13, 2023, May 25, 
2023, July 4, 2023, August 02, 2023, August 21, 
2023, October 27, 2023, December 26, 2023, 
December 29, 2023, January 08, 2024, January 24, 
2024, February 27, 2024 and March 27, 2024. 
These meetings were held in a manner that not 
more than 120 days intervene between two 
consecutive meetings. The required quorum was 
present at all the above mentioned meetings. 
Due to business exigencies, certain decisions 
were taken by the Board by way of resolutions 
passed through circulation, from time to time.
	
Meetings and attendance during the financial 
year under review:
Date of Board Meeting
Board 
Strength
No. of Directors 
Present
13 April 2023
8
6
25 May 2023
8
5
4 July 2023
8
6
2 August 2023
8
7
21 August 2023
8
6
27 October 2023
8
6
26 December 2023
8
6
29 December 2023
8
6
8 January 2024
8
6
24 January 2024
8
6
27 February 2024
8
7
27 March 2024
8
5
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
86
	
The details of attendance of each Director at the Board Meetings held during the financial year under review 
and at the previous Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on September 18, 2023 through 
virtual mode are as under:
Name of the Directors
No. of Meetings held during 
tenure of directorship
No. of Meetings 
attended
Attendance at the 
previous AGM
Mr. Bobby Parikh
12
12
Yes
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
12
4
Yes
Mr. Hemant Kaul
12
9
Yes
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
12
6
No
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja
12
7
No
Mr. Aditya Joshi
12
11
No
*Mr. Devdutt Marathe
7
6
Yes
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
12
 12
Yes
**Mr. Munish dayal
5
5
NA
***Mr. Randhir Singh
NA
NA
NA
	
* Mr. Devdutt Marathe appointed as Member from 8 September 2023
	
** Mr. Munish Dayal ceased to be a Director from September 8, 2023
	
***Mr. Randhir Singh appointed as Member from 22 July 2024
Twelve Resolutions by circulation were passed by the 
Board during the year 2023-2024
The Board and committee meetings are pre-scheduled 
and tentative dates of the said meetings are informed 
well in advance to facilitate the directors to plan their 
calendar. The Board meets at least once in a quarter 
to review financial results and operations of the 
Company. In addition, the Board also meets at regular 
interval in a year to consider, discuss and decide the 
business strategy including policy matters and gaining 
the understanding of various businesses carried on by 
the subsidiaries of the Company.
The Board has unrestricted access to all Company 
related information including to the members of 
the management. The Company Secretary ensures 
that the Board and the committees of the Board are 
provided with the relevant information, details and 
documents required for decision making. All material 
information including the relevant information as 
stipulated in Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations is circulated to the Board as part of the 
agenda. The information, in the nature of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information, is circulated to the 
Board/committee members at a shorter notice on 
secured platform, with the unanimous consent of the 
Board obtained at its first meeting held during each 
financial years.
In order to facilitate effective discussions, the agenda 
is bifurcated into items requiring consideration and 
approval and items which are to be noted by the Board.
Detailed presentations and notes are laid before 
each meeting, by the management and senior 
executives of the Company to apprise the Board on 
overall performance on quarterly basis. The senior 
executives/management of the Company are also 
invited to attend the meetings to make presentations 
on business plans, business performance, operations, 
financial performance, risk management, update on 
regulatory changes applicable to the Company and its 
subsidiaries and to provide update on other significant 
issues and matters to the Board on a periodical 
basis. Additionally, the Board members interact with 
the CEOs/business heads of respective subsidiary 
companies for clarification/information, as and when 
required. These processes provide opportunity to 
the Board/committee members to interact with the 
members of the management.
The Board is provided with all the information in a 
timely manner in order to discharge its duties and to 
take well informed decisions.
The Company Secretary attends all the meetings 
of the Board and its committees and is, inter alia, 
responsible for recording the minutes of such meetings. 
The draft minutes of the meetings of the Board and its 
committees are sent to the Board/committee members 
for their comments in accordance with the Secretarial 
Standard on meetings of the Board of Directors (the 
“SS-1”), issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India. Suggestions, if any, received from the Board/
committee members are suitably incorporated in the 
draft minutes, in consultation with the Chairman of 
the Board/committee.
Thereafter, the minutes are entered in the minutes 
book within the prescribed time limit.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
87
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
Succession Planning
	
Succession planning is an essential component 
for the survival and growth of any business as it 
ensures continuity of business process. It provides 
a way to identify key roles, people with the 
right skills/talent and filling up the vacancy, as 
and when required.
	
The Company’s succession planning framework 
deliberates on various factors including current 
tenure of Directors, anticipated vacancies in 
key Board and Senior Management positions, 
assessment of skills including skill-gaps, diversity, 
etc., to ensure orderly succession planning.
C.	
Independent Directors
	
Independent Directors play a significant role 
in the governance processes of the Board of 
Directors. Professional and ethical conduct of 
Independent Directors promotes confidence of 
the investment community, particularly minority 
shareholders and regulators in the institution of 
Independent directors. As on March 31, 2024, the 
Board of your Company consisted of 3 (three) 
Independent Directors.
	
All the Independent Directors have affirmed 
compliance with the criteria of independence as 
stipulated in the Act and the Listing Regulations 
and have also confirmed their enrollment in the 
databank of Independent Directors maintained 
by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
	
Further, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, 
all the Independent Directors of the Company 
satisfy the criteria of independence specified 
in the Act and the Listing Regulations and are 
independent of the Company’s Management.
D.	
Separate meeting of Independent Directors
	
In terms of the Act and the Listing Regulations, 
a meeting of the Independent Directors was 
held on March 26, 2024 without the attendance 
of the Non-Independent Directors and members 
of the management of the Company. All the 
Independent Directors attended the meeting 
through video conference.
	
At 
their 
meeting, 
the 
Independent 
Directors reviewed the performance of the 
non-independent directors and the Board as a 
collective entity. The Independent Directors also 
reviewed the performance of the Chairperson of 
the Company, taking into account the views of 
executive directors and non-executive directors 
of the Company. The Independent directors also 
assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness 
of flow of information between the Company 
management and the Board that is necessary 
for the Board to effectively and reasonably 
perform their duties
	
As required under the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company has Directors and Officers Liability 
Insurance (D&O Policy) which is renewed every 
year. It covers directors including independent 
directors of the Company and of its subsidiaries
E.	
Performance evaluation of the Board
	
A formal mechanism has been adopted for 
evaluating the performance of the Board, the 
Committees thereof, individual Directors and 
the Chairman of the Board. The evaluation is 
based on criteria which include, amongst others, 
providing strategic perspective, time devoted 
and preparedness for Meetings, quality, quantity 
and timeliness of the flow of information between 
the Board Members and the Management, 
contribution at the Meetings, effective decision 
making 
ability, 
role 
and 
effectiveness 
of 
Committees, etc. The Directors duly completed 
and submitted the questionnaires providing 
feedback on functioning of the Board as a whole, 
Committees and Chairman of the Board.
	
Further 
details 
are 
mentioned 
in 
the 
Board’s Report.
F.	
Code of Conduct for Board Members and Senior 
Management
	
In compliance with Regulations 17(5) and 
26(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for 
the Board Members and Senior Management 
of the Company (“the Code”). The Code is 
applicable to all the Board Members and Senior 
Management of the Company. The Code is 
available on your Company’s website at https://
www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner/#inv
estor-relations .
	
All the Board Members and Senior Management 
Personnel have confirmed compliance with the 
Code during the financial year under review and 
a declaration to that effect signed by the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company forms a part of 
this Annual Report.
III.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
In terms of the RBI Directions, the applicable 
circular(s), 
regulation(s) 
and 
notification(s) 
issued by the SEBI, the applicable provisions of 
the Act and the Company’s internal corporate 
governance standards, the Board of Directors 
have constituted various Committees mentioned 
herein below and the role of each Committee 
has been defined by the Board of Directors for 
effective functioning and governance within the 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
88
Company. The Board of Directors have accepted and implemented the mandatory recommendations made 
by the Committee(s) during the year under review.
	
Minutes of the meetings of all the Committees constituted by the Board of Directors are placed before the 
Board of Directors for discussion and noting.
Committees Overview
As per Companies Act, 2013 
and Listing Regulations
As per RBI Directions
As per the Company’s internal 
corporate governance
•	 Audit Committee
•	 Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
•	 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
•	 Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
•	 Risk Management 
Committee
•	 Asset Liability 
Management Committee
•	 Grievance Redressal 
Committee
•	 IT Strategy Committee
•	 Credit Committee
•	 Borrowing Committee
•	 Internal Complaints 
Committee
•	 Banking Committee
•	 Management committee
•	 IT Steering Committee
•	 Corporate lending 
committee 
•	 Retail lending committee
•	 ESG Working Committee
•	 Disciplinary Committee
•	 Debt - Public Issue 
Committee
	
AUDIT COMMITTEE
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The Audit committee consists of four (4) 
members, 3 (three) of whom are non-executive 
independent directors and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee is an independent Director thereby 
meeting the requirements of Section 177 of the 
Act read with rules thereto and Regulation 18 
of the Listing Regulations. All the members of 
the Audit committee are financially literate and 
possess relevant knowledge of the financial 
services industry.
	
The Audit Committee comprises Mr. Bobby  
Parikh, Mr. Aditya Joshi, Mr. Hemant Kaul and 
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy.
	
The Company Secretary of the Company acts 
as Secretary to the Committee. The Statutory 
Auditors and the Internal Auditors of the 
Company submit their report(s) directly to the 
Audit Committee.
	
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
the 
Audit 
Committee met 6(Six) times on May 18, 2023, 
May 25, 2023, August 02, 2023, August 21, 
2023, October 27, 2023 and January 24, 2024 . 
The required quorum was present at all the above 
meetings. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
was present at the last Annual General Meeting of 
the Company held on September 18, 2023.
	
Composition of the Audit Committee and 
the details of attendance by the Members at 
the meeting(s) held during the year under 
review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Mr. Bobby 
Parikh
Chairman
6
 6
Mr. Hemant 
Kaul
Member
6
 3
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 89
01-22
121-283
23-120
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Ms. Naina 
Krishna 
Murthy
Member
6
 5
Mr. Aditya 
Joshi
Member
6
 6
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the secretary of the 
Audit Committee
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
Oversight 
of 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
reporting process and the disclosure of its 
financial information to ensure that financial 
statements are correct, sufficient and credible.
2.	
Recommending 
to 
the 
Board, 
the 
appointment, 
re-appointment 
and, 
if 
required, the replacement or removal of 
the statutory auditor and internal auditor, 
remuneration and terms of appointment of 
statutory auditor and internal auditor.
3.	
Approve payment to statutory auditors for 
any other services rendered by them.
4.	
Discussion with statutory auditors and 
internal auditors before the audit commences, 
about the nature and scope of audit as well 
as internal control systems and post-audit 
discussion to ascertain any area of concern.
5.	
To formulate in consultation with the internal 
auditors, the scope, functioning, periodicity 
and 
methodology 
for 
conducting 
an 
internal audit.
6.	
Reviewing 
and 
examination, 
with 
the 
management, 
of 
the 
annual 
financial 
statements and the auditors’ report thereon 
before submission to the board for approval, 
with particular reference to:
7.	
Matters required to be included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement and other 
disclosure(s) to be included in the Board’s 
Report in terms of the Companies Act, 2013;
8.	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
9.	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management, if not in accordance with 
agreed accounting policies;
10.	 Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings;
11.	 Compliance with listing, legal, regulatory 
and 
other 
requirements 
relating 
to 
financial statements;
12.	 Disclosure of any related party transactions;
13.	 Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report;
14.	 Observations 
of 
the 
auditors 
and 
qualifications in the draft audit report.
15.	 Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans 
and investments.
16.	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
company, wherever it is necessary.
17.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and 
risk management systems.
18.	 Reviewing 
with 
the 
management, 
the 
quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial 
statements 
/ 
financial 
results 
before 
submission to the Board for approval.
19.	 To review the utilisation of loans/advances/
investments 
to 
subsidiary 
company(s) 
exceeding 100 crore or 10% asset size of 
subsidiary, whichever is lower, including 
existing loans/advances/investments.
20.	 Review the financial statements of the unlisted 
subsidiary in particular the investments made 
by the unlisted subsidiary.
21.	 Reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
with 
the 
management the auditor’s independence, 
performance 
and 
effectiveness 
of audit process.
22.	 Reviewing with the management performance 
of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy 
of the internal control systems.
23.	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, if any, including the structure 
of the internal audit department, staffing 
and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage 
and frequency of internal audit.
24.	 Discussion with internal auditors on any 
significant findings and follow up there on.
25.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal 
investigations by the internal auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control 
systems of a material nature and reporting 
the matter to the Board.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
90
26.	 Review and oversee the functioning of 
the whistle blower / vigil mechanism 
of the company.
27.	 Implement, 
review 
and 
monitor, 
with 
the 
management, 
the 
functioning 
and 
compliance of relevant policies of the 
company as authorised by the Board.
28.	 Look 
into 
the 
reasons 
for 
substantial 
defaults in the payment to the debenture 
holders, 
borrowers, 
shareholders 
(in 
case 
of 
non-payment 
of 
declared 
dividends) and creditors.
29.	 Approval, 
ratify 
or 
any 
subsequent 
modification of transactions of the company 
with related parties. The Audit Committee 
may make omnibus approval for related party 
transactions proposed to be entered into 
by the Company subject to such conditions 
as may be prescribed under Companies 
Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder and 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
30.	 Carrying out any other function or matters 
incidental to the terms of reference of the 
Audit Committee.
31.	 The Audit Committee shall have authority 
to investigate into any matters in relation to 
the items specified herein or referred to it by 
the Board and for this purpose, shall have 
full access to information contained in the 
records of the Company, seek information 
from any employee, obtain external legal or 
professional advice and secure attendance of 
outsiders with relevant expertise, if necessary.
32.	 Review with the management on quarterly 
basis (i) the statement of uses / application 
of funds raised through an issue (public 
issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.); 
(ii) the statement of funds utilised for 
purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document / prospectus / notice (as certified 
by the statutory auditors) and (iii) the 
report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a 
public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board to take up 
steps in this matter, till such time that the full 
money raised through the issue has not been 
fully utilised.
33.	 To do all such acts as required under 
Master Direction – Monitoring of Frauds 
in NBFCs (Reserve Bank), Directions 2016 
and under the Policy adopted by the Board 
in this regards.
34.	 To ensure that Information System Audit 
of the internal systems and processes is 
conducted at least once in two years to assess 
operational risks faced by the Company.
35.	 Approve the appointment of chief financial 
officer after assessing the qualifications, 
experience and background.
36.	 Audit Committee shall mandatorily review 
the following information:
37.	 management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations;
38.	 statement 
of 
significant 
related 
party 
transactions 
(as 
defined 
by 
the 
audit 
committee), submitted by management;
39.	 internal audit reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses.
40.	 the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor.
41.	 Statement of deviations.
42.	 quarterly 
statement 
of 
deviation(s) 
including report of monitoring agency, if 
applicable, submitted to stock exchange(s) 
in terms of Regulation 32(1) of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
43.	 annual statement of funds utilized for 
purposes other than those stated in the 
offer 
document/prospectus/notice 
in 
terms of Regulation 32(7) SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
44.	 Approve the appointment of Registered 
Valuers in terms of Section 247 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
45.	 To review the reconciliation of transactions 
between the Company and the service 
provider and / or its sub-contractor and 
an ageing analysis of entries pending 
reconciliation 
with 
outsourced 
vendors 
in terms of Directions on Managing Risks 
and Code of Conduct in Outsourcing of 
Financial Services by NBFCs issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India.
46.	 To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
prescribed by the competent authorities or 
authorized by the Board of Directors and 
to delegate any of the powers / authority 
to such persons as the Committee may 
deem necessary.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
91
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
(“NRC”)
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The Nomination and Remuneration committee 
(the “NRC”) consists of Three (3) members, two 
(2) of whom are independent directors thereby 
meeting the requirements of Section 178 of the 
Act read with rules thereto and Regulation 19 
read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations and RBI Directions.
	
The 
NRC 
comprises 
Mr. 
Bobby 
Parikh, 
Mr. Aditya Joshi and Mr. Hemant Kaul. In terms 
of the Act and the Listing Regulations, two-third 
of the Members of the NRC are Independent 
Directors and Chairman is an Independent 
Director. 
Mr. 
Hemant 
Kaul, 
Independent 
Director is the Chairman of the Nomination and 
Remuneration committee.
	
During the year under review, the NRC met 6 (six) 
times on April 13, 2023, April 18, 2023, May 17, 
2023, August 02, 2023, October 23, 2023 and 
January 22, 2024. The required quorum was 
present at all the above Meetings. The Chairman 
of the NRC was present at the last Annual 
General Meeting of the Company held on 
September 18, 2023 . Due to business exigencies, 
certain decisions were taken by the Committee 
by way of resolutions passed through circulation, 
from time to time. During the year under 
review three resolutions were passed through 
circular resolution.
	
Composition of the NRC and the details of 
attendance by the Members at the meeting(s) 
held during the year under review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended (No. 
of Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
Mr. Hemant 
Kaul
Chairman
6
 6
Mr. Bobby 
Parikh
Member
6
6
Mr. Aditya 
Joshi
Member
6
 6
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the NRC inter-alia  
includes:
1.	
To identify persons who are qualified to 
become directors and who may be appointed 
in senior management in accordance with 
the criteria laid down and recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal.
2.	
To formulate and implement the criteria for 
determining qualification, positive attributes 
and independence of director(s) and criteria 
for the persons that can be appointment in 
senior management.
3.	
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and on the basis 
of such evaluation, prepare a description 
of the role and capabilities required of an 
independent director and recommend to 
the Board such a person for appointment as 
an independent director who shall have the 
capabilities identified in such description. 
For the purpose of identifying suitable 
candidates, the Committee may:
a.	
use 
the 
services 
of 
an 
external 
agencies, if required;
b.	
consider candidates from a wide range 
of backgrounds, having due regard 
to diversity; and
c.	
consider 
the 
time 
commitments 
of the candidates
4.	
To formulate the criteria / manner for carrying 
out effective evaluation of the performance 
of Director, Board and its Committee and to 
review its implementation and compliance.
5.	
To 
determine 
whether 
to 
extend 
or 
continue 
the 
term 
of 
appointment 
of 
independent directors, on the basis of 
the report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors.
6.	
To 
devise 
a 
policy 
on 
Diversity 
of 
Board of Directors.
7.	
To recommend to the Board Remuneration 
Policy, relating to the remuneration for the 
directors, key managerial personnel, Senior 
Management and other employees.
8.	
Decide on specific remuneration packages 
(including pension rights and compensation 
payments) 
of 
the 
executive 
directors, 
the whole time directors and senior level 
employees of the Company.
9.	
Determine, alter and vary the terms and 
conditions of remuneration of the managerial 
personnel of the Company.
10.	 Consider and decide on all the matters 
relating to the remuneration of non-executive 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
92
directors 
(including 
independent 
directors) and recommend the same to the 
Board of Directors.
11.	 Formulation 
of 
Succession 
policy 
and 
Succession plan for Executive Vice Chairman, 
Managing Director and CEO, Key Managerial 
personnel and Senior Management Personnel.
12.	 To work in close coordination with Risk 
Management Committee of the Company 
to achieve effective alignment between 
compensation and risks to ensure that the 
compensation 
outcomes 
are 
symmetric 
with risk outcomes.
13.	 To ensure that compensation levels are 
supported by the need to retain earnings 
of the Company and the need to maintain 
adequate capital based on Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP).
14.	 To approve allocation of a bonus pool, 
payment 
of 
bonus 
(variable 
pay) 
to 
employees, revision / increment in salaries of 
employees and promotion of employees.
15.	 To administer, supervise, decide on the 
grant, issue, price, vesting of stock options, 
stock purchase or any similar scheme and 
the benefits to be given to beneficiaries by 
the Company or under the employee trust 
formulated or to be formulated.
16.	 Framing suitable policies and procedures 
to ensure that there is no violation, by an 
employee, or the Company or the Trust, if 
any, of securities laws (as amended from 
time to time), including but not limited to:
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board 
of 
India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015 (including 
any 
amendments 
thereto 
or 
re-enactments thereof); or
ii.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 
Unfair Trade Practices relating to the 
Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 
(including any amendments thereto or 
re-enactments thereof).
17.	 Perform such functions as are required to be 
performed by the compensation committee 
under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014 (“ESOP Regulations”), in 
particular, those stated in Clause 5 of the 
ESOP Regulations:
i.	
Formulation of the schemes including 
determining the detailed terms and 
conditions of the schemes in accordance 
with ESOP Regulations (as amended 
from time to time);
ii.	
Determine the number of shares to 
be offered and/ or allotted, to each 
Employee 
and 
in 
the 
aggregate, 
and the times at which such offer / 
allotment shall be made;
iii.	
Determine the Eligible Employee(s);
iv.	
Determine 
the 
performance 
criteria 
for eligible employees and the price at 
which the shares to be offered to each 
Eligible Employee;
v.	
Lay 
down 
the 
conditions 
under 
which 
offer 
and/or 
allotment 
of 
shares to the Employees may lapse in 
case of termination of employment 
for 
misconduct, 
resignation 
by 
the employees etc;
vi.	 Determine the Subscription Period within 
which the Employee should apply for the 
shares offered and the implications of 
failure to apply for the same within the 
subscription Period;
vii.	 Specify and modify the conditions 
including the time period within which 
the Employee shall apply in the event 
of termination or resignation of an 
Employee or under such circumstances 
as it deems appropriate in the interest of 
the objectives of the Scheme;
viii.	 lay down the procedure for making a 
fair and reasonable adjustment to the 
number of shares and to the Subscription 
Price in case of rights issues, bonus 
issues and other Corporate Action;
ix.	 Lay down the method for satisfaction of 
any-tax obligation arising in connection 
with such Shares;
x.	
Provide for award and allotment of 
shares in case of Employees who are 
on long leave or whose  services have 
been seconded to any other company 
or who have joined any other Subsidiary 
or other company at the instance of the 
Employer Company;
xi.	 Such other matters as may from time 
to time be required by any statutory, 
contractual 
or 
other 
regulatory 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 93
01-22
121-283
23-120
requirements to be attended to by 
such committee;
xii.	 Determine the number of shares to 
be offered and/ or allotted, to each 
Employee 
and 
in 
the 
aggregate, 
and the times at which such offer / 
allotment shall be made.
18.	 Implement, 
administer, 
review 
and 
superintendent the employee stock option 
schemes formulated by the Company and 
to do all other acts, deeds and things as 
may be required to be undertaken towards 
giving effect to such schemes including but 
not limited to:
19.	 Construe, clarify and interpret the terms 
of 
the 
scheme 
and 
options 
granted 
pursuant to the scheme;
20.	 Such other matters as may from time to time 
be required by any statutory, contractual or 
other regulatory requirements to be attended 
to by such committee;
21.	 To make such modifications / alterations in 
the scheme which are not detrimental to the 
options holders;
22.	 Determining the Employee(s) to whom the 
shares were to be offered under such Schemes;
23.	 Determining the mechanism through which 
such Schemes should be implemented;
24.	 Determining the terms and conditions of the 
offer to the Employees with a focus on such 
Schemes being made attractive in terms of 
the reward together with ensuring that the 
Employees are retained for a long tenure;
25.	 Determining the nature of activities that are 
to be considered for the Trust, if any, set up 
for Welfare of the Employees, including for 
the implementation of such Schemes;
26.	 Determining the terms of the allotment and 
to allot equity shares of the Company under 
such Schemes including the amount payable 
on application and/or on allotment, whether 
towards the face value and/ or towards 
the share premium;
27.	 To undertake a process of due diligence 
to determine the ‘fit and proper’ person 
status of existing / proposed Directors, in 
accordance with the Policy adopted by the 
Board in this regard and applicable laws.
28.	 To 
obtain 
a 
declaration 
from 
existing 
Directors every year as on 31st March that 
the information already provided by them 
under Fit & Proper Person Criteria has not 
undergone any change and where there is 
any change, requisite details are furnished by 
the Directors forthwith.
29.	 To recommend the suitable change(s), 
if required to the Board of Directors 
of the Company.
30.	 Such other matters as may from time to time 
be required by any statutory, contractual or 
other regulatory requirements to be attended 
to by the Committee.
31.	 To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company and as may be 
delegated by the Board from time to time.
32.	 To delegate to the officials / any Committee 
such powers of the Committee as may be 
deemed fit by the Committee.
	
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“RMC”)
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) has 
been constituted pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations and 
RBI Master Directions, to frame, implement and 
monitor the risk management plan of the Company.
	
The 
RMC 
comprises 
Mr. 
Hemant 
Kaul, 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Mr. Vibhor Kumar 
Talreja, Mr. Devdutt Marathe, Mr. Vinod Kumar 
Panicker and Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Munish Dayal 
ceased to be Member and Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
was appointed as Member of the Committee.
	
During the year under review, the RMC met 5(five) 
times on May 17, 2023, June 22, 2023, August 02, 
2023, October 23, 2023 and January 17, 2024. 
The required quorum was present at all the 
above meetings. Due to business exigencies, 
certain decisions were taken by the Committee 
by way of resolutions passed through circulation, 
from time to time. Durng the year under 
review nine resolutions were passed through 
circular resolution.
	
Meetings with Chief Risk Officer - During the 
year under review, in line with the requirements 
of RBI Directions, the Committee had separate 
meetings every quarter with Chief Risk Officer of 
the Company without the presence of the Chief 
Executive Officer & Whole-Time Director.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
94
	
Composition of the RMC and the details of 
attendance by the Members at the meeting(s) 
held during the year under review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended (No. 
of Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
Mr. Hemant 
Kaul
Chairman
5
4
Mr. Vibhor 
Kumar Talreja
Member
5
4
*Mr. Munish 
Dayal
Member
3
2
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
5
5
Mr. Vinod 
Kumar 
Panicker
Member
5
5
^Mr. Nitin 
Gyanchandani
Member
3
3
**Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Member
2
2
	
*Mr. 
Munish 
Dayal 
ceased 
to 
a 
Member 
from 
September 8, 2023
	
^Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani Appointed as a Member 
from August 2, 2023
	
**Mr. Devdutt Marathe Appointed as a Member form 
September 8, 2023
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the Risk 
Management Committee.
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the RMC inter-alia  
includes:
1.	
Identifying, monitoring and managing the 
credit risk, market risk, operational risk and 
other risks of the Company including risks 
associated with Cyber Security.
2.	
Providing an integrated view of the risks to 
the Company and issue specific directives to 
the respective departments or the business 
groups for necessary action.
3.	
Designing 
Risk 
Management 
Policies 
and MIS framework for integrated risk 
management in the Company, after taking 
into account the following:
i.	
The Company’s overall business strategy, 
lines and changes in the business and 
operating environment;
ii.	
Appropriateness to the size, nature and 
complexity of the transactions entered 
into by the Company;
iii.	
Issues 
relating 
to 
safety, 
liquidity, 
prudential norms, exposure limits;
iv.	
Quality of internal control procedures;
v.	
The sophistication of the Company’s risk 
monitoring capability, risk management 
systems and processes;
vi.	 Risk management policy shall, inter alia, 
include the following:
a.	
A 
framework 
for 
identification 
of 
internal 
and 
external 
risks 
specifically faced by the Company, 
in particular including financial, 
operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), 
information, cyber security risks or 
any other risk as may be determined 
by the Committee;
b.	
Measures 
for 
risk 
mitigation 
including systems and processes for 
internal control of identified risks;
c.	
Business continuity plan.
4.	
Overseeing the execution / implementation 
of the Risk Management Practices by various 
executives outlined in the policies approved 
by the Committee.
5.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to 
monitor and evaluate risks associated with 
the business of the Company.
6.	
Review the minutes or document referred 
to it by ALCO for opinion/directions for risk 
management on an integrated basis.
7.	
The Risk Management Committee shall 
be the final authority for resolving any 
transactions that are proposed to be entered 
into by the Company that have a potential 
for a conflict-of-interest in the assessment by 
the members of the Credit Committee.
8.	
To periodically review Risk Management 
Framework and Policy, at least once in two 
years, including by considering the changing 
industry dynamics and evolving complexity.
9.	
To review of appointment, removal and terms 
of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer.
10.	 To 
reviewing 
the 
material 
outsourcing 
arrangements and vendor/ service provider 
performance atleast annually.
11.	 To keep the board of directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 95
01-22
121-283
23-120
12.	 To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company.
13.	 To do all such acts, deeds, things and matters 
as may be delegated, from time to time, by 
the Board of Directors of the Company.
	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) 
COMMITTEE
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(“CSR”) has been constituted pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 135 of the Act read with 
Companies 
(Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended.
	
The 
CSR 
Committee 
comprises 
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy, Mr. Bobby Parikh, 
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri, Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan 
and Mr. Devdutt Marathe.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Munish Dayal 
ceased to be Member and Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
was appointed as Member of the Committee.
	
Since the Company was not required to 
spend any amount towards CSR activities as 
required under Section 135 of the Act during 
the year under review, no meeting was held of 
the CSR Committee.
	
Composition of CSR Committee is as under:
Name of the Members
Status
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
Chairman
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Member
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
Member
Mr. Karthikeyan Sriniavsan
Member
*Mr. Munish Dayal
Member
**Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Member
	
*Mr. 
Munish 
Dayal 
ceased 
to 
a 
Member 
from 
September 8, 2023
	
**Mr. Devdutt Marathe appointed as a Member from 
September 8, 2023
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the CSR Committee 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR 
Policy) indicating the activity or activities to 
be undertaken by the Company as specified 
in Schedule VII of the Companies Act 2013;
2.	
Recommend the amount to be spent on 
CSR activities;
3.	
Review and monitor the Company’s CSR 
Policy periodically;
4.	
To ensure that the activities as are included in 
CSR Policy are undertaken by the Company;
5.	
Institution 
of 
transparent 
monitoring 
mechanism 
for 
the 
implementation 
of 
CSR Projects (Rule 5 (2) of the Companies 
(Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy) Rules 2014);
6.	
To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company.
	
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE 
(“SRC”)
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee 
(“SRC”) has been constituted pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of 
the Listing Regulations
	
The 
SRC 
comprises 
Mr. 
Dhanpal 
Jhaveri, 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Ms. Naina Krishna 
Murthy, Mr. Devdutt Marathe and Mr. Bobby Parikh. 
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as a Secretary of the 
Committee and is also the Compliance Officer 
of the Company.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Munish Dayal 
ceased to be Member and Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
was appointed as Member of the Committee.
	
During the year under review, the SRC met once 
on May 17, 2023. The requisite quotum was 
present at the said meeting.
	
Composition of the SRC and the details of 
attendance by the Members at the meeting held 
during the year under review are as under: 
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Mr. Dhanpal 
Jhaveri
Chairman
1
0
Mr. Bobby 
Parikh   
Member
1
1
Ms. Naina 
Krishna Murthy
Member
1
0
*Mr. Munish 
Dayal
Member
1
1
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
1
 1
**Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Member
-
-
	
* Mr. Munish Dayal ceased to be a Member from 
September 8, 2023
	
**Mr. Devdutt Marathe appointed as a Member from 
September 8, 2023
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
96
	
Terms of Reference
	
The 
terms 
of 
reference 
of 
the 
SRC 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
To oversee, review and monitor redressal of 
the grievances of shareholders, debenture 
holders, investors and other security holders 
including credit of securities, non-receipt of 
allotment advice/ share certificates, refund 
of application money, transfer of securities, 
non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of 
dividends declared / interests or any other 
grievances a shareholder, debenture holder, 
investor and other security holder may have 
against the Company.
2.	
To approve / review / refuse transfer 
/ 
transmission 
/ 
dematerialisation 
/ 
rematerialisation of shares, debentures and 
other securities, if any, in timely manner.
3.	
To issue share certificates, duplicate / split 
/ consolidation share certificates and share 
certificates in replacement of those which 
are defaced, mutilated, torn or old, decrepit, 
worn out or where the pages on reverse for 
recording transfers have been utilized.
4.	
To oversee the performance of the registrar 
and transfer agents and to recommend 
measures for overall improvement in the 
quality of investor services.
5.	
Attending / addressing to complaints of 
security holders routed by SEBI (SCORES) 
/ Stock Exchanges / RBI or any other 
Regulatory Authorities.
6.	
To 
monitor 
transfer 
of 
the 
amounts 
transferable to and from Investor Education 
and Protection Fund.
7.	
To perform all functions relating to the 
interests of security holders of the Company 
and as assigned by the Board, as may be 
required by the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder, 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
as 
amended and guidelines issued by the SEBI 
or any other regulatory authority.
8.	
To review measures taken for effective 
exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
9.	
To review adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of 
various services being rendered by the 
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
10.	 To review various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the 
quantum 
of 
unclaimed 
dividends 
and 
ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/
annual reports/statutory notices by the 
shareholders of the company.
11.	 To do all necessary acts, deeds and things as 
may be required, including authorizing any 
person(s) to endorse the share certificate(s) 
after affixing the common seal on share 
certificates in accordance with the Articles of 
Association of the Company; and
12.	 To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required under any acts, rules, regulations, 
guidelines, circulars, etc. issued by any 
authority including SEBI, Stock Exchanges, 
Depositories in relation to the shareholders, 
debenture holders, investor or other security 
holder of the Company and to delegate any 
of the powers / authority to such persons as 
the Committee may deem necessary.
	
During the year under review, no complaints were 
received from investors / shareholders.
	
ASSET-LIABILITY MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 
(“ALCO”)
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The 
Asset-Liability 
Management 
Committee 
has been constituted under RBI’s Guidelines 
on Liquidity Risk Management Framework for 
Non-Banking Financial Companies and Core 
Investment Companies read with RBI Directions, 
as 
amended 
(collectively 
referred 
to 
as 
“RBI Framework”)
	
The ALCO comprises Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, 
Mr. Kaushal Mithani, Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani, 
Mr. K V Bharadwaj and Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Munish Dayal 
ceased to be Member and Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
was appointed as Member of the Committee.
	
Subsequesnt 
to 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
Mr. Devdutt Marathe and Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri 
ceased to be Members and Mr. Kaushal Mithani, 
Mr. K V Bharadwaj, and Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani 
were appointed as Members of the Committee.
	
During the year under review, the ALCO met 4 
(four) times on May 17, 2023, August 21, 2023, 
November 6, 2023 and February 12, 2024. 
The required quorum was present at all the 
above meetings. Due to business exigencies, 
certain decisions were taken by the ALCO by 
way of resolutions passed through circulation, 
from time to time.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 97
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
Composition of the ALCO and the details of 
attendance by the Members at the meeting(s) 
held during the year under review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Chairman
4
4
Mr. Dhanpal 
Jhaveri 
Member
4
1
*Mr. Munish 
Dayal
Member
2
2
Mr. Vinod Kumar 
Panicker
Member
4
4
**Mr. Devdutt 
Marathe
Member
2
2
	
* Mr. Munish Dayal ceased to a Member from 
September 8, 2023
	
** Mr. Devdutt Marathe appointed as a Member on 
September 8, 2023
	
Ms. 
Shikha 
Jain 
acts 
as 
the 
Secretary 
to the the ALCO.
	
The Board at its meeting held on 29 April 2024 
has reconstituted its ALCO Committee to comply 
with the Master Direction – Reserve Bank of 
India (Non-Banking Financial Company Scale 
Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 issued on 
October 19, 2023.
	
Composition of ALCO Committee w.e.f 29 
April 2024 is as under:
Name of the Members
Status
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chairman
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker
Member
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani
Member
Mr. K V Bharadwaj
Member
Mr. Kaushal Mithani
Member
	
Terms of reference
	
The 
terms 
of 
reference 
of 
the 
ALCO 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
To oversee and ensure that an adequate and 
accurate management information system 
is put in place by the Company wrt asset 
liability composition / mismatches;
2.	
To oversee balance sheet planning from 
risk return perspective including strategic 
management of interest rate and liquidity risk 
and tracking of liquidity through maturity or 
cash flow mismatches;
3.	
To review the Gap reports (liquidity and 
interest rate sensitivities) admeasuring the 
mismatch between rate sensitive liabilities 
and rate sensitive assets and set limits thereof;
4.	
To consider product pricing for both deposits 
and advances, desired maturity profile and 
mix of the incremental assets and liabilities, 
prevailing interest rates offered by other peer 
NBFCs for the similar services/product, etc.;
5.	
To articulate the current interest rate view 
of the Company and base its decisions for 
future business strategy based on this view;
6.	
To decide on source and mix of liabilities or 
sale of assets and towards this end, develop 
a view on future direction of interest rate 
movements and decide on funding mixes;
7.	
To review the results of and progress in 
implementation of the decisions made in the 
previous meetings;
8.	
To form a policy note on the treatment of 
investment portfolio for the purpose of asset 
liability management, classify them on the 
basis of appropriate time bucket;
9.	
To 
provide 
its 
inputs 
on 
the 
risk 
management policy;
10.	 To review product pricing, desired maturity 
profile of assets and liabilities and also the 
mix of incremental assets & liabilities such 
as fixed vs. floating rate funds, domestic vs. 
foreign currency funds etc.;
11.	 To consider and approve proposals and 
detailed terms and conditions of borrowings 
from banks/financial institutions and other 
lenders and do all such acts deeds and 
things as may be necessary to give effect to 
approved proposals;
12.	 To 
review 
and 
recommend 
borrowing 
programme for the Company;
13.	 To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company;
14.	 To do all such acts, deeds, things and matters 
as may be delegated, from time to time, by 
the Board of Directors of the Company;
15.	 To delegate to the officials such powers 
of the Committee as may be deemed fit 
by the Committee.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
98
	
GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL COMMITTEE
	
Composition and Meetings
	
The 
Grievances 
Redressal 
Committee 
(“GRC”) 
comprises 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Mr. Krishnamoorthy 
Swaminathan, 
Ms. 
Rashmita 
Prajapati 
and 
Ms. Fini M Joseph. In terms of RBI Directions, 
Mrs. Pooja Anil Thakur, Internal Ombudsman 
Officer, act as a Permnenant Invitee to the GRC.
	
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
Ms. Rashmita Prajapati and Ms. Fini M Joseph 
were appointed as Members to the Committee 
and Ms. Pooja Anil Thakur, Internal Ombudsman 
Officer as Permanent Invitee to the Committee.
	
During the year under review, the Committee met 
twice on May 17, 2023 and March 15, 2024.
	
Composition 
of 
the 
Grievence 
Redressal 
Committee and the details of attendance by the 
Members at the meeting(s) held during the year 
under review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan 
Chairperson
2
2
Mr. Krishnamoorthy 
Swaminathan
Member
2
2
*Ms. Rashmita 
Prajapati
Member
1
1
**Ms. Fini M 
Joseph
Member
1
1
	
*Ms. Rashmita Prajapati appointed as a Member on 
February 14, 2024
	
** Ms. Fini M Joseph appointed as a Member on 
February 14, 2024
	
Ms. Shikha Jain acts as the Secretary to the the 
grievence Redressal Commitee.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the Grievances Redressal 
Committee inter-alia includes:
1.	
To carry out such functions for the redressal 
of the borrowers and clients’ complaints 
including but not limited to applications for 
loans and their processing, loan appraisal and 
terms / conditions, disbursement of loans, 
change in terms and conditions, and any 
other grievance that a borrower or client of 
the Company may have against the Company;
2.	
To periodically review the Customer Grievance 
Redressal Mechanism to ensure that process 
deficiencies, if any, are addressed;
3.	
To review the Statement of Complaints 
received, resolved and pending, along with 
reasons for the same;
4.	
To do all such acts, deeds, things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company;
5.	
To do all such acts, deeds, things and matters 
as may be delegated, from time to time, by 
the Board of Directors of the Company.
	
IT STRATEGY COMMITTEE
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The 
IT 
Strategy 
Committee 
has 
been 
constituted pursuant to Reserve Bank of India 
Master Direction on Information Technology 
Framework for the NBFC Sector read with RBI 
Directions, as amended.
	
The 
IT 
Strategy 
Committee 
comprises 
Mr. Bobby Parikh, Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, 
Mr. Amit Ashwin Kothari, Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
and Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker.
	
During the year under review, Mr. Munish Dayal 
ceased to be Member and Mr. Devdutt Marathe 
was appointed as Member of the Committee.
	
During the year under review, the Committee met 
twice on October 06, 2023 and March 15, 2024.
	
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as 
the Secretary of the IT Strategy committee.
	
Composition of the IT Strategy Committee 
and the details of attendance by the Members 
at the meeting(s) held during the year under 
review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Mr. Bobby Parikh
Chairperson
2
2
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
2
2
Mr.Devdutt 
Marathe*
Member
2
1
Mr. Vinodkumar 
Panicker
Member
2
1
Mr. Amit Ashwin 
Kothari
Member
2
2
	
*Mr. Devdutt Marathe Appointed as a Member form 
September 8, 2023
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the IT Strategy 
Committee are guided by the prescriptions of 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 99
01-22
121-283
23-120
the Master Direction - Information Technology 
Framework for the NBFC Sector issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India which inter-alia includes:
1.	
to 
approve 
and 
monitor 
information 
technology 
(“IT”) 
strategy 
and 
policy documents,
2.	
monitor processes and practices to ensure IT 
delivers value to business,
3.	
ensure that IT investments represent a 
balance of risks and benefits,
4.	
determine the IT resources required to 
achieve strategic goals,
5.	
providing high-level direction for sourcing 
and use of IT resources
6.	
managing IT related risks.
	
CREDIT COMMITTEE
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The Credit Committee has been constituted 
to 
review 
and 
approve 
credit 
proposals 
with 
respect 
to 
Corporate 
Lending 
Business and Retail Lending Business of the 
Company. The Credit Committee comprises 
Mr. Hemant Kaul, Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan and 
Mr. Vinod Kumar Panicker.
	
During the year under view, no meetings of Credit 
Committee was held. As and when necessary, 
decisions were taken by the Committee by way of 
resolutions passed through circulation. During the 
year under review ten resolutions were passed 
through circular resolutions.
	
Composition of the Credit Committee is as under:
Name of the Members
Status
Mr. Hemant Kaul
Chairman
Mr. Karthikeyan Sriniavasan
Member
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker
Member
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Credit Committee 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
The Credit Committee shall have authority 
to monitor and approve transactions under 
the Corporate Lending and Retail Lending 
Business Segments of the Company referred 
to it by the Corporate Lending Committee / 
Retail Lending Committee, as the case maybe;
2.	
The Credit Committee has the authority 
to  make a  final decision on  examining, 
approval or rejection of credit proposals with 
respect to the Corporate Lending Business 
of the Company proposed by the Corporate 
Lending Committee, the terms and conditions 
of such loans / credit proposals, security 
offered, as well as to establish limits;
3.	
The Credit Committee shall consider and 
require completion of all necessary due 
diligences, including legal and financial, 
before taking any decision as authorised 
in point 2 above including Know Your 
Customer, 
Anti 
Money 
Laundering 
/
Countering Financing Terrorism and other 
prudential guidelines;
4.	
The 
Credit 
Committee 
shall 
review 
compliance 
with 
all 
applicable 
laws, 
regulations, norms, codes, limits, policies 
framed by the Company and / or as 
required by RBI and / or other regulatory 
authorities, rating agencies requirements 
etc. from time to time;
5.	
To note the amendment(s) to the Operations 
Manual by the Corporate Lending Committee 
with respect to the Corporate Lending 
Business and by the Retail Lending Committee 
with respect to the Retail Lending Business 
of the Company;
6.	
The Credit Committee shall from time to 
time formulate, recommend, review, alter 
and implement the credit policy/criteria, 
exposure policy/criteria, sell down policy, 
short term loan policy and other policies, 
norms, guidelines as may be required;
7.	
To 
review 
and 
note 
the 
Short 
Term 
Loans 
approved 
by 
the 
Corporate 
Lending Committee;
8.	
To review and note transactions of Sell Down 
of the Credit Exposures;
9.	
The Credit Committee shall review and monitor:
10.	 the performance of the loan asset portfolio 
of the Company and its subsidiaries
11.	 the loan policies, strategies and programs of 
the Company and its subsidiaries
12.	 deviations from sanctioned conditions for 
transactions under the Corporate Lending 
Business Segment of the Company;
13.	 identification of problem accounts, reporting 
and provisioning norms in line with applicable 
accounting laws, RBI prudential norms or 
with best global industry practices.
14.	 The Credit Committee shall also recommend 
changes, from time to time, in the risk 
policy to the Risk Management Committee 
of the Company;
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
100
15.	 To determine the Investment Limit under 
Investment Policy, as well as the specific 
Investment Category and the proportion / 
cap for each category and to supervise the 
implementation of the Investment Policy;
16.	 To determine the Investment Limit under 
Investment Policy, as well as the specific 
Investment Category and the proportion / 
cap for each category and to supervise the 
implementation of the Investment Policy;
17.	 Any transactions that are proposed to be 
entered into by the Company that have 
a potential for a conflict-of-interest in 
the assessment by the members of the 
Credit Committee shall be referred to the 
Risk Management Committee for a final 
resolution thereof;
18.	 To affix the Common seal of the Company, if 
required, in accordance with the Articles of 
Association of the Company where necessary 
and to authorise the use of the Common Seal 
of the Company and to appoint persons to 
sign/countersign documents, etc. on which 
the Common Seal is to be affixed;
19.	 To do all such acts, deeds and things as may 
be required to be undertaken in accordance 
with the applicable law, rules and regulations 
applicable to the Company;
20.	 To do all such acts, deeds, things and matters 
as may be delegated, from time to time, by 
the Board of Directors of the Company;
21.	 To do all such acts, deeds, things and matters 
which do not require specific approval of 
the Board of Directors with respect to the 
Corporate Lending Business and Retail 
Lending Business of the Company;
22.	 To delegate to the officials / any Committee 
such powers of the Committee as may be 
deemed fit by the Committee.
	
BORROWING COMMITTEE
	
Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The Borrowing Committee (erstwhile Debenture 
Committee) comprises Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, 
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker, Mr. Kaushal Mithani 
and Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani.
	
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
Mr. 
Nitin 
 
Gyanchandani 
was 
appointed 
as 
Member 
of the Committee.
	
During the year under review, the Borrowing 
Committee met six times on April 26, 2023, 22 
June 2023, 31 July 2023, 23 September 2023, 
16 October 2023, 16 January 2024 and 16 
February 2024. The required quorum was present 
at all the above meetings. Due to business 
exigencies, certain decisions were taken by the 
Committee by way of resolutions passed through 
circulation, from time to time During the year 
under review eleven resolutions were passed 
thorugh circular resolutions.
	
Composition 
of 
the 
Borrowing 
Committee 
and the details of attendance by the Members 
at the meeting(s) held during the year under 
review are as under:
Name of the 
Members
Status
(No. of 
Meetings 
held during 
tenure of 
membership)
No. of 
Meetings 
attended
Mr. Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan
Member
7
7
Mr. Vinodkumar 
Panicker
Member
7
7
Mr. Kaushal 
Mithani
Member
7
7
*Mr. Nitin 
Gyanchandani
Member
4
4
	
* Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani appointed as a Member 
from August 2, 2023
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Borrowing 
Committee inter-alia includes:
	
1.	
Approving the offer document and filing 
the same with any authority or entities as 
may be required;
2.	
Approving the issue price, the number of 
NCDs to be allotted, the basis of allocation 
and allotment of NCDs;
3.	
execution of all contracts, agreements and all 
other documents, deeds, and instruments as 
may be required or desirable in connection 
with the issue of NCDs by the Company;
4.	
Opening a separate special account with a 
scheduled bank to receive monies in respect 
of the issue of the NCDs of the Company;
5.	
Making 
applications 
for 
listing 
of 
the 
NCDs of the Company on one or more 
stock exchange(s) and to execute and to 
deliver or arrange the delivery of the listing 
agreement(s) or equivalent documentation 
to the concerned stock exchange(s);
6.	
Deciding on the mode of issuance of the 
NCDs, creation of debenture redemption 
reserve, tenor, security, listing on stock 
exchange(s), objects of the issue and 
such other matters;
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 101
01-22
121-283
23-120
7.	
Finalization of the allotment of the NCDs 
on the basis of the bids received including 
finalization of basis of allotment in the event 
of over subscription;
8.	
Finalization of and arrangement for the 
submission of the placement document(s) 
and 
any 
amendments 
/ 
supplements 
thereto, with any applicable government and 
regulatory authorities, institutions or bodies 
as may be required;
9.	
Approval 
of 
the 
preliminary 
and 
final 
placement document (including amending, 
varying or modifying the same, as may 
be 
considered 
desirable 
or 
expedient) 
as finalized in consultation with the Lead 
Managers / Underwriters / Advisors (if 
appointed) in accordance with all applicable 
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines;
10.	 Approving 
appointment 
/ 
engagement 
and the terms of such appointment and 
engagement of any intermediaries including 
but not limited to Merchant Bankers, Legal 
Counsel, Banker(s) to the issue, Registrar 
and Transfer Agents, Debenture Trustee(s), 
Arrangers and / or all other intermediaries 
involved in such issue(s);
11.	 Acceptance 
and 
appropriation 
of 
the 
proceeds of the issue of the NCDs;
12.	 Buy back / redeem / repurchase of the NCDs 
in case of put option and reissue of same to 
the new investors:
13.	 Authorization of the maintenance of a 
register of holders of the NCDs, if required;
14.	 Authorization of any director or directors 
of the Company or other officer or officers 
of the Company, including by the grant of 
power of attorneys, to do such acts, deeds 
and things as authorized person in its 
absolute discretion may deem necessary or 
desirable in connection with the issue and 
allotment of the NCDs;
15.	 Seeking, if required, the consent of the 
Company’s lenders, parties with whom 
the Company has entered into various 
commercial 
and 
other 
agreements, 
all 
concerned 
government 
and 
regulatory 
authorities in India and any other consents 
that may be required in connection with the 
issue and allotment of the NCDs;
16.	 Giving or authorizing the concerned persons 
of such declarations, affidavits, certificates, 
consents and authorities as may be required 
from time to time;
17.	 To undertake all such acts, deeds and things 
as may be required to be undertaken by 
the Committee including but not limited to 
approving, modifying, finalizing, signing 
and executing any matters or documents 
including any deeds, appointment letters, 
term sheet, engagement letters, agreements 
and all such other documents and deeds as 
may be required to be finalized, approved 
or undertaken by the Company towards 
the issue of NCDs:
18.	 To consider and approve proposals and 
detailed terms and conditions of borrowings 
from banks/financial institutions and other 
lenders and do all such acts deeds and 
things as may be necessary to give effect to 
approved proposals;
19.	 To 
review 
and 
recommend 
borrowing 
programme for the Company;
20.	 To approve and authorize officials of the 
Company to execute transactions related to 
securitization and assignment of loan assets 
of the Company;
21.	 To do all such acts as may be delegated by 
the Board of Directors, from time to time;
22.	 To delegate to the officials such powers 
of the Committee as may be deemed fit 
by the Committee.
	
DEBT-PUBLIC ISSUE COMMITTEE
	
During the year under review, the Board of 
Directors 
constituted 
“Debt-Public 
Issue 
Committee” to look into the matters relating to 
public issue of non-convertible debentures.
	
Composition 
of 
the 
Debt- 
Public 
Issue 
Committee is as under:
Name of the Members
Status
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Member
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja
Member
Mr. Devdutt Marathe
Member
	
During the year under review, no meetings of 
Debt- Public Issue Committee was held.
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Debt – Public Issue 
Committee inter-alia includes:
1.	
To approve, modify, finalise and adopt the 
Offering Documents (including amending, 
varying or modifying the same, as may 
be 
considered 
desirable 
or 
expedient) 
as finalized in consultation with the lead 
manager(s), in accordance with all applicable 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
102
laws, 
rules, 
regulations 
and 
guidelines 
prior to the filing of the relevant Offering 
Documents with the Stock Exchange(s) 
where the NCDs are intended to be listed, the 
Registrar of Companies (“RoC”) and/or any 
other statutory or regulatory authority, as 
may be necessary, and any advertisements, 
corrigendum, 
amendments 
supplements 
thereto and to approve any corrections or 
alterations therein on behalf of the Board;
2.	
To approve, modify, finalize and adopt the 
Offering Documents (including amending, 
varying or modifying the same, as may 
be 
considered 
desirable 
or 
expedient) 
as finalized in consultation with the lead 
manager(s), in accordance with all applicable 
laws, 
rules, 
regulations 
and 
guidelines 
prior to the filing of the relevant Offering 
Documents with the Stock Exchange(s) 
where the NCDs are intended to be listed, the 
Registrar of Companies (“RoC”) and/or any 
other statutory or regulatory authority, as 
may be necessary, and any advertisements, 
corrigendum, 
amendments 
supplements 
thereto and to approve any corrections or 
alterations therein on behalf of the Board;
3.	
approving/ adopting the financial statements 
along with the examination reports, notes, 
schedules, 
annexures, 
Special 
Purpose 
Unaudited 
Financial 
Statements/Limited 
Review Financial Statements/, Condensed 
Financial Statements or such other format 
of Financial Statements of the Company 
for the purpose of incorporating in the 
Offering Documents;
4.	
finalization of the date of allotment and 
finalization of the basis of allotment of 
the NCDs on the basis of the applications 
received and to approve and to issue and allot 
the NCDs and to approve all other matters 
relating to the Issue including acceptance and 
appropriation of the proceeds of the Issue, 
issuing debenture certificates/ allotment 
advice cum intimation, credit the NCDs to 
the beneficiary accounts and do all such acts, 
deeds, matters and things in relation to the 
allotment of the NCDs; and
5.	
To 
approve, 
negotiate, 
sign, 
execute, 
amend, 
supplement 
and/or, 
issue, 
the 
Offering Documents.
	
OTHER COMMITTEES
	
INTERNAL COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE
	
Composition and Meetings
	
In terms of the Sexual Harassment of Women 
at 
Workplace 
(Prevention, 
Prohibition 
& 
Redressal) Act, 2013, the Board of Directors 
constituted an Internal Complaints Committee. 
Further, considering geographic diversification 
throughout the Country and increase in number of 
employees, the Board of Directors also constituted 
Regional Internal Complaints Committees for the 
East, West, North and South regions.
	
The Internal Complaints Committee comprises 
Ms. Priya Prasad (Presiding Officer), Mr. Kekin Savla, 
Ms. Rashmita Prajapati, Mr. Dipesh Mehta and 
Ms. Srividya Sriram (External Member from an 
association committed to the cause of women). 
During the year under review, Mr. Jitendra Bhati 
ceased to be Member and Ms. Shikha Jain was 
appointed as Member of the Committee and 
subsequent to the year under review Neeta Bisht 
ceased to be Member and Ms. Rashmita Prajapati 
and Mr. Dipesh Mehta  was appointed as Member 
of the Committee
	
One complaint related to sexual harassment were 
received during the year under review and the 
same was disposed off. There were no complaints 
pending as on March 31, 2024
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the Internal Complaints 
Committee inter-alia includes: conducting an 
inquiry into complaints made by any aggrieved 
woman at the workplace and arrive at a 
conclusion as to whether the allegation for which 
the complaint has been filed is proved or not and 
take necessary action to resolve the complaints, 
preparing annual report for each calendar year 
and submitting the same to the Board of Directors, 
the District Officer and such other officer as may 
be prescribed, and monitoring and implementing 
the Company’s Care and Dignity Policy.
	
BANKING COMMITTEE
	
Composition and Meetings
	
The Banking Committee comprises Mr. Karthikeyan  
Srinivasan, Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker, Mr. Nitin  
Gyanchandani and Mr. Kaushal Mithani.
	
During the year under review, there were no 
meetings held of the Banking Committee. 
Due to business exigencies, certain decisions 
were taken by the Committee by way of 
resolutions passed through circulation, from time 
to time.During the year under review, the Banking 
Committee was reconstituted by appointment of 
Mr. Niting Gyanchandani as Member and cessation 
of Mr. Munish Dayal as Member of the Committee.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the Banking Committee 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
To take decisions on all matters relating to 
banking needs of the Company including 
opening new bank accounts of such type 
and description and with such banks and 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 103
01-22
121-283
23-120
their branches as they deem fit, closing of 
bank accounts and change in signatories 
authorised to operate bank accounts of the 
Company, including fixing limits thereof 
and to determine and decide on all matters 
relating to existing or future bank accounts 
of the Company.
2.	
To take decisions on all matters relating 
to opening, operating, closing, change 
in signatories or such related matters of 
Demat 
Account(s), 
Broking 
Account(s), 
Trading Account(s) and CSGL Account(s) 
of the Company.
	
MANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEE, 
CORPORATE 
LENDING COMMITTEE AND RETAIL LENDING 
COMMITTEE
	
The 
Board 
of 
Directors 
constituted 
the 
Management Committee as the principal forum 
for taking operational decisions for the effective 
functioning of the Company. Pursuant to the 
growth of business, in size, as well as expansion 
across multiple products and locations, the 
Board of Directors also constituted the Corporate 
Lending 
Committee 
and 
Retail 
Lending 
Committee which inter-alia act as decision making 
bodies on business related matters of corporate 
lending and retail lending business segments of 
the Company, respectively.
	
Composition:
	
The 
Management 
Committee 
comprises 
of 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Mr. Vinodkumar  
Panicker and Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani. During to 
the year under review, Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani 
was appointed as a Member of the Committee.
	
The Corporate Lending Committee comprises 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Mr. VinodkKumar  
Panicker and Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani. During the 
year under review, Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani was 
appointed as a Member of the Committee.
	
The 
Retail 
Lending 
Committee 
comprises 
 
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan, Mr. Dipesh Mehta,  
Mr. 
Vinodkumar 
Panicker 
and 
Mr. 
Nitin 
 
Gyanchandani. During the year under review, 
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani was appointed as a 
Member of the Committee.
	
Terms of Reference:
	
Management Committee
	
The terms of reference of the Management 
Committee inter-alia includes: decision making 
around all policy matters or legally mandated 
matters unless restricted by the law or the Board 
of Directors. The Management Committee is also 
responsible for all administrative and operational 
matters such as capital expenditure, leasing of 
premises, authority to represent the Company, 
change or appoint nominee shareholders in any 
subsidiary/associates companies and implement 
policies adopted by the Board of Directors.
	
Corporate Lending Committee
	
The terms of reference of the Corporate Lending 
Committee inter-alia includes the following 
with respect to the corporate lending business 
of the Company: examining credit proposals 
and recommending the same to the Credit 
Committee for its approval, approve deviations 
to sanctioned credit proposals, ensure adequate 
security / encumbrance is created / registered in 
favour of the Company, approve / recommend 
amendment(s) to / adoption of various relevant 
policies / manuals, approve deployment of funds 
in terms of Treasury Policy, approve proposals 
under Short Term Loan Programme and Sell Down 
Mandate of the Company, authorize officials of 
the Company to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things and exercise all rights under the 
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial 
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 
2002, update and report to the Credit Committee 
and to do all other acts, deeds and things, which 
do not require specific approval of the Board of 
Directors / Credit Committee.
	
Retail Lending Committee
	
The terms of reference of the Retail Lending 
Committee inter-alia includes the following with 
respect to the retail lending business segments 
of the Company: adopting / revising relevant 
policies, approving appointment of various 
agencies / vendors, approving or modifying 
various agreement(s), document(s) & contract(s), 
undertaking all or any business and / or operational 
activities, authorize officials of the Company 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things 
and exercise all rights under the Securitisation 
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and 
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, and 
updating / reporting to the Credit Committee.
	
ESG WORKING COMMITTEE
	
The Board of Directors constituted ESG Working 
Committee with an object to implement and 
oversight the Business Responsibility Policies 
as required under Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR).
	
Composition
	
The ESG Working Committee comprises of 
Ms. Priya Prasad, Mr. Mihir Bhavsar, Mr. K V 
Bharadwaj and Ms. Shikha Jain. During the year 
under review, Mr. Jitendra Bhati ceased to be a 
Member of the Committee and Ms. Shikha Jain 
was appointed as Member of the Committee
	
Terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the ESG Working 
Committee inter-alia includes: to assess and 
monitor culture to ensure alignment with the 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
104
Company’s purpose, values and strategy; to 
oversee and monitor the Company’s Health & 
Safety systems and practices; To monitor the 
progress against ESG key performance indicators; 
to approve the Company’s ESG strategy (the ‘ESG 
Strategy’) including related targets; to provide 
oversight of the execution of the ESG Strategy 
and the Company’s progress on its long-term ESG 
commitments and targets; to provide oversight 
of the key policies and programmes required to 
implement the ESG Strategy; to provide advice 
and direction to the Company’s management on 
implementation of the Company’s ESG Strategy, 
the opportunities and risks to the Company’s 
operations and reputation and its corporate 
responsibility; to determine and monitor Key 
parameter indicators (KPI) applicable in relation 
to ESG Strategy and programs; to assist the 
Board in promoting the long-term sustainable 
success of the Company with regard to ESG 
matters by ensuring that the right strategies and 
action plans are in place to meet the desired 
goals and monitor progress against those goals; 
to ensure that the Company agrees, implements, 
communicates and reviews strategy on key 
ESG issues; to monitor the execution of and to 
oversee the communication of the ESG activities 
with its stakeholders and to provide input to 
the Board and other Board Committees on ESG 
matters as required.
	
DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE
	
The Board of Directors constituted Disciplinary 
Committee to ensure adherence by the employees 
to the various codes and policies adopted 
by the Company.
	
Composition
	
The 
Disciplinary 
Committee 
comprises 
of 
Mr. 
Karthikeyan 
Srinivasan, 
Ms. 
Priya 
 
Prasad and Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani. During the 
year under review, Mr. Jitendra Bhati ceased 
to be a member of the Committee and 
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani was appointed as a 
Member of the Committee and subsequent to the 
year under review Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan and 
Mr. Nitin Gyanchandani ceased to be Member and 
Ms. Rashmita Prajapati and Mr. Dipesh Mehta  was 
appointed as a Member of the Committee.
	
Terms of reference
	
The terms of reference of the Disciplinary 
Committee 
inter-alia 
includes: 
to 
access 
adequacy and implementation of codes /policies 
of the Company; to establish and maintain a 
framework for dealing with matters referred to 
it with regard to violations of codes /policies of 
the Company by its employees; to investigate and 
take action against violations of codes /policies 
of the Company.
	
Meetings: The Committee(s) meet on multiple 
occasions as and when required.
IV.	 CODES AND POLICIES
	
Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit & Proper” 
Person Criteria
	
In terms of provisions of the Act, Guidelines 
on Corporate Governance prescribed vide RBI 
Directions and the Listing Regulations, the Board 
of Directors adopted a ‘Policy on Selection 
Criteria / “Fit and Proper” Person Criteria’ which 
lays down a framework relating to appointment 
of 
Director(s) 
and 
senior 
management 
personnel including key managerial personnel 
of the Company.
	
The Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit and Proper” 
Person Criteria inter-alia includes:
•	
Manner / process for selection of Directors 
and senior management personnel including 
key managerial personnel;
•	
Criteria to be considered for appointment 
of 
Directors 
including 
qualifications, 
positive attributes, fit and proper person 
status 
and 
independence 
criteria 
for 
Independent Directors;
•	
Criteria to be considered for appointment in 
senior management of the Company.
	
In terms of the Policy on Selection Criteria 
/ “Fit and Proper” Person Criteria, the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee is 
primarily responsible for:
•	
Guiding and recommending to the Board 
of Directors the appointment and removal 
of 
Director(s), 
senior 
management 
personnel and key managerial personnel 
of the Company.
•	
Ensuring “Fit and Proper” Person status of 
proposed / existing Director(s)
	
The Policy on Selection Criteria / “Fit & Proper” 
Person Criteria is available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/in
vestors-corner#investor-services.
	
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 177(9) 
of the Act read with Rule 7 of the Companies 
(Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 
and Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations, the 
Company has formulated a Whistle blower policy/ 
vigil mechanism for Directors and Employees to 
report genuine concerns related to the Company 
and to provide for adequate safeguards against 
victimization of Director(s) or employee(s) who 
report genuine concerns under the mechanism.
	
The Vigil Mechanism provides a channel including 
an online platform and telephonic hotline number 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 105
01-22
121-283
23-120
to report to the management concerns about 
unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud 
or violation of various codes or policies of the 
Company and provides adequate safeguards 
against victimization of persons who use such 
mechanism. The mechanism provides for direct 
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
in appropriate or exceptional cases. No person 
has been denied access to the Audit Committee. 
The Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism 
is available on the website of the Company  
at https://www.indostarcapital.com/invest
ors-corner#investor-services.
	
Further, in order to ensure that complaints with 
respect to any wrong-doing / policy-breach by 
an employee or any third party were investigated 
appropriately and in order to ensure that actions 
to be taken against convicts were approved by an 
appropriate authority, the Company implemented 
a formal investigation protocol document.
	
Related Party Transaction Policy
	
In term of the provisions of the Listing Regulations, 
the Act and RBI Directions, the Board of 
Directors adopted a ‘Related Party Transaction 
Policy’ to ensure proper approval and reporting 
of transactions between the Company and its 
related parties.
	
The Related Party Transaction Policy inter-alia sets 
out criteria for identifying material related party 
transactions and includes the process and manner 
of approval of transactions with related parties, 
identification of related parties and identification 
of potential related party transactions. In terms 
of the Related Party Transaction Policy of the 
Company, any transaction with any related parties 
shall be considered to be appropriate only if 
it is in the best interests of the Company and 
its shareholders.
	
The Related Party Transaction Policy is available 
on the website of the Company at https://
www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#i
nvestor-services.
	
Policy for Determining Material Subsidiary
	
In terms of the provisions of the Listing 
Regulations, the Board of Directors adopted a 
‘Policy for Determining Material Subsidiary’ which 
inter-alia sets out parameters for identifying a 
subsidiary as a “Material Subsidiary”. The Policy 
for Determining Material Subsidiary is available 
on the website of the Company at https://
www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner#i
nvestor-services.
	
Remuneration Policy
	
The success of any organization in achieving 
good performance and governance depends on 
its ability to attract quality individuals on the 
board. The Company has in place a remuneration 
policy which is guided by the principles and 
objectives as enumerated in section 178 of the 
Act, regulation 19 read with Part D of Schedule II 
of the Listing Regulations and the RBI Directions.
	
The Policy covers aspects relating to remuneration 
to be paid to Directors including criteria for 
making payment to Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, senior management including key 
managerial personnel and other employees of 
the Company, details on guaranteed bonus & 
recovery of annual bonus and modification of 
salary structure.
	
The Remuneration Policy is adopted to inter-alia 
ensure that remuneration paid by the Company 
is in compliance with the requirements of the 
applicable law(s) and relationship of remuneration 
to performance is clear and meets appropriate 
performance benchmarks. The Remuneration 
Policy is available on the website of the Company 
at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/invest
ors-corner#investor-services.
	
Remuneration to Executive Director
	
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan is the Executive 
Director (ED) on the board. The compensation 
to Mr. Srinivasan is within the scale approved 
by the board and shareholders. The elements 
of compensation comprise a fixed component, 
performance incentive and employee stock 
options. The compensation is determined based 
on the level of responsibility and scales prevailing 
in the industry. ED is not paid sitting fees for any 
board / committee meetings attended by him. 
The board upon recommendation of the NRC, may 
decide the quantum/portion of variable pay (cash 
and non-cash components) that will be subject to 
deferral based on the time horizon of the risks. 
Claw back provisions for deferred variable pay 
including cancellation of vested & unexercised 
ESOPs may be invoked by the board based on 
the recommendation of NRC as per policy.
	
Details of the remuneration of the executive 
director for the year ended 31 March, 2024 
are as follows:
(` In lacs)
Name of the Director
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Gross Salary 
including allowances
161.44
Fixed Bonus
35.00
Total
196.44
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
106
	
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
	
Non-Executive Directors other than Independent 
Directors were not paid any remuneration (apart 
from sitting fees to Independent Directors as 
stated above) during the year under review. 
Independent Directors of the Company were paid 
sitting fees of ` 75,000/- for every meeting of 
board and ` 40,000/- for every audit committee 
meeting and ` 25,000/- for every meeting of 
stakeholders’ relationship committee, nomination 
and remuneration committee, risk management 
committee, 
corporate 
social 
responsibility 
committee, IT strategy committee, Independent 
Director’s Meeting and others during the FY 24.
	
Mentioned below are details of sitting fees paid/
payable to Non-Executive Independent Directors 
for attending Board and Committee Meetings 
held during the year under review:
 	
 (` In lacs)
Name of the Director
Sitting Fees
Mr. Bobby Parikh
 13.65
Mr. Hemant Kaul
 10.45
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
 6.50
	
During the year under review, there were no 
pecuniary relationships or transactions between 
the Company and any of its Non-Executive 
Directors apart from payment of sitting fees.
	
Dividend Distribution Policy
	
In terms of the Listing Regulations and as an 
initiative towards setting out a good corporate 
governance structure within the organisation, 
the Board of Directors adopted a ‘Dividend 
Distribution Policy’ in line with Company’s idea 
of meeting the long term capital requirement 
from internal cash accruals and appropriately 
rewarding shareholders. The Dividend Distribution 
Policy prescribes parameters to be considered 
for declaring / recommending dividend and 
sets out indicative range and frequency of 
dividend pay-out.
	
The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company 
is available on the website of the Company  
at 
https://www.indostarcapital.com/invest
ors-corner#investor-services.
	
Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
	
The Independent Directors of your Company 
were familiarised inter-alia with the industry 
in which your Company and its subsidiaries 
operate, 
the 
Company’s 
business 
model 
and its operations in order to give them an 
insight into the Company’s business and its 
functioning. The Independent Directors were also 
familiarised with their functioning, roles, rights 
and responsibilities as Independent Directors. 
Details 
of 
the 
familiarisation 
programmes 
imparted to Independent Directors during the 
year under review is available on the website of 
the Company at https://www.indostarcapital.
com/investors-corner#investor-services.
	
Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Policy
	
In accordance with Section 135 of the Act, the 
Company has constituted a Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee In terms of 
the provisions of the Act, The CSR Committee 
has formulated and recommended to the Board, 
a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (“CSR 
Policy”) indicating the activities to be undertaken 
by the Company, which has been approved by 
the Board. the Board of Directors adopted a 
‘CSR Policy’ the CSR Policy which helps towards 
contribution and furtherance of your Company’s 
objective to create value in the society and 
community in which it operates, through its 
services, conduct and initiatives, so as to promote 
sustained growth for the society and community, 
in fulfillment of its role as a socially responsible 
corporate citizen.
	
The CSR Policy of the Company inter-alia indicates 
the CSR activities that can be undertaken by the 
Company and defines the roles and responsibilities 
of the Board of Directors and CSR Committee 
in implementing and monitoring CSR projects 
identified and supported by the Company.
	
The CSR Policy is available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/in
vestors-corner#investor-services.
	
Board Performance Evaluation Policy
	
In terms of the provisions of the Listing Regulations 
and the Act, the Board of Directors adopted a 
Board Performance Evaluation Policy to set out 
a formal mechanism for evaluating performance 
of the Board, that of its Committee(s) and 
individual Directors including the Chairman. 
Additionally, in order to outline detailed process 
and criteria for performance evaluation, the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee has 
put in place the ‘Performance Evaluation Process 
– Board, Committees and Directors’, which 
forms an integral part of the Board Performance 
Evaluation Policy.
	
The manner in which formal annual evaluation of 
the performance of the Board, its Committees 
and individual Directors including Chairman was 
conducted is given below:
	
•	
A structured questionnaire prepared in 
accordance with the Board Performance 
Evaluation Policy and Performance Evaluation 
Process, inter-alia setting out criteria for 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 107
01-22
121-283
23-120
evaluation of performance of the Board 
collectively, 
individual 
non-independent 
directors 
and 
the 
Chairperson, 
was 
circulated to the Independent Directors. 
Performance ratings were given by the 
Independent Directors on the questionnaire 
circulated for each category to be evaluated 
by them at their separate meeting held.
	
•	
Based on Independent Directors feedback on 
the questionnaires, the Independent Directors, 
at their separate meeting, evaluated the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors, 
the Board as a whole and the Chairman;
	
•	
Further, based on evaluation by Independent 
Directors 
and 
in 
light 
of 
the 
criteria 
prescribed in the Performance Evaluation 
Process, the Board analysed and evaluated 
its own performance, that of its Committees 
and each Director including the Chairman.
	
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent 
Directors
	
The Performance Evaluation Process adopted 
by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
inter-alia prescribes criteria for performance 
evaluation of Independent Directors.
	
In terms of the performance evaluation process, 
performance of Independent Directors is to 
be evaluated broadly on parameters such as 
contribution towards strengthening corporate 
governance, financial reporting, development 
of strategy and risk management; relationship 
with other Board members; attendance and 
participation at the meetings of the Board, 
Committees and shareholders; understanding 
of the sector in which the Company operates, 
keeping 
up-to-date 
information 
about 
the 
Company and external environment in which 
it operates, latest developments in areas such 
as corporate governance, financial reporting 
and applicable regulatory aspects; level of 
integrity 
and 
confidentiality 
maintained 
by 
them, compliance with the Code of Conduct 
for 
Independent 
Directors, 
fulfillment 
of 
the 
prescribed 
Independence 
criteria 
and 
independence from the Management.
	
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading
	
The board has adopted a code to regulate, 
monitor and report trading by insiders in securities 
of the Company. The code inter-alia requires 
pre-clearance for dealing in the securities of the 
Company and prohibits the purchase or sale of 
securities of the Company while in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information in relation 
to the Company and during the period when the 
trading window is closed. The board has further 
approved the code for practices and procedures 
for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive 
information and policy governing the procedure 
of inquiry in case of actual or suspected leak of 
unpublished price sensitive information. The code 
has also been hosted on the website of the 
Company at https://www.indostarcapital.com/
investors-corner#investor-services. The Company 
has also put in place a structured digital database 
as required under Regulation 3(5) of SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
V.	 SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AS ON MARCH 31, 2024
Sr. No. Name of SMPs
Designation
1.
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer
2.
Mr. Randhir Singh**
Executive Vice Chairman
3.
Mr. Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
4.
Ms. Shikha Jain*
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
5.
Rashmita Prajapati*
Chief Compliance Officer
6.
Kashinath Palekar
Head – Internal Audit
7.
Nitin Gyanchandani*
Chief Risk Officer
8.
Dipesh Mehta
Chief Product Officer
9.
Priya Prasad
Chief Human Resource Officer
10.
Amit Kothari
Chief Technology Officer
11.
K V Bharadwaj
Chief Credit Officer
12.
Arvind Uppal
Head – Collections
13.
Devaraj C
Chief Business Officer
14.
Krishnamurthy Swaminathan
Head – Operations
15.
P Krishnan
Principal Officer
16.
Kekin Savla
Head - Finance
17.
Kaushal Mithani
Head – Treasury
18.
Mihir Bhavsar
Chief Information Security Officer
	
*Appointed during the year under review.
	
** Appointed on 22 July 2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
108
	
Senior Management personnel resigned during the year under review:
Name
Designation
Jitendra Bhati
Head - Compliance and Secretarial
Hansraj Thakur
Business Head
B Ravikumar
Business Head
VI.	 DETAILS OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES OF THE LISTED ENTITY
Name of material 
subsidiary
Date and Place of 
incorporation
Name of statutory 
Auditors
Date of appointment of 
statutory auditors
IndoStar Home Finance 
Private Limited
January 1, 2016
Mumbai, Maharashtra
G. D. Apte & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants
28 September 2021
VII.	GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
For 
Financial 
Year
Date
Time
Special Resolutions passed
Venue
2020-21
September 
28, 2021
11:00 a.m.
• 
Issue of Non-Convertible Debentures under 
Private Placement
• 
Payment of remuneration to Non-Executive 
Independent Directors of the Company for the 
financial year 2020-21
• 
Waiver 
of 
recovery 
of 
excess 
managerial 
remuneration paid to Mr. Shailesh Shirali, former 
Whole-Time Director of the Company.
• 
Approval for Selling, Leasing and Disposing 
Assets of IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited, 
a material subsidiary of the Company, exceeding 
20% of its assets in aggregate, during any financial 
year.
• 
Alteration of the object clause of the Memorandum 
of Association of the Company.
Held through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ Other 
Audio Visual 
Means
2021-22
September 
29, 2022
11:00 a.m.
• 
Issue of Non-Convertible Debentures under 
Private Placement for aggregate principal amount 
not exceeding ` 3,000 crore, during a year.
• 
Material Related Party Transaction for the amount 
not exceeding ` 1,000 crore with BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte Ltd., the holding company of the 
Company at arm’s length and in the ordinary 
course of business of the Company
Held through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ Other 
Audio Visual 
Means
2022-23
September 
18, 2023
10.30 a.m.
• 
Issue of Non-Convertible Debentures under 
Private Placement for aggregate principal amount 
not exceeding ` 7,500 crore, during a year.
• 
Material Related Party Transaction for the amount 
not exceeding ` 1,000 crore with BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte Ltd., the holding company of the 
Company at arm’s length and in the ordinary 
course of business of the Company
Held through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ Other 
Audio Visual 
Means
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 109
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
Postal Ballot
	
The Company sought the approval of the Members on the Special Resolutions by way of Postal Ballot 
notice dated May 28, 2024 which was passed with requisite majority on June 28, 2024, details of same are 
mentioned below:
Special Resolutions passed through Postal Ballot
Voting percentage of 
shareholders participated
Alteration of the Articles Of Association of the Company
% of vote in Favour : 99.79  
% of vote in Against : 0.21
Appointment of Mr. Randhir Singh (Din: 05353131) as the Whole-Time 
Director on the Board of Directors of the Company designated as the 
Executive Vice Chairman
% of vote in Favour : 99.79  
% of vote in Against : 0.21
Amendment of IndoStar ESOP Plan 2018
% of vote in Favour : 99.79  
% of vote in Against : 0.21
Approval of proposed Grant of Stock Options equal to or exceeding 1% 
(one percent) of issued capital of the Company under IndoStar Esop Plan 
2018 at the time of grant to identified employee(s)
% of vote in Favour : 99.79  
% of vote in Against : 0.21
	
Ms. Aditi Patnaik (ICSI Membership No. A45308), Partner, M/s Mehta & Mehta , Practicing Company Secretaries, 
acted as the Scrutinizer, for conducting the Postal Ballot process, in a fair and transparent manner.
	
Extra Ordinary General Meeting
	
During the year under review, the Company sought the approval of the Members on the following resolutions 
at the Extra Ordinary General Meeting held on March 22, 2024 through video conference/other audio visual 
means which were passed with requisite majority, details of same are mentioned below:
Resolutions passed at the Extra Ordiinary General Meeting
Voting percentage of 
shareholders participated
Increase in the authorized share capital of the Company from ` 165 crores to 
` 200 crores and consequent alteration of clause V(a) of the Memorandum 
of Association of the Company
% of vote in Favour: 100%
% of vote in Against: 0%
Alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company to insert necessary 
provisions for issue of warrants and related matters thereto
% of vote in Favour: 100%
% of vote in Against: 0%
	
Procedure for postal ballot
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Listing 
Regulations, the Company provides facility to the 
members to exercise votes through electronic 
voting system (‘e-voting’) in addition to physical 
ballot. Postal ballot notices and forms are 
sent along with the postage pre-paid business 
reply envelope to members/beneficial owners 
through email at their registered email IDs and 
through physical copy to the members who have 
not registered their email IDs. The Company 
also publishes notice in the newspapers for 
the information of the members. Voting rights 
are reckoned on the equity shares held by the 
members as on the cut-off date.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the 
Company appoints a scrutiniser for conducting 
the postal ballot process in a fair and transparent 
manner. The scrutiniser submits his consolidated 
report to the Chairman or any person authorized 
by him and the voting results are announced by 
the Chairman or any person authorized by him 
by placing the same along with the scrutiniser’s 
report on the Company’s website, besides 
being communicated to the stock exchanges. 
The resolution, if passed by requisite majority, 
is deemed to have been passed on the last date 
specified by the Company for receipt of duly 
completed postal ballot forms or remote e-voting.
	
In 
view 
of 
the 
COVID-19 
pandemic 
and 
dispensation granted by MCA, postal ballot 
notice was sent through e-mail only, to all those 
members who had registered their e-mail ids with 
the Company/depositories and only e-voting 
facility was provided to the members to cast 
their votes. Arrangements were also made for 
other members to register their e-mail id to cast 
their vote online.
	
None of the businesses to be transacted at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting are proposed to 
be conducted through postal ballot.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
110
Resolutions passed at the Extra Ordiinary General Meeting
Voting percentage of 
shareholders participated
Issuance of warrants to BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte Ltd and/or BCP V 
Multiple FVCI Holdings Pte Ltd, promoters of the Company on a preferential 
basis
% of vote in Favour: 100%
% of vote in Against: 0%
Issuance of warrants to Florintree Tecserve LLP, a non-promoter entity on 
a preferential basis
% of vote in Favour: 100%
% of vote in Against: 0%
	
Ms. Aditi Patnaik (ICSI Membership No. A45308), Partner, M/s Mehta & Mehta, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, acted as the Scrutinizer, for conducting the EGM process, in a fair and transparent manner.
VIII.	 MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
•	
Quarterly and annual financial results of 
the Company are disseminated to stock 
exchanges and hosted on Company’s website;
	
•	
Quarterly and annual financial results are 
published in Business Standard and Prahar, 
as required under applicable law;
	
•	
Presentations and media releases on financial 
position and important events/ material 
developments of the Company are issued by 
the Company for information of investors;
	
•	
The Company arranges for investors calls / 
conferences for discussing financial position 
of the Company from time to time;
	
•	
The shareholders can also access the 
details of corporate governance policies, 
Board committees, financial information, 
shareholding information, details of unclaimed 
dividends, etc. on the Company’s website;
	
•	
Institutional investors / analysts presentations 
and media releases are submitted to the 
stock exchanges and are also hosted on the 
Company’s website.
IX.	 GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Annual General Meeting 
- Date, Time and Venue
15th Annual General Meeting
Date: September 30, 2024
Time: 3 p.m. (IST)
Mode of conducting the meeting: Video conferencing / other audio-visual 
means
Financial Year
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024
Dividend Payment Date
Not Applicable
Date of Book Closure
Tuesday, September 24, 2024 to Monday, September 30, 2024 (both days
inclusive)
Calender for financial 
year ending on March 
31, 2025
Results for the quarter ending June 30, 2024
Last week of July 2024
Results for the quarter ending September 30, 2024
Last week of October 2024
Results for the quarter ending December 31, 2024
Last week of January 2025
Results for the quarter ending March 31, 2025
Last week of April 2025
Listing on Stock 
Exchanges
The BSE Limited (‘BSE”)
(Equity Shares and Non-Convertible Debentures)
Phiroze Jeejeeboy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort,
Mumbai - 400 001
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”)
(Equity Shares)
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400 051
Payment of Annual 
Listing Fees
Requisite Annual Listing Fees has been paid to both the Stock Exchanges.
Stock Code
BSE: 541336
NSE: INDOSTAR
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
111
01-22
121-283
23-120
In case the Securities 
are Suspended from 
Trading, the Directors 
Report shall explain the 
Reason thereof
Not applicable
Registrar and Transfer 
Agents
Link Intime India Private Limited
Address: C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 400083
Telephone: +91 22 49186270
Fax: +91 22 49186060
Email id: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
Share Transfer System
In terms of the Listing Regulations w.e.f. April 1, 2019, the Equity Shares of 
the Company can be transferred only in dematerialised form, except in case of 
request received for transmission or transposition of securities, which shall be 
approved by the Stakeholders Relationship Committee.
Dematerialisation of 
Shares and Liquidity
Equity shares of the Company are available for trading only in dematerialised 
form under both the Depositories i.e. National Securities Depository Limited 
and Central Depository Services (India) Limited.
The International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the 
Company’s Equity Shares is INE896L01010. As on March 31, 2024, 100% of 
Equity shares were held in dematrialised form out of which, 124,010,329 Equity 
Shares of the Company were in process of listing.
Commodity Price Risk or 
Foreign Exchange Risk 
and Hedging Activities
Not applicable
Utilisation of Funds 
raised through 
Preferential Allotment/
Qualified Institutions 
Placement
During the year under review, the Company has not raised any funds by way of 
Preferential Allotment/ Qualified Institutions Placement.
Plant Locations
Since the Company is engaged in the business of providing financial services, the 
Company does not have any manufacturing plant. It operates from its Registered 
& Corporate Office and branches located at different places throughout India.
Address for 
Correspondence
Ms. Shikha Jain
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Unit No. 301-A, 3rd Floor, Silver Utopia, Opposite P&G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious 
Road, Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400099 
Telephone: +91 22 43157000; Fax: +91 22 43157010;
Email id: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
List of Credit Ratings 
along with any revisions 
during the financial year
LONG TERM
Debt Programme
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE AA- (revised on November 22, 2023, 
earlier rating: CARE A+)
CRISIL Limited
CRISIL AA-
Market Linked Debentures
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE PP-MLD AA- (revised on November 22, 
2023, earlier rating: CARE A+)
SHORT TERM DEBT PROGRAMME/COMMERCIAL PAPER:
CARE Ratings Limited
CARE A1+
CRISIL Limited
CRISIL A1+
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
112
	
Secretarial Audit
	
The Company annually conducts a secretarial audit 
by an independent practicing company secretary. 
For the year ended 31 March, 2024, M/s. Mehta & 
Mehta, Company Secretaries, had conducted the 
secretarial audit and the certificate was placed 
before the board and attached to this report.
	
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit
	
As required by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI), quarterly audit of the 
Company’s share capital is being carried out by 
an independent auditor with a view to reconcile 
the total share capital admitted with National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) and 
held in physical form, with the issued and listed 
capital. The certificate issued by an independent 
practicing company secretary is submitted to the 
stock exchanges and is also placed before the 
board of directors.
	
Compliance Certificate on Corporate Governance
	
The certificate on compliance of corporate 
governance norms from an independent practicing 
company secretary is annexed to the report.
	
Green initiative in corporate governance
	
The Companies Act, 2013 and the underlying 
rules 
permit 
companies 
to 
send 
various 
documents including the financial statements 
through electronic mode to the shareholders. 
In compliance with the circulars issued by 
MCA and SEBI, electronic copies of the notice 
of the AGM and annual report for year under 
review will be sent to all the shareholders 
whose email addresses are registered with 
the Company / depository participants. 
Shareholders are requested to register their 
e-mail ID with their depository participant, if the 
holding is in electronic mode. If shares are held in 
physical mode, the shareholders are requested to 
furnish their email addresses to RTA for receiving 
the above documents by electronic mode.
	
Transfer of Equity Shares to IEPF
	
In accordance with the provisions of section 124 
and 125 of the Act, read with Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (IEPF), 
the underlying shares of all dividends which 
remain unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven 
consecutive years be transferred to Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). As required 
under the said rules, the Company had sent 
out individual communication to the concerned 
shareholders whose dividend are unclaimed, 
informing them about the amount of unpaid 
dividend lying with the Company and requesting 
them to update their bank details by confirming 
the details to the attention of Link Intime India 
Pvt. Limited, so as to claim the unpaid dividend 
amount and to ensure uninterrupted and timely 
payment of dividend in the future.
	
During the year under review, no dividend or shares 
were liable to be transferred to IEPF account.
	
Dispute Resolution Mechanism
	
SEBI has vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD_ RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/76 dated 
30th May, 2022, issued a Standard Operating 
Procedure (SOP) for dispute resolution under 
Stock Exchanges Arbitration Mechanism, for 
dispute redressal between the Listed Company / 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (RTA) and its 
shareholder(s) / investor(s).
	
The Arbitration Mechanism shall be initiated 
post exhausting all actions for resolution of 
complaints including those received through 
SEBI SCORES Portal.SEBI Complaints Redress 
System (SCORES):
	
Investor complaints are processed at SEBI in 
a centralised web-based complaints redress 
system. The salient features of this system are 
centralised database of all complaints, online 
upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by 
concerned companies and online viewing by 
investors of actions taken on the complaints and 
their current status.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 113
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2024:
Sr. 
No.
No. of Equity Shares – 
Range
Shareholders
Shareholding
No. of equity 
shareholders
% of total equity 
shareholders
No. of equity 
shares held
% of total 
equity shares
1
1
-
500
67,965
95.69
3,094,422
2.27
2
501
-
1000
1148
1.62
893,197
0.66
3
1001
-
2000
822
1.16
1,241,183
0.91
4
2001
-
3000
322
0.45
833,742
0.61
5
3001
-
4000
146
0.21
521,306
0.38
6
4001
-
5000
126
0.18
599,159
0.44
7
5001
-
10000
236
0.33
1,772,017
1.30
8
10001 & above
263
0.37
127,124,269
93.42
Total
71,028
100.00
136,079,295
 100.00
	
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2024:
Sr. No.
Category of Shareholder
 No. of equity shares
 % of total equity shares
A
Promoter & Promoter Group
1
Promoter
99,745,221
73.30
2
Promoter Group
 2,313,005
 1.70
Total (A)
102,058,226
75.00
B
1
Mutual Funds
-
-
2
Alternative Investment Fund
 -
 -
3
Foreign Portfolio Investors
 20,222,47
1.49
4
Financial Institutions / Banks
 -
 -
4
Insurance Companies
2,408,473
1.77
5
Directors and their relatives
1,100
0.00
6
Individuals
19,243,204
14.14
7
Non-Resident Indians
658,165
0.48
8
Foreign Nationals
-
-
9
Bodies Corporate
  7,852,384 
5.77
10
Others
1,835,496
1.35
Total (B)
34,021,069
25.00
Total (A+B)
136,079,295
100.00
	
Monthly high and low prices of equity shares of the Company during the financial year ended March 31, 2024:
Month
BSE Limited
National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited
High (`)
Low (`)
High (`)
Low (`)
April 2023
139.40
104.10
139.30
104.00
May 2023
151.25
111.15
151.05
112.40
June 2023
166.30
143.25
166.70
142.50
July 2023
177.45
143.00
177.00 	
141.00
August 2023
190.20
157.00 	
191.30
159.55
September 2023
190.90
163.60
193.00
165.00
October 2023
185.00
157.20
184.40
157.55
November 2023
181.50
156.00
180.95
157.50
December 2023
178.65
161.20
176.95
160.00
January 2024
229.00
168.10
229.00
167.00
February 2024
231.15
173.00
231.60
172.00
March 2024
229.95
180.00
229.90
181.80
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
114
Performance of Company’s equity shares as compared with S&P BSE SENSEX during Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024:
  Sensex Closing Price	
	
  Company Closing Prince (BSE)
80,000.00
70,000.00
60,000.00
50,000.00
40,000.00
30,000.00
20,000.00
10,000.00
0.00
250
200
150
100
50
0
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Performance of Company’s equity shares as compared with NSE NIFTY 50 during Financial Year ended March 
31, 2024:
  Nifty Closing Price	
  Company Closing Prince (BSE)
25,000.00
20,000.00
15,000.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
0.00
250
200
150
100
50
0
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 115
01-22
121-283
23-120
X.	 OTHER DISCLOSURES
	
Related party transactions: All transactions with related parties that were entered into during the financial 
year were in the ordinary course of business and were on an arm’s length basis. There were no material 
transactions with related parties i.e., transactions of the Company of material nature, with its promoters, the 
directors or the management, their subsidiaries, or relatives, etc., that may have potential conflict with the 
interest of company at large. Suitable disclosures as required in compliance with accounting standards with 
related parties are disclosed in Note No. 32 of the financial statements in the annual report.
	
The board has put in place a policy on related party transactions and the same has been uploaded on the 
Company’s website at https://www.indostarcapital.com/investors-corner/
	
Disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries of ‘Loans and advances’ in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are interested by name and amount: Suitable disclosures as required in 
compliance with accounting standards in which directors are interested are disclosed in Note No. 32 of the 
financial statements in the annual report.
	
Materially significant related party transactions: During the year under review, the Company had not 
entered into any materially significant related party transaction that may have potential conflict with the 
interests of the Company at large.
	
Details of non-compliance: Except as mentioned below, there were no instances of non-compliance, 
penalties, strictures imposed on the Company by stock exchange(s) or the SEBI or any statutory authority, 
on any matter related to capital markets, during the last three years:
For Financial 
Year
Action taken by
Details of violation
Details of action taken e.g. fines, 
warning letter, debarment, etc. for 
the last three years
FY
2023-24
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”)
Delay in intimation of payment 
of Interest on non-convertible 
debentures 
under 
Regulation 
57(1) of Listing Regulations.
BSE levied a fine of ` 12,000 excluding 
applicable GST vide email dated April 
30, 2024.
FY
2023-24
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”)
Delay in intimation of record 
date for the purpose of payment 
of interest on non-convertible 
debentures under Regulation 60 
of Listing Regulations.
BSE levied a fine of ` 10,000 each 
excluding applicable GST vide email 
dated April 1,2024.
FY
2023-24
Reserve Bank of 
India
(“RBI”)
Non-compliances observed by the 
RBI in its statutory inspection of 
the Company with reference to 
the Company’s financial position 
as on March 31, 2022
India (“RBI”) vide its order and press 
release received by the Company 
on March 13, 2024, has imposed a 
monetary penalty on the Company 
aggregating to ` 13.60 lakhs.
FY
2023-24
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) and 
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited 
(“NSE”)
Delay in submission of Secretarial 
Compliance 
Report 
under 
Regulation 24A of the Listing 
Regulations
BSE & NSE levied a fine of ` 4,000 
each excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated June 26, 2023.
FY
2023-24
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”)
Delay in intimation of record 
date for the purpose of buy back 
of 
non-convertible 
debentures 
under Regulation 60 of Listing 
Regulations.
BSE levied a fine of ` 10,000 each 
excluding applicable GST vide email 
dated October 18, 2023.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
116
For Financial 
Year
Action taken by
Details of violation
Details of action taken e.g. fines, 
warning letter, debarment, etc. for 
the last three years
FY 2023-24
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) and 
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited 
(“NSE”)
Non-submission of prior intimation 
about the meeting of the board of 
directors under Regulation 29 of 
the Listing Regulations
BSE & NSE levied a fine of ` 10,000 
each excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated February 14, 2024
FY 2022- 23
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) and 
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited 
(“NSE”)
*Non-maintenance of minimum 
public shareholding of at least 25% 
as required under Rule 19(2) and 
19A of the Securities Contract 
(Regulations) Rules, 1957 read 
with Regulation 38 of the Listing 
Regulations
Total penalty of ` 3,500,000 excluding 
applicable GST had been levied by 
NSE and BSE as detailed below:
1.	
BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 455,000 each excluding 
applicable GST during the quarter 
ended June 30, 2022
2.	
BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 885,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the quarter 
ended September 30, 2022.
3.	
BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 920,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the quarter 
ended December 30, 2022.
4.	
BSE and NSE levied a penalty 
of ` 1,240,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the period 
January 1, 2023 to 4 May 2023. i.e. 
till the date of non-compliance.
Mail dated 14 March 2023 from BSE 
and NSE intimating action of freezing 
against the Promoter and Promoter 
Group of the Company as per 
SEBI Circular No. SEBI Circular No. 
CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/115 
dated 
October 10, 2017
FY 2022-23
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) and 
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited 
(“NSE”)
Delay in submission of audited 
financial results (standalone and 
consolidated) of the Company 
for the quarter and financial year 
ended March 31, 2022 and other 
Company updates
1.	
BSE & NSE levied a fine of 
` 
150,000 
each 
excluding 
applicable GST vide email dated 
June 29, 2022 for the quarter 
ended March 31, 2022.
2.	
BSE & NSE levied a fine of 
` 
190,000 
and 
` 
230,000 
respectively excluding applicable 
GST vide email dated July 15, 
2022 for the quarter ended March 
31, 2022.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 117
01-22
121-283
23-120
For Financial 
Year
Action taken by
Details of violation
Details of action taken e.g. fines, 
warning letter, debarment, etc. for 
the last three years
FY 2022-23
BSE Limited
Delay in disclosure of line items 
prescribed under Regulation 52(4) 
of Listing Regulations along with 
the half yearly / annual financial 
results
1.	
BSE levied a fine of ` 30,000 
excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated June 29, 2022 for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2022.
2.	
BSE 
levied 
a 
fine 
of 
` 
46,000excluding applicable GST 
vide email dated July 15, 2022 
for the quarter ended March 31, 
2022.
FY 2022-23
BSE Limited
Delay in disclosure of extent 
and nature of security created 
and 
maintained 
with 
respect 
to secured listed NCDs in the 
financial 
statements 
as 
per 
Regulation 54(2) of the Listing 
Regulations
1.	
BSE levied a fine of ` 30,000 
excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated June 29, 2022 for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2022.
2.	
BSE levied a fine of ` 46,000 
excluding applicable GST vide 
email dated July 15, 2022 for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2022.
FY 2022-23
BSE Limited
Delay in submission of statement 
indicating the utilization of issue 
proceeds / material deviation 
in 
the 
use 
of 
proceeds 
of 
nonconvertible debentures as per 
Regulation 52(7) of the Listing 
Regulations
BSE levied a fine of ` 10,000excluding 
applicable GST vide email dated 
December 26, 2022 for the quarter 
ended March 31, 2022.
FY 2021-22
BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) and 
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited 
(“NSE”)
Non-maintenance 
of 
minimum 
public hareholding of at least 25% 
as required under Rule 19(2) and 
19A of the Securities Contract 
(Regulations) Rules, 1957 read 
with Regulation 38 of the Listing 
Regulations
Total penalty of ` 1,770,000 excluding 
applicable GST had been levied by 
NSE and BSE Limited as detailed 
below:
1.	
BSE and NSE levied penalty 
of ` 425,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the period 
July 08, 2021 to September 30, 
2021.
2.	
BSE and NSE levied penalty 
of ` 460,000 each excluding 
applicable GST for the period 
October 01, 2021 to December 
31, 2021.
3.	
Subsequent to the year under 
review, BSE and NSE levied 
penalty 
of 
` 
450,000 
each 
excluding applicable GST for the 
period January 1, 2022 to March 
31, 2022
	
*During the year under review, Indostar Capital and Everstone Capital Partners II LLC, members belonging to the 
promoter group, have completed the sale of 19,340,000 equity shares of the Company, representing 14.21% of the total 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company through an Offer for Sale through the stock exchanges on 3 May 2023 and 
4 May 2023. Accordingly, the Company is now in compliance with the minimum public shareholding of at least 25% as 
required under Rule 19(2) and 19A of the Securities Contract (Regulations) Rules, 1957 read with Regulation 38 of the 
Listing Regulations.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
118
	
Compliance with Mandatory Requirements and adoption of the Non-Mandatory Requirements of 
Corporate Governance:
	
The Company has complied with the mandatory requirements including requirements of corporate 
governance norms as specified in Regulation 17 to Regulation 27 and clauses (b) to clause (i) of 
sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and paragraph C, D and E of schedule V of the Listing Regulations, 
as applicable to the Company for financial year ended March 31, 2024. A certificate from H Choudhary & 
Associates, Practicing Company Secretary, to that effect is annexed to this Corporate Governance Report. 
The Company has also adopted the following discretionary requirements specified in Part E of Schedule 
II in terms of regulation 27(1) of the Listing Regulations:
	
-	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report: Company’s financial statements have unmodified audit opinions.
	
-	
The Board of Directors of the Company has resolved not to pay any remuneration to the Chairman to 
act in the capacity of the Chairman;
	
-	
The positions of Chairperson and that of Chief Executive Officer, respectively, are held by two 
different persons.
	
-	
The internal auditors of the Company report directly to the Audit Committee of the Board.
	
Details of non-compliance with requirements of Companies Act, 2013
	
The Company is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, including with 
respect to compliance with accounting and secretarial standards.
	
Payment made to Statutory Auditor of the Company
	
Details relating to the fees paid to the statutory auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, during the 
financial year 2023-24, is stated in note 28 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, which forms 
part of this Annual Report.
	
Disclosure with respect to demat suspense account/unclaimed suspense account:
	
No equity shares of the Company were lying in demat suspense account/unclaimed suspense account as on 
March 31, 2024.
	
Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion and likely impact on equity 
capital
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27 February 2024 had approved a fund raise of ` 456.6 crore 
via preferential allotment of warrants to Brookfield Asset Management through one of its private equity 
funds (“Brookfield”) and Florintree Tecserv LLP (“Florintree”). Brookfield and Florintree will invest ` 256.6 
crore and ` 200.0 crore respectively to subscribe to approximately 13,949,323 and 10,869,565 convertible 
warrants repectively at a price of ` 184 per share on private placement basis for an aggregate consideration 
of 456.6 crore.
	
The Company has allotted 10,869,565 convertible warrants to Florintree on 26 May 2024 and the company 
has received twenty-five percent of the total consideration.
	
Commodity price risk and hedging activities
	
The Company does not deal with any commodity and hence not exposed to any commodity price risk and 
commodity hedging activities as on March 31, 2024.
XI.	 DECLARATION BY THE CEO OF THE COMPANY UNDER REGULATION 34(3) READ WITH 
PARAGRAPH D OF SCHEDULE V OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS
	
I, Karthikeyan Srinivasan, CEO of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited hereby declare that all the Members of 
the Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Company’s 
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 29, 2024
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
CEO & Whole-time Director
DIN: 10056556
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 119
01-22
121-283
23-120
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To,
The Members,
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Office No- 301, Wing A, CTS No 477
Silver Utopia, Chakala Road,
Opposite Proctor and Gamble, Andheri (E),
Sahargaon, Mumbai- India 400099
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
(hereinafter referred as “Company”) for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 as prescribed under Regulations 
17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and paras C, D and E of Schedule V of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter 
referred as “Listing Regulations”).
We state that compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management, and 
our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring 
compliance with conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to our examination of the relevant records 
and the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as prescribed under Listing Regulations except as per the Secretarial Compliance Report (PDF & 
XBRL) for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 prescribed under Regulation 24A (2) of Listing Regulations, 
was filed with the Stock Exchanges with the delay of two days.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
This certificate is issued solely for the purposes of complying with Listing Regulations and may not be suitable 
for any other purpose.
For Mehta & Mehta,
Company Secretaries
(ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500)
Atul Mehta
Partner
FCS No: 5782
 	
CP No.: 2486
Place: Mumbai	
 UDIN: F005782F000719275
Date: July 11, 2024 	
PR no.: 3686/2023
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
120
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors pursuant to point 10(i) of paragraph C of  
Schedule V ofSecurities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  
Requirements) Regulations,2015
To,
The Members,
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
We have examined all the relevant records maintained by IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (“the Company”) 
and disclosures, notices and confirmations submitted by Directors of the Company, for the purpose of issuing 
a certificate under Regulation 34 (3) read with point 10(i) of paragraph C of Schedule V of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing 
Regulations”) for financial year ended March 31, 2024.
In our opinion and to the best of our knowledge, based on the information furnished to us by the Company and 
the Directors of the Company and based on necessary verification by us, we certify that none of the following 
Directors, who were on the Board of Directors of the Company as on March 31,2024, have been debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director on the Boardof the Company by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India / Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
Sr. No.
Name of Director
Director Identification Number
1.
Mr. Bobby Parikh
00019437
2.
Mr. Dhanpal Jhaveri
02018124
3.
Mr. Vibhor Kumar Talreja
08768297
4.
Mr. Aditya Joshi
08684627
5.
Mr. Devdutt Vinayak Marathe
 10294876
6.
Mr. Hemant Kaul
00551588
7.
Ms. Naina Krishna Murthy
01216114
8.
Mr. Karthikeyan Srinivasan
10056556
For H Choudhary& Associates
Company Secretaries
CS Harnatharam Choudhary
Proprietor
Membership No.: F8274
Place: Mumbai 	
C.P. No.: 9369
Date: August 6, 2024	
UDIN number: F008274F000911308
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 121
01-22
121-283
23-120
To the
Members of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone 
financial statements of IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited (the “Company”), which comprise the Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the Statement of Profit 
and Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, 
Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of 
Cash Flow for the year then ended, and notes to the 
standalone financial statements, including material 
accounting policy information and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as the “standalone 
financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid standalone financial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and 
fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting 
Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read 
with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended (the “Rules”) and other accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2024, profit, 
other comprehensive income, changes in equity and 
its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Independent Auditor’s Report
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are 
further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ 
section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (“ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the standalone 
financial statements under the provisions of the Act 
and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance 
in our audit of the financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the standalone financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. We have determined the matters 
described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
Sr. No Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
1
Impairment of loans including Expected 
Credit Losses (“ECL”):
Total Loans as at March 31, 2024: ` 5,98,730.29 
lakhs (net of ECL)
Impairment Provision as at March 31, 2024: 
` 31,071.10 lakhs)
(Refer Note 5 of the Financial Statements)
As per Ind AS 109 - Financial Instruments 
(“Ind AS 109”) requires the Company to 
provide for impairment of its financial assets 
using ECL approach involving an estimation 
of probability of loss on such financial assets, 
considering 
reasonable 
and 
supportable 
information 
about 
past 
events, 
current 
conditions and forecasts of future economic 
conditions which could impact the credit 
quality of the Company’s financial assets.
Our audit procedures in respect of this area 
included, but not limited to:
Process understanding and control testing:
•	
Read the Company’s Board approved ECL policy 
and material accounting policy information 
for estimation of ECL on financial assets and 
evaluated the appropriateness of the same with 
the principles of Ind AS 109;
•	
Performed end-to-end process walkthroughs to 
identify the controls used in the impairment loss 
allowance processes;
•	
Tested the design and the operating effectiveness 
of relevant internal controls, including the 
IT controls relevant to the impairment loss 
allowance process.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
122
Sr. No Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
The estimation of impairment loss allowance 
on loan assets involves significant judgement 
and 
estimates, 
which 
are 
subject 
to 
uncertainty, and involves applying appropriate 
measurement principles in case of loss events.
ECL is calculated using the percentage of 
probability of default (“PD”), loss given default 
(“LGD”) and exposure at default (“EAD”) for 
each of the stages of loan portfolio. Significant 
management judgment and assumptions 
involved in measuring ECL is required with 
respect to:
•	
Segmentation of loan book in buckets 
based on common risk characteristics;
•	
Staging 
of 
loans 
and 
in 
particular 
determining the criteria, which includes 
qualitative 
factors 
for 
identifying 
a 
significant increase in credit risk (i.e. Stage 
2) and credit-impaired (i.e. Stage 3);
•	
factoring in future macro-economic and 
industry specific estimates and forecasts;
•	
past experience and forecast data on 
customer behaviour on repayments and;
•	
varied statistical modelling techniques 
to 
determine 
probability 
of 
default, 
loss given default and exposure at 
default basis, the default history of 
loans, subsequent recoveries made and 
other relevant factors using probability-
weighted scenarios.
Considering the significance of the above 
matter to the Financial Statements and since 
the matter required significant attention to 
test the calculation of ECL, we identified this 
as a key audit matters for current year audit.
•	
Verified the completeness and accuracy of 
the EAD and the classification thereof into 
stages consistent with the definitions applied 
in accordance with the policy approved by the 
Board of Directors;
•	
Checked the appropriateness of information 
used in the estimation of the PD and LGD for the 
different stages depending on the nature of the 
portfolio.
Performed the following substantive procedures on 
sample of loan assets:
•	
Tested appropriateness of staging of borrowers 
based on days past due (“DPD”) and other loss 
indicators;
•	
Tested the factual accuracy of information such 
as period of default, ratings (wherever applicable) 
and other related information used in estimating 
the PD;
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of LGD estimates by 
comparing actual recoveries post the loan asset 
becoming credit impaired and other applicable 
assumptions included in LGD computation;
•	
Evaluated the methodology used to determine 
macroeconomic overlays and adjustments to the 
output of the ECL model;
•	
Tested the completeness of loans included in 
the ECL calculations as of March 31, 2024 by 
reconciling such data with the balances as per 
loan book register; and
•	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness 
of disclosures in compliance with the Ind AS 
107 in relation to ECL especially in relation to 
judgements used in estimation of ECL provision.
2
Information Technology (“IT”) systems and 
controls impacting financial controls
The Company key financial accounting and 
reporting processes are highly dependent 
on information systems including automated 
controls in systems, such that there exists a 
risk that gaps in the IT control environment 
could result in the financial accounting and 
reporting records being misstated.
Amongst its multiple IT systems, we scoped 
in systems that are key for overall financial 
reporting.
Appropriate 
IT 
general 
controls 
and 
application controls are required to ensure 
that such IT systems are able to process the 
data, as required, completely, accurately and 
consistently for reliable financial reporting.
Key IT audit procedures performed included the 
following, but not limited to:
•	
For testing the IT general controls, application 
controls and IT dependent manual controls, we 
involved IT specialists as part of the audit. The 
team also assisted in testing the accuracy of 
the information produced by the Company IT 
systems.
•	
Obtained 
a 
comprehensive 
understanding 
of 
IT 
applications 
landscape 
implemented 
at the Company. It was followed by process 
understanding, mapping of applications to the 
same and understanding financial risks posed by 
people-process and technology.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 123
01-22
121-283
23-120
Sr. No Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ 
as a key audit matter considering the high 
level of automation, significant number of 
systems being used by Management and 
the complexity of the IT architecture and its 
impact on overall financial reporting process 
and regulatory expectation on automation.
•	
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design 
and operating effectiveness of key controls 
operating 
over 
user 
access 
management 
(which 
includes 
user 
access 
provisioning, 
de-provisioning, 
access 
review, 
password 
configuration review, segregation of duties and 
privilege access), change management (which 
include change release in production environment 
are compliant to the defined procedures and 
segregation of environment is ensured), program 
development (which include review of data 
migration activity), computer operations (which 
includes testing of key controls pertaining to, 
backup, Batch processing (including interface 
testing), incident management and data centre 
security), System interface controls. This included 
testing that requests for access to systems were 
appropriately logged, reviewed, and authorized.
•	
In addition to the above, the design and operating 
effectiveness of certain automated controls, that 
were considered as key internal system controls 
over financial reporting were tested. Using 
various techniques such as inquiry, review of 
documentation / record / reports, observation, 
and re-performance. We also tested few controls 
using negative testing technique.
•	
Tested compensating controls and performed 
alternate 
procedures, 
where 
necessary. 
In 
addition, understood where relevant changes 
made to the IT landscape during the audit period.
Information 
Other 
than 
the 
Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the Annual Report but does not include the 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The Annual Report is expected to be made available 
to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we will not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in 
doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the financial statements 
or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance under SA 720 ‘The Auditor’s 
responsibilities Relating to Other Information’.
Responsibilities of Management and Board 
of Directors for the Standalone Financial 
Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view 
of the financial position, financial performance, 
changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under section 133 of the Act 
read with the Rules thereunder. This responsibility 
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
124
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the standalone financial statement 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and Board of Directors are responsible 
for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a 
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement 
of 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
material 
accounting policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by Management and Board of Directors.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management 
and Board of Director’s use of the going concern 
basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may 
cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of 
our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the standalone financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
standalone financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 
and are therefore, the key audit matters. We describe 
these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of 
doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh 
the public interest benefits of such communication.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 125
01-22
121-283
23-120
Other Matter
The Statement of the Company for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 was audited by previous 
statutory auditor whose report dated May 25, 2023 
expressed a modified opinion on those standalone 
financial statements.
Our 
opinion 
is 
not 
modified 
in 
respect 
of 
the above matter.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (the “Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of 
section 143 of the Act, we give in “Annexure A” a 
statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 
3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, 
we report that:
	
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to 
the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit.
	
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account 
as required by law have been kept by the 
Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books.
	
(c)	 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit 
and Loss including other comprehensive 
income, the Statement of Changes in Equity 
and the Statement of Cash Flow dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the 
books of account.
	
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone 
financial 
statements 
comply 
with 
the 
Indian 
Accounting 
Standards 
specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with the 
Rules thereunder. .
	
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations 
received 
from 
the 
directors 
as 
on 
March 31, 2024 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors are 
disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act.
	
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate Report 
in “Annexure B”.
	
(g)	 With respect to the other matters to be 
included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance 
with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to 
the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact 
of pending litigations on its financial 
position in its standalone financial 
statements – Refer Note 34 of the 
standalone financial statements.
	
	
ii.	
The 
Company 
did 
not 
have 
any 
long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts for which there were any 
material foreseeable losses.
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company.
	
	
iv.	
a.	
The Management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, as disclosed in the 
Note 
41.2 
to 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, 
no 
funds 
have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
b.	
The Management has represented, 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, as disclosed in the Note 
41.2 to the standalone financial 
statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
126
manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
c.	
Based on the audit procedures 
performed 
that 
have 
been 
considered 
reasonable 
and 
appropriate in the circumstances, 
and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us 
by the Management in this regard 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) of the Act 
as provided under (1) and (2) above, 
contain any material mis-statement.
	
	
v.	
The Company has neither declared nor 
paid any dividend during the year.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, the Company 
has used an accounting softwares for 
maintaining its books of account which 
has / have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility. The audit trail feature 
has been operated throughout the year 
for all transactions recorded in the 
accounting software(s). Further, during 
the course of our audit, we did not come 
across any instance of the audit trail 
feature being tampered with.
3.	
As required by The Companies (Amendment) Act, 
2017, in our opinion, according to information, 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid 
by the Company to its directors is within the 
limits laid prescribed under Section 197 read with 
Schedule V of the Act and the rules thereunder.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number. 105047W
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118580
April 29, 2024 	
UDIN: 24118580BKFLYM5425
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 127
01-22
121-283
23-120
of Even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited for the year 
ended March 31, 2024
“Annexure A” 
to Independent Auditors’ Report
[Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the 
Independent Auditors’ Report]
i.	
(a)	 A	
The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars including 
quantitative details and situation of 
property, plant and equipment and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets.
	
(a)	 B	
The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars of 
intangible assets.
	
(b)	 All the Property, Plant and Equipment and 
right of use assets were physically verified 
by the management in the previous year in 
accordance with a planned programme of 
verifying them once in three years which, in 
our opinion, is reasonable having regard to 
the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets. No material discrepancies were 
noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and on the basis 
of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the title deeds of immovable 
properties (other than properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of 
the lessee) as disclosed in the standalone 
financial statements, are held in the name 
of the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not revalued 
its property, plant and Equipment (including 
Right of Use assets) and intangible assets 
during the year. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(i)(d) of the Order are 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(e)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us, no proceeding 
has been initiated or pending against the 
Company for holding benami property under 
the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988, as amended and rules made thereunder. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(i)(e) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
ii.	
(a)	 The Company is involved in the business of 
rendering services and does not hold any 
inventory. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(ii)(a) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 During the year the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess 
of ` 5 crores in aggregate from Banks and/ 
financial institutions on the basis of security 
of Loan assets. Based on the records 
examined by us in the normal course of 
audit of the standalone financial statements, 
quarterly returns / statements filed with such 
Banks/ financial institutions are in agreement 
with the books of accounts of the Company.
iii.	
(a)	 As explained in Note 1 to the Financial 
Statements, the Company is a non-deposit 
taking 
non-banking 
financial 
company 
(“NBFC”) registered with the RBI and as 
part of its business activities, is engaged 
in the business of lending across various 
types of loans. The Company’s principal 
business is to give loans and is a registered 
NBFC. Accordingly, provisions stated under 
clause 3(iii)(a) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(b)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and based on the 
audit procedures performed by us, we are 
of the opinion that the investments made, 
guarantees provided, securities given and 
terms and conditions in relation to grant of 
all loans and advances in the nature of loans, 
investments made, guarantees provided and 
securities given are not prejudicial to the 
interest of the Company.
	
(c)	 In respect of the aforesaid loans and 
advances in nature of loans, the schedule 
of repayment of principal and payment 
of interest have been stipulated by the 
Company. Considering that the Company is a 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
128
Non-Banking Financial Company engaged in 
the business of granting loans, the entity-wise 
details of the amount, due date for payment 
and extent of delay (that has been suggested 
in the Guidance Note on CARO 2020 issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India for reporting under this clause) have 
not been detailed hereunder because it is not 
practicable to furnish such details owing to 
the voluminous nature of data generated in 
the normal course of the Company’s business. 
Further, except for the instances where 
there are delays or defaults in repayment 
of principal and/ or interest and in respect 
of which the Company has recognized 
necessary provisions in accordance with the 
principles of Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) and the guidelines issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) for Income 
Recognition and Asset Classification (which 
has been disclosed by the Company in Note 
45 to the standalone financial statements), 
the parties are repaying the principal 
amounts, as stipulated, and are also regular 
in payment of interest, as applicable.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the details of amount overdue for more than ninety days, on the loans and 
advances in the nature of loans, are as follows:
No. of Cases
Principal 
amount 
overdue 
 (in lakhs)
Interest 
overdue
(in lakhs)
Total 
overdue
(in lakhs)
Remarks (if any)
14,939
59,607.12
19,992.65
79,599.78 According to the information and 
explanation given to us, reasonable steps 
have been taken by the Company for 
recovery of principal amount and interest.
	
(e)	 The company’s principal business is to give 
loans and is a registered NBFC, accordingly, 
provisions stated under clause 3(iii)(e) of the 
Order is not applicable.
	
(f)	 According to the information explanation 
provided to us, the Company has not any 
granted loans and / or advances in the 
nature of loans, including to promoters or 
related parties as defined in clause (76) of 
section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 either 
repayable on demand or without specifying 
any terms or period of repayment during 
the year. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
iv.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, in respect of loans, investments, 
guarantees and security made, as applicable.
v.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company being Non-Banking 
Financial 
Company 
registered 
with 
RBI, 
provisions of Sections 73 to 76 or any other 
relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, are not applicable to 
the Company. According to the information 
and explanations given to us, no order has been 
passed by the Company Law Board or National 
Company Law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India 
or any Court or any other Tribunal in this respect.
vi.	
The provisions of sub-Section (1) of Section 148 
of the Act are not applicable to the Company as 
the Central Government of India has not specified 
the maintenance of cost records for any of the 
products of the Company. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(vi) of the Order 
are not applicable to the Company.
vii.	 (a)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and the records of 
the Company examined by us, in our opinion, 
undisputed statutory dues including goods 
and services tax, provident fund, employees’ 
state 
insurance, 
income-tax, 
sales-tax, 
service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, 
value added tax, cess, and other statutory 
dues have been regularly deposited by the 
Company with appropriate authorities in all 
cases during the year.
	
	
There are no undisputed amounts payable in 
respect of Goods and Services tax, provident 
fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, 
sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 129
01-22
121-283
23-120
of excise, cess, and other statutory dues in 
arrears as at March 31,2024, outstanding for 
a period of more than six months from the 
date they became payable.
vii.	 (b)	 According to the information and explanation 
given to us and the records of the Company 
examined by us, there are no dues relating 
to goods and services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, 
sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, 
duty of excise, value added tax, cess, and 
other statutory dues which have not been 
deposited on account of any dispute.
viii.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no transactions which are 
not accounted in the books of account which 
have been surrendered or disclosed as income 
during the year in Income-tax Assessment of 
the Company. Accordingly, the provision stated 
under clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
ix.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations given to us and 
the records of the Company examined by us, 
the Company has not defaulted in repayment 
of loans or borrowings or in payment of 
interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	 The Company has not been declared wilful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
	
(c)	 In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations provided to us, 
money raised by way of term loans during 
the year have been applied for the purpose 
for which they were raised.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, and the procedures performed 
by us, and on an overall examination of 
the standalone financial statements of the 
Company, we report that no funds raised 
on short-term basis have been used for 
long-term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	 According to the information explanation 
given to us and on an overall examination 
of the standalone financial statements of 
the Company, we report that the Company 
has not taken any funds from an any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries.
	
(f)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and procedures 
performed by us, we report that the 
Company has not raised loans during the 
year on the pledge of securities held in its 
subsidiaries. Accordingly, reporting under 
Clause 3(ix)(f) of the order is not applicable 
to the Company.
x.	
(a)	 In our opinion and according to the 
information explanation given to us, the 
Company did not raise any money by way 
of initial public offer or further public offer 
(including debt instruments) during the year. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(x)(a) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(b)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations given to us and based on our 
examination of the records of the Company, 
the Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares 
or fully, partly, or optionally convertible 
debentures during the year. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	 Based on our examination of the books 
and records of the Company, carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, and according 
to the information and explanations given 
to us, we report that no material fraud by 
the Company or on the Company has been 
noticed or reported during the year in the 
course of our audit.
	
(b)	 Based on our examination of the books 
and records of the Company, carried out 
in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, and according to 
the information and explanations given to us, 
a report under Section 143(12) of the Act, in 
Form ADT-4, as prescribed under rule 13 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
was not required to be filed with the Central 
Government. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	 We have taken into consideration the whistle 
blower complaints received by the Company 
during the year while determining the nature, 
timing, and extent of audit procedures.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
130
xii.	 The 
Company 
is 
not 
a 
Nidhi 
Company. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 
3(xii)(a) to (c) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
xiii.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on our examination of the 
records of the Company, transactions with the 
related parties are in compliance with Sections 
177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, where 
applicable and details of such transactions have 
been disclosed in the Note 32 of standalone 
financial statements as required by the applicable 
accounting standards.
xiv.	 (a)	 In our opinion and based on our examination, 
the Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature 
of its business.
	
(b)	 We have considered internal audit reports 
issued by internal auditors during our audit 
in accordance with the guidance provided in 
SA 610 – ‘Using the work of Internal Auditors’.
xv.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, in our opinion, during the year, the 
Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with directors or persons connected 
with its directors and accordingly, the reporting 
on compliance with the provisions of Section 192 
of the Companies Act, 2013 in clause 3(xv) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	 The Company is required to and has been 
registered under Section 45-IA of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) as 
Non-Deposit taking Systemically Important 
(NBFC-ND-SI) Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has conducted non-banking 
financial activities during the year and 
the Company holds a valid Certificate of 
Registration from the Reserve Bank of India 
as per the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
	
(c)	 The Company is not a Core investment 
Company 
(CIC) 
as 
defined 
in 
the 
regulations made by Reserve Bank of 
India. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3 (xvi)(c) of the Order are not 
applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 According 
to 
the 
information 
and 
explanations provided to us, the Group (as 
defined in the Core Investment Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not 
have any Core Investment Company (as 
part of its group. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the order are 
not applicable to the Company.
xvii.	Based on the overall review of standalone 
financial statements, the Company has not 
incurred cash losses in the current financial 
year and in the immediately preceding financial 
year. Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(xvii) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
xviii.	There has been resignation of the statutory auditor 
during the year due to regulatory requirements, 
however there were no issues, objections or 
concerns raised by the outgoing auditor.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of the financial 
ratios (as disclosed in note 47 to the standalone 
financial statements), ageing and expected 
dates of realization of financial assets and 
payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of 
Directors and management plans and based on 
our examination of the evidence supporting the 
assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, 
which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit 
report that Company is not capable of meeting 
its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet 
as and when they fall due within a period of one 
year from the balance sheet date. We, however, 
state that this is not an assurance as to the future 
viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the 
date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities 
falling due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date, will get discharged by the 
Company as and when they fall due.
xx.	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has met the criteria 
as specified under sub-section (1) of Section 135 
of the Act read with the Companies (Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy) 
Rules, 
2014, 
however, in the absence of average net profits 
in the immediately three preceding years, there 
is no requirement for the Company to spend any 
amount under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of 
the Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 131
01-22
121-283
23-120
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial 
statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the said Clause has been included in the report.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number. 105047W
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118580
April 29, 2024 	
UDIN: 24118580BKFLYM5425
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
132
[Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the 
Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to 
the Members of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited 
on the Financial Statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2024]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements of the 
“Company” as of March 31, 2024 in conjunction with 
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Company for the year ended on that date.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company, including has, in all 
material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2024, based 
on the internal control with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (ICAI) (the “Guidance Note”).
Management 
and 
Board 
of 
Director’s 
Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors 
are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal control 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate 
internal 
financial 
controls 
that 
were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Indostar Capital Finance Limited
“Annexure B” 
to Independent Auditors’ Report
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, 
issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under 
section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively 
in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference 
to 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal 
financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 
Standalone Financial Statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal financial control with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 133
01-22
121-283
23-120
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of Standalone 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls 
With 
reference 
to 
Standalone 
Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial control 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number. 105047W
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118580
April 29, 2024 	
UDIN: 24118580BKFLYM5425
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
134
Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
 As at 
31 March 2024
 As at 
31 March 2023
I.	
ASSETS 
Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 
3
38,773.39
16,500.70
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
4
29,175.78
20,343.50
Loans 
5
598,730.29
519,561.53
Investments 
6
157,092.38
145,705.73
Other financial assets 
7
33,758.70
33,419.56
857,530.54
735,531.02
Non-financial assets 
Current tax assets (net) 
8
7,539.22
5,376.00
Deferred tax assets (net) 
9
31,651.53
31,643.62
Property, plant and equipment 
10
5,567.39
4,788.71
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim 
11
1,300.00
1,300.00
Goodwill 
12
30,018.69
30,018.69
Other intangible assets 
12
1,070.68
2,034.77
Other non-financial assets 
13
4,335.48
3,234.49
81,482.99
78,396.28
TOTAL ASSETS 
939,013.53
813,927.30
II.	
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY   
LIABILITIES 
Financial liabilities 
Trade payables 
14
(i)	
total outstanding to micro enterprises and 
small enterprises 
114.85
7.62
(ii)	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises 
15.47
727.63
Debt securities 
15
328,775.09
110,886.95
Borrowings (other than debt securities) 
16
276,167.94
370,421.44
Other financial liabilities 
17
22,481.59
28,211.11
627,554.94
510,254.75
Non-financial liabilities 
Provisions 
18
529.50
465.66
Other non-financial liabilities 
19
724.63
951.60
1,254.13
1,417.26
TOTAL LIABILITIES 
628,809.07
511,672.01
EQUITY 
Equity share capital 
20
13,607.93
13,607.93
Other equity 
21
296,596.53
288,647.36
TOTAL EQUITY 
310,204.46
302,255.29
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
939,013.53
813,927.30
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 47
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 135
01-22
121-283
23-120
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 47
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations 
22
Interest income 
91,478.94
88,947.05
Fees and commission income 
5,123.21
4,706.70
Net gain on fair value changes 
2,147.32
2,511.40
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category 
11,668.14
722.80
Total revenue from operations 
110,417.61
96,887.95
Other income 
23
2,105.06
2,420.15
Total income 
112,522.67
99,308.10
Expenses 
Finance costs 
24
58,114.60
51,801.92
Impairment on financial instruments 
25
8,306.69
(4,013.46)
Employee benefit expenses 
26
21,180.93
13,583.17
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 
27
2,766.37
3,634.76
Other expenses 
28
14,992.71
15,574.66
Total expenses 
105,361.30
80,581.05
Profit before tax 
7,161.37
18,727.05
Tax expense: 
 29 
1.	
Current tax 
-
-
2.	
Tax of earlier years 
-
-
3.	
Deferred tax expenses 
-
-
Total tax expenses 
-
-
Profit/(loss) after tax 
7,161.37
18,727.05
Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
	
-	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans 
(42.90)
119.17
	
-	
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss 
10.80
(29.99)
(32.10)
89.18
Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss
	
-	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income 
11.47
(16.72)
	
-	
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to 
profit or loss 
(2.89)
4.20
8.58
(12.52)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 
(23.52)
76.66
Total comprehensive income for the year 
7,137.85
18,803.71
Earnings per equity share  
 30 
	
Basic earnings per share (`) 
5.26
13.76
	
Diluted earnings per share (`) 
5.26
13.76
	
(Equity Share of face value of ` 10 each)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
136
Statement of Cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
A
Cash Flow from Operating Activities
Profit / (loss) before tax
7,161.37
18,727.05
Adjustments for :
Interest income on financial assets
(91,478.94)
(88,947.05)
Finance costs
58,114.60
51,801.92
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2,766.37
3,634.76
Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
22.55
27.11
Impairment on financial instruments
8,306.69
(4,013.46)
Provision for employee benefits
157.31
186.20
Employee share based payment expense
812.34
(4,375.16)
Net gain on fair value changes
(2,147.32)
(2,511.40)
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
(11,668.14)
(722.80)
(27,953.17)
(26,192.83)
Interest income realised on financial assets
90,889.36
95,250.92
Finance costs paid
(61,536.79)
(56,293.31)
Cash generated from operating activities before working 
capital changes
1,399.40
12,764.78
Adjustments:
(Increase)/Decrease in loans and advances
(162,945.19)
120,639.79
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets
(309.87)
(23,797.36)
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-financial assets
(1,100.99)
(289.09)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payable
(604.93)
494.44
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities
(5,953.11)
(15,231.83)
Increase/(Decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
(226.97)
380.54
Cash (used in)/generated from operating activities
(169,741.66)
94,961.27
Taxes (paid) / refund
(2,163.22)
1,260.87
Net cash (used in)/generated operating activities (A)
(171,904.88)
96,222.14
B
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
(840.00)
(462.29)
Sale of property, plant and equipment
7.77
14.01
Purchase of intangible assets
(27.20)
(1,621.25)
Proceeds/(Investment) in bank deposits of maturity greater 
than 3 months (net)
(8,832.28)
18,524.45
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments 
measured at FVTPL (net)
58,086.00
(40,747.71)
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments 
measured at FVOCI (net)
(4,020.66)
(9,494.06)
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at 
amortised cost (net)
23,065.49
10,479.23
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (B)
67,439.12
(23,307.62)
C
Cash Flow from financing activities
Proceeds from bank borrowings
190,316.60
280,098.46
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 137
01-22
121-283
23-120
Statement of Cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Repayments towards bank borrowings
(286,266.42)
(257,877.76)
Proceeds from issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures
245,500.00
90,000.00
Repayments towards Non-Convertible Debentures
(29,790.00)
(129,000.00)
Proceeds from Commercial Papers
55,300.00
30,000.00
Repayments towards Commercial Papers
(47,500.00)
(75,500.00)
Payment of lease liabilities
(821.73)
(1,314.75)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (C)
126,738.45
(63,594.05)
Net Increase in cash and cash equivalents (A) + (B) + (C)
22,272.69
9,320.47
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
16,500.70
7,180.23
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year
38,773.39
16,500.70
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents with 
the balance sheet
Cash on hand
400.27
314.49
Balances with banks 
-
-	
in current accounts
12,368.85
11,682.07
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
26,004.27
4,504.14
Total
38,773.39
16,500.70
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 47
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
138
Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
(a)	 Equity share capital of face value of ` 10/- each
Particulars 
Balance at 
the beginning 
 of the current 
 reporting period
Changes in 
Equity Share 
Capital due to 
 prior period 
errors
 Restated 
balance at the 
beginning of 
 the current 
reporting period 
 Changes in 
Equity Share 
Capital 
during the 
current year 
 Balance at 
the end of 
 the current 
 reporting 
period 
As at 31 March 2024
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
As at 31 March 2023
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
-
13,607.93
(b) Other equity  
Particulars
 Reserves and surplus 
 Other 
comprehensive 
income 
 Total 
Securities 
Premium 
Account 
Statutory 
Reserves 
U/s 45(IC) 
Capital 
Reserve 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
 General 
reserves 
 Retained 
earnings 
(i)  Balance at 1 April 2023 
292,207.63
29,650.80
0.43
2,074.82
2,683.84
(37,957.64)
(12.52)
288,647.36
Profit after tax for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
7,161.37
-
7,161.37
Debt instruments through 
other comprehensive income 
-
-
-
-
-
-
8.58
8.58
Gain/loss on re-measurement 
of defined benefit plans 
-
-
-
-
-
(32.10)
-
(32.10)
-
-
-
-
-
7,129.27
8.58
7,137.85
Transferred from 
Retained earnings 
-
1,432.27
-
-
-
(1,432.27)
-
-
Share based 
payment expense 
-
-
-
811.32
-
-
-
811.32
Transfer from ESOP reserves 
-
-
-
(763.40)
763.40
-
-
-
Balance at 31 March 2024 
292,207.63
31,083.07
0.43
2,122.74
3,447.24
(32,260.64)
(3.94)
296,596.53
(ii) Balance at 1 April 2022 
292,207.63
25,905.39
0.43
7,081.96
2,026.78
(53,028.46)
-
274,193.73
Profit after tax for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
18,727.05
-
18,727.05
Debt instruments through 
other comprehensive income 
-
-
-
-
-
-
(12.52)
(12.52)
Gain/loss on re-measurement 
of defined benefit plans 
-
-
-
-
-
89.18
-
89.18
-
-
-
-
-
18,816.23
(12.52)
18,803.71
Transferred from 
Retained earnings 
-
3,745.41
-
-
-
(3,745.41)
-
-
 Share based payment 
expense (refer note 26) 
-
-
-
(4,350.08)
-
-
-
(4,350.08)
Transfer from ESOP reserves 
-
-
-
(657.06)
657.06
-
-
-
Balance at 31 March 2023 
292,207.63
29,650.80
0.43
2,074.82
2,683.84
(37,957.64)
(12.52)
288,647.36
See accompanying notes forming part of the financial statements 1 to 47
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 139
01-22
121-283
23-120
1	
Corporate Information
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (‘the Company’ 
or ‘ICFL’) was incorporated on 21 July 2009 and is 
domiciled in India. The Company is registered with 
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as a Systemically 
Important 
Non-Deposit 
taking 
Non-Banking 
Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI) vide certificate 
No. N-13.02109. The Company is primarily engaged 
in lending business. The Company has been 
classified as Middle Layer as per Master Direction- 
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial 
Company – Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 
2023 dated 19 October 2023, as amended. 
The Company is also registered as Corporate 
Agent 
with 
the 
Insurance 
Regulatory 
and 
Development Authority (IRDAI) wide Certificate 
of Registration dated 21 February 2024.
2	
Basis 
of 
Preparation 
and 
Material 
accounting policies
2.1	 Statement of compliance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’)
	
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with the Companies 
(Indian 
Accounting 
Standards) 
Rules, 
2015, 
as amended from time to time. The financial 
statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, as modified by the 
application of fair value measurements required 
or allowed by relevant accounting standards. 
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
	
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the management is satisfied 
that the Company shall be able to continue its 
business for the foreseeable future. In making this 
assessment, the management has considered a 
wide range of information relating to present and 
future conditions, including future projections of 
profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
2.2	 Presentation of financial statements
	
The Balance Sheet and the Statement of Profit 
and Loss are prepared and presented in the 
format prescribed in the Division III to Schedule 
III to the Act applicable for Non Banking Financial 
Companies (“NBFC”). The Statement of Cash 
Flows has been prepared and presented as per 
the requirements of Ind AS 7 “Statement of Cash 
Flows”. The disclosure requirements with respect 
to items in the Balance Sheet and Statement of 
Profit and Loss, as prescribed in the Division III 
to Schedule III to the Act, are presented by way 
of notes forming part of the financial statements 
along with the other notes required to be disclosed 
under the notified accounting Standards and 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
generally reported gross in the balance sheet. 
They are only offset and reported net when, 
in addition to having an unconditional legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts without being contingent on a future 
event, the parties also intend to settle on a net 
basis in all of the following circumstances:
	
-	
the normal course of business
	
-	
the event of default
	
-	
the event of insolvency of bankruptcy of the 
Company/ or its counterparties.
2.3	 Material Accounting Policies
	
a)	
Financial Instruments
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities can be 
termed as financial instruments.
	
	
Financial instruments are recognised when 
the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual terms of the instruments.
 
 
(i) Classification of Financial Instruments
	
	
	
The 
Company 
classifies 
its 
financial 
assets 
into 
the 
following 
measurement categories:
	
	
	
1.	
Financial assets to be measured at 
amortised cost.
	
	
	
2.	
Financial assets to be measured 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
other 
comprehensive income.
	
	
	
3.	
Financial assets to be measured 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
profit 
or loss account.
	
	
	
The 
classification 
depends 
on 
the 
contractual terms of the financial assets’ 
cash flows and the Company’s business 
model for managing financial assets.
	
	
	
The Company classifies its financial 
liabilities at amortised cost unless it has 
designated liabilities at fair value through 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
140
the profit and loss account or is required 
to measure liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL) such as derivative 
liabilities. 
Financial 
liabilities, 
other 
than loan commitments and financial 
guarantees, are measured at FVTPL 
when they are derivative instruments or 
the fair value designation is applied.
	
	
	
Transaction costs directly pertaining 
to the acquisition or issue of financial 
instruments are added to or deducted 
from the initial measurement amount 
of the instrument except where the 
instrument is initially measured as fair 
value through profit or loss.
	
	
(ii)	 Assessment of business model and 
contractual cash flow characteristics for 
financial assets
	
	
	
Business model assessment
	
	
	
The Company determines its business 
model at the level that best reflects 
how it manages groups of financial 
assets to achieve its business objective. 
The 
Company’s 
business 
model 
determines whether the cash flows will be 
generated by collecting contractual cash 
flows, selling financial assets or by both. 
The 
Company’s 
business 
model 
is 
assessed at portfolio level and not 
at instrument level, and is based on 
observable factors such as:
	
	
	
(i)	 How the performance of the business 
model and the financial assets 
held within that business model 
are evaluated and reported to the 
entity’s key management personnel;
	
	
	
(ii)	 The 
risks 
that 
affect 
the 
performance of the business model 
and, in particular, the way those 
risks are managed;
	
	
	
(iii)	 The 
expected 
frequency, 
value 
and 
timing 
of 
sales 
are 
also 
important aspects of the Company’s 
assessment. The business model 
assessment is based on reasonably 
expected 
scenarios 
without 
taking ‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ 
scenarios into account.
	
	
	
Solely payment of principal and interest 
(SPPI) test
	
	
	
Subsequent to the assessment to the 
relevant business model of the financial 
assets, 
the 
Company 
assesses 
the 
contractual terms of financial assets 
to identify whether the cash flow 
realised are towards solely payment of 
principal and interest.
	
	
	
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is 
defined as the fair value of the financial 
asset at initial recognition and may 
change over the life of the financial 
asset. The most significant elements of 
interest within a lending arrangement 
are typically the consideration for the 
time value of money and credit risk.
 
 
(iii) Initial 
measurement 
of 
financial 
instruments
	
	
	
The classification of financial instruments 
at initial recognition depends on their 
contractual terms and the business 
model for managing the instruments. 
Financial 
instruments 
are 
initially 
measured at their fair value.
 
 
(iv) Classification of Financial Instruments 
as per business model and SPPI test
	
	
	
(a)	 Loans and Debt instruments at 
amortised cost
	
	
	
	
A ‘loan or debt instrument’ is 
measured at the amortised cost if 
both the following conditions are met:
	
	
	
	
i)	
The asset is held within a 
business model whose objective 
is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
	
	
	
	
ii)	
The contractual terms of the 
asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal 
and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
	
After 
initial 
measurement, 
such 
financial assets are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or 
costs that are an integral part of the 
EIR. The EIR amortization is included 
in interest income in the statement 
of profit or loss. The losses arising 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 141
01-22
121-283
23-120
from impairment are recognised in 
the statement of profit or loss.
	
	
	
(b)	 Financial 
assets 
at 
fair 
value 
through 
other 
comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI)
	
	
	
	
Financial assets are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
income if these financial assets 
are held within a business model 
whose objective is achieved by both 
collecting contractual cash flows that 
give rise on specified dates to sole 
payments of principal and interest 
on the principal amount outstanding 
and by selling financial assets.
	
	
	
(c)	 Financial 
assets 
at 
fair 
value 
through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
	
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss are those that are either 
held for trading and have been either 
designated by management upon 
initial recognition or are mandatorily 
required to be measured at fair value 
under Ind AS 109. Management only 
designates an instrument at FVTPL 
upon initial recognition when one of 
the following criteria are met (such 
designation is determined on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis):
	
	
	
	
The 
designation 
eliminates, 
or 
significantly 
reduces, 
the 
inconsistent treatment that would 
otherwise arise from measuring the 
assets or recognising gains or losses 
on them on a different basis.
	
	
	
	
Financial 
assets 
at 
FVTPL 
are 
recorded in the balance sheet at 
fair value. Changes in fair value are 
recorded in profit and loss.
	
	
	
(d)	 Debt securities and other borrowed 
funds
	
	
	
	
After 
initial 
measurement, 
debt 
issued and other borrowed funds 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised cost. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on issue 
funds, and costs that are an integral 
part of the EIR. A compound financial 
instrument which contains both a 
liability and an equity component is 
separated at the issue date.
	
	
	
(e)	 Financial guarantees
	
	
	
	
Financial guarantees are initially 
recognised 
in 
the 
financial 
statements 
(within 
‘Provisions’) 
at fair value, being the premium/
deemed 
premium 
received. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, 
the Company’s liability under each 
guarantee is measured at the higher 
of (i) the amount initially recognised 
less 
cumulative 
amortisation 
recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss and (ii) the amount 
of loss allowance. The premium/
deemed premium is recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss 
on a straight line basis over the life 
of the guarantee.
	
	
	
(f)	 Undrawn loan commitments
	
	
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments are 
commitments under which, over 
the duration of the commitment, 
the Company is required to provide 
a loan with pre-specified terms 
to the customer. Undrawn loan 
commitments are in the scope of the 
ECL requirements.
 
 
(v) Reclassification of financial assets and 
liabilities
	
	
	
The Company does not reclassify its 
financial assets subsequent to their initial 
recognition, apart from the exceptional 
circumstances in which the Company 
acquires, disposes of, or terminates 
a business line.
 
 
(vi) Derecognition of financial assets in the 
following circumstances
	
	
	
(a)	 Derecognition of financial assets 
due to substantial modification of 
terms and conditions
	
	
	
	
The 
Company 
derecognises 
a 
financial asset, such as a loan to 
a customer, when the terms and 
conditions have been renegotiated 
to the extent that, substantially 
it 
becomes 
a 
new 
loan 
with 
the difference recognised as a 
derecognition gain or loss, to the 
extent that an impairment loss has 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
142
not already been recorded. The newly 
recognised 
loans 
are 
classified 
as Stage 1 for ECL measurement 
purposes, unless the new loan is 
deemed to be credit-impaired at the 
origination date.
	
	
	
	
If the modification does not result 
in cash flows that are substantially 
different, the modification does not 
result in derecognition. Based on 
the change in cash flows discounted 
at the original EIR, the Company 
records a modification gain or loss, 
to the extent that an impairment 
loss has not already been recorded.
	
	
	
(b)	 Derecognition of financial assets 
other 
than 
due 
to 
substantial 
modification
	
	
	
	
Financial assets
	
	
	
	
A financial asset or a part of financial 
asset is derecognised when the 
rights to receive cash flows from 
the financial asset have expired. 
The Company also derecognises the 
financial asset if it has transferred 
the financial asset and the transfer 
qualifies for derecognition.
	
	
	
	
The Company has transferred the 
financial asset if, and only if, either:
	
	
	
	
-	
The Company has transferred 
its 
contractual 
rights 
to 
receive cash flows from the 
financial asset; or
	
	
	
	
-	
It retains the rights to the 
cash flows, but has assumed 
an 
obligation 
to 
pay 
the 
received cash flows.
	
	
	
	
A transfer only qualifies for 
derecognition if either:
	
	
	
	
-	
The Company has transferred 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset; or
	
	
	
	
-	
The 
Company 
has 
neither 
transferred 
nor 
retained 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
	
	
	
	
The Company considers control 
to be transferred if and only if, the 
transferee has the practical ability 
to sell the asset in its entirety to 
an unrelated third party and is able 
to exercise that ability unilaterally 
and without imposing additional 
restrictions on the transfer.
	
	
	
	
When the Company has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards and has 
retained control of the asset, the 
asset continues to be recognised 
only to the extent of the Company’s 
continuing involvement, in which 
case, the Company also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred 
asset and the associated liability are 
measured on a basis that reflects 
the rights and obligations that the 
Company has retained.
	
	
	
	
Write off
	
	
	
	
The Company writes off a financial 
asset when there is information 
indicating that the counterparty is in 
severe financial difficulty and there 
is no realistic prospect of recovery. 
Financial assets written off may still 
be subject to enforcement activities 
under 
the 
Company’s 
recovery 
procedures, taking into account 
legal advice where appropriate. 
Any recoveries made are recognised 
in Statement of profit and loss.
	
	
(vii)	Derecognition of Financial liabilities
	
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised 
when the obligation under the liability 
is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Where an existing financial liability is 
replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as 
a derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference between the carrying 
value of the original financial liability and 
the consideration paid is recognised in 
profit or loss.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 143
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
b)	
Fair Value Measurement
	
	
On 
initial 
recognition, 
all 
the 
financial 
instruments are measured at fair value. 
For subsequent measurement, the Company 
measures certain categories of financial 
instruments at fair value on each balance 
sheet date. Fair value is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date.
	
	
The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
	
i.	
In the principal market for the asset 
or liability, or
	
	
ii.	
In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
asset or liability.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial 
asset 
takes 
into 
account 
a 
market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that 
are appropriate in the circumstances and for 
which sufficient data are available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant 
observable inputs and minimising the use of 
unobservable inputs.
	
	
In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified 
based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, 
as summarised below:
	
	
Fair values are categorised into different levels 
in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs 
used in the valuation techniques as follows:
	
	
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities;
	
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices 
included in Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly;
	
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that 
are not based on observable market data.
	
	
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of 
an asset or a liability fall into different levels 
of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value 
measurement is categorised in its entirety in 
the same level of the fair value hierarchy as 
the lowest level input that is significant to the 
entire measurement.
	
	
The Company recognises transfers between 
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of 
the reporting period during which the change 
has occurred, if any.
	
c)	
Property plant and equipment
	
	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) is 
recognised when it is probable that the 
future economic benefits associated with it 
will flow to the company and the cost can be 
measured reliably.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are 
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses, if any. Cost comprises 
the purchase price and any attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for 
its intended use. Borrowing costs relating to 
acquisition of assets which takes substantial 
period of time to get ready for its intended 
use are also included to the extent they relate 
to the year till such assets are ready to be put 
to use. Any trade discounts and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price.
	
	
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of 
such assets are measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and 
the carrying amount of the asset and are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate only if it is probable that 
the future economic benefits associated with 
the item will flow to the Company and that 
the cost of the item can be reliably measured. 
The carrying amount of any component 
accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognised when replaced. All other repair 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
144
and maintenance expenses are charged to 
the Statement of Profit and Loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
	
Depreciation
	
	
Depreciation 
is 
provided 
on 
Straight 
Line Method (‘SLM’), which reflects the 
management’s estimate of the useful life of 
the respective assets. The estimated useful life 
used to provide depreciation are as follows:
Particulars
Estimated  
useful  
life by the  
Company
Useful life as 
prescribed by 
Schedule II of 
the Companies 
Act 2013
Computers
3 years
3 years
Office  
Equipment
5 years
5 years
Office  
Equipment  
- mobiles
2 years
5 years
Furniture  
and fixtures
5 years
10 years
Servers and  
networks
5 years
6 years
Property, 
plant 
and 
equipment 
items 
individually costing less than ` 5,000 are 
depreciated fully in the year of purchase.
	
	
Leasehold improvement is amortised on 
Straight Line Method over the lease term, 
subject to a maximum of 60 months.
	
	
Useful life of assets different from prescribed 
in Schedule II of the Act has been estimated 
by 
management 
and 
supported 
by 
technical assessment.
	
	
Depreciation on assets acquired/sold during 
the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis 
to the Statement of Profit and Loss till 
the date of sale.
	
	
The 
useful 
lives 
and 
the 
method 
of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
are reviewed at each financial year end 
and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. 
Changes in the expected useful life are 
accounted for by changing the amortisation 
period or methodology, as appropriate, and 
treated as changes in accounting estimates.
	
d)	
Intangible assets
	
	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
An intangible asset is recognised only when 
its cost can be measured reliably and it is 
probable that the expected future economic 
benefits that are attributable to it will flow 
to the Company. Intangible assets acquired 
separately are measured on initial recognition 
at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation. The cost of intangible assets 
acquired in a business combination is their 
fair value as at the date of acquisition.
	
	
Amortisation
	
	
Intangible assets are amortised using the 
straight line method over a period of 3 years, 
which is the management’s estimate of its 
useful life. The amortisation period and the 
amortisation method are reviewed at least 
as at each financial year end. If the expected 
useful life of the asset is significantly 
different 
from 
previous 
estimates, 
the 
amortisation period is changed accordingly. 
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or 
disposal of an intangible asset are determined 
as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and recognised as income or expense 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
e)	
Business Combination and goodwill thereon
	
	
Business combinations other than under 
common control are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured at the value which is aggregate 
of the consideration transferred, measured at 
acquisition date fair value and the amount of 
any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. 
The identifiable assets acquired and the 
liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair 
values, as on date of acquisition.
	
	
Measurement
	
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred and the amount recognised for 
non-controlling interests, and any previous 
interest held, over the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. In case the 
excess is on account of bargain purchase, the 
gain is recognised directly in equity as capital 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 145
01-22
121-283
23-120
reserve. When the transaction is of nature 
other than bargain purchase, then the gain is 
recognised in OCI and accumulated in equity 
as capital reserve.
	
f) 	
Impairment
	
	
(i)	 Financial Assets
	
	
	
(a)	 Expected 
Credit 
Loss 
(ECL) 
principles
	
	
	
	
The Company records allowance 
for expected credit losses for all 
loans, debt financial assets not 
held 
at 
FVTPL, 
undrawn 
loan 
commitments 
(referred 
to 
as 
‘financial instruments’).
	
	
	
	
For the computation of ECL on the 
financial instruments, the Company 
categories its financial instruments 
as mentioned below:
	
	
	
	
Stage 1: All exposures where 
there has not been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition or that has low credit 
risk at the reporting date and 
that are not credit impaired upon 
origination are classified under this 
stage. The Company classifies all 
advances upto 30 days overdue 
under this category.
	
	
	
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified as 
Stage 2 when the amount is due for 
more than 30 days but less than 90 
days. All exposures where there has 
been a significant increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition but are 
not credit impaired are classified 
under this stage.
	
	
	
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed 
as credit impaired when one or 
more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash 
flows of that asset have occurred. 
Exposures 
where 
the 
amount 
remains due for 90 days or more are 
considered as to be stage 3 assets.
	
	
	
	
The Company has established a 
policy to perform an assessment, 
at the end of each reporting period, 
of whether a financial instrument’s 
credit risk has increased significantly 
since 
initial 
recognition, 
by 
considering the change in the risk of 
default occurring over the remaining 
life of the financial instrument. 
The 
Company 
undertakes 
the 
classification of exposures within the 
aforesaid stages at borrower level.
 
 
 
(b) Definition of default
	
	
	
	
A default on a financial asset is 
when the counterparty fails to 
make the contractual payments 
within 90 days of when they fall 
due. 
Accordingly, 
the 
financial 
assets shall be classified as Stage 
3, if on the reporting date, it has 
been 90 days and above past due. 
Non-payment on another obligation 
of the same customer is also 
considered as a Stage 3. In addition, 
Company shall also classify those 
accounts as default which meets 
the criteria as per the RBI circular 
RBI/2021-2022/125 
DOR.STR.
REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 
dated 
November 12, 2021.
	
	
	
(c)	 Calculation of ECL:
	
	
	
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit 
losses (i.e. present value of all 
cash shortfalls) over the expected 
life of the financial instruments. 
Cash shortfalls are the difference 
between the cash flows that the entity 
is entitled to receive on account of 
contract and the cash flows that the 
entity expects to receive.
	
	
	
	
The mechanics of the ECL 
calculations are outlined below and 
the key elements are as follows:
	
	
	
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The 
Exposure at Default is the amount 
the Company is entitled to receive 
as on reporting date including 
repayments due for principal and 
interest, 
whether 
scheduled 
by 
contract or otherwise, expected 
drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
	
	
	
Probability of Default (PD) : The 
Probability of Default is an estimate 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
146
of the likelihood of default of the 
exposure over a given time horizon. 
A default may only happen at a 
certain time over the assessed 
period, if the facility has not been 
previously derecognised and is still 
in the portfolio.
	
	
	
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The 
Loss Given Default is an estimate of 
the loss arising in the case where a 
default occurs at a given time. It is 
based on the difference between 
the contractual cash flows due and 
those that the lender would expect 
to 
receive, 
including 
from 
the 
realisation of any collateral.
	
	
	
	
The ECL allowance is applied on 
the financial instruments depending 
upon 
the 
classification 
of 
the 
financial instruments as per the 
credit risk involved. ECL allowance 
is 
computed 
on 
the 
below 
mentioned basis:
	
	
	
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is 
the portion of Lifetime ECL that 
represents the ECL that results 
from default events on a financial 
instrument that are possible within 
the 12 months after the reporting 
date. 12-month ECL is applied on 
stage 1 assets.
	
	
	
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for 
credit losses expected to arise 
over the life of the asset in cases of 
credit impaired loans and in case of 
financial instruments where there 
has been significant increase in credit 
risk since origination. Lifetime ECL 
is the expected credit loss resulting 
from all possible default events 
over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. Lifetime ECL is applied 
on stage 2 and stage 3 assets.
	
	
	
	
The Company computes the ECL 
allowance either on individual basis 
or on collective basis, depending 
on the nature of the underlying 
portfolio of financial instruments. 
The Company has grouped its loan 
portfolio into Corporate loans, SME 
loans and Commercial vehicle loans.
	
	
	
	
ECL on Trade Receivables:
	
	
	
	
The Company applies the simplified 
approach for computation of ECL 
on trade receivables as allowed as 
per Ind AS 109. Thus, the Company 
is recognising lifetime ECL for 
trade receivables.
 
 
 
 
Significant increase in Credit Risk
	
	
	
	
The Company monitors all financial 
assets 
and 
financial 
guarantee 
contracts that are subject to the 
impairment requirements to assess 
whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition. If there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk, 
the Company will measure the loss 
allowance based on lifetime rather 
than 12-month ECL.
	
	
	
	
In assessing whether the credit 
risk on a financial instrument has 
increased significantly since initial 
recognition, the Company compares 
the risk of a default occurring on the 
financial instrument at the reporting 
date 
based 
on 
the 
remaining 
maturity of the instrument with 
the risk of a default occurring that 
was anticipated for the remaining 
maturity at the current reporting 
date when the financial instrument 
was first recognised. In making this 
assessment, the Company considers 
both quantitative and qualitative 
information that is reasonable and 
supportable, 
including 
historical 
experience 
and 
forward-looking 
information that is available without 
undue cost or effort, based on the 
Company’s 
historical 
experience 
and expert credit assessment.
	
	
	
	
Given that a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition is 
a relative measure, a given change 
in absolute terms in the PD will 
be more significant for a financial 
instrument 
with 
a 
lower 
initial 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 147
01-22
121-283
23-120
PD than compared to a financial 
instrument with a higher PD.
	
	
	
	
As a back-stop when loan asset 
not being a loan becomes 30 days 
past due, the Company considers 
that a significant increase in credit 
risk has occurred and the asset is in 
stage 2 of the impairment model, 
i.e. the loss allowance is measured 
as the lifetime ECL in respect of 
all retail assets.
	
	
	
	
For the purpose of counting of 
days past due for the assessment of 
significant increase in credit risk, the 
special dispensations to any class of 
assets in accordance with COVID-19 
Regulatory Package notified by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has 
been applied by the company.
 
 
 
 
Modification and derecognition of 
financial assets
	
	
	
	
A modification of a financial asset 
occurs when the contractual terms 
governing the cash flows of a financial 
asset are renegotiated or otherwise 
modified between initial recognition 
and maturity of the financial asset. 
A modification affects the amount 
and/or timing of the contractual 
cash flows either immediately or 
at a future date. In addition, the 
introduction of new covenants or 
adjustment of existing covenants 
of an existing loan may constitute 
a modification even if these new or 
adjusted covenants do not yet affect 
the cash flows immediately but may 
affect the cash flows depending on 
whether the covenant is or is not 
met (e.g. a change to the increase 
in the interest rate that arises when 
covenants are breached).
	
	
	
	
The Company renegotiates loans 
to customers in financial difficulty 
to 
maximise 
collection 
and 
minimise the risk of default. A loan 
forbearance is granted in cases 
where although the borrower made 
all reasonable efforts to pay under 
the original contractual terms, there 
is a high risk of default or default 
has already happened and the 
borrower is expected to be able to 
meet the revised terms. The revised 
terms in most of the cases include 
an extension of the maturity of the 
loan, changes to the timing of the 
cash flows of the loan (principal 
and interest repayment), reduction 
in the amount of cash flows due 
(principal and interest forgiveness) 
and amendments to covenants.
	
	
	
	
When a financial asset is modified 
the Company assesses whether 
this 
modification 
results 
in 
derecognition. In accordance with 
the Company’s policy a modification 
results in derecognition when it gives 
rise to substantially different terms. 
To determine if the modified terms 
are 
substantially 
different 
from 
the original contractual terms the 
Company considers the following:
	
	
	
	
•	
Qualitative factors, such as 
contractual cash flows after 
modification are no longer SPPI,
	
	
	
	
•	
Change in currency or change 
of counterparty,
	
	
	
	
•	
The extent of change in interest 
rates, maturity, covenants.
	
	
	
	
If this does not clearly indicate a 
substantial modification, then:
	
	
	
(a)	 In the case where the financial asset 
is derecognised the loss allowance 
for ECL is remeasured at the date 
of derecognition to determine the 
net carrying amount of the asset at 
that date. The difference between 
this revised carrying amount and 
the fair value of the new financial 
asset with the new terms will lead 
to a gain or loss on derecognition. 
The new financial asset will have a 
loss allowance measured based on 
12-month ECL except in the rare 
occasions where the new loan is 
considered to be originated-credit 
impaired. 
This 
applies 
only 
in 
the case where the fair value of 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
148
the new loan is recognised at a 
significant discount to its revised 
par amount because there remains 
a high risk of default which has not 
been reduced by the modification. 
The 
Company 
monitors 
credit 
risk of modified financial assets 
by 
evaluating 
qualitative 
and 
quantitative information, such as if 
the borrower is in past due status 
under the new terms.
	
	
	
(b)	 When the contractual terms of 
a financial asset are modified 
and the modification does not 
result 
in 
derecognition, 
the 
Company 
determines 
if 
the 
financial asset’s credit risk has 
increased 
significantly 
since 
initial recognition by comparing:
	
	
	
	
•	
the 
remaining 
lifetime 
PD 
estimated based on data at 
initial recognition and the 
original contractual terms; with
	
	
	
	
•	
the remaining lifetime PD at the 
reporting date based on the 
modified terms.
	
	
	
	
For 
financial 
assets 
modified, 
where modification did not result 
in derecognition, the estimate of 
PD reflects the Company’s ability 
to collect the modified cash flows 
taking into account the Company’s 
previous 
experience 
of 
similar 
forbearance action, as well as various 
behavioural indicators, including the 
borrower’s payment performance 
against the modified contractual 
terms. If the credit risk remains 
significantly higher than what was 
expected at initial recognition the 
loss allowance will continue to be 
measured at an amount equal to 
lifetime ECL. The loss allowance on 
forborne loans will generally only 
be measured based on 12-month 
ECL when there is evidence of the 
borrower’s 
improved 
repayment 
behaviour following modification 
leading to a reversal of the previous 
significant increase in credit risk.
	
	
	
	
Where a modification does not lead 
to 
derecognition, 
the 
Company 
calculates the modification gain/
loss comparing the gross carrying 
amount 
before 
and 
after 
the 
modification (excluding the ECL 
allowance). 
Then 
the 
Company 
measures ECL for the modified asset, 
where the expected cash flows 
arising from the modified financial 
asset are included in calculating the 
expected cash shortfalls from the 
original asset.
	
	
	
	
Presentation of ECL allowance in 
the Balance Sheet
	
	
	
	
Loss 
allowances 
for 
ECL 
are 
presented in the statement of 
financial position as follows:
	
	
	
	
•	
for financial assets measured at 
amortised cost: as a deduction 
from 
the 
gross 
carrying 
amount of the assets;
	
	
	
	
•	
for debt instruments measured 
at FVTOCI: no loss allowance 
is 
recognised 
in 
Balance 
Sheet as the carrying amount 
is at fair value.
	
	
(ii)	 Financial Liabilities
	
	
	
(a)	 Loan commitments
	
	
	
	
Undrawn loan commitments are 
commitments under which, over 
the duration of the commitment, 
the Group is required to provide 
a loan with pre-specified terms 
to the customer. Undrawn loan 
commitments are in the scope of the 
ECL requirements.
	
	
	
(b)	 Financial guarantee contracts
	
	
	
	
The Group’s liability under financial 
guarantee is measured at the higher 
of the amount initially recognised less 
cumulative amortisation recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, 
and the ECL provision. For this 
purpose, the Group estimates ECLs 
by applying a credit conversion 
factor. The ECLs related to financial 
guarantee contracts are recognised 
within Provisions. Currently, the 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 149
01-22
121-283
23-120
Group has not recognised any ECL in 
respect of financial guarantee based 
on estimate of expected cash flows.
	
	
(iii)	Non-financial assets
	
	
	
(a)	 Intangible assets
	
	
	
	
The carrying amount of assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet 
date if there is any indication of 
impairment 
based 
on 
internal/
external factors. An impairment loss 
is recognised when the carrying 
amount 
of 
an 
individual 
asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the 
higher of fair value of the asset less 
cost of its disposal and value in use.
	
	
	
(b)	 Goodwill
	
	
	
	
Goodwill is recorded at the cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses 
in the previous years. Goodwill on 
acquisition is tested for impairment 
where the same allocated to each of 
the Group’s cash-generating units 
that are expected to benefit from 
the combination, irrespective of 
whether other assets or liabilities 
of 
the 
acquiree 
are 
assigned 
to those units.
	
	
	
	
A cash generating unit (CGU) to 
which goodwill has been allocated 
is tested for impairment on annual 
basis or whenever required in case 
where the Company is of the opinion 
that goodwill may be impaired. 
If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating unit is less than its 
carrying amount, the impairment 
loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the unit and then to the 
other assets of the unit pro rata based 
on the carrying amount of each 
asset in the unit. Any impairment 
loss for goodwill is recognised in 
profit or loss. Such impairment loss 
already recognised for goodwill is 
not reversed in subsequent periods.
	
g)	
Recognition of income
	
	
Revenue 
generated 
from 
the 
business 
transactions (other than for those items 
to which Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments 
are applicable) is measured at fair value 
of the consideration to be received or 
receivable by the Company. Ind AS 115 
Revenue from contracts with customers 
outlines a single comprehensive model of 
accounting for revenue arising from contracts 
with customers.
	
	
The Company recognises revenue from 
contracts with customers based on a five 
step model as set out in Ind AS 115:
	
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer;
	
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in 
the contract(s);
	
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price;
	
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract(s);
	
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the 
Company satisfies a performance obligation.
	
	
(a)	 Recognition of interest income
	
	
	
Interest income is recorded using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method 
for all financial instruments measured 
at amortised cost. The EIR is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts through the expected 
life of the financial instrument or, when 
appropriate, a shorter period, to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset.
	
	
	
The EIR for the amortised cost asset is 
calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition, 
origination fees and transaction costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR.
	
	
	
If expectations regarding the cash 
flows on the financial asset are revised 
for reasons other than credit risk, the 
adjustment is booked as a positive or 
negative adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the asset in the balance sheet 
with an increase or reduction in interest 
income. The adjustment is subsequently 
amortised through Interest income in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
The Company calculates interest income 
by applying the EIR to the gross carrying 
amount of financial assets other than 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
150
credit-impaired assets. When a financial 
asset becomes credit-impaired and is, 
therefore, regarded as ‘Stage 3’, the 
Company recognised the interest income 
by applying the effective interest rate to 
the net amortised cost of the financial 
asset. If the financial status of the financial 
asset improves and it no longer remains 
to be a credit-impaired, the Company 
revises the application of interest income 
on such financial asset to calculating 
interest income on a gross basis.
	
	
	
Interest income on all trading assets and 
financial assets mandatorily required to 
be measured at FVTPL is recognised 
as interest income in the statement of 
profit or loss.
	
	
(b)	 Dividend income
	
	
	
Dividend income is recognised when the 
Company’s right to receive the payment 
is established, it is probable that the 
economic benefits associated with the 
dividend will flow to the Company and 
the amount of the dividend can be 
measured reliably.
	
	
(c)	 Fees and commission income
	
	
	
Fees 
and 
commission 
income 
are 
recognised 
as 
income 
when 
the 
performance 
obligation 
as 
per 
the 
contract with customer is fulfilled and 
when the right to receive the payment 
against the services has been established.
	
	
(d)	 Origination fees
	
	
	
Origination fees, which the Company has 
received/recovered at time of granting 
of a loan, is considered as a component 
for computation of the effective rate 
of interest (EIR) for the purpose of 
computing interest income.
	
	
(e)	 Management Fees:
	
	
	
Management 
fees 
and 
other 
fees 
are recognised as income when the 
performance 
obligation 
as 
per 
the 
contract with customer is fulfilled and 
when the right to receive the payment 
against the services has been established.
	
	
(f)	 Assignment income
	
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
assignment transactions with complete 
transfer of risks and rewards, gain 
arising on such assignment transactions 
is recorded upfront in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss and the corresponding 
asset is derecognised from the Balance 
Sheet immediately upon execution of 
such transactions. Further the transfer of 
financial assets qualifies for derecognition 
in its entirety, the whole of the interest 
spread at its present value (discounted 
over the expected life of the asset) is 
recognised on the date of derecognition 
itself as excess interest spread and 
correspondingly recognised as profit on 
derecognition of financial asset.
	
	
(g)	 Securitisation transactions :
	
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
securitisation transactions, the Company 
retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of a transferred 
financial asset, the company continues 
to recognise the financial asset and also 
recognises a collateralised borrowing for 
the proceeds received.
	
	
(h)	 Net gain/(loss) on Fair value changes
	
	
	
Any differences between the fair values 
of financial assets classified as fair value 
through the profit or loss, held by the 
Company on the balance sheet date is 
recognised as an unrealised gain or loss 
as a gain or expense respectively.
	
	
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on 
sale of financial instruments measured at 
FVTPL and debt instruments measured 
at FVOCI is recognised in net gain / loss 
on fair value changes.
	
	
(i)	 Sourcing and servicing fee
	
	
	
The revenue from the contract as a 
service provider (sourcing and collection 
agent) 
on 
behalf 
of 
customer, 
is 
recognised upfront for services rendered 
as sourcing agent and on straight line 
basis over the loan tenure for services in 
the nature of collection and performance 
agent. The financial guarantee provided 
under the service contract is recognised 
at fair value on sourcing and is amortised 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 151
01-22
121-283
23-120
over 
the 
period 
of 
contract 
with 
subsequent measurement at higher of 
the unamortised value as per Ind AS 115 or 
expected credit losses as per Ind AS 109.
	
h)	
Finance Costs
	
	
The Company recognises interest expense 
on the borrowings as per EIR methodology 
which is calculated by considering any 
ancillary costs incurred and any premium 
payable on its maturity.
 
i) 
Retirement and other employee benefits
 
 
(i) Defined Contribution Plan
	
	
	
Provident Fund
	
	
	
All the employees of the Company are 
entitled to receive benefits under the 
Provident Fund, a defined contribution 
plan in which both the employee and 
the Company contribute monthly at a 
stipulated rate. The Company has no 
liability for future Provident Fund benefits 
other than its annual contribution and 
recognises such contributions as an 
expense, when an employee renders the 
related service.
 
 
(ii) Defined Benefit schemes
	
	
	
(a)	 Gratuity
	
	
	
	
The Company provides for the 
gratuity, a defined benefit retirement 
plan covering all employees. The plan 
provides for lump sum payments 
to employees upon death while in 
employment or on separation from 
employment after serving for the 
stipulated year mentioned under 
‘The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’. 
The Company accounts for liability 
of future gratuity benefits based on 
an external actuarial valuation on 
projected unit credit method carried 
out for assessing liability as at the 
reporting date.
	
	
	
	
Net interest recognised in proﬁt 
or loss is calculated by applying 
the discount rate used to measure 
the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to 
the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 
or asset. The actual return on the 
plan assets above or below the 
discount rate is recognised as 
part of re-measurement of net 
deﬁned liability or asset through 
other 
comprehensive 
income. 
Remeasurements, 
comprising 
of 
actuarial gains and losses, the 
effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and 
the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest 
on the net defined benefit liability), 
are recognised immediately in the 
balance sheet with a corresponding 
debit or credit to retained earnings 
through 
Other 
comprehensive 
income (‘OCI’) in the period in which 
they occur. Remeasurements are 
not reclassified to profit or loss in 
subsequent periods.
	
	
	
(b)	 Compensated absences
	
	
	
	
Compensated 
absences 
which 
are 
expected 
to 
occur 
within 
twelve months after the end of 
the period in which the employee 
renders the related services are 
provided for based on estimates. 
Compensated absences which are 
not expected to occur within twelve 
months after the end of the period 
in which the employee renders 
the related services are provided 
for based on actuarial valuation. 
The actuarial valuation is done as per 
projected unit credit method as at 
the reporting date. Actuarial gains/
losses are immediately taken to 
Statement of profit and loss account 
and are not deferred.
	
j)	
Share based employee payments
	
	
Equity settled share based payments
	
	
The stock options granted to employees are 
measured at the fair value of the options at 
the grant date. The fair value of the options 
is treated as discount and accounted as 
employee 
compensation 
cost 
over 
the 
vesting period on a straight line basis. 
The amount recognised as expense in each 
year is arrived at based on the number of 
grants expected to vest. If a grant lapses 
after the vesting period, the cumulative 
discount recognised as expense in respect 
of such grant is transferred to the general 
reserve within equity.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
152
	
k)	
Ind AS 116 Leases
	
	
The determination of whether an arrangement 
is a lease, or contains a lease, is based on the 
substance of the arrangement and requires 
an assessment of whether the fulfilment of 
the arrangement is dependent on the use 
of a specific asset or assets or whether the 
arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
	
	
Company as a lessee
	
	
Leases that do not transfer to the Company 
substantially all of the risks and benefits 
incidental to ownership of the leased items are 
treated as operating leases. Operating lease 
payments are recognised as an expense in the 
statement of profit and loss on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term, unless the increase 
is in line with expected general inflation, in 
which case lease payments are recognised 
based on contractual terms. Contingent rental 
payable is recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they it is incurred.
	
	
Critical accounting estimate and judgement
	
	
1.	
Determination of lease term
	
	
	
Ind AS 116 Leases requires lessee 
to determine the lease term as the 
non-cancellable 
period 
of 
a 
lease 
adjusted with any option to extend 
or terminate the lease, if the use of 
such 
option 
is 
reasonably 
certain. 
The Company makes assessment on the 
expected lease term on lease by lease 
basis and thereby assesses whether it is 
reasonably certain that any options to 
extend or terminate the contract will be 
exercised. In evaluating the lease term, 
the Company considers factors such as 
any significant leasehold improvements 
undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of lease and 
the importance of the underlying to 
the Company’s operations taking into 
account the location of the underlying 
asset and the availability of the suitable 
alternatives. The lease term in future 
periods is reassessed to ensure that 
the lease term reflects the current 
economic circumstances.
	
	
2.	
Discount Rate
	
	
	
The discount rate is generally based 
on the incremental borrowing rate 
specific to the lease being evaluated 
or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
	
l)	
Foreign currency translation
	
	
Functional and presentational currency
	
	
The financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees which is also functional 
currency of the Company and the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which 
the Company operates.
	
m)	 Provisions
	
	
A provision is recognised when the Company 
has a present obligation as a result of past 
event; it is probable that outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate can be 
made. Provisions are not discounted to its 
present value and are determined based on 
best estimate required to settle the obligation 
at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed 
at each balance sheet date and adjusted to 
reflect the current best estimates.
	
n)	
Taxes
	
	
(i)	 Current tax
	
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the 
current and prior years are measured at 
the amount expected to be recovered 
from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. 
The tax rates and tax laws used to 
compute the amount are those that are 
enacted, or substantively enacted, by 
the reporting date in the countries where 
the Company operates and generates 
taxable income.
	
	
	
Current income tax relating to items 
recognised outside profit or loss is 
recognised outside profit or loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in 
equity). Current tax items are recognised 
in 
correlation 
to 
the 
underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly 
in 
equity. 
Management 
periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in 
which applicable tax regulations are 
subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions where appropriate.
	
	
(ii)	 Deferred tax
	
	
	
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences at the reporting date 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 153
01-22
121-283
23-120
between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for 
all deductible temporary differences, 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused 
tax losses can be utilised, except:
	
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each reporting date 
and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profit will be available to allow all or part 
of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
re-assessed at each reporting date and 
are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable 
profits will allow the deferred tax asset 
to be recovered.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised 
outside profit or loss is recognised 
outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). 
Deferred tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax 
liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable 
right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable 
entity and the same taxation authority.
	
	
(iii)	 Indirect tax
	
	
	
Expenses and assets are recognized 
net of the Goods and Services Tax 
paid, except when the tax incurred on 
a purchase of assets or services is not 
recoverable from the taxation authority, 
in which case the tax paid is recognized 
as part of the cost of acquisition of the 
asset or as part of the respective expense 
item, as applicable.
	
o)	
Earnings Per Share
	
	
The Company reports basic and diluted 
earnings per share in accordance with Ind 
AS 33 on Earnings per share. Basic EPS is 
calculated by dividing the net proﬁt or loss for 
the year attributable to equity shareholders 
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted 
earnings per share, the net proﬁt or loss for 
the year attributable to equity shareholders 
and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year are adjusted 
for the effects of all dilutive potential equity 
shares. Dilutive potential equity shares are 
deemed converted as of the beginning of 
the period, unless they have been issued at a 
later date. In computing the dilutive earnings 
per share, only potential equity shares that 
are dilutive and that either reduces the 
earnings per share or increases loss per 
share are included.
	
p)	
Contingent Liabilities
	
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation 
that arises from past events whose existence 
will be conﬁrmed by the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events beyond the control of the 
Company or a present obligation that is not 
recognised because it is not probable that 
an outﬂow of resources will be required 
to 
settle 
the 
obligation. 
A 
contingent 
liability also arises in extremely rare cases 
where there is a liability that cannot be 
recognised because it cannot be measured 
reliably. The Company does not recognize a 
contingent liability but discloses its existence 
in the ﬁnancial statements.
	
q)	
Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are those components 
of the business whose operating results are 
regularly reviewed by the chief operating 
decision making body in the Company to 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
154
make decisions for performance assessment 
and resource allocation.
	
	
The reporting of segment information is the 
same as provided to the management for the 
purpose of the performance assessment and 
resource allocation to the segments.
	
	
Segment 
accounting 
policies 
are 
in 
line with the accounting policies of the 
Company. In addition, the following specific 
accounting policies have been followed for 
segment reporting:
	
	
i)	
Segment revenue includes operational 
revenue 
directly 
identifiable 
with/
allocable to the segment.
	
	
ii)	
Expenses that are directly identifiable 
with/allocable 
to 
segments 
are 
considered 
for 
determining 
the 
segment result.
	
	
iii)	 Income which relates to the Company as 
a whole and not allocable to segments 
is included in “unallocable corporate 
income / (expenditure) (net)”.
	
	
iv)	 Segment result includes the finance costs 
incurred on interest bearing advances 
with 
corresponding 
credit 
included 
in 
“unallocable 
corporate 
income/
(expenditure)(net)”.
	
	
v)	
Segment 
assets 
and 
liabilities 
include 
those 
directly 
identifiable 
with 
the 
respective 
segments. 
Unallocable 
corporate 
assets 
and 
liabilities 
represent 
the 
assets 
and 
liabilities 
that 
relate 
to 
the 
Company as a whole.
	
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance 
sheet and for the purpose of statement 
of cash flows comprise cash at bank and 
cheques in hand and short-term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months 
or less, which are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value. They are held for 
the purposes of meeting short-term cash 
commitments (rather than for investment or 
other purposes).
2.4	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with Ind AS requires that the 
management of the Company makes estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of income and expenses of the period, the 
reported balances of assets and liabilities and the 
disclosures relating to contingent liabilities as of 
the date of the financial statements. The estimates 
and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates include useful lives of property, plant 
and equipment & intangible assets, allowance for 
expected credit losses, fair value measurement, 
business projections for impairment assessment 
of goodwill etc. Difference, if any, between the 
actual results and estimates is recognised in the 
period in which the results are known.
2.5	 Securities premium account
	
a)	
Securities premium includes:
	
	
-	
The difference between the face value of 
the equity shares and the consideration 
received in respect of shares issued;
	
	
-	
The fair value of the stock options which 
are treated as expense, if any, in respect 
of shares allotted pursuant to Stock 
Options Scheme.
	
b)	
The issue expenses of securities which 
qualify as equity instruments are written off 
against securities premium account/ retained 
earning in accordance with Ind AS.
2.6	 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies 
new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. 
For the year ended March 31, 2024, MCA has not 
notified any new standards or amendments to the 
existing standards applicable to the Company.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 155
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 3 
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand
 400.27 
 314.49 
Balances with banks 
-	
in current accounts
 12,368.85 
 11,682.07 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
 26,004.27 
 4,504.14 
 38,773.39 
 16,500.70 
Note 4 
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months
 1,652.74 
 21.50 
Earmarked deposits with banks
 27,523.04 
 20,322.00 
 29,175.78 
 20,343.50 
Note 5 
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Loans
At amortised cost
Business Loans
Corporate lending
40,851.33
123,176.21
Small and medium enterprises lending (SME)
31,679.68
108,044.88
Commercial vehicle lending
554,865.24
340,293.96
Other loans
2,405.14
2,214.37
Total - Gross
629,801.39
573,729.42
Less: Impairment allowance
(31,071.10)
(54,167.89)
Total - Net
598,730.29
519,561.53
(a)	 Secured by tangible assets
620,366.15
555,087.38
(b)	 Unsecured
9,435.24
18,642.04
Total - Gross
629,801.39
573,729.42
Less: Impairment allowance
(31,071.10)
(54,167.89)
Total - Net
598,730.29
519,561.53
Loans in India
(a)	 Public sector
-
-
(b)	 Others
629,801.39
573,729.42
Total - Gross
629,801.39
573,729.42
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
156
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Less: Impairment allowance
(31,071.10)
(54,167.89)
Total - Net (a)
598,730.29
519,561.53
Loans outside India (b)
-
-
Total - Net (a)+(b)
598,730.29
519,561.53
Footnotes:
i)	
Security receipts are presented as part of “Note 6 - Investments”
ii) 	
Stage classification of loans, investments and its impairment allowance is disclosed in Note 31(D) and Note 31(E)
iii)	
Secured indicates loans secured, wholly or partly, by way of hypothecation of vehicle and / or equitable mortgage of 
property and or equipment.
iv)	
Also refer Note 32.
Note 6 
Investments
Investments as at 31 March 2024
Particulars 
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Others
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through 
profit and 
loss
At cost
Mutual funds
-
-
16,723.44
-
16,723.44
Security Receipts
117,530.96
-
-
-
117,530.96
Treasury Bills
-
14,210.78
-
-
14,210.78
Subsidiaries
-
-
-
45,270.58
45,270.58
Total - Gross
117,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
193,735.76
Investments in India
117,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
193,735.76
Investments outside India
-
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
117,530.96
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
193,735.76
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(36,643.38)
-
-
-
(36,643.38)
Total - Net
80,887.58
14,210.78
16,723.44
45,270.58
157,092.38
1.	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is disclosed 
in Note 31 (D)
Investment in Subsidiaries comprises of:
Name of Subsidiary
Carrying Amount 
% Holding 
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited 
1.00 
100%
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited*
45,269.58 
100%
Total
45,270.58 
* includes cross charge of ` 269.58 lakhs in form of deemed investment in subsidiary on account of ESOPs given to 
employees of subsidiary.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 157
01-22
121-283
23-120
Investments as at 31 March 2023
Particulars 
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Others
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through 
profit and 
loss
At cost
Mutual funds
-
-
72,662.12
-
72,662.12
Security Receipts
42,871.31
-
-
-
42,871.31
Treasury Bills
-
9,477.34
-
-
9,477.34
Subsidiaries
-
-
-
45,271.60
45,271.60
Total - Gross
42,871.31
9,477.34
72,662.12
45,271.60
170,282.37
Investments in India
42,871.31
9,477.34
72,662.12
45,271.60
170,282.37
Investments outside India
-
-
-
-
-
Total - Gross
42,871.31
9,477.34
72,662.12
45,271.60
170,282.37
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(24,576.64)
-
-
-
(24,576.64)
Total - Net
18,294.67
9,477.34
72,662.12
45,271.60
145,705.73
1.	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is 
disclosed in Note 31 (D)
Investment in Subsidiaries comprises of:
Name of Subsidiary
 Carrying Amount 
 % Holding 
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited 
 1.00 
100%
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited*
 45,270.60 
100%
Total
 45,271.60 
* includes cross charge of ` 270.60 lakhs in form of deemed investment in subsidiary on account of ESOPs given 
to employees of subsidiary.
Note 7
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other financial assets
Security deposit
624.71
2,576.07
Assignment receivables
1,309.43
2,404.35
Deposits with Trustee for securitisation*
26,337.33
24,390.88
Other receivables
5,755.78
4,346.08
34,027.25
33,717.38
Less: Impairment loss allowance
(268.55)
(297.82)
33,758.70
33,419.56
* It represents fixed deposit held as collateral with trustee for pass through certificate transactions
Footnote: Other receivable includes receivable from subsidiaries (refer note 32)
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
158
Note 8
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Current tax assets (net)
Advance tax (net of provision)
 7,539.22 
 5,376.00 
 7,539.22 
 5,376.00 
Note 9
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Deferred tax assets (net)
Deferred Tax Assets 
Provision for expected credit loss
17,390.69
20,366.64
Provision for gratuity
96.95
90.00
Provision for compensated absences
36.31
26.99
Debt instruments through OCI
(2.89)
4.20
Lease liabilities
91.12
57.95
Income amortisation
(500.68)
(124.62)
Other items of disallowance
-
121.29
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
909.28
825.88
Carried forward book losses
24,012.02
19,575.18
Total (A)
42,032.80
40,943.51
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill
(7,555.10)
(7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
(329.56)
(605.13)
Borrowing cost amortisation
(2,496.61)
(1,139.66)
Total (B)
(10,381.27)
(9,299.89)
Net deferred tax asset (A-B) (also refer Note 29)
31,651.53
31,643.62
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 159
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 10
Property, plant and equipment
DESCRIPTION
Land - 
Freehold*
Furniture 
and fixtures
Leasehold 
Improvement
Office 
equipment
Computers
Right of Use - 
Premises
Total
Cost as at 1 April 2022
15.05
812.94
5,320.45
712.91
3,548.35
5,885.92
16,295.62
Additions
-
30.61
281.33
68.62
81.73
1,035.81
1,498.10
Disposals
-
(84.30)
(1,163.20)
(25.52)
(83.06)
(3,351.79)
(4,707.87)
Cost as at 31 March 2023 (A)
15.05
759.25
4,438.58
756.01
3,547.02
3,569.94
13,085.85
Additions
-
12.03
23.72
32.27
771.98
2,381.33
3,221.33
Disposals
-
(17.84)
(112.29)
(10.42)
(45.19)
(1,047.91)
(1,233.65)
Cost as at 31 March 2024 (A)
15.05
753.44
4,350.01
777.86
4,273.81
4,903.36
15,073.53
Accumulated depreciation as 
at 1 April 2022
-
514.18
3,600.88
457.69
2,194.08
2,590.73
9,357.56
Depreciation for the year
-
151.02
985.43
116.45
600.53
1,091.10
2,944.53
Disposals
-
(82.29)
(1,124.74)
(25.05)
(82.88)
(2,689.99)
(4,004.95)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
31 March 2023 (B)
-
582.91
3,461.57
549.09
2,711.73
991.84
8,297.14
Depreciation for the year
-
14.38
414.68
51.41
573.63
720.98
1,775.08
Disposals
-
(17.84)
(82.35)
(10.42)
(44.81)
(410.66)
(566.08)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
31 March 2024 (B)
-
579.45
3,793.90
590.08
3,240.55
1,302.16
9,506.14
Net carrying amount as at 31 
March 2024 (A) - (B)
15.05
173.99
556.11
187.78
1,033.26
3,601.20
5,567.39
Net carrying amount as at 31 
March 2023 (A) - (B)
15.05
176.34
977.00
206.92
835.29
2,578.10
4,788.71
* Mortgaged as security against Secured Non-convertible Debentures
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
160
Note 11
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim 
 1,708.88 
 1,708.88 
Less: Provision 
 (408.88)
 (408.88)
 1,300.00 
 1,300.00 
Note 12
a)	
Goodwill
DESCRIPTION
 Total 
Cost as at 1 April 2022
 30,018.69 
Acquisition of business
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2023 (A)
 30,018.69 
Acquisition of business 
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2024 (A)
 30,018.69 
Accumulated impairment as at 1 April 2022
 - 
Addition
 - 
Accumulated impairment as at 31 March 2023 (B)
 - 
Addition
 - 
Accumulated impairment as at 31 March 2024 (B)
 - 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2024 (A) - (B)
 30,018.69 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023 (A) - (B)
 30,018.69 
The Company has assessed that there is no impairment of Goodwill as at and for the year ended March 2024. 
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash 
flow projections of commercial vehicle business based on financial budgets covering a five-year period and 
a discount rate of 19%. The Company has determined that the recoverable amount calculations are most 
sensitive to changes in the assumptions of yield/spread during the budget period and the discounting rate. 
The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, on which recoverable 
amount is based would not cause carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
b)	 Other intangible assets
DESCRIPTION
 Computer 
Software 
 Total 
Cost as at 1 April 2022
 2,156.43 
 2,156.43 
Additions
 1,621.25 
 1,621.25 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2023 (A)
 3,777.68 
 3,777.68 
Additions
 27.20 
 27.20 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2024 (A)
 3,804.88 
 3,804.88 
Accumulated amortisation as at 1 April 2022
 1,052.68 
 1,052.68 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 161
01-22
121-283
23-120
DESCRIPTION
 Computer 
Software 
 Total 
Amortisation recognised for the year
 690.23 
 690.23 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March 2023 (B)
 1,742.91 
 1,742.91 
Amortisation recognised for the year
 991.29 
 991.29 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March 2024 (B)
 2,734.20 
 2,734.20 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2024 (A) - (B)
 1,070.68 
 1,070.68 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023 (A) - (B)
 2,034.77 
 2,034.77 
Note 13
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other non-financial assets
Prepaid expenses
 1,233.02 
 1,269.22 
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind or for value to be received
 3,102.46 
 1,965.27 
 4,335.48 
 3,234.49 
Note 14
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Trade payables
Dues to Micro, small and medium enterprises
 114.85 
 7.62 
Dues to Others
 15.47 
 727.63 
 130.32 
 735.25 
Footnote : Also refer Note 36
Note 15
Debt securities
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
At amortised cost
Redeemable non convertible debentures (Refer note (a) below)
321,565.56
110,886.95
Commercial paper (net of unamortised discount) (Refer note (b) below)
7,209.53
-
328,775.09
110,886.95
Debt securities in India
328,775.09
110,886.95
Debt securities outside India
-
-
Total
328,775.09
110,886.95
Secured
292,067.78
110,886.95
Unsecured
36,707.31
-
Total
328,775.09
110,886.95
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
162
(a)	 Non Convertible Debenture
	
Privately placed Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 9.75% <= 10.25% >= 7.78% <= 11.40%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months
116,253.22
32,010.35
12-24 Months
156,544.57
78,876.60
24-36 Months
48,767.77
-
Total
321,565.56
110,886.95
Nature of Security:
1.	
Security is created in favour of the Debenture Trustee, as follows:
	
(i)	 First pari-passu charge (along with banks, financial institutions and other lenders which provide credit 
facilities to the Issuer) by way of hypothecation of standard asset portfolio of receivables (Net of NPA) 
of the Issuer and / or cash / cash equivalent and / or such other asset, as may be identified by the 
Company of ` 515,805 lakhs (March 2023: ` 459,596 lakhs); and
	
(ii)	 First pari-passu charge on immovable property situated at village Maharajpura of Kadi taluka, Mehsana 
district, Gujarat.
2.	
Debentures may be bought back subject to applicable statutory and/or regulatory requirements, upon the 
terms and conditions as may be decided by the Company.
(b)	 Commercial papers
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 8.90% <= 10.15%
-
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months
 7,209.53 
 - 
Total
 7,209.53 
 - 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 163
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 16
Borrowings
At amortised cost
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Term loans
Term loans from Banks (Refer note (a) below)*
72,707.81
208,043.70
Term loans from Financial Institutions (Refer note (a) below)*
23,962.25
25,023.11
Loans repayable on demand
Working capital demand loans from banks **
32,885.13
25,784.06
Other borrowings
146,612.75
111,570.57
Total
276,167.94
370,421.44
Borrowings in India
276,167.94
370,421.44
Borrowings outside India
-
-
Total
276,167.94
370,421.44
Secured borrowings
276,167.94
299,977.23
Unsecured borrowings
-
70,444.21
Total
276,167.94
370,421.44
(a)	 Term loan from banks/FI :
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity):
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>=8.10% <= 12.00%
>=8% <= 11.50%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months
50,677.09
89,102.85
12-24 Months
30,478.25
114,033.00
24-36 Months
13,761.46
21,477.39
36-48 Months
1,753.26
8,354.12
48-60 Months
-
99.45
Total
96,670.06
233,066.81
* first pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of standard asset portfolio of receivables (net of provisions) of the Company 
and / or cash / cash equivalent and / or such other asset 
** secured by First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation on the standard asset portfolio 
# also refer 31(F)
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
164
(b)	 Working capital demand loans:
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 7.28% <= 9.52%
>= 9.10% <= 12.51%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months
32,885.13
25,784.06
Total
32,885.13
25,784.06
# also refer 31(F)
(c)	 Other borrowings
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 7.70% <= 10.50%
>= 7% <= 10.50%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months
61,568.24
42,068.96
12-24 Months
48,718.13
34,123.81
24-36 Months
20,161.45
9,220.84
36-48 Months
1,554.48
1,886.63
48-60 Months
1,712.28
1,969.84
Above 60 Months
12,898.17
22,300.49
Total
146,612.75
111,570.57
# also refer 31(F)
Footnote: Quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with Banks or Financial Institutions are in agreement with the 
unaudited books of accounts as on the respective submission dates and certified by Independent Chartered Accountants / 
Management, as relevant and relied upon by the Auditors.
Note 17
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other financial liabilities
Book overdraft
255.31
1,095.91
Employee benefits payable
3,027.57
2,282.94
Unamortised lease liabilities
3,923.54
2,749.03
Others
15,275.17
22,083.23
22,481.59
28,211.11
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 165
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 18
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Provisions
Provision for employee benefits:
-	
Gratuity 
 385.22 
 357.60 
-	
Compensated absences
 144.28 
 107.26 
Others :
-	
Expected credit loss on undrawn loan commitments
 - 
 0.80 
 529.50 
 465.66 
Note 19
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Non-financial liabilities
Statutory dues payable
 724.63 
 951.60 
 724.63 
 951.60 
Note 20 - Equity share capital
(a)	 Details of authorised, issued and subscribed share capital
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Authorised capital
Equity shares of ` 10/- each 
187,500,000
18,750.00
152,500,000
15,250.00
Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of 
Face Value of ` 10/- each
12,500,000
1,250.00
12,500,000
1,250.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Equity shares of ` 10/- each fully paid
136,079,295
13,607.93
136,079,295
13,607.93
Total
136,079,295
13,607.93
136,079,295
13,607.93
(b)	 Reconciliation of number of equity shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the 
year
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
136,079,295
13,607.93
136,079,295
13,607.93
Add: Shares issued during the year 
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
136,079,295
13,607.93
136,079,295
13,607.93
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
166
(c)	 Particulars of equity shares held by Holding Company
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding Company
76,482,638
56.20%
76,482,638
56.20%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(d)	 Particulars of shareholders holding more than 5% of the equity share capital
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding Company
76,482,638
56.20%
76,482,638
56.20%
Indostar 
Capital (Mauritius)
Promoter
23,262,583
17.09%
41,467,583
30.47%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(e)	 Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each holder of equity 
shares is entitled to proportionate vote on basis of his contribution to fully paid up share capital.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to 
the proportionate amount of contribution made by the equity shareholder to the total equity share capital.
(f)	 Objective of Capital Management
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company 
complies with externally imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy 
capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of its activities. The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy and the Board reviews the capital 
position on a regular basis.
(g)	 Equity Shares held by promoters/holding company at the end of the year
Promoter Name
No. of 
Shares
% of 
Total Shares
% change 
during the year
As at 31 March 2024
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
76,482,638
56.20%
-
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
23,262,583
17.09%
(13.38%)
As at 31 March 2023
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
76,482,638
56.20%
-
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
41,467,583
30.47%
-
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 167
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 21
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other equity
Capital Reserve
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
31,083.07
29,650.80
Securities premium
292,207.63
292,207.63
Share options outstanding account
2,122.74
2,074.82
General reserve
3,447.24
2,683.84
Retained earnings
(32,260.64)
(37,957.65)
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
(3.94)
(12.51)
296,596.53
288,647.36
21.1	 Other equity movement
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
0.43
0.43
Add : Transferred from surplus
-
-
Closing Balance
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
29,650.80
25,905.39
Add : Transferred from surplus
1,432.27
3,745.41
Closing Balance
31,083.07
29,650.80
Securities premium
Opening Balance
292,207.63
292,207.63
Less : Share issue expenses
-
-
Add: Transfer from ESOP reserves
-
-
Add : Premium collected on share allotment
-
-
Closing Balance
292,207.63
292,207.63
Share options outstanding account
Opening Balance
2,074.82
7,081.96
Movement during the year
47.92
(5,007.14)
Closing Balance
2,122.74
2,074.82
General reserve
Opening Balance
2,683.84
2,026.78
Movement during the year
763.40
657.06
Closing Balance
3,447.24
2,683.84
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
168
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Retained earnings
Opening Balance
(37,957.64)
(53,028.46)
Add: Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
(32.10)
89.18
Add: Transferred from the statement of profit and loss 
7,161.37
18,727.05
Less: Transfer to statutory reserve as per Section 45-IC of 
The RBI Act, 1934 
(1,432.27)
(3,745.41)
Less: Payment of dividend on CCPS
-
-
Closing Balance
(32,260.64)
(37,957.64)
Other Comprehensive Income
Opening balance
(12.52)
-
Add: Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
8.58
(12.52)
Closing balance
(3.94)
(12.52)
21.2	Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital Reserve
	
Capital reserve comprises of the amount received on shares forfeited by the Company on 
non-payment of call money.
	
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
	
Statutory reserves fund is required to be created by a Non-Banking Financial Company as per Section 45-IC 
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The Company is not allowed to use the reserve fund except with 
authorisation of Reserve Bank of India.
	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. It can be utilised in accordance with 
the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Share options outstanding account
	
The shares options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to 
employees under stock option schemes of the Company.
	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings represents surplus of accumulated earnings of the Company and which are available for 
distribution to shareholders.
	
General reserve
	
General reserve represents transfer of fair value of options granted to employees from ESOP Reserve to 
General Reserve on lapse/forfeiture of vested options by employees.
	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
	
It includes gain/(loss) on fair valuation of investment in treasuy bills
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 169
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 22 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations 
Interest income 
Interest income on financial assets measured at amortised cost: 
Interest on loans 
-	
Loan portfolio 
87,578.87
86,393.11
Interest on investments 
-	
Debt instruments 
118.95
159.71
Interest on deposits 
-	
Deposits with banks 
1,644.78
1,449.67
-	
Deposits with Trustees 
1,435.03
666.93
Interest income on financial assets measured at FVOCI: 
-	
Investments in debt instruments 
701.31
277.63
91,478.94
88,947.05
Fees and commission income 
-	
Fees Income 
4,647.13
4,706.70
-	
Insurance Income 
476.08
-
5,123.21
4,706.70
Net gain on fair value changes 
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss 
On trading portfolio 
-	
Investments 
2,147.32
2,511.40
Others 
Net gain/(loss) on sale of financial instruments at FVOCI 
-
-
Total fair value changes 
2,147.32
2,511.40
Fair value changes: 
-	
Realised 
2,124.65
2,346.07
-	
Unrealised 
22.67
165.33
Total fair value changes 
2,147.32
2,511.40
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments under 
amortised cost category 
-	
Investments 
11,668.14
-
-	
Assignment Income  
-
722.80
11,668.14
722.80
Total 
110,417.61
96,887.95
Note 23 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Other income 
Miscellaneous income 
120.20 
93.39 
Shared service cost recovery 
1,686.53 
1,983.12 
Interest on income tax refund 
298.33 
343.64 
2,105.06 
2,420.15 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
170
Note 24 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Finance cost 
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: 
Interest expense on borrowings 
Loans from Banks/FI 
18,844.89 
29,255.14 
Other borrowings (including Inter Corporate Deposits) 
11,442.68 
12,296.72 
Interest expense on debt securities 
Debentures 
25,919.78 
7,083.30 
Commercial paper 
1,203.87 
1,797.36 
Other interest expense 
Bank charges & other related costs 
703.38 
1,369.40 
58,114.60 
51,801.92 
Note 25 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Impairment on financial instruments at amortised cost 
Impairment on loans 
Provision for expected credit loss 
(11,030.05)
(51,130.84)
Financial assets written off (net of recovery) 
20,453.30 
48,012.33 
Impairment on others 
Undrawn loan commitments 
(0.80)
(29.32)
Provision on co-lending arrangements 
(1,086.49)
(897.47)
Others 
(29.27)
31.84 
8,306.69 
(4,013.46)
Note 26 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Employee Benefits Expenses 
Salaries, other allowances and bonus 
18,874.51 
16,970.39 
Gratuity expenses 
107.37 
171.52 
Compensated absences 
49.94 
14.68 
Contribution to provident and other funds 
750.41 
667.76 
Staff welfare expenses 
586.36 
133.98 
Share based payment expense 
812.34 
(4,375.16)
21,180.93 
13,583.17 
Footnote : During the quarter ended 31st March 2023, certain employees to whom stock options issued in accordance 
with ESOP plans disassociated from the Company. Accordingly, unvested and vested but not exercised options granted to 
these employees were cancelled. Employee cost includes effect of reversal of such cost of unvested options aggregating to 
` 4,421.94 lakh for the year ended 31 March 2023. 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 171
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 27 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Depreciation 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (PPE) 
1,775.08 
2,944.53 
Amortisation of intangible assets 
991.29 
690.23 
2,766.37 
3,634.76 
Note 28 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Other Expenses 
Rent 
979.49 
1,009.97 
Rates & taxes 
127.69 
0.94 
Printing and stationery  
261.41 
105.08 
Travelling & conveyance 
1,184.35 
1,012.60 
Advertisement 
41.11 
68.93 
Business Promotion 
29.28 
11.55 
Commission & brokerage 
64.29 
10.80 
Office expenses 
1,933.85 
1,944.28 
Directors' fees & commission 
34.95 
40.54 
Insurance 
618.90 
528.16 
Communication expenses 
615.01 
513.77 
Payment to auditors (note below) 
193.46 
388.63 
IT Support charges 
2,571.76 
2,101.73 
Legal & professional charges  
6,196.75 
7,688.70 
Loss on sale of property plant and equipment 
22.55 
27.11 
Membership & subscriptions 
76.78 
96.62 
Other fees and commission 
41.08 
25.25 
14,992.71 
15,574.66 
Payment to auditor includes: 
a)	
Statutory Audit
158.00 
341.01 
b)	
Certifications
17.25 
8.50 
c)	
Others
18.21 
39.12 
Total 
193.46 
388.63 
Details for expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility: 
a)	
Gross amount required to be spent during the year 
- 
- 
b)	
Amount of expenditure incurred 
- 
- 
c)	
Shortfall at the end of the year 
- 
- 
d)	
Total of previous years shortfall 
- 
- 
e)	
Reason for short fall 
NA 
NA 
f)	
Nature of CSR activities 
- 
- 
g)	
Details of related party transactions 
- 
-
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
172
Note 29
Income taxes
Tax expense
(a) Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Current tax expense
Current year
 - 
 - 
Tax expenses of earlier years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Tax expense for the year
 - 
 - 
(b)	 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars 
For the year ended 31 March 2024
For the year ended 31 March 2023
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss
-	
Remeasurements of the 
defined benefit plans
 (42.90)
 10.80 
 (32.10)
 119.17 
 (29.99)
 89.18 
-	
Debt instruments through other 
comprehensive income
 11.47 
 (2.89)
 8.58 
 (16.72)
 4.20 
 (12.52)
 (31.43)
 7.91 
 (23.52)
 102.45 
 (25.79)
 76.66 
(c)	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Profit/(loss) before tax
 7,161.37 
 18,727.05 
Statutory income tax rate
25.168%
25.168%
Expected income tax expense
 1,802.37 
 4,713.22 
Difference in tax rate due to:
 - Effect of non-deductible expenses
 63.83 
 23.28 
- Tax expense of earlier years
 - 
 - 
 - Others
 (1,866.20)
 (4,736.50)
Total tax expense
 - 
 - 
Effective tax rate
 - 
 - 
Current tax
 - 
 - 
Tax of earlier years
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 173
01-22
121-283
23-120
(d)	 Movement in deferred tax balances
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
Net balance 
1 April 2023
Recognised in 
profit or loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net 
deferred tax 
asset/liability
Deferred Tax Assets 
Provision for expected credit loss
 20,366.64 
 (2,975.95)
 - 
 17,390.69 
Provision for gratuity
 90.00 
 (3.85)
 10.80 
 96.95 
Provision for leave encashment
 26.99 
 9.32 
 - 
 36.31 
Debt instruments through OCI
 4.20 
 (4.20)
 (2.89)
 (2.89)
Income amortisation
 (124.62)
 (376.06)
 - 
 (500.68)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
 825.88 
 83.40 
 - 
 909.28 
Lease liabilities
 57.95 
 33.17 
 - 
 91.12 
Carried forward losses
 19,575.18 
 4,436.84 
 - 
 24,012.02 
Other items of disallowance
 121.29 
 (121.29)
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill amortisation
 (7,555.10)
 - 
 - 
 (7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
 (605.13)
 275.57 
 - 
 (329.56)
Borrowing cost amortisation
 (1,139.66)
 (1,356.95)
 - 
 (2,496.61)
Deferred tax assets / (Liabilities)
 31,643.62 
 - 
 7.91 
 31,651.53 
(e)	 Movement in deferred tax balances
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2023
Net balance 
1 April 2022
Recognised in 
profit or loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net 
deferred tax 
asset/liability
Deferred Tax Assets 
Provision for expected credit loss
 32,731.69 
 (12,365.05)
 - 
 20,366.64 
Provision for gratuity
 113.66 
 6.33 
 (29.99)
 90.00 
Provision for leave encashment
 32.79 
 (5.80)
 - 
 26.99 
Debt instruments through OCI
 - 
 - 
 4.20 
 4.20 
Income amortisation
 128.27 
 (252.89)
 - 
 (124.62)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
 682.80 
 143.08 
 - 
 825.88 
Lease liabilities
 43.37 
 14.58 
 - 
 57.95 
Carried forward losses
 6,005.75 
 13,569.43 
 - 
 19,575.18 
Other items of disallowance
 581.14 
 (459.85)
 - 
 121.29 
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill amortisation
 (7,555.10)
 - 
 - 
 (7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
 (611.79)
 6.66 
 - 
 (605.13)
Borrowing cost amortisation
 (483.17)
 (656.49)
 - 
 (1,139.66)
Deferred tax assets / (Liabilities) 
 31,669.41 
 0.00 
 (25.79)
 31,643.62 
The Management considers the deferred tax assets recognised on carried forward losses to be fully set-off 
against future available profits considering the expected net interest income (NIM) from the existing loan book 
over the tenure of the loan.
Deferred tax asset of ` 2,515.88 lakhs (Previous year: ` 4,584.61 lakhs) on Unused Carried forward losses is yet 
to be recognized.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
174
Note 30
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders (after adjusting profit 
impact of dilutive potential equity shares, if any) by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on 
conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity shares.
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
i.	
Profit attributable to equity holders (A) 
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders for basic 
and diluted EPS
7,161.37
18,727.05
ii.	
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating  
Basic EPS (B)
136,079,295
136,079,295
iii.	 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Diluted EPS (C) 
136,135,973
136,079,428
iv.	 Basic earnings per share (`) (A/B)
5.26
13.76
v.	
Diluted earnings per share (`) (A/C)
5.26
13.76
Note 31
Financial instruments – Fair values and Risk management
A. 
Accounting classification and fair values
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market 
conditions, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
	
The management has assessed that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, loans carried at 
amortised cost, other financial assets, trade payables, borrowings, bank/book overdrafts and other financial 
liabilities are a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
B.	
Risk Management Framework:
	
The Company’s risk management framework is based on
	
(a)	 Clear understanding and identification of various risks
	
(b)	 Disciplined risk assessment by evaluating the probability and impact of each risk
	
(c)	 Measurement and monitoring of risks by establishing key risk indicators with thresholds for all 
critical risks and
	
(d)	 Adequate review mechanism to monitor and control risks.
	
The Company’s risk management division works as a value centre by constantly engaging with the business 
providing reports based on key analysis and insights. The key risks faced by the Company are credit 
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational and regulatory risk, which are broadly 
classified as credit risk, market risk and operational risk. The Company has a an established risk reporting 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 175
01-22
121-283
23-120
and monitoring framework. The Company identifies and monitors risks periodically. This Process enables 
the company to reassess all the critical risks in a changing environment that need to be focused on.
C.	
Risk governance structure:
	
The Company’s risk governance structure operates with a well-defined Board and Risk Management 
Committee (‘RMC’) with a clearly laid down charter and roles and responsibilities. The Board oversees 
the risk management process and monitors the risk profile of the Company directly as well as through 
a Board constituted Risk Management Committee. The Committee reviews the risk management policy, 
implementation of risk management framework, monitoring of critical risks, review and approval of 
exposures with conflict of interest and review of various other initiatives. The risk management policies are 
established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate limits and controls 
and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.  The RMC reviews the risk management policies regularly to 
reflect the changes in market conditions and Company’s activities.
	
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with risk management policies 
and procedures and reviews the adequacy of risk management framework in relation to the risk faced 
by the Company.
	
The risk management committee has established a comprehensive risk management framework across 
the business and provides appropriate reports on risk exposures and analysis in its pursuit of creating 
awareness across the Company about risk management. 
D.	
Fair value hierarchy
	
Ind AS 107, ‘Financial Instrument - Disclosure’ requires classification of the valuation method of financial 
instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which 
reflects the significance of inputs used in the measurements). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to 
un-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and 
lowest priority to un-observable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy 
under Ind AS 107 are described below:
	
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices.
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using 
valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and place limited reliance on entity 
specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
176
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is 
included in level.
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair 
value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments covered 
under Ind AS 109
(a)	
Investments 
in Mutual funds
16,723.44
-
-
16,723.44
16,723.44
-
-
16,723.44
(b)	 Investments in 
Security Receipts
-
-
80,887.58 80,887.58
-
-
80,887.58 80,887.58
(c)	
Treasury Bills
-
14,210.78
-
14,210.78
14,210.78
-
-
14,210.78
Total
16,723.44
14,210.78
80,887.58 111,821.80
30,934.22
-
80,887.58 111,821.80
	
* based on NAV statements and other information received from ARC and adjusted for Expected credit losses.
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2023
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments covered 
under Ind AS 109
(a)	
Investments 
in Mutual funds
72,662.12
-
-
72,662.12
72,662.12
-
-
72,662.12
(b)	
Investments in 
Security Receipts
-
-
18,294.67
18,294.67
-
-
18,294.67
18,294.67
(c)	
Treasury Bills
-
9,477.34
-
9,477.34
9,477.34
-
-
9,477.34
Total
72,662.12
9,477.34
18,294.67 100,434.13
82,139.46
-
18,294.67 100,434.13
	
* based on NAV statements and other information received from ARC and adjusted for Expected credit losses.
	
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding impairment loss allowances 
in relation to investments measured at amortised cost is as follows:
Particulars 
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
-
-
42,871.31
42,871.31
-
-
41,280.54
41,280.54
New assets 
originated or purchased
-
-
90,051.90
90,051.90
-
-
12,070.00
12,070.00
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
-
-
(15,392.25)
(15,392.25)
-
-
(10,479.23)
(10,479.23)
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 177
01-22
121-283
23-120
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
-
-
117,530.96
117,530.96
-
-
42,871.31
42,871.31
Particulars 
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Impairment loss allowance - 
opening balance
-
-
24,576.64
24,576.64
-
-
18,216.64
18,216.64
Incremental provisions (net)
-
-
12,066.74
12,066.74
-
-
6,360.00
6,360.00
Impairment loss allowance - 
closing balance
-
-
36,643.38
36,643.38
-
-
24,576.64
24,576.64
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered under  
Ind AS 109
-
-
598,730.29
598,730.29
-
-
598,730.29
598,730.29
Total
-
- 598,730.29 598,730.29
-
-
598,730.29 598,730.29
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2023
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered under  
Ind AS 109
-
-
519,561.53
519,561.53
-
-
519,561.53
519,561.53
Total
-
-
519,561.53
519,561.53
-
-
519,561.53
519,561.53
	
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of loans
E.	
Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises when a borrower is unable to meet his contractual obligations to the lender. The effective 
management of credit risk requires the establishment of appropriate credit risk policies and processes. 
The Company has comprehensive and well defined credit policies across various businesses, products and 
segments, which encompass credit approval process for all businesses along with guidelines for mitigating 
the risks associated with them. The appraisal process includes detailed risk assessment of the borrowers, 
physical verifications and field visits. The company has a well-defined post sanction monitoring process to 
identify portfolio-wise credit risk trends and early warning signals. This enables it to implement necessary 
changes to the credit policy, whenever the need arises to prevent any further slippage in the credit quality.
 
Grouping financial assets measured on a collective basis
	
The company splits its exposure into smaller homogeneous portfolios, based on shared credit risk 
characteristics, as described below in the following order:
	
-	
Customer i.e. corporate and retail
	
-	
Nature of product i.e. commercial vehicle, corporate lending and SME
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
178
 
Significant increase in credit risk
	
The credit risk on a financial asset of the Company are assumed to have increased significantly since 
initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The retail loans where the 
renegotiated terms are not substantially different and involve repayment terms to be extended including 
interest or the EMI amount readjusted over the tenure are classified as Stage 2. In case of corporate loan the 
assessment of significant increase in credit risk is performed on a case to case basis. Additionally, accounts 
identified and reviewed by the credit committee for labelling as breaching pre-defined critical credit risk 
parameters will also be classified as Stage 2. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 2, 
based on the quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
	
Write off
	
The Company writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the counterparty is in 
severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Financial assets written off may still 
be subject to enforcement activities under the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal 
advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in Statement of profit and loss.
 
Restructured financial assets
	
A loan where repayment terms are renegotiated on substantially different terms as compared to the 
original contracted terms due to significant increase in credit risk of the borrower are classified as stage 
2. Such loans continue to be in stage 2 until they exhibit regular payment of renegotiated principal and 
interest over a minimum observation period typically 12 months-post renegotiation, and there are no other 
indicators of impairment. Having satisfied the conditions of timely payment over the observation period 
these loans could be transferred to stage 1 or 2 and a fresh assessment of the risk of default is done.
	
Overview of the Expected Credit Loss principles
	
The Company records allowance for expected credit losses for all loans, debt financial assets not held at 
FVTPL, undrawn loan commitments (referred to as ‘financial instruments’).
	
For the computation of ECL on the financial instruments, the Company categories its financial instruments 
as mentioned below:
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition 
or that has low credit risk at the reporting date and that are not credit impaired upon origination are 
classified under this stage. The Company classifies all advances upto 30 days overdue under this category.
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified as Stage 2 when the amount is due for more than 30 days but less than 
90 days. All exposures where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition but 
are not credit impaired are classified under this stage.
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset have occurred. Exposures where the amount remains 
due for 90 days or more are considered as to be stage 3 assets.
	
The Company has established a policy to perform an assessment, at the end of each reporting period, of 
whether a financial instrument’s credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. The Company 
undertakes the classification of exposures within the aforesaid stages at borrower level.
 
Definition of default
	
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make the contractual payments within 90 
days of when they fall due. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 3, if on the reporting 
date, it has been 90 days and above past due. Non-payment on another obligation of the same customer 
is also considered as a Stage 3. In addition, Company shall also classify those accounts as default which 
meets the criteria as per the RBI circular RBI/2021-2022/125 DOR.STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 
November 12, 2021.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 179
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
The calculation of ECL
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit losses (i.e. present value of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of 
the financial instruments. Cash shortfalls are the difference between the cash flows that the entity is entitled 
to receive on account of contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined below and the key elements are as follows:
	
Portfolio Segmentation:
	
For ECL purpose, the loan portfolio is broadly segmented as below :
	
1)	
Corporate lending
	
2)	
Small and medium enterprises lending (‘SME’)
	
3)	
Commercial vehicle lending
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The Exposure at Default is the amount the Company is entitled to receive as 
on reporting date including repayments due for principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or 
otherwise, expected drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
Probability of Default (PD) : The Probability of Default is an estimate of the likelihood of default of the 
exposure over a given time horizon. A default may only happen at a certain time over the assessed period, 
if the facility has not been previously derecognised and is still in the portfolio.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The Loss Given Default is an estimate of the loss arising in the case where a 
default occurs at a given time. It is based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due and 
those that the lender would expect to receive, including from the realisation of any collateral.
	
The ECL allowance is applied on the financial instruments depending upon the classification of the financial 
instruments as per the credit risk involved. ECL allowance is computed on the below mentioned basis:
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is the portion of Lifetime ECL that represents the ECL that results from 
default events on a financial instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date. 
12-month ECL is applied on stage 1 assets.
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for credit losses expected to arise over the life of the asset in cases of credit 
impaired loans and in case of financial instruments where there has been significant increase in credit risk 
since origination. Lifetime ECL is the expected credit loss resulting from all possible default events over the 
expected life of a financial instrument. Lifetime ECL is applied on stage 2 and stage 3 assets. The Company 
computes the ECL allowance either on individual basis or on collective basis, depending on the nature of the 
underlying portfolio of financial instruments. The Company has grouped its loan portfolio into Corporate 
loans, SME loans and Commercial vehicle loans.
	
Forward looking information
	
The company employs statistical models to analyse the data collected and generate estimates of the 
remaining lifetime PD of exposures and how these are expected to change as a result of the passage of time. 
Such statistical models are selected considering the availability of information related to the probability of 
default for each product. This analysis includes the identification and calibration of relationships between 
changes in GNPA as proxy for default rates and changes in key macro-economic factors. Key economic 
indicators considered for forward looking includes:
	
•	
GNI growth
	
•	
GDP deflator
	
For the purpose of determination of impact of forward looking information, the company applies macro 
economic (ME) variables as stated above to each product and assess the trend of the historical probability 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
180
of defaults as compared to the forecasted probability of default. Based on the directional trend of output, 
management applies an overlay if required. Overtime, new ME variable may emerge to have a better 
correlation and may replace ME being used now.
	
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation to 
loans and advances is as follows:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
410,306.00
117,199.41
46,224.01
573,729.42
471,747.78
170,915.70
118,091.93
760,755.41
New assets 
originated or purchased
456,640.80
8,644.98
3,332.69
468,618.47
145,430.17
5,057.35
2,402.59
152,890.11
Assets derecognised 
or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
(235,629.02)
(50,865.68)
(19,541.60)
(306,036.30)
(198,066.54)
(38,867.37) (42,899.86)
(279,833.77)
Transfers to stage 1
27,933.58
(22,804.02)
(5,129.56)
-
46,463.08
(37,153.75)
(9,309.33)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(79,594.64)
86,040.77
(6,446.13)
-
(43,252.36)
48,670.87
(5,418.51)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(8,705.75)
(21,696.25)
30,402.00
-
(12,016.13)
(9,809.96)
21,826.09
-
Amounts written off 
(net of recovery)
-
(9,693.89)
(10,759.41)
(20,453.30)
-
(17,484.99) (30,527.34)
(48,012.33)
Presented under 
Investment as 
Security Receipts*
(4,877.00)
(74,367.87)
(6,812.03)
(86,056.90)
-
(4,128.44)
(7,941.56)
(12,070.00)
Gross carrying 
amount 
closing balance
566,073.97 32,457.45 31,269.97 629,801.39
410,306.00 117,199.41 46,224.01 573,729.42
	
* Presented under Investment as Security Receipts (Refer to note 31(D))
	
$Reasonable steps are being taken by the Management for recovery of the principal and interest.
	
Reconciliation of Impairment loss allowance is given below:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total 
Impairment 
loss allowance - 
opening balance
10,920.45
17,734.39
25,513.05
54,167.89
8,773.28
35,328.51
67,556.94
111,658.73
New assets 
originated or purchased
11,722.40
548.95
1,528.56
13,799.91
5,849.81
198.57
1,114.79
7,163.17
Assets derecognised 
or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
(6,348.95)
(5,335.89)
(9,883.09)
(21,567.93)
(6,704.11)
(10,742.41)
(25,490.81)
(42,937.33)
Transfers to stage 1
4,814.69
(1,962.09)
(2,852.60)
-
10,086.52
(4,851.97)
(5,234.55)
-
Transfers to stage 2
(4,104.03)
7,118.52
(3,014.49)
-
(1,103.15)
4,114.05
(3,010.90)
-
Transfers to stage 3
(2,113.25)
(2,081.65)
4,194.90
-
(1,972.07)
(1,385.26)
3,357.33
-
"Impact on year 
end ECL of 
exposures transferred  
between stages 
during the year"
(4,463.26)
(203.61)
12,368.43
7,701.56
(3,945.10)
2,508.11
9,976.74
8,539.75
Amounts written off 
(net of recovery)
(130.45)
(13,522.51)
(9,377.37)
(23,030.33)
(64.73)
(7,435.21) (22,756.49)
(30,256.43)
Impairment 
loss allowance - 
closing balance
10,297.60
2,296.11 18,477.39
31,071.10
10,920.45 17,734.39 25,513.05
54,167.89
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 181
01-22
121-283
23-120
F.	
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity is the Company’s capacity to fund increase in assets and meet both the expected and unexpected 
obligations without incurring unacceptable losses.  Liquidity risk is the inability to meet such obligations 
as they become due without adversely affecting the company’s financial conditions. The Asset Liability 
Management Policy of the Company stipulates a broad framework for Liquidity risk management to ensure 
that the Company can meet its liquidity obligations.  The Asset Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) 
monitors composition, characteristics and diversification of funding sources to ensure there is no over 
reliance on single source of funding.  The Company tracks the cash flow mismatches for measuring and 
managing net funding requirement and reviews short-term liquidity profiles based on business projections 
and other commitments for planning purposes through Liquidity analysis. The ALCO also reviews the 
individual mismatch in each time bucket and cumulative mismatch and ensures the bucket wise limits 
are not breached.
	
The Company maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse assets that are assumed to be easily 
liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption in cash flow. The liquidity position of the company is 
assessed under a variety of scenarios giving due consideration to stress factors relating to both the market 
in general and risk specifics to the Company. Basis the liquidity position assessed under various stress 
scenarios; the Company reviews the following to effectively handle any liquidity crisis:
	
•	
Adequacy of contingency funding plan in terms of depth of various funding sources, time to activate, 
cost of borrowing, etc
	
•	
Availability of unencumbered eligible assets
	
Maturity profile of cash flows for financial liabilities as on balance sheet date have been provided below:
	
As on 31 March 2024
Particulars
Less than 
3 months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
130.32
-
-
-
130.32
Debt securities
8,586.26
114,876.48
205,312.35
-
328,775.09
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
35,821.76
109,308.70
118,139.31
12,898.17
276,167.94
Other financial liabilities
18,728.20
528.86
2,856.22
368.31
22,481.59
Total
63,266.54
224,714.04
326,307.88 13,266.48
627,554.94
	
Footnote:
	
Notes:
	
- The above inflows and outflows is based on scheduled maturity of the financial instruments.
	
- The Company has borrowing facilities with various Banks. Few of such facilities have overriding clause to terminate, 
reduce, suspend or cancel the facility in future, at the absolute discretion of the lender. As at the date of approval of 
financial statements, none of lenders have terminated, reduced, suspended or cancelled any facility including undrawn 
limits. Accordingly, ` 4,375.00 lakhs scheduled for payment after 31 March 2025 for these facilities have been classified 
as per prevailing contractual maturity. 
	
- in addition to above ` 6,669.00 lakhs classified as per contractual maturity above pertains to borrowings which exceeds 
the limits specified in the covenants.
	
- Also refer note Note 42
	
As on 31 March 2023
Particulars
Less than 
3 months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 
years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
735.25
-
-
-
735.25
Debt securities
14,336.24
17,674.11
78,876.60
-
110,886.95
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)
47,238.71
109,717.16
191,165.08
22,300.49
370,421.44
Other financial liabilities
25,089.75
418.18
2,167.76
535.42
28,211.11
Total
87,399.95
127,809.45
272,209.44
22,835.91
510,254.75
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
182
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities including their 
levels in the fair value hierarchy:
	
As on 31 March 2024
Particulars 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair value
Total 
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets 
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs* 
At amortised cost
Debt securities
328,775.09
-
-
328,775.09
328,775.09
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)
276,167.94
-
-
276,167.94
276,167.94
Total
604,943.03
-
-
604,943.03
604,943.03
	
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
	
As on 31 March 2023
Particulars 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair value
Total 
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets 
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs* 
At amortised cost
Debt securities
110,886.95
-
-
110,886.95
110,886.95
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)
370,421.44
-
-
370,421.44
370,421.44
Total
481,308.39
-
-
481,308.39
481,308.39
	
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
G.	
Market risk
	
Market Risk is the possibility of loss arising from changes in the value of a financial instrument as a result of 
changes in market variables such as interest rates, exchange rates and other asset prices. The Company’s 
exposure to market risk is a function of asset liability management and interest rate sensitivity assessment. 
The company is exposed to interest rate risk and liquidity risk, if the same is not managed properly. 
The company continuously monitors these risks and manages them through appropriate risk limits. 
The Asset Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) reviews market related trends and risks and adopts 
various strategies related to assets and liabilities, in line with the Company’s risk management framework.
H.	
Operational risk
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, 
or from external events. The operational risks of the Company are managed through comprehensive internal 
control systems and procedures. Failure of managing operational risk might lead to legal / regulatory 
implications due to non-compliance and lead to financial loss due to control failures. While it is not practical 
to eliminate all the operational risk, the Company has put in place adequate control framework by way 
of segregation of duties, well defined process, staff training, maker and checker process, authorisation 
and clear reporting structure. The effectiveness of control framework is assessed by internal audit on a 
periodic basis.
	
To manage fraud risk effectively, the Company has Independent Risk Containment Unit (‘RCU’) which 
is responsible for implementing fraud risk management framework and ensure compliance. The RCU 
undertakes various activities such as pre-sanction loan applicant verification, pre-sanction and post 
disbursement documents verification, vendor verification, etc to prevent and manage frauds.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 183
01-22
121-283
23-120
I.	
Capital Disclosure
	
The Company maintains adequate capital to cover risks inherent in the business and is meeting the capital 
adequacy requirements of our regulator, Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’). The adequacy of the Company’s 
capital is monitored using, among other measures, the regulations issued by RBI.
	
The Company has complied in full with all its externally imposed capital requirements over the reported period.
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company 
complies with externally imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy 
capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of its activities. The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy and the Board reviews the capital 
position on a regular basis.
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
CRAR – Tier I capital (%)
28.87%
31.55%
CRAR – Tier II capital (%)
0.00%
0.00%
CRAR (%)
28.87%
31.55%
Note 32
Related Party disclosures, as required by Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Ind AS 24) are given below:
a)	
Relationships
	
I.	
Ultimate Controlling Party
	
	
Brookfield Asset Management Inc.
	
II.	
Holding Company
	
	
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
	
III.	 Subsidiary Company
	
	
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
	
	
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited
	
IV.	 Names of other related parties with whom the Company had transactions during the year:
	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
	
Karthikeyan Srinivasan - CEO & Whole Time Director
	
Bobby Parikh - Non-Executive Independent Director
	
Hemant Kaul - Non-Executive Independent Director
	
Naina Krishna Murthy - Non-Executive Independent Director
b)	 Transactions with Holding Company
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023 
Upfront Fees Paid
 1,228.41 
 4,018.68 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
184
c)	
Transactions with key management personnel :
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023 
Short-term employee benefits
 196.44 
 209.11 
Sitting fees to Non-Executive Independent Directors
 34.95 
 40.54 
Reimbursement of expenses
 1.62 
 0.37 
	
Compensation of the Company’s key managerial personnel includes salaries, non-cash benefits, bonus 
provision and contributions to post-employment defined benefit plan.
d)	 Transactions other than those with key management personnel :
Particulars
Subsidiary Companies
Shared service cost recovery
2024
1,686.53
2023
2,007.29
Loan given to subsidiary
2024
6,500.00
2023
9,000.00
Loan (repaid) to subsidiary
2024
(6,500.00)
2023
(9,000.00)
Interest income on loan to subsidiary
2024
143.85
2023
299.52
e)	
The related party balances outstanding at year end are as follows:
Particulars
 Holding 
Company 
 Subsidiary 
Companies 
Key Managerial 
Personnel* 
Investment in subsidiary
2024
 - 
 45,270.58 
 - 
2023
 - 
 45,271.60 
 - 
Reimbursement of expenses
2024
 - 
 1,979.26 
 - 
2023
 1,351.37 
 2,329.98 
 - 
Loans outstanding
2024
 - 
 - 
 2,500.00 
2023
 - 
 - 
 2,500.00 
	
* interest free loan receivable from KMP (upto 17 April  2022)
Note 33
Set out below is the disaggregation of the revenue from contracts with customers
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023 
Type of Services or service
Fees and commission income
 5,123.21 
 4,706.70 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 5,123.21 
 4,706.70 
Geographical markets
India
 5,123.21 
 4,706.70 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 5,123.21 
 4,706.70 
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
 5,123.21 
 4,706.70 
Services transferred over time
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 5,123.21 
 4,706.70 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 185
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 34
Contingent liabilities and Commitments
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Contingent liabilities:
Corporate guarantee given by Company to banks
 2,375.00 
 2,875.00 
Litigation cases filed against the Company
 71.04 
 - 
Capital commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on 
capital account
 86.95 
 291.55 
Loans sanctioned not yet disbursed
 13,380.32 
 43,254.53 
Note 35
Disclosures as required by Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’
(A)	 Lease liability movement
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Opening balance
 2,749.03 
 3,467.38 
Add : Adjustments/additions during the year
 2,381.33 
 1,010.62 
Add : Interest on lease liability
 320.46 
 306.33 
Less : Deletions
 (705.55)
 (720.55)
Less : Lease rental payments
 (821.73)
 (1,314.75)
 3,923.54 
 2,749.03 
(B) Future lease cashflow for all leased assets
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Not later than one year
 1,058.10 
 785.94 
Later than one year but not later than five years 
 3,551.36 
 2,141.91 
Later than five years 
 410.83 
 604.93 
 5,020.29 
 3,532.78 
(C)	 Maturity analysis of lease liability
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Lease liability
Less than 12 months
699.01
545.84
More than 12 months
3,224.53
2,203.19
3,923.54
2,749.03
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
186
Note 36
Dues to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006
The following disclosure is made as per the requirement under The Micro Small and Medium Enterprise 
Development Act, 2006 (the ‘MSMED Act’) on the basis of confirmations sought from suppliers on registration 
with the specified authorities under MSMED :
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
a.	
Principal amount remaining unpaid
 114.85 
7.62
b.	
Interest due thereon remaining unpaid
 - 
 - 
c.	
Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along 
with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day
 - 
 - 
d.	
Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which  have been paid but beyond the appointed day 
during the period) but without adding interest specified under 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Act,2006)
 - 
 0.07 
e.	
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 - 
 - 
f.	
Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid 
to the small enterprises
 - 
 - 
The aforementioned is based on the responses received by the Company to its inquiries with suppliers with 
regard to applicability under the said Act. This has been relied upon by the auditors.
No interest has been paid/is payable by the Company during the year to the suppliers registered under this Act.
Ageing analysis of Trade Payable
As on 31 March 2024
Particulars 
 Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total 
 Less than 
1 Year 
 1-2 Years 
 2-3 Years 
 More than 
3 Years 
(i)	 MSME
 114.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 114.85 
(ii)	 Others
 15.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.47 
(iii)	 Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As on 31 March 2023
Particulars 
 Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total 
 Less than 
1 Year 
 1-2 Years 
 2-3 Years 
 More than 
3 Years 
(i)	 MSME
 7.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.62 
(ii)	 Others
 695.93 
 31.70 
 - 
 - 
 727.63 
(iii)	 Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 187
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 37
Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans:
The Company has a funded defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more 
of service is eligible for gratuity on separation at 15 days basic salary (last drawn salary) for each completed 
year of service.
Based on Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read together with 
paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2016, the following disclosures have been made as required by the standard:
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
A.	
Amount recognised in the balance sheet 
Present value of the obligation as at the end of the year
 389.90 
 361.96 
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
 4.68 
 4.36 
Net (asset) / liability to be recognized in the balance sheet 
 385.22 
 357.60 
B.	
Change in projected benefit obligation
Projected benefit of obligation at the beginning of the year
 361.96 
 455.70 
Current service cost
 88.61 
 146.28 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Interest cost
 22.31 
 30.32 
Benefits paid
 (122.65)
 (146.37)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation
 39.67 
 (123.97)
Projected benefit obligation at the end of the year
 389.90 
 361.96 
C.	
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year  
 4.36 
 4.09 
Return on plan assets
 3.55 
 5.07 
Actuarial gain/(loss)
 (3.23)
 (4.80)
Benefits paid
 - 
 - 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 4.68 
4.36
D.	
Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
Current service cost
 88.61 
 146.28 
Past service cost and loss/(gain) on curtailments and settlement
 - 
 - 
Net interest cost
 18.76 
 25.24 
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
 107.37 
 171.52 
E.	
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial (gains) / loss
- change in financial assumption
 1.85 
 (3.61)
- change in demographic assumption
 - 
 (60.92)
- experience variation
 37.82 
 (59.44)
Return on plan assets, excluding amount recognised in net 
interest expense
 3.23 
 4.80 
 42.90 
 (119.17)
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
188
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
F.	
Assumptions used
Discount rate 
7.15%
7.30%
Salary growth rate
6.00%
6.00%
Withdrawal rate
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
G.	
Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other 
assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Increase
Decrease 
Increase
 Decrease 
Discount rate (0.5% movement)
 383.81 
 396.18 
 356.94 
 367.14 
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement)
 396.09 
 383.76 
 367.20 
 357.07 
Withdrawal rate (10% movement)
 379.50 
 401.04 
 355.80 
 368.55 
H.	
Other information :
1.	
Plans assets comprises 100% of Insurance funds.
2.	
The expected contribution for the next year is ` 107.09 lakhs.
3.	
The average outstanding term of the obligations as at valuation date is 3.25 years.
4.	
The above disclosure is based on report and assumptions provided by the actuary and has been relied upon 
by the Auditors. 
Note 38
Employee stock option plans
The Company provides share-based employee benefits to the employees of the Company, Subsidiary Company, 
the Directors, whether a whole time Director or otherwise but excluding Non-Executive Independent Directors, 
including the Directors of the Company, or a Subsidiary Company, such other entities or individuals as may be 
permitted by Applicable Laws and any of the aforesaid employees who are on deputation at the request of the 
Company and during the year ended 31 March 2024, employee stock option plans (ESOPs) were in existence. 
The relevant details of the schemes and the grant are as below.
A.	
Description of share-based payment arrangements
	
As at 31 March 2024, the Company has the following share-based payment arrangements:
	
Share option plans (equity settled)
	
According to the Schemes, the employees selected by the Nomination and remuneration committee 
from time to time will be entitled to options, subject to satisfaction of the prescribed vesting conditions. 
The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options granted is 5 years.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 189
01-22
121-283
23-120
I.	
Details of the ESOP
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Date of Shareholder's Approval
30-Jul-12
09-May-16
17-Oct-16
28-Apr-17
15-Dec-17
Total Number of Options approved
1,500,000
2,700,000
3,000,000
2,000,000
6,000,000
Vesting Requirements
Vesting Criteria will specified for each Option Holder by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee at the time of grant of Options. For valid 
vesting of Options, the concerned Option Holder is required to be an 
Eligible Employee on the respective Vesting Date and must neither be 
serving his/her notice period for termination of service nor be subject to 
any disciplinary proceedings pending against him/her. Unless the NRC 
provides otherwise, the Vesting of Options granted hereunder shall be 
stalled / blocked during any unauthorised and unpaid leave of absence 
for such period as may prescribed by NRC or for any Cause as deemed 
fit by the NRC.
The Pricing Formula
Options can be Exercised at any of the following Exercise Price, as 
may be determined by the NRC at its sole discretion at the time of 
grant of Options: 
(i)	 Fair Market Value rounded to the nearest rupee; or
(ii)	 Market Price rounded to the nearest rupee; or
(iii)	 such price as may be determined by the NRC. However, the Exercise 
Price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Shares.
Maximum term of Options 
granted (years)
Options granted under the ESOP Plans would vest not less than 1 (one) 
year from the date of grant of Options. Options shall be capable of being 
exercised within a period of 4 years from the Date of Vesting.
Method of Settlement
Equity
Source of shares
Primary
Variation in terms of ESOP
None
Method used for 
accounting of options
Fair Value Method
II.	
Option Movement during the year ended March 2024
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
No. of Options Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
35,700
1,913,000
146,500
230,000
398,500
Options Granted during the year
-
-
-
-
4600,492
Options Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
3,950
573,500
136,500
74,750
296,856
Options Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Total number of shares arising as a result of 
exercise of options
-
-
-
-
-
Money realised by exercise of options (` Lakhs)
-
-
-
-
-
Number of Options Outstanding at the 
end of the year
31,750
1,339,500
10,000
155,250
4,702,136
Number of Options exercisable at the 
end of the year
14,250
359,950
10,000
155,250
114,450
Weighted average market price of options 
exercised for the year ended 31 March 2024 (`)
-
-
-
-
-
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
190
III.	 Option Movement during the year ended March 2023
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
No. of Options Outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
35,700
1,510,500
348,000
1,719,500
3,027,500
Options Granted during the year
-
984,500
-
-
-
Options Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
-
582,000
201,500
1,489,500
2,629,000
Options Exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Total number of shares arising as a result of 
exercise of options
-
-
-
-
-
Money realised by exercise of options (` Lakhs)
-
-
-
-
-
Number of options Outstanding at the 
end of the year
35,700
1,913,000
146,500
230,000
398,500
Number of Options exercisable at the 
end of the year
13,200
332,000
146,500
230,000
163,500
Weighted average market price of options 
exercised for the year ended 31 March 2023 (`)
-
-
-
-
-
IV.	 Weighted Average remaining contractual life
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
Range of Exercise Price (` per share)
 281.00 - 
437.00 
 139.00 - 
437.00 
 255.00 
 437.00 
 131.45 - 
437.00 
No. of Options Outstanding as on 31 March 2024
 31,750  1,339,500 
 10,000 
 155,250  4,702,136 
Contractual Life (in years)
 4.32 
 4.70 
 0.55 
 2.01 
 6.04 
V.	
Method and Assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted:
The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
Variables
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
1.	
Risk Free Interest Rate
NA
NA
NA
NA
7.02%
2.	
Expected Life(in years)
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.80
3.	
Expected Volatility
NA
NA
NA
NA
44.92%
4.	
Dividend Yield
NA
NA
NA
NA
0.0%
5.	
Exercise Price
NA
NA
NA
NA
199.86
6.	
Price of the underlying share in market at 
the time of the option grant.(`)
NA
NA
NA
NA
199.86
VI. Effect of share-based payment transactions on the Company’s Profit or Loss for the year:
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Employee share based expense
812.34
(4,375.16)
Total ESOP reserve outstanding
2,122.74
2,074.82
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 191
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 39 - Disclosure pursuant to Ind AS 108 ‘Operating Segments’
The Company is primarily engaged in business of financing and has provided segmental information in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as per Ind AS 108 - Operating Segments.
Note 40 - Maturity pattern of Assets and Liabilities
An analysis of its assets and liabilities according to their timing of recoverability and settlement has been 
presented below in a tabulated format.
Particulars
Note
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
ASSETS 
Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 
3
38,773.39
-
38,773.39
16,500.70
-
16,500.70
Bank balances other than cash 
and cash equivalents 
4
1,652.74
27,523.04
29,175.78
21.50
20,322.00
20,343.50
Loans 
5
203,491.18
395,239.11
598,730.29
169,778.20
349,783.33
519,561.53
Investments 
6
43,684.22
113,408.16
157,092.38
82,139.46
63,566.27
145,705.73
Other financial assets 
7
5,755.78
28,002.92
33,758.70
4,346.08
29,073.48
33,419.56
Non-financial assets 
Current tax assets (net) 
8
-
7,539.22
7,539.22
-
5,376.00
5,376.00
Deferred tax assets (net) 
9
-
31,651.53
31,651.53
-
31,643.62
31,643.62
Property, plant and equipment 
10
-
5,567.39
5,567.39
-
4,788.71
4,788.71
Assets acquired in 
satisfaction of claim 
11
-
1,300.00
1,300.00
-
1,300.00
1,300.00
Goodwill 
-
30,018.69
30,018.69
-
30,018.69
30,018.69
Other intangible assets 
12
-
1,070.68
1,070.68
-
2,034.77
2,034.77
Other non-financial assets 
13
3,475.06
860.42
4,335.48
2,813.23
421.26
3,234.49
TOTAL ASSETS 
296,832.37
642,181.16 939,013.53
275,599.17 538,328.13 813,927.30
Particulars
Note
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
LIABILITIES 
Financial liabilities* 
Trade payables 
14
130.32
-
130.32
735.25
-
735.25
Debt securities 
15
123,462.74
205,312.35
328,775.09
32,010.36
78,876.59
110,886.95
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities) 
16
145,130.45
131,037.49
276,167.94
156,955.87
213,465.57
370,421.44
Other financial liabilities 
17
19,257.06
3,224.53
22,481.59
25,507.93
2,703.18
28,211.11
Non-financial liabilities 
Provisions 
18
159.30
370.20
529.50
128.08
337.58
465.66
Other non-financial liabilities 
19
724.63
-
724.63
951.60
-
951.60
TOTAL LIABILITIES 
288,864.50
339,944.57
628,809.07 216,289.09 295,382.92
511,672.01
* also refer note 31(G) 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
192
Note 41 - Other notes
Note 41.1
In relation to the loans portfolio, the Management has on a best effort basis and knowledge, has not identified 
transactions with Nil financiers (previous year Nil) aggregating ` Nil (previous year Nil) used for refinancing 
loans of the customers.
Note 41.2
The disclosure on the following matters required under Schedule III as amended not being relevant or applicable 
in case of the Company, same are not covered:
a)	
The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
b)	
No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
c)	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or 
any government authority.
d)	
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
e)	
Charges or satisfaction to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) have been registered within the 
stipulated statutory timelines.
f)	
There are no transactions which are not recorded in the books of account which have been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
g)	
In respect of the disclosure required vide notification dated March 24, 2021 issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the Company has taken steps to identify transactions with the struck-off companies and considering 
the nature of business which is primarily lending to individuals and other small players, there are no such 
transactions which may be required to be reported.
h)	
The provision related to number of layers as prescribed under section 2(87) of the Companies Act read with 
Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017 is not applicable to Company.
i)	
Other than the loans and advances given in normal course of business, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Company to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party 
identified by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The Company has also not received any 
fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Company shall whether, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
j)	
Title deed of immovable property has been held in the name of the Company
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 193
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 42- Asset liability management
Particulars
1 to 
7 days
8 to 
14 days
15 to 30 
days
Over one 
month to 
2 months
Over 2 
months 
upto 
3 months
Over 3 
months 
upto 
6 months
Over 6 
months 
to 1 year
Over 1 
year to 
3 years
Over 3 
years 
to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Liabilities:
Borrowings from  
banks/FI
413.51 
210.22 9,210.86 5,558.28 9,084.88 25,347.75 
33,736.72 
44,239.71 
1,753.26 
- 
Market borrowings
2,555.81 
168.20 
600.81 6,884.38 
9,721.09 67,636.38 97,464.32 274,191.92 3,266.76 12,898.17 
Assets:
Loans & 
advances (gross)
8,660.63 
4,754.51 8,327.88 16,640.79 17,605.40 53,264.90 104,797.24 294,810.92 90,961.71 29,977.41 
Investments
16,723.44 14,210.78 
- 
- 
- 
- 
12,750.00 
- 68,137.58 45,270.58 
Notes:
- The above inflows and outflows is based on scheduled maturity of the financial instruments. 
- The Company has borrowing facilities with various Banks. Few of such facilities have overriding clause to terminate, reduce, 
suspend or cancel the facility in future, at the absolute discretion of the lender. As at the date of approval of financial statements, 
none of lenders have terminated, reduced, suspended or cancelled any facility including undrawn limits. Accordingly, ` 4,375.00 
lakhs scheduled for payment after 31 March 2025 for these facilities have been classified as per prevailing contractual maturity.
- in addition to above ` 6,669.00 lakhs classified as per contractual maturity above pertains to borrowings which exceeds the 
limits specified in the covenants.
In addition to the investments shown in the table above, the Company also has cash and cash equivalents as 
mentioned below and undrawn funding lines amounting to ` 12,750.00 lakhs
 - Cash & Cash Equivalents (refer note 3)
 38,773.39 
 - Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents (refer note 4)
 29,175.78 
Total
 67,949.17 
Note 43- Exposure to real estate sector
Category
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
A
Direct exposure
i.
Residential Mortgages
Lending 
fully 
secured 
by 
mortgages 
on 
residential 
property that is or will be occupied by the borrower or 
that is rented; Individual housing loans up to 15 lakhs ` NIL. 
(Previous year ` NIL )
 22,711.61 
 78,619.90 
ii.
Commercial Real Estate
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estate’s 
(office buildings, retail space, multipurpose commercial 
premises, multi-family residential buildings, multi-tenanted 
commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, 
land acquisition, development and construction, etc.). 
Exposure would also include non-fund based (NFB) limits;
 54,221.56 
 155,425.59 
iii.
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and 
other securitised exposures
- Residential
 Nil 
 Nil 
- Commercial Real Estate
 Nil 
 Nil 
B
Indirect Exposure	
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing 
Bank (NHB) and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
49,623.84
50,474.53
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
194
Note 44- Exposure to capital market
Category
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible 
debentures and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus 
of which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt;
 - 
 - 
2
Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities 
or on clean basis to individuals for investment in shares (including 
IPOs / ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and 
units of equity-oriented mutual funds;
 - 
 - 
3
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible 
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented 
mutual funds are taken as primary security;
 - 
 - 
4
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the 
collateral security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. 
where the primary security other than shares / convertible bonds 
/ convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds 
'does not fully cover the advances;
 - 
 - 
5
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees 
issued on behalf of stockbrokers and market makers;
 - 
 - 
6
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares 
/ bonds / debentures or other securities or on clean basis for 
meeting promoter's contribution to the equity of new companies 
in anticipation of raising resources;
 - 
 - 
7
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues;
 - 
 - 
8
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered 
and unregistered)
 - 
 - 
9
Underwriting commitments taken up by the NBFCs in respect 
of primary issue of shares or convertible bonds or convertible 
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds
 - 
 - 
10
Financing to stockbrokers for margin trading
 - 
 - 
11
All exposures to Alternative Investment Funds:
i	
Category I
 - 
 - 
ii	
Category II
 - 
 - 
iii	
Category III
 - 
 - 
Note 45- Other disclosures pursuant to the RBI Master Directions for NBFC
I  -	 Break up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ shown under the head Expenditure in Statement of Profit and 
Loss
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
1
Provisions for depreciation on Investment
12,066.74
6,360.00
2
Provision towards NPA#
(7,035.66)
(42,043.89)
3
Provision made towards Income tax
-
-
4
Other Provision and Contingencies
(1,116.56)
(894.95)
5
Provision for Standard Assets and other receivable*
(16,061.13)
(15,446.95)
# represents provision on Stage 3 assets 
* represents provision on Stage 1, Stage 2 and other receivables (net off amount transferred for provision towards NPA)
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 195
01-22
121-283
23-120
II  -	 Concentration of Advances
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Total Advances to twenty largest borrowers
 46,882.23 
128,625.09
2
Percentage of Advances to twenty largest borrowers to Total 
Advances of the NBFC
7.4%
22.4%
III  -	Concentration of Exposures
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers /customers
 60,225.93 
 171,733.50 
2
Percentage of Exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers 
to Total Exposure of the NBFC on borrowers / customers
9.4%
27.8%
IV  -	Concentration of NPAs
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Total Exposure to top four NPA accounts
 1,104.15 
 2,369.23 
V  -	Sectorwise NPA (% of NPA to Total Advances in that sector)
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Agriculture and allied activities
4.25%
4.57%
2
MSME
 - 
14.37%
3
Corporate borrowers
 - 
 - 
4
Services
5.01%
6.42%
5
Unsecured personal loans
 - 
 - 
6
Auto loans
2.60%
5.38%
7
Other personal loans
 - 
 - 
Note: Sector wise classification of NPA is compiled by the Management from internal MIS and relied by the Auditors.
VI  -	Movement of NPAs
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Net NPAs to Net Advances (%)
2.09%
3.78%
Movement of NPAs (Gross)
Opening balance
46,224.01
118,091.93
Additions during the year/period
33,734.69
24,228.68
Reductions during the year/period
(48,688.73)
(96,096.60)
Closing balance
31,269.97
46,224.01
Movement of Net NPAs
Opening balance
20,710.96
50,534.98
Additions during the year/period
15,642.80
9,779.83
Reductions during the year/period
(23,561.18)
(39,603.85)
Closing balance
12,792.58
20,710.96
Movement of provisions for NPAs (excluding provisions on 
standard assets)
Opening balance
25,513.05
67,556.94
Provisions made during the year/period
18,091.89
14,448.86
Write-off / write-back of excess provisions
(25,127.55)
(56,492.75)
Closing balance
18,477.39
25,513.05
Footnote:	NPA represents Stage 3 loan assets and classified as Stage 3 as per Ind AS 109.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
196
VII -	Details of assignment transactions undertaken during the year:
(including in terms of Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, 
dated September 24, 2021)
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
1
No. of accounts
 177 
 108 
2
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts assigned
242.19
 9,838.25 
3
Aggregate consideration
242.19
 9,838.25 
4
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years 
 - 
 - 
5
Aggregate gain / loss over net book value
 - 
 - 
VIII (A)  - Details of financial assets sold to Asset Reconstruction/Securitisation Companies during the year:
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
1
No. of accounts
403
8,295
2
Aggregate value (net of provisions) of accounts assigned
102,840.53
37,239.00
3
Aggregate consideration
110,425.00
37,239.00
4
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts 
transferred in earlier years 
-
-
5
Aggregate gain / (loss) over net book value
-
-
VIII (B)	 Details of stressed loan transferred during the year including in terms of Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars
To Asset Reconstruction 
Companies (ARC)
NPA
SMA
1
Number of accounts
207
196
2
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred
13,810.92
108,253.83
3
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in months)
5-168
27-186
4
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer)
9,637.26
93,203.27
5
Aggregate consideration
12,169.75
98,255.25
6
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred 
in earlier years
-
-
7
Recovery rating
Unrated
Unrated
VIII (C)	 Details of stressed loans acquired during the year including in terms of Master Direction – Reserve 
Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars
From lenders listed Clause 3
NPA
SMA
1
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans acquired
 - 
 4,614.24 
2
Aggregate consideration paid
 - 
 4,614.24 
3
Weighted average residual tenor of loans acquired (in months)
 - 
 26 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 197
01-22
121-283
23-120
VIII (D)	 Details of loans not in default acquired during the year including in terms of Master Direction – 
Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
1
No. of accounts
 8,779 
2
Aggregate value of accounts acquired ` in Lakhs
 10,856.72 
3
Weighted average maturity (months)
 47 
4
Weighted average holding period (months)
 NA 
5
Retention of beneficial economic interest (in %)
90%
6
Coverage of tangible security (in %)
100%
7
Rating-wise distribution of rated loans
 NA 
VIII (E)	 Details of loans not in default transferred during the year including in terms of Master Direction – 
Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021, dated September 24, 2021
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
1
No. of accounts
 177 
2
Aggregate value of accounts assigned ` in Lakhs
 242.19 
3
Aggregate consideration
 242.19 
4
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years 
 - 
5
Aggregate gain / loss over net book value
 - 
6
Weighted average maturity (No. of Years)
 18 
7
Weighted average holding period (months)
 28 
8
Retention of beneficial economic interest
 - 
VIII (F)  - Details of STC securitisation transactions
(in terms of Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Securitisation of Standard Assets) Directions, 2021 dated 
September 24, 2021)
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
1
No of SPVs sponsored by the NBFC for securitisation transactions
11
5
2
Total 
amount 
of 
securitised 
assets 
as 
per 
books 
of 
the SPVs sponsored
133,114.53
91,032.17
3
Total amount of exposures retained by the NBFC towards the 
MRR as on the date of balance sheet
(I)	 Off-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
43,364.95
30,461.72
(II)	 On-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
-
-
Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions
4
Other than MRR 
(I)	 Off-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
	
a)	
Exposure to own securitizations
-
-
	
b)	
Exposure to third party securitisations
-
-
(II)	 On-balance sheet exposures towards Credit Enhancements
	
a)	
Exposure to own securitisations
3,246.67
931.83
	
b)	
Exposure to third party securitisations
-
-
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
198
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
5
Sale Consideration received for the securitised assets and gain/
loss on sale on account of securitisation
a)	
Sale Consideration received
257,338.17
148,324.27
b)	
gain/loss on sale on account of securitisation
-
-
6
Form & quantum of Services Provided:
a)	
Collection Agent Fees
85.04
57.37
7
Performance of facility provided
I)	
Credit Enhancement
	
(a)	 Amount Paid
43,364.95
30,461.72
	
(b)	 Repayment Received
-
-
	
(c)	 Outstanding Amount
43,364.95
30,461.72
II)	
Collection Agent fees
	
(a)	 Amount Paid
85.04
57.37
	
(b)	 Repayment Received
(85.04)
(57.37)
	
(c)	 Outstanding Amount
-
-
8
Amount and number of additional/top up loan given on the same 
underlying asset
-
-
9
Investor Complaints
(a)	 Directly/Indirectly received
-
-
(b)	 Complaints Outstanding
-
-
* The Company determines average rate of default on the entire portfolio of the product. Consequently, average rate of 
default for a selected pool under securitisation is not available
IX  - Customer Complaints
1) 
Summary information on complaints received by the NBFCs from customers and from the Offices of 
Ombudsman
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
Complaints received by the NBFC from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
 2 
 9 
2
Number of complaints received during the year 
 640 
 687 
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year
 623 
 694 
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the NBFC 
 80 
 - 
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
 19 
 2 
Maintainable 
complaints 
received 
by 
the 
NBFC 
from 
Office of Ombudsman
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from 
Office of Ombudsman    
 126 
 158 
5.1.	 Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the NBFC 
by Office of Ombudsman
 126 
 - 
5.2.	 Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation/
mediation/advisories issued by Office of Ombudsman
 13 
 - 
5.3.	 Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards 
by Office of Ombudsman against the NBFC
 - 
 1 
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time
 - 
 - 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 199
01-22
121-283
23-120
2) 
Top five grounds of complaints received by the NBFCs from customer
Grounds of complaints,  
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year 
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
at the end 
of the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
For the year ended 31 March 2024
Loans & Advances
 - 
 126 
5%
 3 
 - 
NOC
 - 
 69 
-5%
 1 
 - 
Credit Score
 - 
 75 
14%
 2 
 - 
Settlement
 - 
 47 
-8%
 1 
 - 
Service issue/
Misbehaviour of employee
 - 
 78 
77%
 4 
 1 
Others
 2 
 245 
-26%
 8 
 - 
Totals
 2 
 640 
 19 
 1 
Grounds of complaints,  
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year 
% increase/ 
decrease in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the previous year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
at the end 
of the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending 
beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
For the year ended 31 March 2023
Loans & Advances
1
120
 - 
 - 
 - 
NOC
 - 
73
 - 
 - 
 - 
Credit Score
2
66
 - 
 - 
 - 
Settlement
3
51
 - 
 - 
 - 
Service issue/
Misbehaviour of employee
1
44
 - 
 - 
 - 
Others
2
333
 - 
2
2
Totals
9
687
 - 
2
2
X  - Investments
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Value of Investments
i.
Gross Value of Investments
(a)	 In India
193,735.76
170,282.37
(b)	 Outside India
-
-
ii.
Provision for Depreciation
(a)	 In India
36,643.38
24,576.64
(b)	 Outside India
-
-
iii.
Net Value of Investments
(a)	 In India
157,092.38
145,705.73
(b)	 Outside India
-
-
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
200
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
2
Movement of provisions held towards 
depreciation on investments
(i)
Opening balance
24,576.64
18,216.64
(ii)
Add : Provisions made during the year (net)
12,066.74
6,360.00
(iii)
Less : Write-off/ write-back of excess provision 
during the year
-
-
(iv)
Closing balance
36,643.38
24,576.64
XI  - Registration obtained from other financial sector regulators :
	
The Company is also registered as Corporate Agent with the Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority (IRDAI) wide Certificate of Registration dated 21 February 2024.
XII  - Details of Single Borrower Limit (SBL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL) exceeded by NBFC
	
There are no loans outstanding which exceeds SBL and GBL limit.
XIII  - Details of financing of parent Company products : None
XIV  - Disclosure of penalties imposed by RBI and other regulators :
	
Current year ` 50.18 lakhs excluding taxes paid to  Regular authorities
	
a)	
To stock exchanges relating to “Minimum Public Shareholding (MPS) Requirements” - ` 24.80 lakhs 
(previous year ` 54.20 lakhs) and others -` 11.78 lakhs excluding taxes (previous year- ` 3.60 lakhs)
	
b)	
To RBI relating to non-compliances observed by the RBI in its statutory inspection - 13.60 lakhs 
(previous year - nil)
XV  - Draw down from reserves : None
XVI  - Rating assigned by credit rating agencies and migration of ratings during the year/period
Sr. 
No.
Instruments
Credit Rating Agency
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Commercial Paper
CARE
A1+
A1+
ICRA
-
A1+
CRISIL
A1+
A1+
2
Long Term Facilities
CARE
AA-
A+
CRISIL
AA-
AA-
3
NCD
CARE
AA-
A+
CRISIL
AA-
AA-
XVII (A)  - Unsecured Advances against intangible securities : None
XVII (B)  - Off-balance Sheet Sponsored SPV : None
XVII (C)  - Fraud committed against the company:
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For the year ended 
 31 March 2023
1
No. of cases of fraud reported during the year
 3 
 - 
2
Amount involved (` In Lakhs)
 47.50 
 - 
3
Amount recovered (` In Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
4
Amount written off (` In Lakhs)*
 47.50 
 - 
Note: The above information is based on FMR 1 reported to RBI subsequent to 31 March 2024
* Reprents 100% provision made
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 201
01-22
121-283
23-120
XVIII -  Disclosures of restructured accounts
Sr. 
No.
Type of restructuring
Under CDR Mechanism / SME Debt 
Restructuring Mechanism
Others*#
Total
Asset Classification
Standard
Sub- 
Standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total
Standard
Sub- 
Standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total
1
Restructured account as on 1 
April 2023 (Opening Figures)
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
1,326
510
-
-
1,836
1,836
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
25,465.36
13,755.17
-
-
39,220.53
39,220.53
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
2,316.53
5,881.21
-
-
8,197.74
8,197.74
2
Fresh Restructuring during 
the year -( Net of closure 
and repayment )
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
Repaid out of opening
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
687
174
-
-
861
861
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
(2,173.08)
(364.54)
-
-
(2,537.62)
(2,537.62)
Provision Thereon **
-
-
-
-
-
(885.61)
70.57
-
-
(815.04)
(815.04)
4
Upgradations to restructured 
standard category during the year
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
40
(40)
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
1,072.50 (1,072.50)
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
339.59
(339.59)
-
-
-
-
5
Restructured Standard advances 
which cease to attract higher 
provisioning and/or additional 
risk weight at the end of the FY 
and hence need not be shown as 
restructured standard advances at 
the beginning of the next FY
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
Downgradations of restructured 
accounts during FY 23-24 (Slipped 
to NPA as on 31 March 2024) - npa
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
(136)
136
-
-
-
-
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
(2,045.60)
2,045.60
-
-
-
-
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
(188.99)
188.99
-
-
-
-
7
Write-offs of the restructured 
accounts during FY 23-24
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
128
153
-
-
281
281
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
(576.62)
(889.34)
-
-
(1,465.96)
(1,465.96)
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
(93.21)
(526.67)
-
-
(619.88)
(619.88)
8
Closed / Paid-up POS of 
the restructured accounts 
during FY 23-24
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
542
227
-
-
769
769
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
(13,180.27) (7,957.34)
-
-
(21,137.61)
(21,137.61)
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
(1,057.65) (3,743.18)
-
-
(4,800.83)
(4,800.83)
9
Restructured account as on 31 
March 2024 (Closing Figures)
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
583
360
-
-
943
943
Amount Outstanding
-
-
-
-
-
8,562.29
5,517.05
-
-
14,079.34
14,079.34
Provision Thereon
-
-
-
-
-
430.66
1,531.33
-
-
1,961.99
1,961.99
* Includes restructuring covered under RBI Restructuring Circulars.
# The above amount represents principal outstanding of restructured loans
**Includes impact of changes to models and inputs used
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
202
XIX -  Comparison between Ind AS provisions and IRACP norms
Asset Classification 
as per RBI Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind 
AS 109
Gross Carrying 
Amount as 
per Ind AS#
Loss Allowances 
(Provisions) as 
required under 
 Ind AS 109#
Net Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between Ind AS 
109 provisions 
and IRACP norms
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5) = (3) - (4)
(6)
(7) = (4) - (6)
Performing Assets
Standard
Stage1
566,073.95
10,297.63
555,776.32
1,688.12
8,609.51
Stage2
32,457.47
2,296.08
30,161.39
484.84
1,811.24
Subtotal
598,531.42
12,593.71
585,937.71
2,172.96
10,420.75
Non-Performing  
Assets (NPA)
Substandard
Stage3
17,125.35
9,840.12
7,285.23
1,373.49
8,466.63
Subtotal 
for Substandard
17,125.35
9,840.12
7,285.23
1,373.49
8,466.63
Doubtful - up to 1 year
Stage3
6,279.38
3,641.48
2,637.90
1,048.48
2,593.00
1 to 3 years
Stage3
7,549.17
4,860.33
2,688.84
2,203.88
2,656.45
More than 3 years
Stage3
316.07
135.46
180.61
78.01
57.45
Subtotal for doubtful
14,144.62
8,637.27
5,507.35
3,330.37
5,306.90
Loss
Stage3
-
-
-
-
-
Subtotal for NPA
31,269.97
18,477.39
12,792.58
4,703.86
13,773.53
Total
629,801.39
31,071.10
598,730.29
6,876.82
24,194.28
Other items such as  
guarantees, loan 
commitments, etc.  
which are in the scope 
of Ind AS 109 but not 
covered under current 
Income Recognition,  
Asset Classification  
and Provisioning  
(IRACP) 
norms
Stage1
-
-
-
-
-
Stage2
-
-
-
-
-
Stage3
-
-
-
-
-
Subtotal
-
-
-
-
-
Total
Stage1
566,073.95
10,297.63
555,776.32
1,688.12
8,609.51
Stage2
32,457.47
2,296.08
30,161.39
484.84
1,811.24
Stage3
31,269.97
18,477.39
12,792.58
4,703.86
13,773.53
Total
629,801.39
31,071.10
598,730.29
6,876.82
24,194.28
# includes securitised loans in the scope of Ind-AS 109 and impairment loss allowance thereon.
XX - Liquidity Risk Management	
(i) Funding Concentration based on significant counterparty (both deposits and borrowings)
Sr. No. 
Number of Significant 
Counterparties 
Amount
% of Total Deposits 
% of Total Liabilities
1
 23 
 401,418.42 
N/A
83.25%
(ii)	 Top 20 large deposits  - Not applicable	
	
	
	
	
The Company being a Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Non-Banking Financial Company 
registered with Reserve Bank of India, does not accept public deposits
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24203
01-22
121-283
23-120
(iii)	 Top 10 borrowings
Total Amount
% of Total Borrowings
 289,379.00 
63.14%
(iv) Funding concentration based on significant instrument/product
Sr. No. Nature of instrument 
Amount
% of 
Total Liabilities
1
Term Loan
96,670.06
20.05%
2
Non-Convertible Debentures
321,565.56
66.69%
3
Working Capital
32,885.13
6.82%
4
Commercial Papers
7,209.53
1.50%
(v)	 Stock ratios
Sr. No. Particulars
Ratios 
1
Commercial papers
- as a % of total public funds 
1.57%
- as a % of total liabilities
1.50%
- as a % of total assets
0.91%
2
Non-convertible debentures (original maturity of less than one year) 
- as a % of total public funds
Nil
- as a % of total liabilities
Nil
- as a % of total assets
Nil
3
Other short-term liabilities 
- as a % of total public funds
4.42%
- as a % of total liabilities
4.20%
- as a % of total assets
2.56%
(vi)	Institutional set-up for liquidity risk management
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has instituted the Asset Liability Management Committee to monitor 
and manage liquidity risk inter-alia by way of monitoring the asset liability composition, reviewing the 
liquidity and borrowing program of the Company, setting-up and monitoring prudential limits on negative 
mismatches w.r.t. liquidity and interest rate and forecasting and analysing ‘what if scenario’ and preparation 
of contingency plans. Further, the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Committee as a part of 
evaluation of the overall risks faced by the Company evaluate the liquidity risk faced by the Company.
	
Footnote - 
	
Amount of Securitization is excluded from total borrowing, total assets, total liabilities and public funds.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
204
XXI -  Liquidity coverage ratio:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Q1 FY 2023-24
Q2 FY 2023-24
Q3 FY 2023-24
Q4 FY 2023-24
Amounts (Average)
Amounts (Average)
Amounts (Average)
Amounts (Average)
Unweighted
Weighted
Unweighted
Weighted
Unweighted
Weighted
Unweighted
Weighted
(average)1
(average)2
(average)1
(average)2
(average)1
(average)2
(average)1
(average)2
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)3
22,946.26
22,946.26
22,297.94
22,297.94
27,345.38
27,345.38
23,750.51
23,750.51
Cash Outflows
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
Unsecured funding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Secured funding
19,326.44
22,225.40
17,453.99
20,072.09
12,086.09
13,899.00
25,169.09
28,944.45
5
Additional requirements, of which
5,261.59
6,050.83
9,407.30
10,818.40
9,782.25
11,249.58
13,179.38
15,156.29
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding 
on debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
5,261.59
6,050.83
9,407.30
10,818.40
9,782.25
11,249.58
13,179.38
15,156.29
6
Other contractual funding obligations
9,888.27
11,371.51
9,302.79
10,698.21
8,151.61
9,374.36
9,685.42
11,138.23
7
Other contingent funding obligations
123.63
142.17
40.76
46.88
-
-
41.21
47.39
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
34,599.93
39,789.91
36,204.84
41,635.58
30,019.95
34,522.94
48,075.10
55,286.36
Cash Inflows
9
Secured Lending
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
21,219.36
15,914.52
20,564.27
15,423.20
19,995.23
14,996.43
21,923.75
16,442.82
11
Other cash inflows
41,577.84
31,183.38
48,592.37
36,444.28
12,206.69
9,155.02
51,857.18
38,892.89
12
Total Cash Inflows
62,797.20
47,097.90
69,156.64
51,867.48
32,201.92
24,151.45
73,780.93
55,335.71
Total 
Adjusted Value 
Total 
Adjusted Value 
Total 
Adjusted Value 
Total 
Adjusted Value 
13
Total HQLA
22,946.26
22,297.94
27,345.38
23,750.51
14
Total Net Cash Outflows
9,947.48
10,408.89
10,371.50
13,821.59
15
Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
230.67%
214.22%
263.66%
171.84%
1 Unweighted value calculated as outstanding balances maturing or callable within 30 days (for inflows and outflows).
2 Weighted values calculated after the application of respective haircuts (for HQLA) and stress factors on inflow (75%) and outflow (115%).
3 The Company, during the quarter ended 31 March 2024, had maintained average HQLA. HQLA primarily includes cash on hand, bank balances in current account 
and Government securities.
4 Company for purpose of computing outflows, have considered: (1) all the contractual debt repayments, and (2) other expected or contracted cash outflows. Inflows 
comprises of: (1) expected receipt from all performing loans, and (2) liquid investment which are unencumbered and have not been considered as part of HQLA.
5 In preparation of LCR, the management has made certain estimates/assumptions and compiled the information from internal MIS and records, which has been 
relied upon by the auditors.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24205
01-22
121-283
23-120
XXII  - Sectoral exposure	
SL 
No
Sectors
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet 
and off-balance 
sheet exposure)
Gross NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to 
total 
exposure 
in that sector
Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet 
and off-balance 
sheet exposure)
Gross 
NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure 
in that sector
1
Agriculture and 
Allied Activities
20,135.99
856.11
4.25%
11,111.90
507.72
4.57%
2
Industry
- Micro and Small
2,399.08
-
-
7,326.88
1,050.13
6.08%
-  Large
-
-
-
9,941.31
-
-
Total (2)
2,399.08
-
-
17,268.19
1,050.13
6.08%
3
Services
- Transport Operators
472,088.64
24,904.53
4.67%
296,542.27
24,139.93
5.00%
- Computer Software
102.22
-
-
721.93
25.94
0.01%
- Tourism, Hotel 
and Restaurants
62.42
-
-
964.56
30.02
0.01%
- Professional Services
2,415.17
136.08
0.03%
9,566.21
893.52
0.18%
- Retail Trade
1,638.62
354.46
0.07%
7,129.53
1,103.77
0.23%
- Commercial Real Estate
54,195.03
-
-
155,152.14
-
-
- NBFCs
-
-
-
1,191.18
-
-
- Other Services
2,409.35
625.46
0.12%
11,948.64
2,483.79
0.51%
Total (3)
532,911.45 26,020.53
4.88%
483,216.46 28,676.97
5.93%
4
Personal Loan
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
Retail Loans
- Vehicle/Auto Loans
63,124.38
1,641.35
1.87%
33,713.66
1,814.04
1.72%
- Other Retail loans
24,610.81
2,751.98
3.14%
71,673.74
14,175.15
13.45%
Total (5)
87,735.19
4,393.33
5.01%
105,387.40
15,989.19
15.17%
Total (1+2+3+4+5)
643,181.71
31,269.97
4.86%
616,983.95 46,224.01
7.49%
Note: Sector wise classification of NPA is compiled by the Management from internal MIS and relied by the Auditors.
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
1
Total amount of intra-group exposures
 - 
 - 
2
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
 - 
 - 
3
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the 
NBFC on borrowers / customers
 - 
 - 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
206
XXIV-  Related Party Disclosure
SL 
No
Particulars
Transaction
Financial year
Parent Subsidiaries
Associates/ 
Joint Ventures
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Others
Total
1
Borrowings
Outstanding  
as at Year End
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
Deposits
Outstanding  
as at Year End
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
Placement of  
deposits
Outstanding  
as at Year End
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
Advances
Outstanding  
as at Year End
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
2,500.00
-
-
2,500.00
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
2,500.00
-
-
2,500.00
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2023-24 (CY)
-
6,500.00
-
2,500.00
-
-
9,000.00
2022-23 (PY)
-
8,000.00
-
2,500.00
-
-
10,500.00
5
Investments
Outstanding  
as at Year End
2023-24 (CY)
-
45,270.58
-
-
-
-
45,270.58
2022-23 (PY)
-
45,271.60
-
-
-
-
45,271.60
Maximum Outstanding 
during the year
2023-24 (CY)
-
45,271.60
-
-
-
-
45,271.60
2022-23 (PY)
-
45,285.17
-
-
-
-
45,285.17
6
Purchase of 
fixed/other assets
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
Sale of fixed/other assets
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
Interest paid 
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
9
Interest received
2023-24 (CY)
-
143.85
-
-
-
-
143.85
2022-23 (PY)
-
299.52
-
-
-
-
299.52
10
Others
Upfront Fees
2023-24 (CY)
1,228.41
-
-
-
-
-
1,228.41
2022-23 (PY)
4,018.68
-
-
-
-
-
4,018.68
Short-term 
employee benefits
2023-24 (CY)
-
-
-
359.08
-
-
359.08
2022-23 (PY)
-
-
-
341.38
-
-
341.38
Recovery of Expenses
2023-24 (CY)
-
1,686.53
-
-
-
-
1,686.53
2022-23 (PY)
-
2,007.29
-
-
-
-
2,007.29
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24207
01-22
121-283
23-120
XXV - Others
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 31 March 2024
Amount outstanding
 Amount overdue
Liabilities side :
(1)
Loans and advances availed by the NBFCs 
inclusive of interest accrued thereon but not paid:
(a)	 Debenture 	 : Secured
292,067.78
-
	
	
	
	
: Unsecured 
29,497.78
-
(b)	 Deferred Credits
-
-
(c)	 Term Loans
96,670.06
-
(d)	 Inter-corporate loans and borrowing
-
-
(e)	 Commercial Paper
7,209.53
-
(f)	 Public Deposits (Refer Note 2 below)
-
-
(g)	 Other Loans
179,497.88
-
(2) Break-up of (1)(f) above (Outstanding  public deposits 
inclusive of interest accrued
(a)	 In the form of Unsecured debentures
-
-
(b)	 In 
the 
form 
of 
partly 
secured 
debentures 
i.e. 
debentures where there is a shortfall in the value of security
-
-
(c)	 Other public deposits
-
-
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Amount outstanding
Assets side :
(3) Break-up of Loans and Advances including bills receivables (other than those 
included  in (4) below ):
(a)	 Secured
620,366.15
(b)	 Unsecured
9,435.24
(4) Break up of Leased Assets and stock on hire counting towards AFC activities
(i)	 Lease assets including lease rentals under sundry debtors :
	
(a)	 Financial lease 
 - 
	
(b)	 Operating lease
 - 
(ii)	 Stock on Hire including hire charges under sundry debtors :
	
(a)	 Assets on hire 
 - 
	
(b)	 Repossessed Assets
 - 
(iii)	 Other loans counting towards AFC Activities :
	
(a)	 Loans where assets have been repossessed
 - 
	
(b)	 Loans other than (a) above
 - 
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
208
Sr. 
No
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
Amount outstanding
(5) Break-up of Investments :
 
Current Investments :
1.	
Quoted :
	
(I)	 Shares :	 (a) Equity
 - 
	
	
	
	
(b) Preference
 - 
	
(ii)	 Debenture and Bonds
 - 
	
(iii)	 Units of mutual funds
 - 
	
(iv)	 Government Securities
 14,210.78 
	
(v)	 Others (Please specify)
 - 
2.	
Unquoted :
	
(I)	 Shares:	 (a) Equity
 - 
	
	
	
	
(b) Preference
 - 
	
(ii)	 Debentures and Bonds
 - 
	
(iii)	 Units of mutual funds
 16,723.44 
	
(iv)	 Government Securities
 - 
	
(v)	 Others (Please specify)
 - 
Long Term investments :
1.	
Quoted :
	
(I)	 Shares :	 (a) Equity
 - 
	
	
	
	
(b) Preference
 - 
	
(ii)	 Debentures and Bonds
 - 
	
(iii)	 Units of mutual funds
 - 
	
(iv)	 Government Securities
 - 
	
(v)	 Others (Please specify)
 - 
2.	
Unquoted :
	
(I)	 Shares:	 (a) Equity
 45,270.58 
	
	
	
	
(b) Preference
 - 
	
(ii)	 Debentures and Bonds
 - 
	
(iii)	 Units of mutual funds
 - 
	
(iv)	 Government Securities
 - 
	
(v)	 Others: Securities receipts
 80,887.58 
(6)	 Borrower group-wise classification of  assets, financed as in (3) and (4) above :
Category
Amount (Net of provisions)
 Secured 
 Unsecured 
 Total 
1.	
Related Parties
	
(a)	 Subsidiaries
-
-
-
	
(b)	 Companies in the same group
-
-
-
	
(c)	 Other related parties
-
-
-
2.	
Other than related parties
589,610.45
9,119.84
598,730.29
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24209
01-22
121-283
23-120
(7)	 Investor group-wise classification of all investments (current and long term) in shares and securities 
(both quoted and unquoted):
Category
 Market Value /  
Break up or 
fair value or NAV
Book Value 
(Net of Provisions)
1.	
Related Parties
	
(a)	 Subsidiaries
45,270.58
45,270.58
	
(b)	 Companies in the same group
-
-
	
(c)	 Other related parties
-
-
2.	
Other than related parties
111,821.80
111,821.80
(8)	 Other information
Particulars
 Amount
(i)
Gross Non-Performing Assets
(a)	 Related parties
-
(b)	 Other than related parties
31,269.97
(ii)
Net Non-Performing Assets
(a)	 Related parties
-
(b)	 Other than related parties
12,792.58
(iii)
Assets acquired in satisfaction of debt
1,300.00
Footnote: NPA represents Stage 3 loan assets and classified as Stage 3 as per Ind AS 109.
Note 46 - The Company does not have any unhedged foreign currency exposure for the year ended 31 March 
2024
Note 47 - Figures for the previous year have been regrouped, and / or reclassified wherever considered 
necessary to make them comparable to the current year presentation.
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
210
Independent Auditor’s Report
To 
the Members of 
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated 
Financial Statements of IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding 
Company”), and its subsidiaries together referred to 
as (“the Group”), which comprise the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Consolidated Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, and 
based on consideration of reports of other auditors on 
separate financial statements and on the other financial 
information of subsidiaries, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements give the information required by 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under 
section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (the 
“Rules”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of their consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group as at March 31, 2024, of consolidated 
profit and other comprehensive income, consolidated 
changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for 
the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are 
further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the 
Group, in accordance with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in terms of the Code of Ethics 
issued by Institute of Chartered Accountant of India 
(“ICAI”), and the relevant provisions of the Act and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained and on 
consideration of audit reports of other auditors 
referred to in of the “Other Matters” section below, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matters described below to be the 
key audit matters to be communicated in our report:
Sr. No Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
1
Impairment of loans including Expected 
Credit Losses (“ECL”):
As per Ind AS 109 - Financial Instruments 
(“Ind AS 109”) requires the Company to 
provide for impairment of its financial assets 
using ECL approach involving an estimation 
of probability of loss on such financial assets, 
considering 
reasonable 
and 
supportable 
information 
about 
past 
events, 
current 
conditions and forecasts of future economic 
conditions which could impact the credit 
quality of the Company’s financial assets.
Our audit procedures in respect of this area 
included, but not limited to:
Process understanding and control testing:
•	
Read the Company’s Board approved ECL policy 
and material accounting policy information 
for estimation of ECL on financial assets and 
evaluated the appropriateness of the same with 
the principles of Ind AS 109;
•	
Performed end-to-end process walkthroughs to 
identify the controls used in the impairment loss 
allowance processes;
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 211
01-22
121-283
23-120
Sr. No Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
The 
estimation 
of 
impairment 
loss 
allowance on loan assets involves significant 
judgement and estimates, which are subject 
to 
uncertainty, 
and 
involves 
applying 
appropriate measurement principles in case 
of loss events.
ECL is calculated using the percentage of 
probability of default (“PD”), loss given 
default (“LGD”) and exposure at default 
(“EAD”) for each of the stages of loan 
portfolio. Significant management judgment 
and assumptions involved in measuring ECL 
is required with respect to:
•	
Segmentation of loan book in buckets 
based on common risk characteristics;
•	
Staging of loans and in particular 
determining the criteria, which includes 
qualitative factors for identifying a 
significant increase in credit risk (i.e. 
Stage 2) and credit-impaired (i.e. Stage 3);
•	
factoring in future macro-economic and 
industry specific estimates and forecasts;
•	
past experience and forecast data on 
customer behaviour on repayments and;
•	
varied statistical modelling techniques 
to determine probability of default, 
loss given default and exposure at 
default basis, the default history of 
loans, 
subsequent 
recoveries 
made 
and 
other 
relevant 
factors 
using 
probability-weighted scenarios.
Considering the significance of the above 
matter to the Financial Statements and since 
the matter required significant attention to 
test the calculation of ECL, we identified this 
as a key audit matters for current year audit.
•	
Tested the design and the operating effectiveness 
of relevant internal controls, including the 
IT controls relevant to the impairment loss 
allowance process.
•	
Verified the completeness and accuracy of 
the EAD and the classification thereof into 
stages consistent with the definitions applied 
in accordance with the policy approved by the 
Board of Directors;
•	
Checked the appropriateness of information 
used in the estimation of the PD and LGD for 
the different stages depending on the nature 
of the portfolio.
Performed the following substantive procedures on 
sample of loan assets:
•	
Tested appropriateness of staging of borrowers 
based on days past due (“DPD”) and other 
loss indicators;
•	
Tested the factual accuracy of information 
such as period of default, ratings (wherever 
applicable) and other related information used 
in estimating the PD;
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of LGD estimates 
by comparing actual recoveries post the 
loan asset becoming credit impaired and 
other 
applicable 
assumptions 
included 
in 
LGD computation;
•	
Evaluated the methodology used to determine 
macroeconomic overlays and adjustments to 
the output of the ECL model;
•	
Tested the completeness of loans included in 
the ECL calculations as of March 31, 2024 by 
reconciling such data with the balances as per 
loan book register; and
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of 
disclosures in compliance with the Ind AS 107 in 
relation to ECL especially in relation to judgements 
used in estimation of ECL provision.
2
Information Technology (“IT”) systems and 
controls impacting financial controls
The Company key financial accounting and 
reporting processes are highly dependent 
on information systems including automated 
controls in systems, such that there exists a 
risk that gaps in the IT control environment 
could result in the financial accounting and 
reporting records being misstated.
Key IT audit procedures performed included the 
following, but not limited to:
•	
For testing the IT general controls, application 
controls and IT dependent manual controls, 
we involved IT specialists as part of the 
audit. The team also assisted in testing the 
accuracy of the information produced by the 
Company IT systems.
•	
Obtained 
a 
comprehensive 
understanding 
of 
IT 
applications 
landscape 
implemented 
at the Company. It was followed by process 
understanding, mapping of applications to the 
same and understanding financial risks posed by 
people-process and technology.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
212
Sr. No Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
Amongst 
its 
multiple 
IT 
systems, 
we 
scoped in systems that are key for overall 
financial reporting.
Appropriate 
IT 
general 
controls 
and 
application controls are required to ensure 
that such IT systems are able to process the 
data, as required, completely, accurately and 
consistently for reliable financial reporting.
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ 
as a key audit matter considering the high 
level of automation, significant number of 
systems being used by Management and the 
complexity of the IT architecture
and 
its 
impact 
on 
overall 
financial 
reporting 
process 
and 
regulatory 
expectation on automation.
•	
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design 
and operating effectiveness of key controls 
operating 
over 
user 
access 
management 
(which 
includes 
user 
access 
provisioning, 
de-provisioning, 
access 
review, 
password 
configuration review, segregation of duties 
and privilege access), change management 
(which include change release in production 
environment are compliant to the defined 
procedures and segregation of environment 
is ensured), program development (which 
include review of data migration activity), 
computer operations (which includes testing 
of key controls pertaining to, backup, Batch 
processing 
(including 
interface 
testing), 
incident management and data centre security), 
System interface controls. This included testing 
that requests for access to systems were 
appropriately logged, reviewed, and authorized.
•	
In addition to the above, the design and 
operating effectiveness of certain automated 
controls, that were considered as key internal 
system controls over financial reporting were 
tested. Using various techniques such as inquiry, 
review of documentation / record / reports, 
observation, and re-performance. We also tested 
few controls using negative testing technique.
•	
Tested compensating controls and performed 
alternate 
procedures, 
where 
necessary. 
In addition, understood where relevant changes 
made to the IT landscape during the audit period.
The auditors of IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited, vide their audit report dated April 22, 2024, have 
expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, the 
following Key Audit Matters were included in the audit report.
Sr No Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
1.
Impairment of financial assets as at balance 
sheet date (expected credit losses):
Ind AS 109 requires the Company to provide for 
impairment of its loan receivables (designated 
at amortised cost and fair value through other 
comprehensive income) using the expected 
credit loss (ECL) approach. ECL involves an 
estimation of probability-weighted loss on 
financial instruments over their life, considering 
reasonable and supportable information about 
past events, current conditions, and forecasts 
of future economic conditions which could 
impact the credit quality of the Company’s 
loans and advances.
•	
Read and assessed the Company’s accounting 
policies for impairment of financial assets 
and their compliance with Ind AS 109 and 
the governance framework approved by the 
Board of Directors.
•	
Read and assessed the Company’s policy with 
respect 
to 
one-time 
restructuring 
offered 
to customers pursuant to the “Resolution 
Framework for COVID-19-related Stress” issued 
by RBI on August 6, 2020, and May 05, 2021 
and tested the implementation of such policy on 
a sample basis.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 213
01-22
121-283
23-120
Sr No Key Audit Matter
Auditor’s Response
In the process, a significant degree of 
judgement 
has 
been 
applied 
by 
the 
management for:
•	
Staging of loans (i.e. classification in 
‘significant increase in credit risk’ (“SICR”) 
and ‘default’ categories);
•	
Data inputs in relation to ECL model
•	
Estimation of behavioral life;
•	
Determining 
macro-economic 
factors 
impacting credit quality of receivables;
•	
Determination of loan book segmentation, 
probability of defaults, loss given defaults 
and exposure at default.
•	
Evaluated the reasonableness of the management 
estimates by understanding the process of 
ECL estimation and related assumptions and 
tested the controls around data extraction 
and validation.
•	
Assessed the criteria for staging of loans based 
on their past-due status to check compliance 
with requirement of Ind AS 109. Tested a sample 
of performing (stage 1) loans to assess whether 
any SICR or loss indicators were present requiring 
them to be classified under higher stages.
•	
Assessed the additional considerations applied 
by the management for staging of loans as SICR 
or default categories in view of Company’s policy 
on one time restructuring.
•	
Tested the ECL model, including assumptions 
and underlying computation. Assessed the 
floor/ minimum rates of provisioning applied by 
the Company for loan products with inadequate 
historical defaults.
2.
Evaluation 
of 
Company’s 
IT 
systems 
and Controls
The information system is a critical component 
of Company’s operations, enabling efficient 
processing of transactions, safeguarding of 
information, and supporting decision-making. 
The financial accounting and reporting systems 
of the Company are also fundamentally reliant 
on IT systems and IT controls.
As such, it is important for us to evaluate 
the effectiveness of information system 
controls to ensure the correctness, integrity, 
availability, 
and 
confidentiality 
of 
data. 
We identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as 
key audit matter because of the pervasive 
nature of IT environment and the scale and 
complexity of the IT architecture.
•	
In assessing the effectiveness of information 
system 
controls, 
they 
have 
evaluated 
the 
extent 
to 
which 
the 
controls 
are 
properly 
designed and implemented to mitigate the risk 
of material misstatement in financial reporting. 
Their procedures included:
a) Obtained an understanding of the IT control 
environment and IT policies during the audit period.
b) Testing IT general controls related to User, 
Change Management Controls, Information Security 
Controls, Log management and Data backup. 
Their audit procedures also included assessment 
and identification of key IT applications, and further 
verifying, testing, and reviewing the design and 
operating effectiveness of the IT system based 
on reports and other financial and non-financial 
information generated from the system on a 
test check basis.
Information Other than the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report 
Thereon
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the Annual Report but does 
not include the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The Annual Report 
is expected to be made available to us after the date 
of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance under SA 720 ‘The Auditor’s 
responsibilities Relating to Other Information’.
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
214
Responsibilities of Management and Board 
of Directors for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the preparation and presentation 
of these Consolidated Financial Statements in term 
of the requirements of the Act that give a true and 
fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance, consolidated 
changes in equity and consolidated cash flows 
of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Indian Accounting Standards specified under section 
133 of the Act read with the Rules. The respective 
Management and Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; the selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of 
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
by the Management and Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
the Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible 
for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these Consolidated Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify 
and 
assess 
the 
risks 
of 
material 
misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
material 
accounting policies used and the reasonableness 
of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the management and Board of Directors.
•	
Conclude 
on 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
management and Board of Directors use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on 
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the ability 
of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions 
may cause the Group to cease to continue as 
a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 215
01-22
121-283
23-120
Consolidated Financial Statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the 
entities or business activities within the Group to 
express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the 
financial statements of such entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which 
we are independent auditors. For the other 
entities included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and the performance 
of the audits carried out by them. We remain 
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Holding Company and such other entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of which we are the independent auditors regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing 
of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore the key audit 
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not 
be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other Matters
a.	
We did not audit the financial statements of two 
subsidiaries whose financial statements reflect 
total assets of Rs. 2,20,306.19 lakhs as at March 31, 
2024, total revenues of Rs. 29,023.88 lakhs and 
cash inflows (net) of Rs. 21,143.64 lakhs for 
the year ended on that date, as considered 
in 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements. 
These financial statements have been audited by 
other auditors whose reports have been furnished 
to us by the Management and our opinion on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so 
far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our 
report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 
of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the 
other auditors.
b.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Company for the year ended March 31, 2023, 
were audited by previous statutory auditor 
whose report dated May 25, 2023 expressed 
a modified opinion on those Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
	
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is not modified in respect of 
the above matters.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based 
on our audit and on the consideration of the 
reports of the other auditors on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the subsidiaries referred 
to in the Other Matters section above we report, 
to the extent applicable, that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to 
the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the reports 
of the other auditors.
	
c.	
The 
Consolidated 
Balance 
Sheet, 
the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
including 
other 
comprehensive 
income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements comply with the Indian 
Accounting 
Standards 
specified 
under 
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
216
Section 133 of the the Act read with the 
Rules thereunder.
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2024 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of its subsidiary companies, none 
of the directors of the Group companies are 
disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act.
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 
Group, and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate report 
in “Annexure A”.
	
g.	
With respect to the other matters to be 
included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance 
with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to 
the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position 
of the Group – Refer Note 35 of the 
consolidated financial statements.
	
	
ii.	
The Group did not have any material 
foreseeable 
losses 
on 
long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts.
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the 
Investor 
Education 
and 
Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary companies.
	
	
iv.	
(a)	 The Managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries which 
are 
companies 
incorporated 
in 
India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act 
have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries 
respectively that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, in Note 42.2 
(i) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
to or in any other persons or 
entities, including foreign entities 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
as on the date of this audit report, 
that such parties shall, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Holding Company or 
any of such subsidiaries (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(b)	 The Managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries which 
are 
companies 
incorporated 
in 
India whose financial statements 
have 
been 
audited 
under 
the 
Act 
have 
represented 
to 
us 
and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries 
respectively 
that, 
to the best of their knowledge 
and belief, in Note 42.2 (i) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, 
no funds have been received by the 
Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries from any person or 
entities, including foreign entities 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
as on the date of this audit report, 
that the Holding Company or any 
of such subsidiaries, shall, directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(c)	 Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiaries 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, 
and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us 
by the Management of the Holding 
company in this regard nothing 
has come to our or other auditors’ 
notice that has caused us or the 
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 217
01-22
121-283
23-120
other auditors to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as provided 
under (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material mis-statement.
	
	
v.	
In our opinion and according to the 
information 
and 
explanations 
given 
to us, the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries has neither declared nor 
paid any dividend during the year.
	
	
vi.	 Based on our examination, and based 
on the other auditor’s reports of its 
subsidiary companies whose financial 
statements have been audited under 
the Act, the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries have used accounting 
software(s) 
for 
maintaining 
their 
respective books of account for the 
year ended March 31, 2024, which 
have a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has 
operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the 
software(s), and further, we did not 
come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with.
2.	
In 
our 
opinion, 
according 
to 
information, 
explanations given to us, the remuneration paid 
by the Group to its directors is within the limits 
laid prescribed under Section 197 read with 
Schedule V of the Act and the rules thereunder.
3.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and based on the CARO reports 
issued by us for the Holding Company and on 
consideration of CARO reports issued by the 
statutory auditors of subsidiaries included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group 
to which reporting under CARO is applicable, 
we report that there are no qualifications or 
adverse remarks.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number. 105047W
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118580
April 29, 2024 	
UDIN: 24118580BKFLYO4381
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
218
of even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Indostar Capital Finance Limited
“Annexure A” 
to Independent Auditors’ Report
[Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ in the 
Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the 
Members of IndoStar Capital Finance Limited on 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2024]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 
143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company as of and for 
the year ended March 31, 2024, we have audited the 
internal financial controls reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements of IndoStar Capital Finance 
Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding 
Company”) which includes the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiary companies (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
“the Group”)which are companies incorporated in 
India, as of that date.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the Group, 
have, in all material respects, an adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 
2024, based on the internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
criteria established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (“the ICAI”).
Management 
and 
Board 
of 
Director’s 
Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Management and the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies, which are companies incorporated 
in India, are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal control with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements criteria established by the 
respective companies considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note. These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies, its associate 
companies and jointly controlled companies, which 
are companies incorporated in India, based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) 
issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing 
prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
was 
established 
and 
maintained 
and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements 
and 
their 
operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including 
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether 
due to fraud or error.
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 219
01-22
121-283
23-120
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other 
auditors in terms of their reports referred to in the 
Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Meaning 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls 
With Reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation 
of Consolidated Financial Statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls With Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements to future periods 
are subject to the risk that the internal financial control 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as 
it relates to two subsidiary companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, is based on the 
corresponding reports auditors of such companies 
incorporated in India. Our opinion is not modified in 
respect of this matter.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number. 105047W
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Mumbai 	
Membership No. 118580
April 29, 2024 	
UDIN: 24118580BKFLYO4381
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
220
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
 As at 
31 March 2024
 As at 
31 March 2023
I.	
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
3
 61,390.42
 17,974.12
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
4
 34,919.59
 23,603.59
Loans
5
 780,983.89
 651,567.00
Investments
6
 111,821.80
 103,934.67
Other financial assets
7
 38,306.04
 35,156.36
 1,027,421.74
 83,2235.74
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net)
8
 8,336.99
 5,607.74
Deferred tax assets (net)
9
 31,651.53
 31,643.62
Property, plant and equipment
10
 6,800.67
 5,353.44
Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim
11
 1,300.00
 1,300.00
Goodwill
12
 30,018.69
 30,018.69
Other intangible assets
12
 1,289.99
 2,351.56
Other non-financial assets
13
 5,250.27
 3,707.97
 84,648.14
 79,983.02
	
TOTAL ASSETS
 1,112,069.88
 912,218.76
II.	
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
14
(i)	
total outstanding to micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 124.16
 10.89
(ii)	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 19.51
 783.32
Debt securities
15
 334,103.91
 110,886.95
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
16
 423,061.12
 453,918.00
Other financial liabilities
17
 28,242.96
 33,215.07
 785,551.66
 598,814.23
Non-financial liabilities
Provisions
18
 670.75
 555.93
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
9
 1,360.32
 579.54
Other non-financial liabilities
19
 965.35
 1,110.35
 2,996.42
 2,245.82
	
TOTAL LIABILITIES
 788,548.08
 601,060.05
EQUITY
Equity share capital
20
 13,607.93
 13,607.93
Other equity
21
 309,913.87
 297,550.78
TOTAL EQUITY
 323,521.80
 311,158.71
	
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
 1,112,069.88
 912,218.76
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 43
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 221
01-22
121-283
23-120
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
Note
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations
22
Interest income
 114,529.68
 105,840.89
Fees and commission income
 6,153.04
 5,416.58
Net gain on fair value changes
 2,543.43
 2,794.52
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
 16,071.49
 3,381.81
Total revenue from operations
 139,297.64
 117,433.80
Other income
23
 456.37
 531.54
Total income
 139,754.01
 117,965.34
Expenses
Finance cost
24
 68,734.22
 58,025.73
Impairment on financial instruments
25
 8,837.05
 (4,036.08)
Employee benefit expenses
26
 27,071.24
 17,781.43
Depreciation and amortization expenses
27
 3,321.55
 3,956.35
Other expenses
28
 18,825.96
 18,374.89
Total expenses
 126,790.02
 94,102.32
Profit/(loss) before tax
 12,963.99
 23,863.02
Tax expense:
29
1.	
Current tax
 666.38
 853.23
2.	
Tax of earlier years
 (68.77)
 (0.50)
3.	
Deferred tax expenses
 783.37
 495.63
Total tax expenses
 1,380.98
 1,348.36
Profit/(loss) after tax
 11,583.01
 22,514.66
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
-	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans
 (53.22)
 131.73
-	
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss
 13.40
 (33.15)
 (39.82)
 98.58
Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss
-	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
 11.47
 (16.72)
-	
Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified 
to profit or loss
 (2.89)
 4.20
 8.58
 (12.52)
 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (31.24)
 86.06
 Total comprehensive income for the year
 11,551.77
 22,600.72
 Earnings per equity share
30
 Basic earnings per share (`)
 8.51
 16.55
 Diluted earnings per share (`)
 8.51
 16.55
(Equity Share of face value of ` 10 each)
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 43
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
222
Consolidated Statement of Cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
A
Cash Flow from Operating Activities
Profit/(loss) before tax
 12,963.99
 23,863.02
Adjustments for :
Interest income on financial assets
 (114,529.68)
 (105,840.89)
Finance costs
 68,734.22
 58,025.73
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,321.55
 3,956.35
Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
 22.55
 27.11
Impairment on financial instruments
 8,837.05
 (4,036.08)
Provision for employee benefits
 228.40
 223.98
Employee share based payment expense
 811.32
 (4,350.07)
Net gain on fair value changes
 (2,543.43)
 (2,794.52)
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
 (16,071.49)
 (3,381.81)
 (38,225.52)
 (34,307.18)
Interest income realised on financial assets
 114,456.53
 110,789.35
Finance costs paid
 (72,747.53)
 (62,736.83)
Cash generated from operating activities before working 
capital changes
 3,483.48
 13,745.34
Adjustments:
(Increase)/Decrease in loans and advances
 (214,222.98)
 111,669.54
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets
 1,280.94
 (20,903.11)
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-financial assets
 (1,542.30)
 (552.71)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payable
 (650.54)
 522.89
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities
 (5,650.04)
 (15,464.01)
Increase/(Decrease) in other non-financial liabilities
 (144.99)
 405.07
Cash generated from / (used in) operating activities
 (217,446.43)
 89,423.01
Taxes (paid) / refund
 (3,326.86)
 435.14
Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities (A)
 (220,773.29)
 89,858.15
B
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment
 (1,292.77)
 (715.41)
Sale of property, plant and equipment
 7.77
 14.02
Purchase of intangible assets
 (123.10)
 (1,891.56)
Proceeds/(Investment) in bank deposits of maturity greater 
than 3 months (net)
 (11,316.00)
 17,334.84
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments 
measured at FVTPL (net)
 61,982.65
 (41,665.01)
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments 
measured at FVOCI (net)
 (4,020.66)
 (9,494.06)
(Acquisition)/redemption of investments measured at 
amortised cost (net)
 23,065.49
 10,479.23
Net cash (used in) / generated from investing activities (B)
 68,303.38
 (25,937.95)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 223
01-22
121-283
23-120
Consolidated Statement of Cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
C
Cash Flow from Financing Activities
Proceeds from bank borrowings
 276,165.34
 308,167.23
Repayments towards bank borrowings
 (307,929.71)
 (276,245.12)
Proceeds from issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures
 251,000.00
 90,000.00
Repayments towards Non-Convertible Debentures
 (30,090.00)
 (129,000.00)
Proceeds from Commercial Papers
 55,300.00
 35,000.00
Repayment of Commercial Papers
 (47,500.00)
 (80,500.00)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,059.42)
 (1,395.39)
Net cash (used in) / generated from financing activities (C)
 195,886.21
 (53,973.28)
Net Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
(A) + (B) + (C)
 43,416.30
 9,946.92
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year
 17,974.12
 8,027.20
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year
 61,390.42
 17,974.12
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents with 
the balance sheet
Cash on hand
 421.79
 323.90
Balances with banks
-	
in current accounts
 13,564.36
 12,228.54
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months
 47,404.27
 5,421.68
Total
 61,390.42
 17,974.12
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 43
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
224
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (SOCIE)
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
(a)	 Equity share capital of face value of `10/- each 
Particulars 
Balance at 
the beginning 
 of the current 
 reporting period
Changes in 
Equity Share 
Capital due to 
 prior period 
errors
 Restated 
balance at the 
beginning of 
 the current 
reporting period 
 Changes in 
Equity Share 
Capital 
during the 
current year 
 Balance at 
the end of 
 the current 
 reporting 
period 
As at 31 March 2024
 13,607.93 
 - 
 13,607.93 
 - 
 13,607.93 
As at 31 March 2023
 13,607.93 
 - 
 13,607.93 
 - 
 13,607.93 
(b)	 Other equity  
Particulars
 Reserves and surplus
 Other 
comprehensive 
income
 Total
Securities 
Premium 
Account
Statutory 
Reserves 
U/s 45-1C 
Statutory 
Reserve U/s 
Section 29C
 Capital 
Reserve
 Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
 General 
reserves
 Retained 
earnings
(i)	
Balance at 1 April 2023
292,207.63
 29,650.80
 2,293.19
 0.43
 2,074.82
 2,683.84
 (31,347.41)
 (12.52)
 297,550.78
	
Profit after tax for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 11,583.01
 -
 11,583.01
	
Debt instruments through 
other comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 8.58
 8.58
	
Gain/loss on re-measurement 
of defined benefit plans
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (39.82)
 -
 (39.82)
	
Total comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 11,543.19
 8.58
 11,551.77
	
Transferred from Retained 
earnings
 -
 -
 881.90
 -
 -
 -
 (881.90)
 -
 -
	
Share based payment 
expense
 -
 -
 -
 -
 811.32
 -
 -
 -
 811.32
	
Transfer from ESOP reserves
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (763.40)
 763.40
 -
 -
 -
	
Balance at 31 March 2024
 292,207.63
 29,650.80
 3,175.09
 0.43
 2,122.74
 3,447.24
 (20,686.12)
 (3.94)
 309,913.87
(ii)	 Balance at 1 April 2022
 292,207.63
 25,905.39
 1,537.68
 0.43
 7,081.96
 2,026.78
 (49,459.73)
 -
 279,300.14
	
Profit after tax for the year
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 22,514.66
 -
 22,514.66
	
Debt instruments through 
other comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (12.52)
 (12.52)
	
Gain/loss on re-measurement 
of defined benefit plans
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 98.58
 -
 98.58
	
Total comprehensive income
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 22,613.24
 (12.52)
 22,600.72
	
Transferred from Retained 
earnings
 -
 3,745.41
 755.51
 -
 -
 -
 (4,500.92)
 -
 -
	
Share based payment 
expense (refer note 26)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (4,350.08)
 -
 -
 -
 (4,350.08)
	
Transfer from ESOP reserves
 -
 -
 -
 -
 (657.06)
 657.06
 -
 -
 -
	
Balance at 31 March 2023
 292,207.63
 29,650.80
 2,293.19
 0.43
 2,074.82
 2,683.84
 (31,347.41)
 (12.52)
 297,550.78
See accompanying notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements 1 to 43
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 225
01-22
121-283
23-120
1	
Corporate Information
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited (‘the Company’ 
or ‘ICFL’) was incorporated on 21 July 2009 and is 
domiciled in India. The Company is registered with 
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as a Systemically 
Important 
Non-Deposit 
taking 
Non-Banking 
Financial Company (NBFC-ND-SI) vide Certificate 
No. N-13.02109. The Company has been classified 
as Middle Layer as per Master Direction- Reserve 
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Company – 
Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2023 dated 
19 October 2023, as amended. The Company 
is also registered as Corporate Agent with the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
(IRDAI) wide Certificate of Registration dated 21 
February 2024. The Company together with its 
subsidiaries (collectively, the Group), is primarily 
engaged in lending activities.
	
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited is engaged in 
business of lending to used and new Commercial 
Vehicles, 
Corporates 
and 
SME 
businesses. 
The Company has two subsidiaries, IndoStar 
Asset Advisory Private Limited which is primarily 
engaged in business of investment advisory and 
asset management services and IndoStar Home 
Finance Private Limited which is engaged in 
housing finance business.
2	
Basis of Preparation, Basis for Consolidation 
and Material accounting policies
2.1.a Statement of compliance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’)
	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended from time to time 
and presented in the format prescribed in the 
Division III to Schedule III to the Act applicable 
for Non Banking Financial Companies (“NBFC”). 
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the application of fair value 
measurements required or allowed by relevant 
accounting standards. Accounting policies have 
been consistently applied to all periods presented, 
unless otherwise stated.
	
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the management is satisfied 
that the Group shall be able to continue its 
business for the foreseeable future . In making this 
assessment, the management has considered a 
wide range of information relating to present and 
future conditions, including future projections of 
profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
2.1.b	Basis for Consolidation
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at 31 March 2024. The Company 
consolidates a subsidiary when it controls it. 
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or 
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the investee and has the ability to affect 
those returns through its power over the investee.
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority 
of voting rights result in control. To support this 
presumption and when the Group has less than 
a majority of the voting or similar rights of an 
investee, the Group considers all relevant facts 
and circumstances in assessing whether it has 
power over an investee, including:
	
n 	
The contractual arrangement with the other 
vote holders of the investee
	
n	
Rights 
arising 
from 
other 
contractual 
arrangements
	
n 
The Group’s voting rights and potential 
voting rights
	
n 	
The size of the Group’s holding of voting 
rights relative to the size and dispersion of 
the holdings of the other voting rights holders
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls 
an investee if facts and circumstances indicate 
that there are changes to one or more of the 
three elements of control. Consolidation of a 
subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control 
over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group 
loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or 
disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date 
the Group gains control until the date the Group 
ceases to control the subsidiary.
	
Consolidated 
financial 
statements 
are 
prepared using uniform accounting policies 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
226
for like transactions and other events in similar 
circumstances. The financial statements of all 
entities used for the purpose of consolidation 
are drawn up to same reporting date as that of 
the Company, i.e., year ended on 31 March 2024.
	
Consolidation procedure:
	
(a)	 Combine like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
of the parent with those of its subsidiaries. 
For this purpose, income and expenses of 
the subsidiary are based on the amounts of 
the assets and liabilities recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements at the 
acquisition date.
	
(b)	 Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the 
parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary. 
Business combinations policy explains how 
to account for any related goodwill.
	
(c)	 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between 
entities of the Group (profits or losses 
resulting from intragroup transactions that 
are recognised in assets, such as inventory 
and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). 
Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment 
that requires recognition in the consolidated 
financial statements. Ind AS 12 Income Taxes 
applies to temporary differences that arise 
from the elimination of profits and losses 
resulting from intragroup transactions.
	
	
Profit or loss and each component of OCI are 
attributed to the equity holders of the parent 
of the Group and to the non-controlling 
interests, 
even 
if 
this 
results 
in 
the 
non-controlling interests having a deficit 
balance. A change in the ownership interest 
of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is 
accounted for as an equity transaction.
2.2	 Presentation of financial statements
	
The Balance Sheet and the Statement of Profit 
and Loss are prepared and presented in the 
format prescribed in the Division III to Schedule 
III to the Act applicable for Non Banking Financial 
Companies (“NBFC”). The Statement of Cash 
Flows has been prepared and presented as per 
the requirements of Ind AS 7 “Statement of Cash 
Flows”. The disclosure requirements with respect 
to items in the Balance Sheet and Statement 
of Profit and Loss, as prescribed in the Division 
III to Schedule III to the Act, are presented 
by way of notes forming part of the financial 
statements along with the other notes required 
to be disclosed under the notified accounting 
Standards and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
generally reported gross in the balance sheet. 
They are only offset and reported net when, 
in addition to having an unconditional legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts without being contingent on a future 
event, the parties also intend to settle on a net 
basis in all of the following circumstances:
	
n	
the normal course of business;
	
n	
the event of default;
	
n 
the event of insolvency of bankruptcy of the 
Group or its counterparties.
2.3	 Material Accounting Policies
a) 	 Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities can be 
termed as financial instruments.
	
Financial instruments are recognised when the 
Company becomes a party to the contractual 
terms of the instruments.
 
(i) Classification of Financial Instruments
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets into 
the following measurement categories:
	
	
1.	
Financial 
assets 
to 
be 
measured 
at amortised cost
	
	
2.	
Financial assets to be measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
income
	
	
3.	
Financial assets to be measured at fair 
value through profit or loss account
	
	
The classification depends on the contractual 
terms of the financial assets’ cash flows and 
the Group’s business model for managing 
financial assets.
	
	
The Group classifies its financial liabilities 
at amortised cost unless it has designated 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 227
01-22
121-283
23-120
liabilities at fair value through the profit 
and loss account or is required to measure 
liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL) such as derivative liabilities. 
Financial 
liabilities, 
other 
than 
loan 
commitments 
and 
financial 
guarantees, 
are measured at FVTPL when they are 
derivative instruments or the fair value 
designation is applied.
	
(ii)	 Assessment of business model and cash 
flows for financial assets
	
	
Business model assessment
	
	
The Group determines its business model at 
the level that best reflects how it manages 
groups of financial assets to achieve its 
business objective. The Group’s business 
model determines whether the cash flows 
will be generated by collecting contractual 
cash flows, selling financial assets or by both.
	
	
The Group’s business model is assessed at 
portfolio level and not at instrument level, 
and is based on observable factors such as:
	
	
(i)	 How the performance of the business 
model and the financial assets held 
within 
that 
business 
model 
are 
evaluated and reported to the entity’s 
key management personnel;
	
	
(ii)	 The risks that affect the performance 
of the business model and, in particular, 
the way those risks are managed; and
	
	
(iii)	 The expected frequency, value and 
timing of sales are also important 
aspects of the Group’s assessment. 
The business model assessment is based 
on 
reasonably 
expected 
scenarios 
without taking ‘worst case’ or ‘stress 
case’ scenarios into account. 
	
	
Solely payment of principal and interest 
(SPPI) test
	
	
Subsequent to the assessment to the relevant 
business model of the financial assets, the 
Group assesses the contractual terms of 
financial assets to identify whether the cash 
flow realised are towards solely payment of 
principal and interest.
	
	
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is 
defined as the fair value of the financial asset 
at initial recognition and may change over the 
life of the financial asset. The most significant 
elements 
of 
interest 
within 
a 
lending 
arrangement are typically the consideration 
for the time value of money and credit risk.
 
(iii) Initial measurement of financial instruments
	
	
The classification of financial instruments 
at initial recognition depends on their 
contractual 
terms 
and 
the 
business 
model 
for 
managing 
the 
instruments. 
Financial instruments are initially measured 
at their fair value.
 
(iv) Classification of Financial Instruments as per 
business model and SPPI test
	
	
(a)	 Loans 
and 
Debt 
instruments 
at 
amortised cost
	
	
	
A ‘loan or debt instrument’ is measured 
at the amortised cost if both the 
following conditions are met:
	
	
	
i)	
The asset is held within a business 
model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual 
cash flows, and
	
	
	
ii)	
The contractual terms of the asset 
give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding. 
	
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial 
assets are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and 
fees or costs that are an integral part of 
the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included 
in interest income in the statement 
of profit or loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss.
	
	
(b)	 Financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
	
	
Financial assets are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
income if these financial assets are 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
228
held within a business model whose 
objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows that give rise 
on specified dates to sole payments of 
principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and by selling 
financial assets.
	
	
(c)	 Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through 
profit or loss are those that are either 
held for trading and have been either 
designated by management upon initial 
recognition or are mandatorily required 
to be measured at fair value under Ind 
AS 109. Management only designates 
an instrument at FVTPL upon initial 
recognition when one of the following 
criteria 
are 
met 
(such 
designation 
is determined on an instrument-by-
instrument basis):
	
	
	
The 
designation 
eliminates, 
or 
significantly reduces, the inconsistent 
treatment 
that 
would 
otherwise 
arise from measuring the assets or 
recognising gains or losses on them on 
a different basis.
	
	
	
Financial assets at FVTPL are recorded 
in the balance sheet at fair value. 
Changes in fair value are recorded in 
profit and loss.
	
	
(d)	 Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
	
	
After 
initial 
measurement, 
debt 
issued and other borrowed funds are 
subsequently measured at amortised 
cost. Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any discount or 
premium on issue funds, and costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. 
A compound financial instrument which 
contains both a liability and an equity 
component is separated at the issue date.
	
	
(e) 	Financial guarantees
	
	
	
Financial 
guarantees 
are 
initially 
recognised in the financial statements 
(within 
‘Provisions’) 
at 
fair 
value, 
being the premium/deemed premium 
received. 
Subsequent 
to 
initial 
recognition, the Group’s liability under 
each guarantee is measured at the 
higher of the amount initially recognised 
less cumulative amortisation recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
The 
premium/deemed 
premium 
is 
recognised in the statement of Profit 
and Loss on a straight line basis over the 
life of the guarantee.
	
	
(f)	 Undrawn loan commitments
	
	
	
Undrawn 
loan 
commitments 
are 
commitments under which, over the 
duration of the commitment, the Group 
is required to provide a loan with 
pre-specified terms to the customer. 
Undrawn loan commitments are in the 
scope of the ECL requirements.
 
(v) Reclassification of financial assets and 
liabilities
	
	
The Group does not reclassify its financial 
assets subsequent to their initial recognition, 
apart from the exceptional circumstances 
in which the Group acquires, disposes of, or 
terminates a business line.
 
(vi) Derecognition of financial assets in following 
circumstances
 
 
(a) Derecognition 
of 
financial 
assets 
due to substantial modification of 
terms and conditions
	
	
	
The Group derecognises a financial 
asset, such as a loan to a customer, 
when the terms and conditions have 
been renegotiated to the extent that, 
substantially it becomes a new loan 
with the difference recognised as a 
derecognition gain or loss, to the extent 
that an impairment loss has not already 
been recorded. The newly recognised 
loans are classified as Stage 1 for ECL 
measurement purposes, unless the new 
loan is deemed to be credit-impaired at 
the origination date.
	
	
	
If the modification does not result in cash 
flows that are substantially different, 
the modification does not result in 
derecognition. Based on the change in 
cash flows discounted at the original EIR, 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 229
01-22
121-283
23-120
the Group records a modification gain 
or loss, to the extent that an impairment 
loss has not already been recorded.
 
 
(b) Derecognition of financial assets other 
than due to substantial modification
	
	
	
Financial assets
	
	
	
A financial asset or a part of financial 
asset is derecognised when the rights 
to receive cash flows from the financial 
asset have expired. The Group also 
derecognises the financial asset if it has 
transferred the financial asset and the 
transfer qualifies for derecognition.
	
	
	
The Group has transferred the financial 
asset if, and only if, either:
	
	
	
n	
The 
Group 
has 
transferred 
its 
contractual rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial asset; or
	
	
	
n	
It retains the rights to the cash flows, 
but has assumed an obligation to 
pay the received cash flows.
	
	
	
A 
transfer 
only 
qualifies 
for 
derecognition if either:
	
	
	
n	
The 
Group 
has 
transferred 
substantially 
all 
the 
risks 
and 
rewards of the asset; or
	
	
	
n	
The Group has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the asset, but 
has transferred control of the asset
	
	
	
The Group considers control to be 
transferred if and only if, the transferee 
has the practical ability to sell the 
asset in its entirety to an unrelated 
third party and is able to exercise that 
ability unilaterally and without imposing 
additional restrictions on the transfer.
	
	
	
When the Group has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks 
and rewards and has retained control 
of the asset, the asset continues to be 
recognised only to the extent of the 
Group’s 
continuing 
involvement, 
in 
which case, the Group also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset 
and the associated liability are measured 
on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained.
	
	
	
Write off
	
	
	
The Group writes off a financial asset 
when there is information indicating that 
the counterparty is in severe financial 
difficulty and there is no realistic 
prospect of recovery. Financial assets 
written off may still be subject to 
enforcement activities under the Group’s 
recovery 
procedures, 
taking 
into 
account legal advice where appropriate. 
Any recoveries made are recognised in 
Statement of profit and loss.
	
(vii)	Derecognition of Financial liabilities
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged, 
cancelled or expires. Where an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from 
the same lender on substantially different 
terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as a derecognition of 
the original liability and the recognition of 
a new liability. The difference between the 
carrying value of the original financial liability 
and the consideration paid is recognised in 
profit or loss.
b) 	 Fair Value Measurement
	
On initial recognition, all the financial instruments 
are measured at fair value. For subsequent 
measurement, 
the 
Group 
measures 
certain 
categories 
of 
financial 
instruments 
at 
fair 
value on each balance sheet date. Fair value 
is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date.
	
The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the asset 
or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
i.	
In the principal market for the asset 
or liability, or
	
ii.	
In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
asset or liability
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
230
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified 
based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, as 
summarised below:
	
Fair values are categorised into different levels in 
a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in 
the valuation techniques as follows.
	
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities;
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included 
in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly or indirectly;
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are 
not based on observable market data.
	
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an 
asset or a liability fall into different levels of the fair 
value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement 
is categorised in its entirety in the same level of 
the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input 
that is significant to the entire measurement.
	
The Group recognises transfers between levels 
of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the 
reporting period during which the change has 
occurred, if any.
c) 	 Property plant and equipments
	
Recognition and measurement
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) is recognised 
when it is probable that the future economic 
benefits associated with it will flow to the 
company and the cost can be measured reliably.
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, if any. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for 
its intended use. Borrowing costs relating to 
acquisition of assets which takes substantial 
period of time to get ready for its intended use 
are also included to the extent they relate to the 
year till such assets are ready to be put to use. 
Any trade discounts and rebates are deducted in 
arriving at the purchase price.
	
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of such 
assets are measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset and are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.
	
Subsequent expenditure
	
Subsequent costs are included in the assets 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate only if it is probable that the 
future economic benefits associated with the item 
will flow to the Group and that the cost of the item 
can be reliably measured. The carrying amount of 
any component accounted for as a separate asset 
is derecognised when replaced. All other repair 
and maintenance expenses are charged to the 
Statement of Profit and Loss during the reporting 
period in which they are incurred.
	
Depreciation
	
Depreciation is provided on Straight Line 
Method (‘SLM’), which reflects the management’s 
estimate of the useful life of the respective 
assets. The estimated useful life used to provide 
depreciation are as follows:
Particulars
Estimated 
useful life by 
the Group
Useful life as 
prescribed by 
Schedule II of 
the Companies 
Act 2013
Computers
3 years
3 years
Office 
Equipments
5 years
5 years
Office 
Equipments - 
mobiles
2 years
5 years
Furniture and 
fixtures
5 years
10 years
Servers and 
networks
5 years
6 years
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 231
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
Property, plant and equipment items individually 
costing less than ` 5,000 are depreciated fully in 
the year of purchase.
	
Leasehold improvement is amortised on Straight 
Line Method over the lease term, subject to a 
maximum of 60 months.
	
Useful life of assets different from prescribed 
in Schedule II of the Act has been estimated 
by management and supported by technical 
assessment.
	
Depreciation on assets acquired/sold during 
the year is recognised on a pro-rata basis to the 
statement of Profit and Loss till the date of sale.
	
The useful lives and the method of depreciation 
of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at 
each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, 
if appropriate. Changes in the expected useful life 
are accounted for by changing the amortisation 
period or methodology, as appropriate, and 
treated as changes in accounting estimates.
d) 	 Intangible assets
	
Recognition and measurement
	
An intangible asset is recognised only when 
its cost can be measured reliably and it is 
probable that the expected future economic 
benefits that are attributable to it will flow to 
the Group. Intangible assets acquired separately 
are measured on initial recognition at cost. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value as at the 
date of acquisition
	
Amortisation
	
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight 
line method over a period of 3 years, which is 
the management’s estimate of its useful life. 
The amortisation period and the amortisation 
method are reviewed at least as at each financial 
year end. If the expected useful life of the asset 
is significantly different from previous estimates, 
the amortisation period is changed accordingly.
	
Gains or losses arising from the retirement or 
disposal of an intangible asset are determined 
as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
and recognised as income or expense in the 
statement of Profit and Loss.
e) 	 Business Combination and goodwill thereon
	
Business combinations other than under common 
control are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The cost of an acquisition is measured at 
the value which is aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value 
and the amount of any non-controlling interests in 
the acquiree. The identifiable assets acquired and 
the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair 
values, as on date of acquisition. Any contingent 
consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
	
Measurement
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred and the amount recognised for 
non-controlling interests, and any previous 
interest held, over the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. In case the 
excess is on account of bargain purchase, the gain 
is recognised directly in equity as capital reserve. 
When the transaction is of nature other than 
bargain purchase, then the gain is recognised in 
OCI and accumulated in equity as capital reserve.
f) 	 Impairment
	
(i)	 Financial Assets
	
	
(a)	 Expected Credit Loss (ECL) principles 
for Financial assets
	
	
	
The 
Group 
records 
allowance 
for 
expected credit losses for all loans, other 
debt financial assets not held at FVTPL, 
undrawn loan commitments (referred to 
as ‘financial instruments’).
	
	
	
For the computation of ECL on the 
financial 
instruments, 
the 
Group 
categories its financial instruments as 
mentioned below:
	
	
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there has 
not been a significant increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition or that has 
low credit risk at the reporting date 
and that are not credit impaired upon 
origination are classified under this stage. 
The Group classifies all advances upto 
30 days overdue under this category. 
Stage 1 loans also include facilities where 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
232
the credit risk has improved and the loan 
has been reclassified from Stage 2.
	
	
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified as 
Stage 2 when the amount is due for 
more than 30 days but less than 90 days. 
All exposures where there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition but are not credit 
impaired are classified under this stage.
	
	
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed as 
credit impaired when one or more events 
that have a detrimental impact on the 
estimated future cash flows of that asset 
have occurred. Exposures where the 
amount remains due for 90 days or more 
are considered as to be stage 3 assets.
	
	
	
The Group has established a policy to 
perform an assessment, at the end of 
each reporting period, of whether a 
financial instrument’s credit risk has 
increased 
significantly 
since 
initial 
recognition, by considering the change 
in the risk of default occurring over the 
remaining life of the financial instrument. 
The Group undertakes the classification 
of exposures within the aforesaid stages 
at borrower level.
 
 
(b) Definition of default
	
	
	
A default on a financial asset is 
when the counterparty fails to make 
the 
contractual 
payments 
within 
90 
days 
of 
when 
they 
fall 
due. 
Accordingly, the financial assets shall be 
classified as Stage 3, if on the reporting 
date, it has been 90 days and above past 
due. Non-payment on another obligation 
of the same customer is also considered 
as a Stage 3. In addition, Company shall 
also classify those accounts as default 
which meets the criteria as per the 
RBI circular RBI/2021-2022/125 DOR.
STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 
dated 
November 12, 2021.
	
	
(c) 	 Calculation of ECL:
	
	
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit 
losses (i.e. present value of all cash 
shortfalls) over the expected life of the 
financial instruments. Cash shortfalls are 
the difference between the cash flows 
that the entity is entitled to receive on 
account of contract and the cash flows 
that the entity expects to receive.
	
	
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations 
are outlined below and the key elements 
are as follows:
	
	
	
Exposure-At-Default 
(EAD): 
The 
Exposure at Default is the amount 
the Group is entitled to receive as on 
reporting date including repayments 
due 
for 
principal 
and 
interest, 
whether scheduled by contract or 
otherwise, expected drawdowns on 
committed facilities.
	
	
	
Probability 
of 
Default 
(PD): 
The 
Probability of Default is an estimate of 
the likelihood of default of the exposure 
over a given time horizon. A default may 
only happen at a certain time over the 
assessed period, if the facility has not 
been previously derecognised and is still 
in the portfolio.
	
	
	
Loss Given Default (LGD): The Loss 
Given Default is an estimate of the 
loss arising in the case where a default 
occurs at a given time. It is based on 
the difference between the contractual 
cash flows due and those that the lender 
would expect to receive, including from 
the realisation of any collateral.
	
	
	
The ECL allowance is applied on 
the financial instruments depending 
upon the classification of the financial 
instruments as per the credit risk 
involved. ECL allowance is computed on 
the below mentioned basis:
	
	
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is the 
portion of Lifetime ECL that represents 
the ECL that results from default events 
on a financial instrument that are 
possible within the 12 months after the 
reporting date. 12-month ECL is applied 
on stage 1 assets.
	
	
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for credit 
losses expected to arise over the life 
of the asset in cases of credit impaired 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 233
01-22
121-283
23-120
loans and in case of financial instruments 
where 
there 
has 
been 
significant 
increase in credit risk since origination. 
Lifetime ECL is the expected credit loss 
resulting from all possible default events 
over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. Lifetime ECL is applied on 
stage 2 and stage 3 assets.
	
	
	
The Group computes the ECL allowance 
on either individual basis or collective 
basis, depending on the nature of 
the underlying portfolio of financial 
instruments. The Group has grouped 
its 
loan 
portfolio 
into 
Corporate 
loans, SME loans, Commercial vehicle 
loans and Home loans
	
	
	
ECL on Trade Receivables:
	
	
	
The 
Group 
applies 
the 
simplified 
approach for computation of ECL on 
trade receivables as allowed as per Ind 
AS 109. Thus, the Group is recognising 
lifetime ECL for trade receivables.
 
 
 
Significant increase in Credit Risk
	
	
	
The Group monitors all financial assets 
and 
financial 
guarantee 
contracts 
that are subject to the impairment 
requirements to assess whether there 
has been a significant increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition. If there 
has been a significant increase in credit 
risk, the Group will measure the loss 
allowance based on lifetime rather 
than 12-month ECL.
	
	
	
In assessing whether the credit risk on 
a financial instrument has increased 
significantly since initial recognition, the 
Group compares the risk of a default 
occurring on the financial instrument 
at the reporting date based on the 
remaining maturity of the instrument 
with the risk of a default occurring 
that was anticipated for the remaining 
maturity 
at 
the 
current 
reporting 
date when the financial instrument 
was first recognised. In making this 
assessment, the Group considers both 
quantitative and qualitative information 
that is reasonable and supportable, 
including 
historical 
experience 
and 
forward-looking 
information 
that 
is available without undue cost or 
effort, based on the Group’s historical 
experience and expert credit assessment.
	
	
	
Given that a significant increase in credit 
risk since initial recognition is a relative 
measure, a given change in absolute 
terms in the PD will be more significant 
for a financial instrument with a lower 
initial PD than compared to a financial 
instrument with a higher PD.
	
	
	
As a back-stop when loan asset not 
being a loan becomes 30 days past due, 
the Group considers that a significant 
increase in credit risk has occurred and 
the asset is in stage 2 of the impairment 
model, 
i.e. 
the 
loss 
allowance 
is 
measured as the lifetime ECL in respect 
of all retail assets.
	
	
	
For 
the 
purpose 
of 
counting 
of 
days past due for the assessment of 
significant increase in credit risk, the 
special dispensations to any class of 
assets in accordance with COVID19 
Regulatory Package notified by the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been 
applied by the Group.
 
 
 
Modification 
and 
derecognition 
of 
financial assets
	
	
	
A modification of a financial asset 
occurs when the contractual terms 
governing the cash flows of a financial 
asset are renegotiated or otherwise 
modified between initial recognition 
and maturity of the financial asset. 
A modification affects the amount and/
or timing of the contractual cash flows 
either immediately or at a future date. 
In addition, the introduction of new 
covenants or adjustment of existing 
covenants of an existing loan may 
constitute a modification even if these 
new or adjusted covenants do not yet 
affect the cash flows immediately but 
may affect the cash flows depending 
on whether the covenant is or is not 
met (e.g. a change to the increase 
in the interest rate that arises when 
covenants are breached).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
234
	
	
	
The Company renegotiates loans to 
customers 
in 
financial 
difficulty 
to 
maximise collection and minimise the 
risk of default. A loan forbearance is 
granted in cases where although the 
borrower made all reasonable efforts 
to pay under the original contractual 
terms, there is a high risk of default or 
default has already happened and the 
borrower is expected to be able to meet 
the revised terms. The revised terms in 
most of the cases include an extension 
of the maturity of the loan, changes to 
the timing of the cash flows of the loan 
(principal 
and 
interest 
repayment), 
reduction in the amount of cash flows 
due (principal and interest forgiveness) 
and amendments to covenants.
	
	
	
When a financial asset is modified 
the Company assesses whether this 
modification results in derecognition. 
In accordance with the Company’s policy 
a modification results in derecognition 
when it gives rise to substantially 
different terms. To determine if the 
modified terms are substantially different 
from the original contractual terms the 
Company considers the following:
	
	
	
•	
Qualitative 
factors, 
such 
as 
contractual 
cash 
flows 
after 
modification are no longer SPPI,
	
	
	
•	
Change in currency or change 
of counterparty,
	
	
	
•	
The extent of change in interest 
rates, maturity, covenants.
	
	
	
If this does not clearly indicate a 
substantial modification, then:
	
	
	
(a)	 In the case where the financial asset 
is derecognised the loss allowance 
for ECL is remeasured at the date 
of derecognition to determine the 
net carrying amount of the asset at 
that date. The difference between 
this revised carrying amount and 
the fair value of the new financial 
asset with the new terms will lead 
to a gain or loss on derecognition. 
The new financial asset will have 
a loss allowance measured based 
on 12 month ECL except in the 
rare occasions where the new loan 
is considered to be originated 
credit impaired. This applies only 
in the case where the fair value 
of the new loan is recognised at a 
significant discount to its revised 
par amount because there remains 
a high risk of default which has not 
been reduced by the modification. 
The 
Company 
monitors 
credit 
risk of modified financial assets 
by 
evaluating 
qualitative 
and 
quantitative information, such as if 
the borrower is in past due status 
under the new terms.
	
	
	
(b)	 When the contractual terms of 
a 
financial 
asset 
are 
modified 
and the modification does not 
result 
in 
derecognition, 
the 
Company 
determines 
if 
the 
financial asset’s credit risk has 
increased significantly since initial 
recognition by comparing:
	
	
	
•	
the 
remaining 
lifetime 
PD 
estimated based on data at initial 
recognition 
and 
the 
original 
contractual terms; with
	
	
	
•	
the remaining lifetime PD at the 
reporting 
date 
based 
on 
the 
modified terms.
	
	
	
For 
financial 
assets 
modified, 
where modification did not result in 
derecognition, the estimate of PD reflects 
the Company’s ability to collect the 
modified cash flows taking into account 
the Company’s previous experience of 
similar forbearance action, as well as 
various behavioural indicators, including 
the borrower’s payment performance 
against the modified contractual terms. 
If the credit risk remains significantly 
higher than what was expected at initial 
recognition the loss allowance will 
continue to be measured at an amount 
equal to lifetime ECL. The loss allowance 
on forborne loans will generally only be 
measured based on 12 month ECL when 
there is evidence of the borrower’s 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 235
01-22
121-283
23-120
improved 
repayment 
behaviour 
following modification leading to a 
reversal of the previous significant 
increase in credit risk.
	
	
	
Where a modification does not lead to 
derecognition, the Company calculates 
the modification gain/loss comparing 
the gross carrying amount before and 
after the modification (excluding the 
ECL allowance). Then the Company 
measures ECL for the modified asset, 
where the expected cash flows arising 
from the modified financial asset are 
included in calculating the expected 
cash shortfalls from the original asset.
	
	
	
Presentation of ECL allowance in the 
Balance Sheet
	
	
	
Loss 
allowances 
for 
ECL 
are 
presented in the statement of financial 
position as follows:
	
	
	
•	
for financial assets measured at 
amortised cost: as a deduction 
from 
the 
gross 
carrying 
amount of the assets;
	
	
	
•	
for debt instruments measured 
at FVTOCI: no loss allowance is 
recognised in Balance Sheet as the 
carrying amount is at fair value.
	
(ii)	 Financial Liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Loan commitments
	
	
	
Undrawn 
loan 
commitments 
are 
commitments under which, over the 
duration of the commitment, the Group 
is required to provide a loan with 
pre-specified terms to the customer. 
Undrawn loan commitments are in the 
scope of the ECL requirements.
	
	
(b)	 Financial guarantee contracts
	
	
	
The Group’s liability under financial 
guarantee is measured at the higher 
of the amount initially recognised less 
cumulative 
amortisation 
recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss, 
and 
the 
ECL 
provision. 
For 
this 
purpose, the Group estimates ECLs by 
applying a credit conversion factor. 
The ECLs related to financial guarantee 
contracts 
are 
recognised 
within 
Provisions. Currently, the Group has 
not recognised any ECL in respect of 
financial guarantee based on estimate of 
expected cash flows.
 
(iii) Non-financial assets
	
	
(a)	 Intangible assets
	
	
	
The carrying amount of assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet date if 
there is any indication of impairment 
based 
on 
internal/external 
factors. 
An impairment loss is recognised when 
the carrying amount of an individual 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher 
of fair value of the asset less cost of its 
disposal and value in use.
	
	
(b)	 Goodwill
	
	
	
Goodwill is recorded at the cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses in the 
previous years. Goodwill on acquisition 
is tested for impairment where the 
same allocated to each of the Group’s 
cash-generating units that are expected 
to 
benefit 
from 
the 
combination, 
irrespective of whether other assets or 
liabilities of the acquiree are assigned 
to those units.
	
	
	
A cash generating unit (CGU) to which 
goodwill has been allocated is tested for 
impairment on annual basis or whenever 
required in case where the Group is of the 
opinion that goodwill may be impaired. 
If the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying 
amount, the impairment loss is allocated 
first to reduce the carrying amount of 
any goodwill allocated to the unit and 
then to the other assets of the unit pro 
rata based on the carrying amount of 
each asset in the unit. Any impairment 
loss for goodwill is recognised in profit 
or loss. Such impairment loss already 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed 
in subsequent periods.
g) 	 Recognition of income
	
Revenue generated form the business transactions 
(other than for those items to which Ind AS 109 
Financial Instruments are applicable) is measured 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
236
at fair value of the consideration to be received 
or receivable by the Group. Ind AS 115 Revenue 
from contracts with customers outlines a single 
comprehensive model of accounting for revenue 
arising from contracts with customers.
	
The Group recognises revenue from contracts 
with customers based on a five step model as set 
out in Ind AS 115:
	
Step 1:  Identify contract(s) with a customer;
	
Step 2: Identify 
performance 
obligations 
in the contract;
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price;
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract;
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the 
Group satisfies a performance obligation.
	
(a)	 Recognition of interest income
	
	
Interest income is recorded using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method for all 
financial instruments measured at amortised 
cost. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial instrument or, 
when appropriate, a shorter period, to the 
net carrying amount of the financial asset.
	
	
The EIR for the amortised cost asset is 
calculated by taking into account any 
discount 
or 
premium 
on 
acquisition, 
origination fees and transaction costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR.
	
	
If expectations regarding the cash flows on 
the financial asset are revised for reasons 
other than credit risk, the adjustment is 
booked as a positive or negative adjustment 
to the carrying amount of the asset in the 
balance sheet with an increase or reduction 
in interest income. The adjustment is 
subsequently amortised through Interest 
income in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
The Group calculates interest income by 
applying the EIR to the gross carrying amount 
of financial assets other than credit-impaired 
assets. When a financial asset becomes 
credit-impaired and is, therefore, regarded as 
‘Stage 3’, the Group recognised the interest 
income by applying the effective interest 
rate to the net amortised cost of the financial 
asset. If the financial status of the financial 
asset improves and it no longer remains 
to be a credit-impaired, the Group revises 
the application of interest income on such 
financial asset to calculating interest income 
on a gross basis.
	
	
Interest income on all trading assets and 
financial assets mandatorily required to 
be measured at FVTPL is recognised using 
the contractual interest rate in net gain on 
fair value changes.
	
(b)	 Dividend income
	
	
Dividend income is recognised when the 
Group’s right to receive the payment is 
established, it is probable that the economic 
benefits associated with the dividend will 
flow to the Group and the amount of the 
dividend can be measured reliably.
	
(c)	 Fees and commission income
	
	
Fees and commission income are recognised 
as income when the performance obligation 
as per the contract with customer is fulfilled 
and when the right to receive the payment 
against the services has been established.
	
(d)	 Origination fees
	
	
Origination fees, which the Group has 
received/recovered at time of granting 
of a loan, is considered as a component 
for computation of the effective rate of 
interest (EIR) for the purpose of computing 
interest income.
	
(e)	 Management Fees:
	
	
Management 
fees 
and 
other 
fees 
are 
recognised as income when the performance 
obligation as per the contract with customer 
is fulfilled and when the right to receive 
the payment against the services has 
been established.
	
(f)	 Assignment income
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
assignment 
transactions 
with 
complete 
transfer of risks and rewards without 
any retention of residual interest, gain 
arising on such assignment transactions 
is recorded upfront in the Statement of 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 237
01-22
121-283
23-120
Profit and Loss and the corresponding 
asset is derecognised from the Balance 
Sheet immediately upon execution of such 
transactions. Further the transfer of financial 
assets qualifies for derecognition in its 
entirety, the whole of the interest spread at 
its present value (discounted over the life 
of the asset) is recognised on the date of 
derecognition itself as excess interest spread 
and correspondingly recognised as profit on 
derecognition of financial asset.
	
(g)	 Securitisation transactions :
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
securitisation transactions, the Group retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of a transferred financial asset, the 
Group continues to recognize the financial 
asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received.
	
(h)	 Net gain/(loss) on Fair value changes
	
	
Any differences between the fair values 
of financial assets classified as fair value 
through the profit or loss, held by the Group 
on the balance sheet date is recognised 
as an unrealised gain or loss as a gain or 
expense respectively.
	
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on 
sale of financial instruments measured at 
FVTPL and debt instruments measured at 
FVOCI is recognised in net gain / loss on 
fair value changes.
	
(i)	 Sourcing and servicing fee
	
	
The revenue from the contract as a service 
provider (sourcing and collection agent) on 
behalf of customer, is recognised upfront 
for services rendered as sourcing agent and 
on straight line basis over the loan tenure 
for services in the nature of collection and 
performance agent. The financial guarantee 
provided under the service contract is 
recognised at fair value on sourcing and 
is amortised over the period of contract 
with subsequent measurement at higher of 
the unamortised value as per Ind AS 115 or 
expected credit losses as per Ind AS 109.
h)	
Finance Costs
	
The Group recognises interest expense on the 
borrowings as per EIR methodology which is 
calculated by considering any ancillary costs 
incurred and any premium payable on its maturity.
i)  
Retirement and other employee benefits
 
(i) Defined Contribution Plan
	
	
Provident Fund
	
	
All the employees of the Group are entitled 
to receive benefits under the Provident Fund, 
a defined contribution plan in which both the 
employee and the Group contribute monthly 
at a stipulated rate. The Group has no liability 
for future Provident Fund benefits other 
than its annual contribution and recognises 
such contributions as an expense, when an 
employee renders the related service.
 
(ii) Defined Benefit schemes
	
	
(a)	 Gratuity
	
	
	
The Group provides for the gratuity, a 
defined benefit retirement plan covering 
all employees. The plan provides for lump 
sum payments to employees upon death 
while in employment or on separation 
from employment after serving for 
the stipulated year mentioned under 
‘The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’. 
The Group accounts for liability of future 
gratuity benefits based on an external 
actuarial valuation on projected unit 
credit method carried out for assessing 
liability as at the reporting date.
	
	
	
Net interest recognised in proﬁt or loss 
is calculated by applying the discount 
rate used to measure the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligation to the net deﬁned beneﬁt 
liability or asset. The actual return on 
the plan assets above or below the 
discount rate is recognised as part of 
re-measurement of net deﬁned liability 
or asset through other comprehensive 
income. Remeasurements, comprising 
of actuarial gains and losses, the effect 
of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts 
included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability and the return on 
plan assets (excluding amounts included 
in net interest on the net defined benefit 
liability), are recognised immediately in 
the balance sheet with a corresponding 
debit or credit to retained earnings 
through Other comprehensive income 
(‘OCI’) in the period in which they occur. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
238
Remeasurements are not reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
(b)	 Compensated absences
	
	
	
Short 
term 
compensated 
absences 
are provided for based on estimates. 
Long 
term 
compensated 
absences 
are provided for based on actuarial 
valuation. The actuarial valuation is done 
as per projected unit credit method as at 
the reporting date.
	
	
	
Actuarial gains/losses are immediately 
taken to Statement of profit and loss 
account and are not deferred.
j) 	
Share based employee payments
	
Equity settled share based payments
	
	
The stock options granted to employees are 
measured at the fair value of the options at 
the grant date. The fair value of the options 
is treated as discount and accounted as 
employee compensation cost over the 
vesting period on a straight line basis. 
The amount recognised as expense in each 
year is arrived at based on the number of 
grants expected to vest. If a grant lapses 
after the vesting period, the cumulative 
discount recognised as expense in respect 
of such grant is transferred to the general 
reserve within equity.
k)  Ind AS 116 Leases
	
The determination of whether an arrangement 
is a lease, or contains a lease, is based on the 
substance of the arrangement and requires an 
assessment of whether the fulfilment of the 
arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific 
asset or assets or whether the arrangement 
conveys a right to use the asset.
	
Group as a lessee
	
Leases that do not transfer to the Group 
substantially all of the risks and benefits 
incidental to ownership of the leased items are 
treated as operating leases. Operating lease 
payments are recognised as an expense in the 
statement of profit and loss on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term, unless the increase is 
in line with expected general inflation, in which 
case lease payments are recognised based on 
contractual terms. Contingent rental payable is 
recognised as an expense in the period in which 
they it is incurred.
	
	
Critical accounting estimate and judgement
	
1.	
Determination of lease term
	
	
Ind AS 116 Leases requires lessee to determine 
the lease term as the non-cancellable period 
of a lease adjusted with any option to extend 
or terminate the lease, if the use of such 
option is reasonably certain. The Group 
makes assessment on the expected lease 
term on lease by lease basis and thereby 
assesses whether it is reasonably certain 
that any options to extend or terminate the 
contract will be exercised. In evaluating the 
lease term, the Group considers factors such 
as any significant leasehold improvements 
undertaken over the lease term, costs 
relating to the termination of lease and the 
importance of the underlying to the Group’s 
operations taking into account the location 
of the underlying asset and the availability 
of the suitable alternatives. The lease term 
in future periods is reassessed to ensure 
that the lease term reflects the current 
economic circumstances.
	
2.	
Discount Rate
	
	
	
The discount rate is generally based 
on the incremental borrowing rate 
specific to the lease being evaluated 
or for a portfolio of leases with similar 
characteristics.
l) 	
Foreign currency translation
	
Functional and presentational currency
	
The financial statements are presented in Indian 
Rupees which is also functional currency of the 
Group and the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the Group operates.
m) 	 Provisions
	
A provision is recognised when the Group has 
a present obligation as a result of past event; 
it is probable that outflow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation, in respect 
of which a reliable estimate can be made. 
Provisions are not discounted to its present 
value and are determined based on best estimate 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 239
01-22
121-283
23-120
required to settle the obligation at the balance 
sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates.
n) 	 Taxes
	
(i)	 Current tax
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities for the 
current and prior years are measured at 
the amount expected to be recovered 
from, or paid to, the taxation authorities. 
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute 
the amount are those that are enacted, or 
substantively enacted, by the reporting date 
in the countries where the Group operates 
and generates taxable income.
	
	
Current income tax relating to items 
recognised 
outside 
profit 
or 
loss 
is 
recognised outside profit or loss (either 
in other comprehensive income or in 
equity). Current tax items are recognised 
in correlation to the underlying transaction 
either 
in 
OCI 
or 
directly 
in 
equity. 
Management 
periodically 
evaluates 
positions taken in the tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and 
establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
(ii)	 Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences at the reporting date between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial 
reporting purposes.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all 
deductible temporary differences, the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and any 
unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, 
and the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses can be utilised, except:
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available 
to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset 
to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable 
profits will allow the deferred tax asset 
to be recovered.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates 
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised 
outside profit or loss is recognised outside 
profit or loss (either in other comprehensive 
income or in equity). Deferred tax items are 
recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
are offset if a legally enforceable right exists 
to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate 
to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
	
(iii) 	Indirect tax
	
	
	
Expenses and assets are recognized 
net of the Goods and Services Tax 
paid, except when the tax incurred on 
a purchase of assets or services is not 
recoverable from the taxation authority, 
in which case the tax paid is recognized 
as part of the cost of acquisition of 
the asset or as part of the respective 
expense item, as applicable.
o) 	 Earnings Per Share
	
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per 
share in accordance with Ind AS 33 on Earnings 
per share. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the 
net proﬁt or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of 
equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings 
per share, the net proﬁt or loss for the year 
attributable to equity shareholders and the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
240
weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year are adjusted for the effects of all 
dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive potential 
equity shares are deemed converted as of 
the beginning of the period, unless they have 
been issued at a later date. In computing the 
dilutive earnings per share, only potential equity 
shares that are dilutive and that either reduces 
the earnings per share or increases loss per 
share are included.
p) 	 Contingent Liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
conﬁrmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events beyond 
the control of the Group or a present obligation 
that is not recognised because it is not probable 
that an outﬂow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation. A contingent liability also 
arises in extremely rare cases where there is 
a liability that cannot be recognised because it 
cannot be measured reliably. The Group does not 
recognize a contingent liability but discloses its 
existence in the ﬁnancial statements.
q) 	 Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are those components of the 
business whose operating results are regularly 
reviewed 
by 
the 
chief 
operating 
decision 
making body in the Group to make decisions for 
performance assessment and resource allocation.
	
The reporting of segment information is the same 
as provided to the management for the purpose 
of the performance assessment and resource 
allocation to the segments.
	
Segment accounting policies are in line with the 
accounting policies of the Group. In addition, the 
following specific accounting policies have been 
followed for segment reporting:
	
i)	
Segment 
revenue 
includes 
operational 
revenue directly identifiable with/allocable 
to the segment.
	
ii)	
Expenses that are directly identifiable with/
allocable to segments are considered for 
determining the segment result.
	
iii)	 Income which relates to the Group as a 
whole and not allocable to segments is 
included in “unallocable corporate income / 
(expenditure)(net)”.
	
iv)	 Segment result includes the finance costs 
incurred on interest bearing advances with 
corresponding credit included in “unallocable 
corporate income/(expenditure)(net)”.
	
v)	
Segment assets and liabilities include those 
directly identifiable with the respective 
segments. Unallocable corporate assets and 
liabilities represent the assets and liabilities 
that relate to the Group as a whole.
r) 	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
and for the purpose of statement of cash flows 
comprise cash at bank and cheques in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less, which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. They are 
held for the purposes of meeting short-term 
cash commitments (rather than for investment or 
other purposes).
2.4	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with Ind AS requires that the 
management of the Group makes estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of income and expenses of the period, the 
reported balances of assets and liabilities and the 
disclosures relating to contingent liabilities as of 
the date of the financial statements. The estimates 
and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates include useful lives of property, 
plant 
and 
equipment 
& 
intangible 
assets, 
allowance 
for 
expected 
credit 
losses, 
fair 
value measurement, business projections used 
for the purpose of goodwill impairment etc. 
Difference, if any, between the actual results and 
estimates is recognised in the period in which the 
results are known.
2.5	 Securities premium account
	
a)	
Securities premium includes:
	
	
•	
The difference between the face value of 
the equity shares and the consideration 
received in respect of shares issued;
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 241
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
	
•	
The fair value of the stock options which 
are treated as expense, if any, in respect 
of shares allotted pursuant to Stock 
Options Scheme.
	
b)	
The issue expenses of securities which 
qualify as equity instruments are written off 
against securities premium account/ retained 
earning in accordance with Ind AS.
2.6	 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies 
new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. 
For the year ended March 31, 2024, MCA has not 
notified any new standards or amendments to the 
existing standards applicable to the Company.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
242
Note 3 
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash on hand 
 421.79 
 323.90 
Balances with banks  
-	
in current accounts 
 13,564.36 
 12,228.54 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months 
 47,404.27 
 5,421.68 
 61,390.42 
 17,974.12 
Note 4 
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months 
 1,652.74 
 3,281.59 
Earmarked deposits with banks 
 33,266.85 
 20,322.00 
 34,919.59 
 23,603.59 
Note 5 
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Loans
At amortized cost
Business Loans
Corporate lending
 40,851.33
 123,176.21
Small and medium enterprises lending (SME)
 31,679.68
 108,044.88
Commercial vehicle lending
 554,865.24
 340,293.96
Home Loans
 183,686.76
 133,252.18
Other loans
 2,405.14
 2,214.37
Total - Gross
 813,488.15
 706,981.60
Less: Impairment allowance
 (32,504.26)
 (55,414.60)
Total - Net
 780,983.89
 651,567.00
(a)	 Secured by tangible assets
 804,052.91
 688,339.56
(b)	 Unsecured
 9,435.24
 18,642.04
Total - Gross
 813,488.15
 706,981.60
Less: Impairment allowance
 (32,504.26)
 (55,414.60)
Total - Net
 780,983.89
 651,567.00
Loans in India
(a)	 Public sector
 -
 -
(b)	 Others
 813,488.15
 706,981.60
Total - Gross
 813,488.15
 706,981.60
Less: Impairment allowance
 (32,504.26)
 (55,414.60)
Total - Net (a)
 780,983.89
 651,567.00
Loans outside India (b)
 -
 -
Total - Net (a)+(b)
 780,983.89
 651,567.00
Footnotes:
i) 	
Security receipts are presented as part of “Note 6 - Investments”
ii) 	
Stage classification of loans, investments and its impairment allowance is disclosed in Note 31(D) and Note 31(E)
iii) 	 Secured indicates loans secured, wholly or partly, by way of hypothecation of vehicle and / or equitable mortgage of 
property and or equipment.
iv) 	 Also refer Note 33.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24243
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 6 
Investments
Investments as at 31 March 2024
Particulars 
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Through profit 
and loss
Mutual funds
 - 
 - 
 16,723.44 
 16,723.44 
Security Receipts
 117,530.96 
 - 
 - 
 117,530.96 
Treasury Bills
 - 
 14,210.78 
 - 
 14,210.78 
Total - Gross
 117,530.96 
 14,210.78 
 16,723.44 
 148,465.18 
Investments in India
 117,530.96 
 14,210.78 
 16,723.44 
 148,465.18 
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total - Gross
 117,530.96 
 14,210.78 
 16,723.44 
 148,465.18 
Less: Impairment loss allowance
 (36,643.38)
 - 
 - 
 (36,643.38)
Total - Net
 80,887.58 
 14,210.78 
 16,723.44 
 111,821.80 
1.	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is 
disclosed in Note 31 (D)
Investments as at 31 March 2023
Particulars 
Amortised 
cost
At Fair Value
Total
Through other 
comprehensive 
income
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss
Mutual funds
 - 
 - 
 76,162.66 
 76,162.66 
Security Receipts
 42,871.31 
 - 
 - 
 42,871.31 
Treasury Bills
 - 
 9,477.34 
 - 
 9,477.34 
Total - Gross
 42,871.31 
 9,477.34 
 76,162.66 
 128,511.31 
Investments in India
 42,871.31 
 9,477.34 
 76,162.66 
 128,511.31 
Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total - Gross
 42,871.31 
 9,477.34 
 76,162.66 
 128,511.31 
Less: Impairment loss allowance
 (24,576.64)
 - 
 - 
 (24,576.64)
Total - Net
 18,294.67 
 9,477.34 
 76,162.66 
 103,934.67 
1.	
Detailed analysis on year end stage classification of investments and impairment allowance is 
disclosed in Note 31 (D)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
244
Note 7
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other financial assets 
Security deposit 
 784.90 
 2,644.83 
Assignment receivables 
 7,248.17 
 5,972.93 
Deposits with Trustee for securitisation* 
 26,929.46 
 24,983.01 
Other Receivables 
 3,778.30 
 2,017.65 
 38,740.83 
 35,618.42 
Less: Impairment allowance 
 (434.79)
 (462.06)
 38,306.04 
 35,156.36 
* It represents fixed deposit held as collateral with trustee for pass through certificate transactions
Note 8
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Current tax assets (net) 
Advance Tax (net of provision) 
 8,336.99 
 5,607.74 
 8,336.99 
 5,607.74 
Note 9
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Deferred tax assets (net)
Deferred Tax Assets
Provision for expected credit loss
 17,799.78
 20,724.50
Provision for gratuity
 115.29
 105.61
Provision for compensated absences
 46.97
 31.35
Debt instruments through OCI
 (2.89)
 4.20
Lease liabilities
 107.60
 64.21
Income amortisation
 (531.34)
 (87.35)
Other items of disallowance
 -
 121.29
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
 946.50
 845.78
Carried forward book losses
 24,012.02
 19,575.18
Total (A)
 42,493.93
 41,384.77
Deferred tax liability
Goodwill
 (7,555.10)
 (7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
 (1,824.22)
 (1,503.28)
Borrowing cost amortisation
 (2,823.40)
 (1,262.31)
Total (B)
 (12,202.72)
 (10,320.69)
Net deferred tax asset (A-B)
 30,291.21
 31,064.08
Deferred tax assets
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
 31,651.53
 31,643.62
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited 
-
-
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
 -
 -
Total deferred tax assets (A)
 31,651.53
 31,643.62
Deferred tax liabilities
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
 -
 -
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited
 1,360.32
 579.54
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
 -
 -
Total deferred tax liabilities (B)
 1,360.32
 579.54
Net deferred tax asset (A-B) (also refer Note 29)
 30,291.21
 31,064.08
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24245
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 10
Particulars
Land - 
Freehold*
Furniture and 
fixtures
Leasehold 
Improvement
Office 
equipment
Computers
Right-of-Use 
Assets
Total
Property, plant and equipment
Cost as at 1 April 2022
 15.05 
 818.44 
 5,425.90 
 739.25 
 3,817.60 
 6,198.93 
 17,015.17 
Additions
 - 
 69.75 
 357.74 
 94.29 
 193.63 
 1,251.35 
 1,966.76 
Disposals
 - 
 (84.30)
 (1,163.20)
 (25.52)
 (83.06)
 (3,461.68)
 (4,817.76)
Cost as at 31 March 2023 (A)
 15.05 
 803.89 
 4,620.44 
 808.02 
 3,928.17 
 3,988.60 
 14,164.17 
Additions
 - 
 20.83 
 290.47 
 110.33 
 871.14 
 2,983.16 
 4,275.93 
Disposals
 - 
 (17.84)
 (112.29)
 (10.42)
 (45.19)
 (1,093.54)
 (1,279.28)
Cost as at 31 March 2024 (A)
 15.05 
 806.88 
 4,798.62 
 907.93 
 4,754.12 
 5,878.22 
 17,160.82 
Accumulated depreciation as 
at 1 April 2022
 - 
 519.04 
 3,669.70 
 473.21 
 2,442.46 
 2,639.22 
 9,743.63 
Depreciation charged during the year
 - 
 168.28 
 1,014.05 
 126.60 
 632.28 
 1,163.44 
 3,104.65 
Disposals
 - 
 (82.29)
 (1,124.74)
 (25.05)
 (82.87)
 (2,722.60)
 (4,037.55)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
31 March 2023 (B)
 - 
 605.03 
 3,559.01 
 574.76 
 2,991.87 
 1,080.06 
 8,810.73 
Depreciation charged during the year
 - 
 23.80 
 476.04 
 70.88 
 637.11 
 929.05 
 2,136.88 
Disposals
 - 
 (17.84)
 (82.35)
 (10.42)
 (44.81)
 (432.04)
 (587.46)
Accumulated depreciation as at 
31 March 2024 (B)
 - 
 610.99 
 3,952.70 
 635.22 
 3,584.17 
 1,577.07 
 10,360.15 
Net carrying amount as at 31 
March 2024 (A) - (B)
 15.05 
 195.89 
 845.92 
 272.71 
 1,169.95 
 4,301.15 
 6,800.67 
Net carrying amount as at 31 
March 2023 (A) - (B)
 15.05 
 198.86 
 1,061.43 
 233.26 
 936.30 
 2,908.54 
 5,353.44 
* Mortgaged as security against Secured Non-convertible Debentures
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
246
Note 11
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
 Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim 
 Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim 
 1,708.88 
 1,708.88 
 Provision on Assets acquired in satisfaction of claim 
 (408.88)
 (408.88)
 1,300.00 
 1,300.00 
Note 12
a)	
Goodwill
Particulars 
 Total 
Cost as at 1 April 2022
 30,018.69 
Acquisition of business
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2023 (A)
 30,018.69 
Acquisition of business 
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2024 (A)
 30,018.69 
Accumulated impairment as at 1 April 2022
 - 
Addition
 - 
Accumulated impairment as at 31 March 2023 (B)
 - 
Addition
 - 
Accumulated impairment as at 31 March 2024 (B)
 - 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2024 (A) - (B)
 30,018.69 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023 (A) - (B)
 30,018.69 
The Company has assessed that there is no impairment of Goodwill as at and for the year ended March 2024. 
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses cash 
flow projections of commercial vehicle business based on financial budgets covering a five-year period and 
a discount rate of 19%. The Company has determined that the recoverable amount calculations are most 
sensitive to changes in the assumptions of yield/spread during the budget period and the discounting rate. 
The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, on which recoverable 
amount is based would not cause carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
b)	 Other intangible assets
Particulars
 Computer 
Software 
 Total 
Cost as at 1 April 2022
 2,628.55 
 2,628.55 
Additions
 1,891.56 
 1,891.56 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2023 (A)
 4,520.11 
 4,520.11 
Additions
 123.10 
 123.10 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Cost as at 31 March 2024 (A)
 4,643.21 
 4,643.21 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24247
01-22
121-283
23-120
Particulars
 Computer 
Software 
 Total 
Accumulated amortisation as at 1 April 2022
 1,316.85 
 1,316.85 
Amortisation recognised for the year
 851.70 
 851.70 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March 2023 (B)
 2,168.55 
 2,168.55 
Amortisation recognised for the year
 1,184.67 
 1,184.67 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
Accumulated amortisation as at 31 March 2024 (B)
 3,353.22 
 3,353.22 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2024 (A) - (B)
 1,289.99 
 1,289.99 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023 (A) - (B)
 2,351.56 
 2,351.56 
Note 13
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other non-financial assets 
Prepaid expenses 
 1,499.04 
 1,393.55 
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind or for value to be received 
 3,751.23 
 2,314.42 
 5,250.27 
 3,707.97 
Note 14
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Trade payables 
Dues to Micro, small and medium enterprises 
 124.16 
 10.89 
Dues to Others 
 19.51 
 783.32 
 143.67 
 794.21 
Footnote : Also refer Note 37
Note 15
Debt securities
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
At amortised cost 
Redeemable non convertible debentures (Refer note (a) below) 
 326,894.38 
 110,886.95 
Commercial paper (net of unamortised discount) (Refer note (b) below) 
 7,209.53 
 - 
 334,103.91 
 110,886.95 
Debt securities in India 
 328,775.09 
 110,886.95 
Debt securities outside India 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 328,775.09 
 110,886.95 
Secured 
 292,067.78 
 110,886.95 
Unsecured 
 36,707.31 
 - 
Total 
 328,775.09 
 110,886.95 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
248
(a)	 Non Convertible Debenture 
	
Privately placed Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures 
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Redeemable within
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 9.40% <= 10.25% >= 7.78% <= 11.40%
 Amount 
 Amount 
 0-12 Months 
 116,982.04 
 32,010.35 
 12-24 Months 
 158,644.57 
 78,876.60 
 24-36 Months 
 50,367.77 
 - 
 36-48 Months 
 600.00 
 - 
 48-60 Months 
 300.00 
 - 
 Total 
 326,894.38 
 110,886.95 
Nature of Security:
Security is created in favour of the Debenture Trustee, as follows:
(i)	 first pari-passu charge (along with banks and financial institutions and other lenders which provide credit 
facilities to the Issuer) by way of hypothecation on the standard asset portfolio of receivables (net of NPA) 
of the issuer and / or cash / cash equivalent and/or such other asset, as may be identified by the Company 
of ` 515,805 lakhs (March 2023: ` 459,596 lakhs); and
(ii)	 first pari-passu charge on immovable property situated at village Maharajpura of Kadi taluka, Mehsana 
district, Gujarat
Other terms: Debentures may be bought back subject to applicable statutory and/or regulatory requirements, 
upon the terms and conditions as may be decided by the Company.
(b)	 Commercial papers 
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity) 
Redeemable within
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 8.60% <= 9.75%
-
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months 
 7,209.53 
 - 
Total
 7,209.53 
 - 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24249
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 16
Borrowings
At amortised cost
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Term loans 
Term loans from Banks (Refer note (a) below)* 
 162,666.78 
 240,596.28 
Term loans from Financial Institutions (Refer note (a) below)* 
 23,962.25 
 25,023.11 
Term loans from NHB (Refer note (b) below) 
 18,143.92 
 22,756.77 
Loans repayable on demand 
Working capital demand loans from banks ** 
 38,885.13 
 25,784.06 
Other borrowings
 179,403.04 
 139,757.78 
Total 
 423,061.12 
 453,918.00 
Borrowings in India 
 423,061.12 
 453,918.00 
Borrowings outside India 
 - 
 - 
Total 
 423,061.12 
 453,918.00 
Secured borrowings 
 423,061.12 
 383,473.79 
Unsecured borrowings 
 - 
 70,444.21 
Total 
 423,061.12 
 453,918.00 
(a)	 Term loan from banks/FI : 
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity) 
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>=8.10% <= 12.00%
>=7.90% <= 11.50%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months 
 70,997.72 
 97,854.41 
12-24 Months 
 48,839.10 
 123,230.55 
24-36 Months 
 30,217.40 
 26,916.78 
36-48 Months 
 14,464.87 
 12,730.59 
48-60 Months 
 8,838.20 
 3,627.27 
Above 60 Months 
 13,271.74 
 1,259.79 
Total 
 186,629.03 
 265,619.39 
(b)	 Term loans from NHB 
	
 Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity) 
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
 Rate of interest 
 Rate of interest 
>= 8.35% <= 8.70%
>= 6.60% <= 8.95%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months 
 3,339.00 
 3,339.00 
12-24 Months 
 3,599.19 
 4,452.00 
24-36 Months 
 3,388.68 
 3,599.19 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
250
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
 Rate of interest 
 Rate of interest 
>= 8.35% <= 8.70%
>= 6.60% <= 8.95%
 Amount 
 Amount 
36-48 Months 
 1,740.05 
 3,388.68 
48-60 Months 
 1,925.00 
 1,832.90 
Above 60 Months 
 4,152.00 
 6,145.00 
Total 
 18,143.92 
 22,756.77 
* first pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of standard asset portfolio of receivables (Net of provisions) of the Company 
and / or cash / cash equivalent and / or such other asset
** secured by First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation on the standard asset portfolio
# also refer note 31 (F)
(c)	 Working capital demand loans:
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 7.28% <= 9.52%
>= 9.10% <= 12.51%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months
 38,885.13 
 25,784.06 
Total
 38,885.13 
 25,784.06 
# also refer 31(F)
(d)	 Other borrowings
	
Terms of repayment (based on contractual maturity)
Repayable within #
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Rate of interest
Rate of interest
>= 7.70% <= 10.50%
>= 7% <= 10.50%
 Amount 
 Amount 
0-12 Months 
 64,415.10 
 43,854.94 
12-24 Months 
 51,830.09 
 36,101.49 
24-36 Months 
 23,541.87 
 11,390.54 
36-48 Months 
 5,159.65 
 4,242.22 
48-60 Months 
 5,546.11 
 4,490.83 
Above 60 Months 
 28,910.22 
 39,677.76 
Total
 179,403.04 
 139,757.78 
# also refer 31(F)
Footnote: Quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with Banks or Financial Institutions are in agreement with the 
unaudited books of accounts as on the respective submission dates and certified by Independent Chartered Accountants / 
Management, as relevant and relied upon by the Auditors.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 251
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 17
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other financial liabilities 
Book overdraft 
 4,675.18 
 2,992.51 
Employee benefits payable 
 3,437.28 
 2,589.64 
Unamortised lease liabilities 
 4,686.80 
 3,103.51 
Others 
 15,443.70 
 24,529.41 
 28,242.96 
 33,215.07 
Note 18
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Provisions
Provision for employee benefits:
- 	
Gratuity
 458.07
 419.61
- 	
Compensated absences
 186.63
 124.60
 Others :
 -
- 	
Expected credit loss on undrawn loan commitments
 26.05
 11.72
 670.75
 555.93
Note 19
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Non-financial liabilities 
Statutory dues payable 
 965.35 
 1,110.35 
 965.35 
 1,110.35 
Note 20 - Equity share capital
(a)	 Details of authorised, issued and subscribed share capital
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Authorised capital
Equity shares of `10/- each 
 187,500,000 
 18,750.00  187,500,000 
 18,750.00 
Compulsorily Convertible Preference Share of 
Face Value of `10/- each 
 12,500,000 
 1,250.00 
 12,500,000 
 1,250.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Equity shares of `10/- each fully paid
 136,079,295 
 13,607.93 
 136,079,295 
 13,607.93 
Total
 136,079,295 
 13,607.93  136,079,295 
 13,607.93 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
252
(b)	 Reconciliation of number of equity shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the 
year
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Number
Amount
Number
Amount
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year
 136,079,295 
 13,607.93 
 136,079,295 
 13,607.93 
Add: Shares issued during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
 136,079,295
 13,607.93  136,079,295
 13,607.93 
(c)	 Particulars of equity shares held by Holding Company
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding Company
 76,482,638 
56.20%
 76,482,638 
56.20%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(d)	 Particulars of shareholders holding more than 5% of the equity share capital
Name of shareholder
Relationship
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
No of equity 
shares held
Percentage
BCP V Multiple 
Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Holding Company
 76,482,638 
56.20%
 76,482,638 
56.20%
Indostar 
Capital (Mauritius)
Promoter
 23,262,583 
17.09%
 41,467,583 
30.47%
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members, the above shareholding 
represents legal ownerships of shares.
(e)	 Terms/rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each holder of equity 
shares is entitled to proportionate vote on basis of his contribution to fully paid up share capital.
	
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to 
the proportionate amount of contribution made by the equity shareholder to the total equity share capital.
(f)	 Objective of Capital Management
	
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company 
complies with externally imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy 
capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholder value.
	
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics 
of its activities. The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy and the Board reviews the capital 
position on a regular basis.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 253
01-22
121-283
23-120
(g)	 Equity Shares held by promoters/holding company at the end of the year
Promoter Name
No. of 
Shares
% of 
Total Shares
% change 
during the year
As at 31 March 2024
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
 76,482,638 
56.20% 
- 
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
 23,262,583 
17.09% 
(13.38%)
As at 31 March 2023
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
 76,482,638 
56.20% 
- 
Indostar Capital (Mauritius)
 41,467,583 
30.47% 
- 
Note 21
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Other equity 
Capital Reserve 
 0.43 
 0.43 
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934 
 31,083.07 
 29,650.80 
Statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 
 3,175.09 
 2,293.19 
Securities premium 
 292,207.63 
 292,207.63 
Share options outstanding account 
 2,122.74 
 2,074.82 
General reserve 
 3,447.24 
 2,683.84 
Retained earnings 
 (22,118.39)
 (31,347.41)
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income 
 (3.94)
 (12.52)
 309,913.87 
 297,550.78 
21.1	 Other equity movement
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Capital Reserve 
Opening Balance 
0.43
0.43
Add : Transferred from surplus 
-
-
Closing Balance 
0.43
0.43
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934 
Opening Balance 
 29,650.80 
 25,905.39 
Add : Transferred from surplus 
 1,432.27 
 3,745.41 
Closing Balance 
 31,083.07 
 29,650.80 
Statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 
Opening Balance 
 2,293.19 
 1,537.68 
Add : Transferred from surplus 
 881.90 
 755.51 
Closing Balance 
 3,175.09 
 2,293.19 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
254
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Securities premium 
Opening Balance 
 292,207.63 
 292,207.63 
Add: Transfer from ESOP reserves 
 - 
 - 
Add : Premium collected on share allotment 
 - 
 - 
Closing Balance 
 292,207.63 
 292,207.63 
Share options outstanding account 
Opening Balance 
 2,074.82 
 7,081.96 
Movement during the year 
 47.92 
 (5,007.14)
Closing Balance 
 2,122.74 
 2,074.82 
General reserve 
Opening Balance 
 2,683.84 
 2,026.78 
Movement during the year 
 763.40 
 657.06 
Closing Balance 
 3,447.24 
 2,683.84 
Retained earnings 
Opening Balance 
 (31,347.41)
 (49,459.73)
Add: Remeasurement of defined benefit plan/obligations 
 (39.82)
 98.58 
Add: Transferred from the statement of profit and loss 
 11,583.01 
 22,514.66 
Less: Transfer to statutory reserve u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934 
 (1,432.27)
 (3,745.41)
Less: Transfer to statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing 
Bank Act, 1987 
 (881.90)
 (755.51)
Closing Balance 
 (22,118.39)
 (31,347.41)
Other Comprehensive Income
Opening balance
 (12.52)
 - 
Add: Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
 8.58 
 (12.52)
Closing balance
 (3.94)
 (12.52)
21.2	Nature and purpose of reserves 
	
Capital Reserve
	
Capital reserve comprises of the amount received on shares forfeited by the Company on 
non-payment of call money.
	
Statutory reserves u/s 45-IC of The RBI Act, 1934
	
Statutory reserves fund is required to be created by a Non-Banking Financial Company as per Section 45-IC 
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The Company is not allowed to use the reserve fund except with 
authorisation of Reserve Bank of India.
 
Statutory reserves u/s 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
	
Statutory reserves fund is required to be created by Housing Finance Company as per Section 29C of the 
National Housing Bank of India Act, 1987. The Housing Finance Subsidiary is not allowed to use the reserve 
fund except with authorisation of National Housing Bank.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 255
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
As per Section 29C of The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (the “NHB Act”), the Housing Finance Subsidiary 
is required to transfer at least 20% of its net profits every year to a reserve before any dividend is declared. 
For this purpose any Special Reserve created by the Housing Finance Subsidiary under Section 36(1)(viii) 
of the Income tax Act, 1961, is considered to be an eligible transfer. Special reserve u/s 29C of the NHB Act 
includes amount transferred for Special Reserve in terms of Section 36(1)(viii) of the Income tax Act, 1961.
	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. It can be utilised in accordance with 
the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Share options outstanding account
	
The shares options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to 
employees under stock option schemes of the Company.
	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings represents surplus of accumulated earnings of the Company and which are available for 
distribution to shareholders.
	
General reserve
	
General reserve represents transfer of fair value of options granted to employees from ESOP Reserve to 
General Reserve on lapse/forfeiture of vested options by employees.
	
Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
	
It includes gain/(loss) on fair valuation of investment in treasuy bills
Note 22 
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Revenue from operations
Interest income
Interest income on financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Interest on loans
- 	
Loan portfolio
 110,166.21
 103,156.81
Interest on investments
- 	
Debt instruments
 118.95
 159.71
Interest on deposits
- 	
Deposits with banks
 2,070.72
 1,569.29
- 	
Deposits with Trustees
 1,472.49
 677.45
Interest Income on financial assets measured at FVOCI:
- 	
Investments in debt instruments
 701.31
 277.63
 114,529.68
 105,840.89
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
256
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Fees and commission income
- 	
Fees Income
 5,676.96
 5,416.58
- 	
Insurance Income
 476.08
 -
 6,153.04
 5,416.58
Net gain on fair value changes
Net gain/(loss) on financial instruments at fair value 
through profit or loss
On trading portfolio
- 	
Investments
 2,543.43
 2,794.52
Others
Net gain/(loss) on sale of financial instruments at FVOCI
 -
 -
Total fair value changes
 2,543.43
 2,794.52
Fair value changes:
- 	
Realised
 2,520.76
 2,628.72
- 	
Unrealised
 22.67
 165.80
Total fair value changes
 2,543.43
 2,794.52
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments measured at 
amortised cost category
-	
Investments
 11,668.14
 -
- 	
Assignment Income
 4,403.35
 3,381.81
 16,071.49
 3,381.81
Total
 139,297.64
 117,433.80
Note 23 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Other income 
Miscellaneous income 
 157.99 
 158.72 
Interest on income tax refund 
 298.38 
 372.82 
 456.37 
 531.54 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 257
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 24 
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Finance cost
Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Interest expense on borrowings
Loans from banks/FI
 26,039.29
 33,628.51
Other borrowings (including Inter Corporate Deposits)
 14,400.44
 13,904.56
Interest expense on debt securities
Debentures
 26,192.24
 7,083.30
Commercial paper
 1,203.87
 1,975.70
Other interest expense
Bank charges & other related costs
 898.38
 1,433.66
 68,734.22
 58,025.73
Note 25 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Impairment on financial instruments at amortised cost 
Impairment on loans 
Provision for expected credit loss 
 (10,843.60)
 (51,864.48)
Financial assets written off (net of recovery) 
 20,780.08 
 48,663.34 
Impairment on others 
Undrawn loan commitments 
 14.33 
 (30.16)
Provision on co-lending arrangements 
 (1,086.49)
 (897.47)
Others 
 (27.27)
 92.69 
 8,837.05 
 (4,036.08)
Note 26 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Employee Benefits Expenses 
Salaries, other allowances and bonus 
 24,320.11 
 20,798.99 
Gratuity expenses 
 133.40 
 201.54 
Compensated absences 
 95.00 
 22.44 
Contribution to provident and other funds 
 998.44 
 836.57 
Staff welfare expenses 
 687.28 
 242.48 
Share based payment expense 
 811.32 
 (4,350.07)
Employee shared service costs recovered 
 25.69 
 29.48 
 27,071.24 
 17,781.43 
Footnote : During the quarter ended 31st March 2023, certain employees to whom stock options issued in accordance 
with ESOP plans disassociated from the Company. Accordingly, unvested and vested but not exercised options granted to 
these employees were cancelled. Employee cost includes effect of reversal of such cost of unvested options aggregating to 
` 4,421.94 lakh for the year ended 31 March 2023.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
258
Note 27 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Depreciation 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (PPE) 
 2,136.88 
 3,104.65 
Amortisation of intangible assets 
 1,184.67 
 851.70 
 3,321.55 
 3,956.35 
Note 28 
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Other Expenses
Rent
 1,141.86
 1,087.03
Rates & taxes
 175.23
 57.52
Printing and stationery
 318.86
 135.75
Travelling & conveyance
 1,530.42
 1,277.22
Advertisement
 89.53
 130.59
Business Promotion
 29.28
 11.55
Commission & brokerage
 98.52
 100.92
Office expenses
 3,006.83
 2,561.03
Directors' fees & commission
 34.95
 44.85
Insurance
 618.90
 528.16
Communication expenses
 700.11
 569.73
Payment to auditors (note below)
 212.31
 403.28
CSR expenses (note below)
 90.67
 62.86
IT Support charges
 2,571.76
 2,101.73
Legal & professional charges
 7,930.90
 9,001.40
Loss on sale of property plant and equipment
 22.55
 27.11
Membership & subscriptions
 76.78
 96.62
Other shared service costs recovered
 135.02
 151.92
Other fees and commission
 41.08
 25.25
Provision for doubtful advances
 0.40
 0.37
 18,825.96
 18,374.89
Payment to auditor includes:
a) 	 Statutory Audit
 172.06
 351.16
b) 	 Tax Audit
 1.50
 1.50
c) 	 Certifications
 20.54
 11.50
d) 	 Others
 18.21
 39.12
Total
 212.31
 403.28
Details for expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility:
a) 	 Gross amount required to be spent during the year
 90.67
 62.86
b) 	 Amount of expenditure incurred
 90.67
 62.86
c) 	 Shortfall at the end of the year
 -
 -
d) 	 Total of previous years shortfall
 -
 -
e) 	 Reason for short fall
 NA
 NA
f) 	
Nature of CSR activities
 Women Empowerment, Education, 
Healthcare and Sanitation
g) 	 Details of related party transactions (refer note 33)
 -
 -
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 259
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 29
Income taxes
Tax expense
(a) Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
Current tax expense
1.	
Current tax
 666.38 
 853.23 
2.	
Tax of earlier years
 (68.77)
 (0.50)
 597.61 
 852.73 
Deferred tax expense
3.	
Deferred tax expenses
 783.37 
 495.63 
 783.37 
 495.63 
Tax expense for the year
 1,380.98 
 1,348.36 
(b)	 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars 
For the year ended 31 March 2024
For the year ended 31 March 2023
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax Before tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss
   - Remeasurements of the 
defined benefit plans
 (53.22)
 13.40 
 (39.82)
 131.73 
 (33.15)
 98.58 
   - Debt instruments through other 
comprehensive income
 11.47 
 (2.89)
 8.58 
 (16.72)
 4.20 
 (12.52)
Tax expense for the year
 (41.75)
 10.51 
 (31.24)
 115.01 
 (28.95)
 86.06 
(c)	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
For the year ended
31 March 2024
For the year ended
31 March 2023
Profit before tax
 12,963.99
 23,863.02
Statutory income tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Expected income tax expense
 3,262.77
 6,005.84
Difference in tax rate due to:
- Effect of non-deductible expenses
 53.18
 79.51
- tax expense of earlier years
 (68.77)
 (0.50)
- Others
 (1,866.20)
 (4,736.49)
Total tax expense
 1,380.98
 1,348.36
Current tax
 666.38
 853.23
Tax expense of earlier year
 (68.77)
 (0.50)
Deferred tax
 783.37
 495.63
 1,380.98
 1,348.36
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
260
(d)	 Movement in deferred tax balances
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
Net balance 
1 April 2023
Recognised in 
profit or loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net 
deferred tax 
asset/liability
Deferred Tax Assets 
Provision for expected credit loss
 20,724.50 
 (2,924.72)
 - 
 17,799.78 
Provision for gratuity
 105.61 
 (3.72)
 13.40 
 115.29 
Provision for leave encashment
 31.35 
 15.62 
 - 
 46.97 
Income amortisation
 (87.35)
 (443.99)
 - 
 (531.34)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
 845.78 
 100.72 
 - 
 946.50 
Carried forward losses
 19,575.18 
 4,436.84 
 - 
 24,012.02 
Debt instruments through OCI
 4.20 
 (4.20)
 (2.89)
 (2.89)
Lease liabilities
 64.21 
 43.39 
 - 
 107.60 
Other items of disallowance
 121.29 
 (121.29)
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax liability
Borrowing cost amortisation
 (1,262.31)
 (1,561.09)
 - 
 (2,823.40)
Goodwill amortisation
 (7,555.10)
 - 
 - 
 (7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
 (1,503.28)
 (320.93)
 - 
 (1,824.22)
Deferred tax assets / (Liabilities)
 31,064.08 
 (783.37)
 10.51 
 30,291.21 
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2023
Net balance 
1 April 2022
Recognised in 
profit or loss
Recognised 
in OCI
Net 
deferred tax 
asset/liability
Deferred Tax Assets 
Provision for expected credit loss
 33,220.00 
 (12,495.50)
 - 
 20,724.50 
Provision for gratuity
 127.89 
 10.87 
 (33.15)
 105.61 
Provision for leave encashment
 38.22 
 (6.87)
 - 
 31.35 
Income amortisation
 172.39 
 (259.74)
 - 
 (87.35)
Depreciation on PPE and intangible assets
 705.55 
 140.23 
 - 
 845.78 
Carry forward losses
 6,005.75 
 13,569.43 
 - 
 19,575.18 
Debt instruments through OCI
 - 
 - 
 4.20 
 4.20 
Lease liabilities
 47.95 
 16.26 
 - 
 64.21 
Other items of disallowance
 581.14 
 (459.85)
 - 
 121.29 
Deferred tax liability
Borrowing cost amortisation
 (536.59)
 (725.72)
 - 
 (1,262.31)
Goodwill amortisation
 (7,555.10)
 - 
 - 
 (7,555.10)
Assignment income amortisation
 (1,218.54)
 (284.74)
 - 
 (1,503.28)
Deferred tax assets / (Liabilities)
 31,588.66 
 (495.63)
 (28.95)
 31,064.08 
The Management considers the deferred tax assets recognised on carried forward losses to be fully set-off 
against future available profits considering the expected net interest income (NIM) from the existing loan book 
over the tenure of the loan.Deferred tax asset of ` 2,515.88 lakhs (Previous year: ` 4,584.61 lakhs) on Unused 
Carried forward losses is yet to be recognized.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 261
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 30
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders by the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders (after adjusting profit 
impact of dilutive potential equity shares, if any) by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on 
conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity shares.
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023
i. 	
Profit attributable to equity holders (A) 
Profit attributable to equity holders for basic and diluted EPS
 11,583.01 
 22,514.66 
ii.	
Weighted average number of equity shares for 
calculating Basic EPS (B)
 136,079,295 
 136,079,295 
iii.	 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Diluted EPS (C) 
 136,135,973 
 136,079,428 
iv.	 Basic earnings per share (`)
 8.51 
 16.55 
v.	
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 8.51 
 16.55 
Note 31
Financial instruments – Fair values
A. 
Accounting classification and fair values
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction in the principal (or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market 
conditions, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
	
The management has assessed that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, loans carried at 
amortised cost, other financial assets, trade payables, borrowings, bank/book overdrafts and other financial 
liabilities are a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
B. 
Risk Management Framework:
	
The Group’s risk management framework is based on:
	
(a)	 Clear understanding and identification of various risks;
	
(b)	 Disciplined risk assessment by evaluating the probability and impact of each risk;
	
(c)	 Measurement and monitoring of risks by establishing key risk indicators with thresholds for all 
critical risks; and
	
(d)	 Adequate review mechanism to monitor and control risks.
	
The Group’s risk management division works as a value centre by constantly engaging with the business 
providing reports based on key analysis and insights. The key risks faced by the Group are credit risk, 
liquidity risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational and regulatory risk, which are broadly classified 
as credit risk, market risk and operational risk. The Group has a an established risk reporting and monitoring 
framework. The Group identifies and monitors risks periodically. This process enables the Group to reassess 
the all critical risks in a changing environment that need to be focused on.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
262
C. 
Risk governance structure:
	
The Group’s risk governance structure operates with a well-defined Board and Risk Management 
Committee (‘RMC’) with a clearly laid down charter and roles and responsibilities. The Board oversees 
the risk management process and monitors the risk profile of the Group directly as well as through a 
Board constituted Risk Management Committee. The Committee reviews the risk management policy, 
implementation of risk management framework, monitoring of critical risks, review and approval of 
exposures with conflict of interest and review of various other initiatives. The risk management policies are 
established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate limits and controls and 
to monitor risks and adherence to limits. The RMC reviews the risk management policies regularly to reflect 
the changes in market conditions and Group’s activities.
	
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of risk management framework in relation to the risk faced by the Group.
	
The risk management committee has established a comprehensive risk management framework across 
the business and provides appropriate reports on risk exposures and analysis in its pursuit of creating 
awareness across the Group about risk management.
D.	
Fair value hierarchy
	
Ind AS 107, ‘Financial Instrument - Disclosure’ requires classification of the valuation method of financial 
instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which 
reflects the significance of inputs used in the measurements). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to 
un-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and 
lowest priority to un-observable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair-value-hierarchy 
under Ind AS 107 are described below:
	
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices.
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using 
valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on 
entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the 
instrument is included in level 2.
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is 
included in level 3. This is the case for unlisted equity securities included in level 3.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 263
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair 
value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments covered 
under Ind AS 109
(a)	
Investments 
in Mutual funds
16,723.44 
 - 
 -  16,723.44 
 16,723.44 
 - 
 -  16,723.44 
(b)	 Investments in 
Security Receipts
 - 
 -  80,887.58  80,887.58 
 - 
 - 
 80,887.58  80,887.58 
(c)	
Treasury Bills
 - 
 14,210.78 
 -  14,210.78 
 14,210.78 
 - 
 -  14,210.78 
Total
16,723.44 
 14,210.78  80,887.58 111,821.80 
 30,934.22 
 - 
 80,887.58 111,821.80 
	
* based on NAV statements and other information received from assets reconstruction company and adjusted for 
Expected credit losses.
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2023
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted 
price in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Investments covered 
under Ind AS 109
(a)	
Investments 
in Mutual funds
 76,162.66 
 - 
 - 
 76,162.66 
 76,162.66 
 - 
 - 
 76,162.66 
(b)	
Investments in 
Security Receipts
 - 
 -  18,294.67 
 18,294.67 
 - 
 - 
 18,294.67 
 18,294.67 
(c)	
Treasury Bills
 - 
 9,477.34 
 - 
 9,477.34 
 9,477.34 
 - 
 - 
 9,477.34 
Total
76,162.66 
 9,477.34  18,294.67 103,934.67 
 85,640.00 
 - 
 18,294.67 103,934.67 
	
* based on NAV statements and other information received from assets reconstruction company and adjusted for 
Expected credit losses.
	
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding impairment loss allowances 
in relation to investments measured at amortised cost is as follows:
Particulars 
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 - 
 - 
 42,871.31 
 42,871.31 
 - 
 - 
 41,280.54 
 41,280.54 
Reclassified from loan assets
 - 
 - 
 90,051.90 
 90,051.90 
 - 
 - 
 12,070.00 
 12,070.00 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 - 
 -  (15,392.25)
 (15,392.25)
 - 
 - 
 
(10,479.23)
 
(10,479.23)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
 - 
 - 
117,530.96 
117,530.96 
 - 
 - 
 42,871.31 
 42,871.31 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
264
Particulars 
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Impairment loss allowance - 
opening balance
 - 
 - 
 24,576.64 
 24,576.64 
 - 
 - 
 18,216.64 
 18,216.64 
Incremental provision (net)
 - 
 - 
 12,066.74 
 12,066.74 
 - 
 - 
 6,360.00 
 6,360.00 
 - 
 - 
 36,643.38 
 36,643.38 
 - 
 -  24,576.64  24,576.64 
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy:
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered 
under Ind AS 109
 - 
 -  780,983.89  780,983.89 
 - 
 - 
 780,983.89  780,983.89 
Total
 - 
 - 780,983.89 780,983.89 
 - 
 - 
 780,983.89 780,983.89 
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2023
Carrying amount
Fair value
Fair value 
through 
profit 
and loss
Fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs*
Total
Loans covered 
under Ind AS 109
 - 
 -  651,567.00  651,567.00 
 - 
 - 
 651,567.00  651,567.00 
Total
 - 
 - 651,567.00 651,567.00 
 - 
 - 
 651,567.00  651,567.00 
	
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for  fair valuation of loans
	
The management has assessed that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, loans carried at 
amortised cost, investments in pass-through-certificates, other financial assets, trade payables, borrowings, 
bank overdrafts and other current liabilities are a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
E. 
Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises when a borrower is unable to meet his contractual obligations to the lender. The effective 
management of credit risk requires the establishment of appropriate credit risk policies and processes. 
The Company has comprehensive and well defined credit policies across various businesses, products and 
segments, which encompass credit approval process for all businesses along with guidelines for mitigating 
the risks associated with them. The appraisal process includes detailed risk assessment of the borrowers, 
physical verifications and field visits. The company has a well-defined post sanction monitoring process to 
identify portfolio-wise credit risk trends and early warning signals. This enables it to implement necessary 
changes to the credit policy, whenever the need arises to prevent any further slippage in the credit quality.
 
Grouping financial assets measured on a collective basis
	
The Group splits its exposure into smaller homogeneous portfolios, based on shared credit risk characteristics, 
as described below in the following order:
	
- Customer i.e. corporate and retail
	
- Nature of product i.e. Commercial Vehicle, Corporate lending, SME and Housing Finance
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 265
01-22
121-283
23-120
 
Significant increase in credit risk
	
The credit risk on a financial asset of the Group are assumed to have increased significantly since initial 
recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. The retail loans where the 
renegotiated terms are not substantially different and involve repayment terms to be extended including 
interest or the EMI amount readjusted over the tenure are classified as Stage 2. In case of corporate loan the 
assessment of significant increase in credit risk is performed on a case to case basis. Additionally, accounts 
identified and reviewed by the credit committee for labelling as breaching pre-defined critical credit risk 
parameters will also be classified as Stage 2. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 2, 
based on the quantitative as well as qualitative factors.
	
Write off
	
The Company writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the counterparty is in 
severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Financial assets written off may still 
be subject to enforcement activities under the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal 
advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in Statement of profit and loss.
 
Restructured financial assets
	
A loan where repayment terms are renegotiated on substantially different terms as compared to the 
original contracted terms due to significant increase in credit risk of the borrower are classified as stage 
2. Such loans continue to be in stage 2 until they exhibit regular payment of renegotiated principal and 
interest over a minimum observation period typically 12 months-post renegotiation, and there are no other 
indicators of impairment. Having satisfied the conditions of timely payment over the observation period 
these loans could be transferred to stage 1 or 2 and a fresh assessment of the risk of default is done.
	
Overview of the Expected Credit Loss principles
	
The Group records allowance for expected credit losses for all loans, debt financial assets not held at 
FVTPL, undrawn loan commitments (referred to as ‘financial instruments’).
	
For the computation of ECL on the financial instruments, the Group categories its financial instruments as 
mentioned below:
	
Stage 1: All exposures where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition or 
that has low credit risk at the reporting date and that are not credit impaired upon origination are classified 
under this stage. The Group classifies all advances upto 30 days overdue under this category. Stage 1 loans 
also include facilities where the credit risk has improved and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 2.
	
Stage 2: Exposures are classified as Stage 2 when the amount is due for more than 30 days but less than 
90 days. All exposures where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition but 
are not credit impaired are classified under this stage.
	
Stage 3: All exposures are assessed as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset have occurred. Exposures where the amount remains 
due for 90 days or more are considered as to be stage 3 assets.
	
The Group has established a policy to perform an assessment, at the end of each reporting period, of 
whether a financial instrument’s credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. The Group 
undertakes the classification of exposures within the aforesaid stages at borrower level.
 
Definition of default
	
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make the contractual payments within 
90 days of when they fall due. Accordingly, the financial assets shall be classified as Stage 3, if on the 
reporting date, it has been 90 days and above past due. Non-payment on another obligation of the same 
customer is also considered as a Stage 3. In addition, Group shall also classify those accounts as default 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
266
which meets the criteria as per the RBI circular RBI/2021-2022/125 DOR.STR.REC.68/21.04.048/2021-22 
dated November 12, 2021.”
	
The calculation of ECL
	
ECL is a probability weighted credit losses (i.e. present value of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of 
the financial instruments. Cash shortfalls are the difference between the cash flows that the entity is entitled 
to receive on account of contract and the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined below and the key elements are as follows:
	
Portfolio Segmentation:
	
For ECL purpose, the loan portfolio is broadly segmented as below :
	
1)	
Corporate lending
	
2)	
Small and medium enterprises lending (‘SME’)
	
3)	
Commercial vehicle lending
	
4)	
Housing finance”
	
Exposure-At-Default (EAD) : The Exposure at Default is the amount the Group is entitled to receive as 
on reporting date including repayments due for principal and interest, whether scheduled by contract or 
otherwise, expected drawdowns on committed facilities.
	
Probability of Default (PD) : The Probability of Default is an estimate of the likelihood of default of the 
exposure over a given time horizon. A default may only happen at a certain time over the assessed period, 
if the facility has not been previously derecognised and is still in the portfolio.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) : The Loss Given Default is an estimate of the loss arising in the case where a 
default occurs at a given time. It is based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due and 
those that the lender would expect to receive, including from the realisation of any collateral.
	
The ECL allowance is applied on the financial instruments depending upon the classification of the financial 
instruments as per the credit risk involved. ECL allowance is computed on the below mentioned basis:
	
12-month ECL: 12-month ECL is the portion of Lifetime ECL that represents the ECL that results from 
default events on a financial instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date. 
12-month ECL is applied on stage 1 assets.
	
Lifetime ECL: Lifetime ECL for credit losses expected to arise over the life of the asset in cases of credit 
impaired loans and in case of financial instruments where there has been significant increase in credit risk 
since origination. Lifetime ECL is the expected credit loss resulting from all possible default events over 
the expected life of a financial instrument. Lifetime ECL is applied on stage 2 and stage 3 assets. the Group 
computes the ECL allowance either on individual basis or on collective basis, depending on the nature of the 
underlying portfolio of financial instruments. the Group has grouped its loan portfolio into Corporate loans, 
SME loans and Commercial vehicle loans and Housing Finance.
 
Forward looking information
	
The Group employs statistical models to analyse the data collected and generate estimates of the remaining 
lifetime PD of exposures and how these are expected to change as a result of the passage of time. 
Such statistical models are selected considering the availability of information related to the probability of 
default for each product. This analysis includes the identification and calibration of relationships between 
changes in GNPA as proxy for default rates and changes in key macro-economic factors. Key economic 
indicators considered for forward looking includes:
	
•	
GNI growth
	
•	
GDP deflator
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 267
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
For the purpose of determination of impact of forward looking information, the company applies macro 
economic (ME) variables as stated above to each product and assess the trend of the historical probability 
of defaults as compared to the forecasted probability of default. Based on the directional trend of output, 
management applies an overlay if required. Overtime, new ME variable may emerge to have a better 
correlation and may replace ME being used now.
	
An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation to 
loans and advances is as follows:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3$
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 538,756.75  120,333.23  47,891.62 
 706,981.60 
 587,022.07  176,994.63  120,316.24 
 884,332.94 
New assets 
originated or purchased
 550,721.54 
 8,739.24 
 3,530.23 
 562,991.01 
 192,543.01 
 5,190.64 
 2,621.02 
 200,354.67 
Assets derecognised 
or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
 (278,160.56)
 (51,433.38)  (20,078.91)
 (349,672.85)
 (233,124.09)  (40,047.22)  (43,752.64)
 (316,923.95)
Transfers to stage 1
 31,261.74  (25,502.97)
 (5,758.77)
 - 
 49,084.52  (39,642.81)
 (9,441.71)
 - 
Transfers to stage 2
 (84,225.84)
 90,931.23  (6,705.39)
 - 
 (44,291.26)
 49,720.05  (5,428.79)
 - 
Transfers to stage 3
 (8,964.19)
 (23,367.14)
 32,331.33 
 - 
 (12,477.50)
 (10,268.63)
 22,746.13 
 - 
Amounts written off 
(net of recovery)
 - 
 (9,693.89)  (11,060.82)
 (20,754.71)
 -  (17,484.99)  (31,227.07)
 (48,712.06)
Presented under 
Investments as 
Security Receipts*
 (4,877.00)  (74,367.87)
 (6,812.03)
 (86,056.90)
 - 
 (4,128.44)
 (7,941.56)
 (12,070.00)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
 744,512.44 
 35,638.45  33,337.26 
 813,488.15 
 538,756.75  120,333.23 
 47,891.62 
 706,981.60 
	
* Presented under Investments in Security Receipts (Refer to Note 31(D))
	
$Reasonable steps are being taken by the Management for recovery of the principal and interest.
	
Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total 
ECL allowance - 
opening balance
 11,554.30 
 17,885.85 
 25,974.45 
 55,414.60 
 9,667.70 
 35,594.30 
 68,377.07 
 113,639.07 
New assets 
originated or purchased
 12,111.11 
 551.71 
 1,567.86 
 14,230.68 
 6,084.87 
 202.04 
 1,140.31 
 7,427.22 
Assets derecognised 
or repaid 
(excluding write offs)
 (6,537.73)
 (5,365.80)
 (10,012.97)
 (21,916.50)
 (6,986.04)  (10,799.98)  (25,614.06)
 (43,400.08)
Transfers to stage 1
 5,011.53 
 (2,021.86)
 (2,989.67)
 - 
 10,172.55  (4,909.63)
 (5,262.92)
 - 
Transfers to stage 2
 (4,123.41)
 7,191.50  (3,068.09)
 - 
 (1,111.17)
 4,124.28 
 (3,013.11)
 - 
Transfers to stage 3
 (2,114.36)
 (2,128.93)
 4,243.29 
 - 
 (1,975.63)
 (1,407.02)
 3,382.65 
 - 
"Impact on year end ECL 
on exposures transferred  
between stages 
during the year"
 (4,756.63)
 (154.26)
 12,880.75 
 7,969.86 
 (4,233.25)
 2,517.07 
 10,248.39 
 8,532.21 
Amounts written off 
(net of recovery)
 (130.46)
 (13,522.51)
 (9,541.41)
 (23,194.38)
 (64.73)
 (7,435.21)  (23,283.88)
 (30,783.82)
ECL allowance - 
closing balance
 11,014.35 
 2,435.70 
 19,054.21 
 32,504.26 
 11,554.30 
 17,885.85 
 25,974.45 
 55,414.60 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
268
F. 
Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity is the Group’s capacity to fund increase in assets and meet both the expected and unexpected 
obligations without incurring unacceptable losses. Liquidity risk is the inability to meet such obligations 
as they become due without adversely affecting the Group’s financial conditions. The Asset Liability 
Management Policy of the Group stipulates a broad framework for Liquidity risk management to ensure that 
the Group can meet its liquidity obligations. The Asset Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) monitors 
composition, characteristics and diversification of funding sources to ensure there is no over reliance on 
single source of funding. The Group tracks the cash flow mismatches for measuring and managing net 
funding requirement through Maturity Ladder approach and reviews short-term liquidity profiles based on 
business projections and other commitments for planning purposes through Liquidity analysis. The ALCO 
also reviews the individual mismatch in each time bucket and cumulative mismatch and ensures the bucket 
wise limits are not breached.
	
The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable and diverse assets that are assumed to be easily 
liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption in cash flow. The liquidity position of the Group is 
assessed under a variety of scenarios giving due consideration to stress factors relating to both the market 
in general and risk specifics to the Group. Basis the liquidity position assessed under various stress scenarios; 
the Group reviews the following to effectively handle any liquidity crisis:
	
•	
Adequacy of contingency funding plan in terms of depth of various funding sources, time to activate, 
cost of borrowing, etc
	
•	
Availability of unencumbered eligible assets
	
Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities as on balance sheet date have been 
provided below:
	
As on 31 March 2024	
Particulars
Less than 
3 months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 
5 years
Over 
5 years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
 143.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 143.67 
Debt securities
 9,015.08 
 115,176.48 
 209,912.35 
 - 
 334,103.91 
Borrowings (other than debt securities)
 46,894.84 
 130,750.65 
 199,098.28  46,317.35 
 423,061.12 
Other financial liabilities
 23,777.97 
 693.30 
 3,342.79 
 428.90 
 28,242.96 
Total
 79,831.56 246,620.43 
 412,353.42 46,746.25 
 785,551.66 
	
Footnote:
	
-	
The above inflows and outflows is based on scheduled maturity of the financial instruments.
	
-	
The Company has borrowing facilities with various Banks. Few of such facilities have overriding clause to terminate, 
reduce, suspend or cancel the facility in future, at the absolute discretion of the lender. As at the date of approval 
of financial statements, none of lenders have terminated, reduced, suspended or cancelled any facility including 
undrawn limits. Accordingly, ` 4,375.00 lakhs scheduled for payment after 31 March 2025 for these facilities have 
been classified as per prevailing contractual maturity.
	
- 	
in addition to above ` 6,669.00 lakhs classified as per contractual maturity above pertains to borrowings which 
exceeds the limits specified in the covenants.
	
-	
Also refer Note 41
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24269
01-22
121-283
23-120
	
As on 31 March 2023
Particulars
Less than 
3 months
3 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Over 5 
years
Total
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables
 794.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 794.21 
Debt securities
 14,336.24 
 17,674.11 
 78,876.60 
 - 
 110,886.95 
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)
 49,396.40 
 121,484.26 
 235,993.88  47,043.46  453,918.00 
Other financial liabilities
 29,755.45 
 467.91 
 2,391.82 
 599.89 
 33,215.07 
Total
 94,282.30 
139,626.28 
 317,262.30  47,643.35 
598,814.23 
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities including their 
levels in the fair value hierarchy:
	
As on 31 March 2024
Particulars 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair value
Total 
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets 
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs* 
At amortised cost
Debt securities
 334,103.91 
 - 
 - 
 334,103.91 
 334,103.91 
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)
 423,061.12 
 - 
 - 
 423,061.12 
 423,061.12 
Total
 757,165.03 
 - 
 - 
 757,165.03 
 757,165.03 
	
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
	
As on 31 March 2023
Particulars 
Carrying 
amount 
Fair value
Total 
Level 1 - 
Quoted price 
in active 
markets 
Level 2 - 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
Level 3 - 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs* 
At amortised cost
Debt securities
 110,886.95 
 - 
 - 
 110,886.95 
 110,886.95 
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)
 453,918.00 
 - 
 - 
 453,918.00  453,918.00 
Total
564,804.95 
 - 
 - 
 564,804.95 564,804.95 
	
* Discounted cash flow approach adopted for fair valuation of borrowings
G. 
Market risk
	
Market Risk is the possibility of loss arising from changes in the value of a financial instrument as a result 
of changes in market variables such as interest rates, exchange rates and other asset prices. The Group’s 
exposure to market risk is a function of asset liability management and interest rate sensitivity assessment. 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk and liquidity risk, if the same is not managed properly. The Group 
continuously monitors these risks and manages them through appropriate risk limits. The Asset Liability 
Management Committee (‘ALCO’) reviews market related trends and risks and adopts various strategies 
related to assets and liabilities, in line with the Group’s risk management framework. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
270
H. 
Operational risk
	
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, 
or from external events. The operational risks of the Group are managed through comprehensive internal 
control systems and procedures. Failure of managing operational risk might lead to legal / regulatory 
implications due to non-compliance and lead to financial loss due to control failures. While it is not practical 
to eliminate all the operational risk, the Group has put in place adequate control framework by way of 
segregation of duties, well defined process, staff training, maker and checker process, authorisation and clear 
reporting structure. The effectiveness of control framework is assessed by internal audit on a periodic basis.
	
To manage fraud risk effectively, the Group has Independent Risk Containment Unit (‘RCU’) which is 
responsible for implementing fraud risk management framework and ensure compliance. The RCU undertakes 
various activities such as pre-sanction loan applicant verification, pre-sanction and post disbursement 
documents verification, vendor verification, etc to prevent and manage frauds.
Note 32
Disclosure pursuant to Ind AS 108 “Operating Segment
Business segments
The Group has identified operating segments based on performance assessment and resource allocation by 
the chief operating decision maker. Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported 
under each reportable segment. All other revenue/expenses which primarily consists of tax expenses and other 
income are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocated. Assets and liabilities 
that are directly attributable or allocable to segments are disclosed under each reportable segment. All other 
assets and liabilities are disclosed as unallocable, which primarily consists of current tax and deferred tax assets/
liabilities and investments. As the operations of the Group are carried out within India, there are no geographical 
segments. The Group operates in the following segments:
Large Corporate segment provides loans to medium and large-sized corporates, institutional customers and 
real estate developers.
SME segment provides lending to small and medium enterprises for business financing needs including working 
capital, business expansion or other requirements.
Commercial vehicle segment primarily consists of financing for used and new vehicles.
Housing Finance segment consists of affordable home financing to self-employed and salaried customers.
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2024
Year ended
31 March 2023
I
Gross segment revenue from continuing operations
(a) Large corporate
 8,492.43
 17,684.75
(b) SME
 10,296.45
 17,315.66
(c) Commercial vehicles
 86,687.99
 56,312.04
(d) Housing finance
 29,042.69
 20,924.18
(e) Unallocated*
 5,234.45
 5,728.71
Segment revenue from continuing operations
 139,754.01
 117,965.34
II
Segment results
(a) Large corporate
 (14,966.17)
 5,746.03
(b) SME
 9,457.31
 4,233.45
(c) Commercial vehicles
 23,853.89
 16,196.75
(d) Housing finance
 5,786.32
 5,123.21
(e) Unallocated**
 (11,167.36)
 (7,436.42)
Profit/(loss) before tax
 12,963.99
 23,863.02
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 271
01-22
121-283
23-120
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2024
Year ended
31 March 2023
III
Segment assets
(a) Large corporate
 92,130.57
 108,709.00
(b) SME
 47,060.61
 101,804.00
(c) Commercial vehicles
 601,248.81
 387,379.00
(d) Housing finance
 219,829.23
 145,427.00
(e) Unallocated***
 151,800.66
 168,899.76
Total assets
 1,112,069.88
 912,218.76
IV
Segment liabilities
(a) Large corporate
 62,481.88
 62,953.00
(b) SME
 35,115.03
 66,821.00
(c) Commercial vehicles
 423,671.13
 278,394.00
(d) Housing finance
 161,714.96
 91,714.00
(e) Unallocated****
 105,565.08
 101,178.05
Total liabilities
 788,548.08
 601,060.05
*	
Unallocated includes income from treasury assets and other income
**	
Unallocated includes other operating expenses
***	
Unallocated includes treasury assets and advance/tax deducted (net), deferred tax asset (net)
****	 Unallocated includes other liabilities, deferred tax liabilities
Note 33
Related Party Disclosures, as required by Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Ind AS 24) are given below:
a)	
Relationships	
	
I.	
Ultimate Controlling Party	
	
	
Brookfield Asset Management Inc.
	
II.	
Holding Company
	
	
BCP V Multiple Holdings Pte. Ltd.
	
III.	 Names of other related parties with whom the Group had transactions during the year:	
	
	
Key Managerial Personnel	
	
Karthikeyan Srinivasan - CEO & Whole Time Director
	
Bobby Parikh - Non-Executive Independent Director 
	
Hemant Kaul - Non-Executive Independent Director  
	
Naina Krishna Murthy - Non-Executive Independent Director  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
272
b)	 Transactions with Holding Company
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023 
Upfront Fees Paid
 1,228.41 
 4,018.68 
c) 
Transactions with key management personnel :
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023 
Short-term employee benefits
 196.44 
 209.11 
Sitting fees to Non-Executive Independent Directors
 34.95 
 40.54 
Reimbursement of expenses
 1.62 
 0.37 
	
Compensation of the Company’s key managerial personnel includes salaries, non-cash benefits and 
contributions to post-employment defined benefit plan.
d) Transactions other than those with key management personnel : Nil
e)	
The related party balances outstanding at year end are as follows:
Particulars
Holding 
Company 
 Key Managerial 
Personnel* 
Reimbursement of expenses
2024
 - 
 - 
2023
 1,351.37 
 - 
Loans outstanding
2024
 - 
 2,500.00 
2023
 - 
 2,500.00 
	
* interest free loan receivable from KMP (upto 17 April  2022)	
Note 34
Set out below is the disaggregation of the revenue from contracts with customers
Particulars 
For the year ended 
31 March 2024 
For 
the year ended 
31 March 2023 
Type of Services or service
Fees and commission income
 6,153.04 
 5,416.58 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 6,153.04 
 5,416.58 
Geographical markets
India
 6,153.04 
 5,416.58 
Outside India
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 6,153.04 
 5,416.58 
Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
 6,153.04 
 5,416.58 
Services transferred over time
 - 
 - 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 6,153.04 
 5,416.58 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 273
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 35
Contingent liabilities and Commitments
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Contingent liabilities
Corporate guarantee given by Company to banks
 2,375.00 
 2,875.00 
Litigation cases filed against the Company
 71.04 
 - 
Income tax matters under dispute 
 602.14 
 - 
Capital commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on 
capital account
 86.95 
 291.55 
Loans sanctioned not yet disbursed
 22,167.16 
 48,695.89 
Note 36
Disclosures as required by Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’
(A)	 Lease liability movement
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Opening balance
 3,103.51 
 3,749.94 
Add : additions during the year
 2,957.43 
 1,132.85 
Add : Interest on lease liability
 389.35 
 336.66 
Less : Deletions
 (705.55)
 (720.55)
Less : Lease rental payments
 (1,057.94)
 (1,395.39)
 4,686.80 
 3,103.51 
(B) Future lease cashflow for all leased assets
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Not later than one year
 1,334.59 
 882.80 
Later than one year but not later than five years 
 4,113.10 
 2,427.27 
Later than five years 
 479.24 
 680.81 
 5,926.93 
 3,990.88 
(C)	 Maturity analysis of lease liability
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Lease liability
Less than 12 months
 915.11 
 611.79 
More than 12 months
 3,771.69 
 2,491.72 
 4,686.80 
 3,103.51 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
274
Note 37
Dues to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006
The following disclosure is made as per the requirement under The Micro Small and Medium Enterprise 
Development Act, 2006 (the ‘MSMED Act’) on the basis of confirmations sought from suppliers on registration 
with the specified authorities under MSMED :
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
a.	
Principal amount remaining unpaid
 124.16 
 10.89 
b.	
Interest due thereon remaining unpaid
 - 
 - 
c.	
Interest paid by the Company in terms of Section 16 of the Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, along 
with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day
 - 
 - 
d.	
Interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which  have been paid but beyond the appointed day 
during the period) but without adding interest specified under 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Act,2006)
 - 
 0.07 
e.	
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 - 
 - 
f.	
Interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid 
to the small enterprises
 - 
 - 
The aforementioned is based on the responses received by the Group to its inquiries with suppliers with regard 
to applicability under the said Act. This has been relied upon by the auditors.
No interest has been paid/is payable by the Group during the year to the suppliers registered under this Act.
Ageing analysis of Trade Payable
As on 31 March 2024
Particulars 
 Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total 
 Less than 
1 Year 
 1-2 Years 
 2-3 Years 
 More than 
3 Years 
(i)	 MSME
 124.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 124.16 
(ii)	 Others
 19.51 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19.51 
(iii)	 Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As on 31 March 2023
Particulars 
 Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Total 
 Less than 
1 Year 
 1-2 Years 
 2-3 Years 
 More than 
3 Years 
(i)	 MSME
 10.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.89 
(ii)	 Others
 751.62 
 31.70 
 - 
 - 
 783.32 
(iii)	 Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 275
01-22
121-283
23-120
Note 38
Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans:
The Group has an funded defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more 
of service is eligible for a gratuity on separation at 15 days basic salary (last drawn salary) for each completed 
year of service.
Based on Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with 
paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2016, the following disclosures have been made as required by the standard:
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
A. 	 Amount recognised in the balance sheet 
Present value of the obligation as at the end of the year
 462.75 
 423.97 
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
 4.68 
 4.36 
Net asset / (liability) to be recognized in the balance sheet 
 458.07 
 419.61 
B. 	 Change in projected benefit obligation
Projected benefit of obligation at the beginning of the year
 423.97 
 512.22 
Current service cost
 110.73 
 172.41 
Past service cost
 - 
 3.89 
Interest cost
 26.22 
 17.76 
Benefits paid
 (148.16)
 (158.34)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligation
 49.99 
 (123.97)
Projected benefit obligation at the end of the year
 462.75 
 423.97 
C. 	 Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year  
 4.36 
 4.09 
Return on plan assets
 3.55 
 5.07 
Actuarial gain/(loss)
 (3.23)
 (4.80)
Benefits paid
 - 
 - 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 4.68 
 4.36 
D. 	 Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
Current service cost
 110.73 
 172.41 
Past service cost and loss/(gain) on curtailments and settlement
 - 
 - 
Net interest cost
 22.67 
 29.13 
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
 133.40 
 201.54 
E. 	 Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial (gains) / loss
- change in financial assumption
 2.20 
 (4.26)
- change in demographic assumption
 - 
 (74.44)
- experience variation
 47.79 
 (57.83)
Return on plan assets, excluding amount recognised in net 
interest expense
 3.23 
 4.80 
 53.22 
 (131.73)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
276
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
F. 	 Assumptions used
Discount rate 
7.15%
7.30%
Salary growth rate
6.00%
6.00%
Withdrawal rates
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
50% at younger 
ages reducing to 
10% at older ages
G.	
Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other 
assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Increase
Decrease 
Increase
 Decrease 
Discount rate (0.5% movement)
 455.50 
 470.23 
 418.04 
 430.08 
Salary growth rate (0.5% movement)
 470.05 
 455.53 
 430.11 
 418.20 
Withdrawal rate (10% movement)
 449.93 
 476.58 
 416.57 
 431.92 
H.	
Other information :
1.	
Plans assets comprises 100% of Insurance funds
2.	
The expected contribution for the next year is ` 107.09 lakhs.
3.	
The average outstanding term of the obligations as at valuation date is 3.25 years.
4.	
The above disclosure is based on report and assumptions provided by the actuary and has been relied upon 
by the Auditors.
Note 39
Additional information as required by Paragraph 2 of the General Instructions for Preparation of Consolidated 
Financial Statements to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013
Net assets i.e. total assets minus total liabilities
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net assets"
` Lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
Net assets 
` Lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
95.88%
 310,204.46 
97.14%
 302,255.29 
Subsidiaries
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited
17.96%
 58,114.27 
17.26%
 53,713.50 
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
0.15%
 473.65 
0.15%
 461.52 
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-13.99%
 (45,270.58)
-14.55%
 (45,271.60)
Total
100.00%
 323,521.80 
100.00%
 311,158.71 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 277
01-22
121-283
23-120
Share of Profit or Loss
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
As % of 
Consolidated 
profit or loss
` Lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
profit or loss
` Lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
61.83%
 7,161.37 
83.18%
 18,727.05 
Subsidiaries
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited
38.07%
 4,409.51 
16.78%
 3,777.54 
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
0.10%
 12.13 
0.04%
 10.07 
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-
 - 
-
 - 
Total
100.00%
 11,583.01 
100.00%
 22,514.66 
Share of Other comprehensive income
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
As % of 
Consolidated 
Other 
comprehensive 
income
` Lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
Other 
comprehensive 
income
` Lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
75.29%
 (23.52)
89.08%
 76.66 
Subsidiaries
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited
24.71%
 (7.72)
10.92%
 9.40 
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
-
 - 
-
 - 
Minority interest
-
-
-
-
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-
 - 
-
 - 
Total
100.00%
 (31.24)
100.00%
 86.06 
Share of Total comprehensive income
Particulars 
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
As % of 
Consolidated 
Total 
comprehensive 
income
` Lakhs
As % of 
Consolidated 
Total 
comprehensive 
income
` Lakhs
Parent
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
61.79%
 7,137.85 
83.20%
 18,803.71 
Subsidiaries
IndoStar Home Finance Private Limited
38.10%
 4,401.79 
16.76%
 3,786.94 
IndoStar Asset Advisory Private Limited
0.11%
 12.13 
0.04%
 10.07 
Minority interest
-
-
-
-
Less: Inter-Company eliminations
-
 - 
-
 - 
Total
100.00%
 11,551.77 
100.00%
 22,600.72 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
278
Note 40
Employee stock option plans
The Group provides share-based employee benefits to the employees of the parent Company , or Subsidiary 
Company, the Director, whether a whole time Director or otherwise but excluding Non-Executive Independent 
Director, including the Director of the Company, or a Subsidiary Company ,such other entities or individuals 
as may be permitted by Applicable Laws  and any of the aforesaid Employees who are on deputation at the 
request of the Company and during the year ended 31 March 2024, employee stock option plans (ESOPs) were 
in existence. The relevant details of the schemes and the grant are as below.
A.	
Description of share-based payment arrangements
	
As at 31 March 2024, the Company has the following share-based payment arrangements:
	
Share option plans (equity settled)
	
According to the Schemes, the employee selected by the Nomination and remuneration committee 
from time to time will be entitled to options, subject to satisfaction of the prescribed vesting conditions. 
The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options granted is 5 years.
I.	
Details of the ESOP
Particulars
ESOP Plan 
2012
ESOP Plan 
2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP Plan 
2017
ESOP Plan 
2018
Date of Shareholder's Approval
30-Jul-12
09-May-16
17-Oct-16
28-Apr-17
15-Dec-17
Total Number of Options approved
 1,500,000 
 2,700,000 
 3,000,000 
 2,000,000 
 6,000,000 
Vesting Requirements
Vesting Criteria will specified for each Option Holder by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee at the time of grant of Options. For valid 
vesting of Options, the concerned Option Holder is required to be an 
Eligible Employee on the respective Vesting Date and must neither be 
serving his/her notice period for termination of service nor be subject to 
any disciplinary proceedings pending against him/her. Unless the NRC 
provides otherwise, the Vesting of Options granted hereunder shall be 
stalled / blocked during any unauthorised and unpaid leave of absence 
for such period as may prescribed by NRC or for any Cause as deemed 
fit by the NRC.
The Pricing Formula
Options can be Exercised at any of the following Exercise Price, as 
may be determined by the NRC at its sole discretion at the time of 
grant of Options: 
(i)	 Fair Market Value rounded to the nearest rupee; or(ii) Market 
Price rounded to the nearest rupee; or(iii) such price as may be 
determined by the NRC. However, the Exercise Price shall not be 
less than the Fair Market Value of the Shares.
Maximum term of Options 
granted (years)
Options granted under the ESOP Plans would vest not less than 1 (one) 
year from the date of grant of Options. Options shall be capable of being 
exercised within a period of 4 years from the Date of Vesting.
Method of Settlement
Equity
Source of shares
Primary
Variation in terms of ESOP
None
Method used for 
accounting of options
Fair Value Method
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 279
01-22
121-283
23-120
II.	
Option Movement during the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
No. of options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
 35,700  1,913,000 
 146,500 
 230,000 
 398,500 
Options granted during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 4,600,492 
Options forfeited / lapsed during the year
 3,950 
 573,500 
 136,500 
 74,750 
 296,856 
Options exercised during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total number of shares arising as a result of 
exercise of options
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Money realised by exercise of options (` Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Number of options outstanding at the 
end of the year
 31,750  1,339,500 
 10,000 
 155,250  4,702,136 
Number of options exercisable at the 
end of the year
 14,250 
 359,950 
 10,000 
 155,250 
 114,450 
The weighted average market price of 
shares exercised during the year ended 31 
March 2024 (` Per share)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
III.	 Option Movement during the year ended 31 March 2023
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
No. of options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
 35,700 
 1,510,500 
 348,000 
 1,719,500  3,027,500 
Options granted during the year
 - 
 984,500 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options forfeited / lapsed during the year
 - 
 582,000 
 201,500  1,489,500 
 
2,629,000 
Options exercised during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total number of shares arising as a result of 
exercise of options
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Money realised by exercise of options (` Lakhs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Number of options outstanding at the 
end of the year
 35,700  1,913,000 
 146,500 
 230,000 
 398,500 
Number of options exercisable at the 
end of the year
 13,200 
 332,000 
 146,500 
 230,000 
 163,500 
The weighted average market price of 
shares exercised during the year ended 31 
March 2023 (` Per share)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
IV.	 Weighted Average remaining contractual life
Particulars
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
Range of Exercise Price (` per share)
 281.00 - 
437.00 
 139.00 - 
437.00 
 255.00 
 437.00 
 131.45 - 
437.00 
No. of Options Outstanding as on 31 March 2024
 31,750  1,339,500 
 10,000 
 155,250  4,702,136 
Contractual Life (in years)
 4.32 
 4.70 
 0.55 
 2.01 
 6.04 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
280
V. 	 Method and Assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted:
The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Option Pricing model.
The Assumptions used in the model are as follows:
Variables
ESOP 
Plan 2012
ESOP 
Plan 2016
ESOP Plan 
2016 - II
ESOP 
Plan 2017
ESOP 
Plan 2018
Risk free interest rate
NA
NA
NA
NA
7.02%
Weighted average expected life (in years)
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.80
Expected volatility
NA
NA
NA
NA
44.92%
Dividend yield
NA
NA
NA
NA
0.0%
Exercise Price
NA
NA
NA
NA
199.86
Weighted average exercise price (` per share)
NA
NA
NA
NA
199.86
VI. Effect of share-based payment transactions on the entity’s Profit or Loss for the period:
Particulars 
As at 
31 March 2024
As at 
31 March 2023
Employee share based expense
 811.32 
 (4,350.07)
Total ESOP reserve outstanding
 2,122.74 
 2,074.82 
Note 41 - Maturity pattern of Assets and Liabilities
An analysis of its assets and liabilities according to their timing of recoverability and settlement has been 
presented below in a tabulated format.
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
ASSETS
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 61,390.42
 -
 61,390.42
 17,974.12
 -
 17,974.12
Bank balances other than cash and 
cash equivalents
 6,782.02
 28,137.57
 34,919.59
 1,880.49
 21,723.10
 23,603.59
Loans
 223,166.62
 557,817.27  780,983.89
 175,355.77
 476,211.23
 651,567.00
Investments
 43,684.22
 68,137.58
 111,821.80
 85,640.00
 18,294.67
 103,934.67
Other financial assets
 4,370.43
 33,935.61
 38,306.04
 2,023.38
 33,132.98
 35,156.36
Non-financial assets
Current tax assets (net)
 -
 8,336.99
 8,336.99
 -
 5,607.74
 5,607.74
Deferred tax assets (net)
 -
 31,651.53
 31,651.53
 -
 31,643.62
 31,643.62
Property, plant and equipment
 -
 6,800.67
 6,800.67
 -
 5,353.44
 5,353.44
Assets acquired in satisfaction of 
claim
 -
 1,300.00
 1,300.00
 -
 1,300.00
 1,300.00
Goodwill
 -
 30,018.69
 30,018.69
 -
 30,018.69
 30,018.69
Other intangible assets
 -
 1,289.99
 1,289.99
 -
 2,351.56
 2,351.56
Other non-financial assets
 4,389.85
 860.42
 5,250.27
 3,286.71
 421.26
 3,707.97
 TOTAL ASSETS
 343,783.56 768,286.32 1,112,069.88  286,160.47  626,058.29
 912,218.76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 281
01-22
121-283
23-120
Particulars
As at 31 March 2024
As at 31 March 2023
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
Within 
12 months
More than 
12 months
Total
LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 143.67
 -
 143.67
 794.21
 -
 794.21
Debt securities
 124,191.56
 209,912.35
 334,103.91
 32,010.36
 78,876.59
 110,886.95
Borrowings (other than 
debt securities)*
 177,645.48
 245,415.64
 423,061.12
 170,880.66
 283,037.34
 453,918.00
Other financial liabilities
 24,471.27
 3,771.69
 28,242.96
 30,223.36
 2,991.71
 33,215.07
Non-financial liabilities
Current tax liabilities (net)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Provisions
 219.23
 451.52
 670.75
 162.18
 393.75
 555.93
Deferred Tax Liability
 -
 1,360.32
 1,360.32
 -
 579.54
 579.54
Other non-financial liabilities
 965.35
 -
 965.35
 1,110.35
 -
 1,110.35
 TOTAL LIABILITIES
 327,636.56
 460,911.52
 788,548.08
 235,181.12
 365,878.93  601,060.05
 * also refer note 31(G) 
Note 42
Other notes
Note 42.1
In relation to the loans portfolio, the Management has on a best effort basis and knowledge, has not identified 
transactions with Nil financiers (previous year Nil) aggregating ` Nil (previous year Nil) used for refinancing 
loans of the customers.
Note 42.2
The disclosure on the following matters required under Schedule III as amended not being relevant or applicable 
in case of the Group, same are not covered:
a)	
The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
b)	
No proceedings have been initiated or are pending against the Group for holding any benami property 
under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
c)	
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
d)	
The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
e)	
Charges or satisfaction to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) have been registered within the 
stipulated statutory timelines.
f)	
There are no transactions which are not recorded in the books of account which have been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
g)	
In respect of the disclosure required vide notification dated March 24, 2021 issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the Group has taken steps to identify transactions with the struck-off companies and considering 
the nature of business which is primarily lending to individuals and other small players, there are no such 
transactions which may be required to be reported.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Currency : Indian Rupees in Lakhs)
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24
282
h)	
The provision related to number of layers as prescribed under section 2(87) of the Companies Act read with 
Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017 is not applicable to Company.
i)	
Other than the loans and advances given in normal course of business, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Group to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”) with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party 
identified by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The Group has also not received any 
fund from any parties (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Company shall whether, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
j)	
Title deed of immovable property has been held in the name of the Company
Note 43
Figures for the previous year have been regrouped and / or reclassified wherever considered necessary to 
conform to current year presentation.
In terms of our report attached
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number:105047W
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Tushar Kurani
Partner
Membership No. 118580
Bobby Parikh
Non-Executive Independent  
Chairman
DIN: 00019437
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Chief Executive Officer & 
Whole Time Director
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker
Chief Financial Officer
Shikha Jain
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
Statutory Reports
Corporate Overview
Financial Statements
INDOSTAR CAPITAL FINANCE LIMITED
Annual Report 2023-24 283
01-22
121-283
23-120
Form AOC-I
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries or associate companies 
or joint ventures
Part A	 Subsidiaries
(Currency : Indian Rupees Lakhs)
Sl. No. Particulars
1
2
1
Name of the subsidiary
IndoStar Asset 
Advisory 
Private Limited
IndoStar 
Home Finance 
Private Limited
2
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if different 
from the holding Company’s reporting period
1 April 2023 
to 31 March 2024
1 April 2023 
to 31 March 2024
3
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the last date of 
the relevant Financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries.
NA
NA
4
Share capital
Authorised capital
 10.00 
 100,000.00 
Paid-up Capital
 1.00 
 45,000.00 
5
Reserves & surplus
 472.65 
 13,114.27 
6
Total Assets
 476.96 
 219,829.23 
7
Total Liabilities
 476.96 
 219,829.23 
8
Investments
 - 
 - 
9
Turnover
 - 
 29,004.89 
10
Profit / (loss) before taxation
 16.31 
 5,786.31 
11
Provision for taxation
 4.18 
 1,376.80 
12
Profit / (loss) after taxation
 12.13 
 4,409.51 
13
Proposed Dividend
Nil
 Nil 
14
Extent of shareholding (in percentage)
100%
100%
Notes:
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Not applicable
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidiated or sold during the year: Not applicable
Part B	 Associates and Joint Ventures - Not applicable
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
IndoStar Capital Finance Limited
Bobby Parikh	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Karthikeyan Srinivasan
Non-Executive Independent Chairman	 	
	
Chief Executive Officer
DIN: 00019437	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
DIN: 10056556
Vinodkumar Panicker		
	
	
	
	
	
Shikha Jain
Chief Financial Officer	
	
	
	
	
	
Company Secretary
Place: Mumbai
Date: 29 April 2024
REGISTERED & CORPORATE OFFICE:
Silver Utopia, Third Floor, Unit No. 301-A, 
Opposite P & G Plaza, Cardinal Gracious Road, 
Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 400099.
Tel No.: +91 22 4315 7000 
E-mail: investor.relations@indostarcapital.com
www.indostarcapital.com
