 
Max Estates Limited 
Corporate Oﬃce: Max Towers, L-20, C-001/A/1, Sector-16B, Noida-201301, Uttar Pradesh, India, | P: +91 120-4743222  
Regd. Office: Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3, Opposite Okhla Railway Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, New Delhi -110020  
Email : secretarial@maxestates.in | Website : www.maxestates.in | CIN: L70200DL2016PLC438718 
 
August 27, 2025  
BSE Limited  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers  
Dalal Street  
Mumbai – 400 001  
Scrip Code: 544008 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited   
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex   
Bandra (East)  
Mumbai – 400 051  
 
SYMBOL: MAXESTATES 
 
Sub: Notice of the 9th Annual General Meeting and Integrated Annual Report for FY2025 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 30 and 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and further to our letter today informing about the 
9th Annual General Meeting ("AGM") of the Company scheduled to be held on Thursday, 
September 18, 2025 at 1700 hrs. (IST) through Video Conference ("VC") / Other Audio Visual 
Means ("OAVM") in compliance with circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA”) 
and Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI") in this regard, we wish to inform the 
following: 
 
1. The Integrated Annual Report for FY2025 and the notice of AGM have been sent today, i.e., 
Wednesday, August 27, 2025, through electronic mode to all the members of the Company 
whose email addresses are registered with the Company, Registrar & Transfer Agent (“RTA”) 
or the Depository Participants (“DP”). These documents are also available on the Company's 
website at www.maxestates.in.    
 
2. The entire shareholding of the Company is in Demat form.  
 
3. The Company is providing the facility to vote by electronic means (remote e-voting as well 
as e-voting at the AGM) on all the resolutions set out in the AGM notice to the members, 
who are holding shares on the cut-off date, i.e. Thursday, September 11, 2025. The remote 
e-voting will commence from Monday, September 15, 2025, at 0900 hrs. (IST) and shall end 
on Wednesday, September 17, 2025, at 1700 hrs. (IST). Detailed instructions for email 
address registration and voting/attendance at the AGM have been provided in the AGM 
Notice. 
 
4. The Integrated Annual Report for the FY2025 and the Notice of AGM are enclosed herewith. 
 
This is for your information and records. 
 
Thanking you,   
  
Yours faithfully,  
 
For Max Estates Limited  
  
 
Abhishek Mishra  
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
Encl: a/a  
 
ABHISHEK 
MISHRA
Digitally signed by ABHISHEK 
MISHRA 
Date: 2025.08.27 23:29:47 
+05'30'
Redefining Spaces ,
Pioneering Wellbeing
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Capitals
Financial Capital 
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Human Capital
Natural Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Governance
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notice 
Sustainability
Operating Environment
Value Creation Model
Stakeholder Engagement
Materiality
Redefining Spaces, 
Pioneering Wellbeing
Key Highlights
About the Report
Letter to Shareholders
Corporate Overview
Business Overview
Strategy And Management
03
04
06
10
14
32
38
44
76
76
90
100
112
126
142
154
163
166
267
448
58
64
66
70
What’s Inside
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
At Max Estates, we believe that spaces should elevate how people live, work, and 
thrive. Guided by our theme for 2025, “Redefining Spaces, Pioneering Wellbeing,” 
we are committed to shaping a future where real estate is not defined by square 
footage but by the quality of life it fosters.
Our approach reimagines real estate as a catalyst for holistic wellness, designing 
interconnected environments that foster collaboration, innovation, and community. 
Whether through immersive LiveWell homes or thoughtfully designed WorkWell 
offices, wellbeing is not an afterthought but the very foundation of our vision.
Rooted in our core values of Sevabhav, Excellence, and Credibility, we strive to 
create environments where design aligns with intent and growth serves a greater 
purpose. Our LiveWell, WorkWell philosophy supports intergenerational harmony 
in homes and enhances commercial spaces for productivity and vitality—truly 
pioneering a new paradigm of wellbeing in the built environment.
Our developments, from wellness-certified office spaces like Max Square, Max 
Towers, and Max House to community-focused residential projects such as Estate 
128 and Estate 360, demonstrate our commitment to redefining spaces that 
promote physical, emotional, social, and environmental wellness. In this report, 
we outline how Max Estates is intentionally and thoughtfully redefining real 
estate and urban living, focusing on holistic wellbeing and delivering tangible and 
transformative value.
Redefining Spaces, 
Pioneering Wellbeing
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
Performance Highlights 
FY2025
Financial
J 161 cr
Revenue
1.6 million sq. ft.
Total Area Delivered 
(Residential and 
Commercial)
12
Total number of 
projects
J 677 cr
Capex
J 44 cr
EBITDA
17.1 million sq. ft. 
Portfolio Area
100%
Occupancy Rate for 
Commercial Assets
J 5,300+ cr
Pre-sale Value
J 980 cr
Cash Collections 
on Pre-sale
6.5 million sq. ft.
New Land Parcels 
Acquired in FY2025
Operational
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
31 tCo2e
Emissions Avoided 
Through Renewable 
Energy Consumption 
10,322
CSR Beneficiaries  
100%
Portfolio Certified Under Green 
Building Strategies (LEED/IGBC)
223
Total Employees
87 tonnes
Waste Recycled
ESG
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
84,868 Mt tCo2e
GHG Emissions
04
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
05
About the Report
Reporting Period
Approach to Reporting
Reporting Scope 
and Boundary
Reporting Frameworks
April 1, 2024, to March 31, 2025
Max Estates Limited (“Max Estates”, “MEL”, “the Company”) is committed to transparent stakeholder 
communication and creating value for all its stakeholders in the short, medium, and long term. The 
Company presents its inaugural Integrated Annual Report, aligned with the International Integrated 
Reporting <IR> Framework. The report details the Company’s achievements, value-creation model, 
governance, operational context, performance, strategy, and material issues across six capitals: financial, 
manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural. This integrated approach 
underscores its dedication to sustainable business practices, addressing environmental and social 
challenges alongside financial metrics. The report highlights the performance against key indicators, 
emphasising  the connectivity and transparency of information relevant to the Company’s operations.
The report covers the period from April 
1, 2024, to March 31, 2025. It details the 
Company’s primary activities across all 
operating regions, business segments, and 
key support functions.
This report aligns with the principles and guidelines of the:
International Integrated 
Reporting <IR> framework 
of the IFRS Foundation
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
United Nations 
Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs)
The Companies Act, 2013 
(and the rules made 
thereunder)
Indian Accounting Standards 
and International Financial 
Reporting Standards
Financial and 
Non-financial Reporting
This report provides a comprehensive view 
of financial and non-financial performance, 
encompassing opportunities, risks, and 
stakeholder impacts that influence value 
creation and affect the business model 
and strategic objectives. It highlights 
performance against established 
plans, illustrates resource utilisation in 
achieving objectives, and highlights areas 
for improvement.
MAX TOWERS, NOIDA 
Actual Image
07
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
06
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Capitals
Board of Directors’ Assurance
This report uses the six capitals, as defined by 
the International <IR> Framework, to provide a 
comprehensive understanding of Max Estates’ 
functioning and value creation process.
Stakeholders
Max Estates has identified and engaged with a 
diverse group of stakeholders who are integral to 
the Company’s long-term success. These include 
investors, shareholders, and financial institutions 
who provide capital and confidence; tenants, 
customers, and end-users who experience the 
value of its offerings; and employees along with 
third-party contractors who drive its operations. The 
Company also engages closely with government 
agencies, regulators, and industry bodies to 
ensure compliance and alignment with broader 
industry standards. Its ecosystem further extends 
to suppliers, vendors, and channel partners who 
support its business continuity; communities and 
social organisations with whom it collaborates 
to create a positive social impact; and the media 
and public communication platforms that shape 
perceptions and outreach. This comprehensive 
approach ensures that the report reflects 
perspectives that matter most to those connected 
with Max Estates.
Materiality
The report for FY2025 highlights the key factors 
that influence stakeholder value creation. In this 
financial year, Max Estates categorised its material 
topics under four broad themes: Economy, 
Environment, Social, and Governance. These were 
identified through a detailed analysis of risks and 
opportunities, identifying key stakeholders, and 
engaging regularly to address their concerns.
The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of 
Max Estates confirms that this report for the year 
ended March 31, 2025, presents a fair and balanced 
account of the Company’s strategy, performance, 
and value creation. It has been prepared in line with 
the International <IR> Framework and applicable 
regulatory requirements.
The Board has reviewed and approved this report 
and remains committed to upholding transparency, 
accountability and long-term value creation for 
all stakeholders.
Precautionary Principle
Forward-looking Statement
Max Estates recognises that its most significant 
environmental impacts arise from construction 
activities, building operations, and the overall 
development portfolio. The Company continues to 
grow its sustainability practices through the use 
of low-carbon materials, energy-efficient design, 
and collaboration with suppliers, contractors, 
and tenants.
Certain statements in this document are 
“forward-looking statements”. These may include 
known and unknown risks, opportunities, 
uncertainties, or other factors that could lead 
to materially different results. Terms such as 
“anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, 
“foresee”, “may”, “plan”, “project”, “should”, 
and “will” typically constitute forward-looking 
language. These reflect the Company’s vision 
as of the date of this document. Max Estates is 
under no obligation to revise or publicly update 
these statements based on subsequent events.
Feedback
Max Estates welcomes comments 
and suggestions on helping improve 
the Integrated Annual Report. Please 
direct any feedback, questions or 
requests for additional information to 
the Company’s Investor Relations team 
at ir@maxestates.in or via its website’s 
“Contact Us” portal. Your input is 
invaluable in shaping future editions 
and enhancing transparency.
Financial Capital
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
09
08
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Message from the 
Chairman and MD
LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS
Dear Shareholders,
It is both an honour and a privilege to present our inaugural Integrated 
Annual Report as we mark a milestone year of purposeful growth and 
meaningful expansion. The theme, “Redefining Spaces, Pioneering 
Wellbeing”, captures the essence of our journey as we step into a new 
phase shaped by scale, clarity, sustainability, and execution.
FY2025 marks the beginning of Max Estates’ 3.0 execution phase. 
This was a strategic shift from being a single-project developer 
to becoming a purpose-driven real estate organisation delivering 
multiple large-scale projects across Delhi NCR.
This evolution has been grounded in capital discipline, capability 
enhancement, and an unwavering belief in our vision of bringing 
real wellbeing into real estate.
Global and Domestic Context: 
Resilience Amid Uncertainty
The global economic environment in 2024 remained 
complex and uneven. Several large economies faced 
long-term challenges. The United States stayed resilient, 
backed by consumer demand. Europe struggled to 
regain momentum and China’s real estate sector 
remained under pressure.
India, in contrast, outperformed global trends. Our 
economy remained stable with a positive outlook. GDP 
grew at an estimated 6.5%, making India one of the 
fastest-growing major economies in the world. Inflation 
eased, private and public investments picked up pace, 
and structural reforms continued to advance. Together, 
these factors strengthened India’s standing as a resilient, 
reliable growth engine in a challenging global context.
India’s real estate sector reflected this momentum. 
Institutional investments rose to $8.9 billion, a 51% 
increase over the previous year. Despite constrained 
supply, residential sales remained strong. The sector 
continues to be a key pillar to India’s economic and 
employment ecosystem.
The residential market saw a clear shift towards premium 
and luxury homes, driven by rising aspirations, greater 
affordability, and growing trust in branded developers. 
Commercial real estate also saw record momentum. 
India reached its highest-ever gross leasing volume 
of 79 million square feet, reflecting strong occupier 
confidence and the country’s rising appeal as a 
destination for Global Capability Centres (GCCs).
Scaling with Purpose: 
The Max Estates 3.0 Journey
As the market continues to evolve, we continue to 
grow with intention. The Max Estates 3.0 journey 
is grounded in strong fundamentals, including a 
focus on strategic locations and wellbeing-enabled 
ecosystems, high-quality design, customer-first 
experiences, and disciplined use of capital. This 
approach strengthens our foundation as a forward-
thinking real estate brand, ready to lead with 
purpose and clarity.
In line with our approach, FY2025 was a defining 
year for Max Estates—a year of moving from 
preparation to execution, from planning to 
performance, marking milestones across these 
key pillars.
	»
Our total portfolio grew from 8 million to over 
17.1 million square feet, with a balanced mix 
of residential, commercial, and mixed-use 
developments across Noida, Gurugram, and 
Delhi. We evolved from managing one project 
to overseeing four operational assets, four under 
construction, and three in design. We acquired 
prime land and development rights across Delhi 
NCR, enhancing our vision to redefine real estate 
with contemporary design and a hospitality-led 
experience. This growth was shaped by deliberate 
strategic choices, rooted in product quality, 
innovation, and holistic customer experience.
India, in contrast, 
outperformed global trends. 
Our economy remained 
stable with a positive 
outlook. GDP grew at an 
estimated 6.5%, making 
India one of the fastest-
growing major economies 
in the world.
Mr. Analjit Singh 
Founder & Chairman, 
Max Group
Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Vice Chairman & 
Managing Director, 
Max Estates
11
10
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
We witnessed strong momentum in the residential 
segment. Pre-sales crossed ₹5,300 crore, a threefold 
rise from the previous year. Among our residential 
(LiveWell) offerings, Estate 128 in Noida is now fully 
sold, with Phase II launched at over 40% premium 
to Phase I, reaffirming the value of thoughtful 
design and customer-first experiences in residential 
communities. Estate 360 in Gurugram, Delhi NCR’s 
first intergenerational living concept, also saw a 
strong response. With 96% of its inventory sold, it 
recorded ₹4,634 crore in sales. Together, collections 
crossed ₹980 crore. It was a clear reflection of our 
execution and customer-centric approach.
In the commercial segment, we focused on creating 
spaces that deliver high-quality, differentiated 
experiences. Max Square in Noida reached over 
99% leasing, at a 30% rental premium to its micro-
market. Max House Phase II in Delhi reached full 
occupancy within 12 months, at a 60% premium. 
Our commercial portfolio now spans over 6 
million square feet across delivered, ongoing, and 
upcoming developments. Together, they carry a 
peak annuity rental potential of ₹720 crore. Each of 
our commercial assets is fully leased and home to a 
diverse mix of tenants. No single occupier holds more 
than 25% of space in any development, reaffirming 
that our leasing model remains resilient and built 
to last.
Capital Strength and Strategic Partnerships
FY2025 was also a year of strengthening our capital 
base. We raised over ₹1,300 crore of fresh capital 
through a Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP), 
strategic investor participations, and sponsor capital 
commitments. The QIP alone accounted for ₹800 
crore, with strong participation from marquee 
institutional investors. It signalled trust in our 
business model, our ability to deliver, and the long-
term direction we are building towards.
Our partnership with New York Life Insurance Company 
(NYL) also grew deeper. With a cumulative investment 
commitment of ₹1,800 crore, NYL now holds a 49% 
stake across our entire commercial portfolio, including 
upcoming mixed-use developments in Noida. Their 
partnership goes beyond capital. It is built on shared 
values, highest level of governance, aligned intent, and 
a belief in long-term value creation.
Together, these capital initiatives have fortified our 
balance sheet. As of March 31, 2025, we were net debt-
positive, with a cash surplus of ₹435 crore. This gives us 
the headroom to pursue new opportunities, manage 
risks with care, and continue scaling in a thoughtful, 
sustainable way.
Strengthening the Foundation 
for Execution at Scale
Our ability to deliver at scale is rooted in the strength 
of our people, structured processes, robust technology, 
and sound governance. This year, we onboarded over 
120 professionals across functions, with focused hiring 
for the residential vertical. We also took steady steps 
toward building more inclusive teams, improving 
gender diversity across functions, and setting a clear 
target of 30% women’s representation over the next 
24 months.
We partnered with In Tandem Global Consulting to 
co-author, “Concrete Change—A Study of the Economic 
Impact of Better Pay Parity & Inclusion of Women in 
Real Estate”. This is not just a milestone for the industry, 
but a reaffirmation of our belief that progress in 
business must go hand in hand with social progress.
To support consistent quality across projects, we 
institutionalised SOPs across 13 verticals of the real 
estate value chain. These were rigorously tested 
through internal audits to ensure operational rigour. 
Our digital roadmap continues to guide us across core 
functions, enabling greater project visibility, real-time 
decision-making, sharper operational efficiency, and 
enhanced stakeholder experience. We now use a 
suite of tools such as SAP, BIM, Salesforce, Zoho, and 
Autodesk to further strengthen our execution across 
the value chain.
On the sustainability front, we are working across 
the portfolio to conserve energy and water, reduce 
emissions, and minimise waste. We have already set 
reduction targets for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, 
while actively baselining Scope 3 net zero targets.
On governance, we have continued to strengthen 
our Board with individuals who bring deep, cross-
sectoral expertise and strategic insight. Their guidance 
ensures disciplined capital allocation, thoughtful risk 
management, and a steady focus on long-term value 
creation. To deepen this focus, we welcomed Atul B. 
Lall, Ira Gupta, Malini Thadani, and Anthony Ramsey 
Malloy to our Board.
Together, they bring strength in building at scale, 
leadership, culture, investing, and sustainability. Their 
combined insight will help us with execution at scale, 
enable adoption of technology , and strengthen 
governance through disciplined capital allocation, 
thoughtful risk management, and a focus on long-
term value creation.
Creating Holistic Experiences 
with Purpose
At Max Estates, we believe real estate is about more 
than just structures. It is about the lived experiences 
and the wellbeing of the tenants. Our design-led, 
hospitality-driven approach brings our WorkWell 
and LiveWell philosophy to life, weaving in nature, 
community, wellness, and sustainability across all 
our offerings.
Sustainability remains central to who we are. This 
year, we secured LEED, WELL, and IGBC certifications 
across operational assets and are now working 
towards a 5-star GRESB rating in 2025. We are also 
aligning our net zero goals with the Science-Based 
Targets Initiative (SBTi) and have committed to 
reaching net zero emissions for both Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 by 2040.
The central forest courtyard at Max Square, spanning 
over 11,000 square feet serves as a living example 
of biophilia in commercial real estate. Through our 
in-house engagement vertical, Pulse, we hosted over 
200 events, reaching more than 8,400 people and 
contributing to a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of 6.9 
out of 10.
Beyond business, we continue to invest in positive 
social impact. Through our partnership with Habitat 
for Humanity, we have provided over 25 homes to 
underprivileged workers in Rewari, with 25 more 
underway. Our collaboration with the Latika Roy 
Foundation has resulted in a 56,000-square-foot, 
universally accessible space, the “Centre for Inclusion 
and Influence”, reaffirming our commitment to 
inclusive growth.
We are building a culture that puts people at the 
centre, helping us shape a workforce that is future-
ready. From structured performance frameworks 
to leadership development and digital skilling, 
our initiatives are designed to support growth, 
well-being, equity, and inclusion. With initiatives 
across leadership development, ESG integration, 
digital transformation, and holistic retention, we are 
nurturing a culture aligned with our vision, growth, 
and sustainability goals.
Looking Ahead: 
Ambition Meets Discipline
We are entering FY2026 with our eyes on growth, 
and our feet on firm ground. Our priorities are 
clear: grow pre-sales by 15–20%, and launch 
three new offerings—Estate 360, Delhi One, and 
Sector 105, adding at least 3 million square feet 
of fresh opportunities every year. We will continue 
to advance construction across ongoing projects, 
pursue financial closures for key mixed-use offerings, 
and deepen the use of digital systems and ESG 
best practices.
What we build says everything 
about who we are.
The path ahead calls for ambition, but also for care, 
clarity, and a commitment to doing right by the 
people and places we shape. At Max Estates, we 
believe our spaces should breathe. They should 
nurture, restore, and belong. Through every project, 
we stay committed to creating long-term value and 
improving quality of life, while placing wellbeing at 
the core. We are not just a real estate brand. We are 
here to craft offerings that inspire, empower, and 
enrich the lives of those who inhabit them.
To our investors, partners, customers, employees, 
and the larger ecosystem—thank you for standing 
with us, trusting us, and believing in what we are 
building. Together, we look ahead to a future rooted 
in wellbeing, shaped by intention, and made to last.
Warm regards,
Analjit Singh 
Founder & Chairman 
Max Group
Sahil Vachani 
Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
Max Estates
We partnered with In Tandem Global 
Consulting to co-author, “Concrete 
Change—A Study of the Economic 
Impact of Better Pay Parity & Inclusion 
of Women in Real Estate”. This is 
not just a milestone for the industry, 
but a reaffirmation of our belief that 
progress in business must go hand in 
hand with social progress.
13
12
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Established in 2016, Max Estates is the real estate development arm 
of Max Group. In our journey to become the most preferred real estate 
brand in Delhi NCR, we remain guided by a singular idea: to create spaces 
that enhance wellbeing through exceptional experiences across both 
residential and commercial segments. We are anchored on the deep 
purpose of creating spaces that enhance quality of life.
Transformative Growth, 
Prioritising Value
FY2025: A Year of 
Expansion and Intent
FY2025 marked a significant phase of growth for 
Max Estates. We expanded our development portfolio 
from 8 million square feet in FY2024 to over 17 
million square feet in FY2025. Staying true to our core 
philosophies of LiveWell and WorkWell, we reaffirmed 
our strong conviction in the long-term potential of 
real estate in Delhi NCR.
This year was particularly notable as we entered 
the mixed-use development space through two 
marquee acquisitions. These additions further 
our vision of delivering differentiated real estate 
offerings that bring together thoughtful design and 
exceptional hospitality.
Max Estates continues to follow a focused strategy:
“One Region, Multiple Asset Classes”.
Our portfolio is well-diversified across:
	»
Geography, spanning Delhi NCR, including 
Gurugram, Noida, and Delhi
	»
Asset classes, covering residential, commercial, and 
mixed-use developments
	»
Risk spectrum, with projects that are delivered, 
under construction, or under design
In a region where credible, consumer-first 
developers are few, we aim to bridge the gap by 
creating holistic, design-led, and hospitality-driven 
experiences that respond to people’s needs.
For us, expansion is never just 
about scaling up in size. It is about 
thoughtfully reshaping real estate 
with care, creating spaces that 
nurture our communities and the 
planet alike.
Mission
	»
Enhance quality of life through exceptional design, 
sustainability, and meaningful experiences.
	»
Stay agile and responsive to an evolving 
external environment.
	»
Build a workplace that attracts, nurtures, and 
retains exceptional talent.
	»
Be the most preferred choice for all stakeholders, 
including customers, communities, shareholders, 
and employees.
	»
Lead the market in using technology to deliver 
world-class spaces.
	»
Uphold the highest standards of governance.
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Vision
Max Estates aspires to be the most trusted real estate 
company, driven by a simple purpose: to enhance 
quality of life through the spaces we create.
15
14
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Values
Sevabhav
We encourage a spirit of 
service and helpfulness. 
Every action is rooted 
in a desire to positively 
impact the lives 
we touch.
Credibility
We choose clarity over 
comfort. A sincere “no” 
speaks louder than a 
convenient “yes”. For 
us, credibility means 
following through on 
what we promise and 
how we show up.
Excellence
We bring in the best 
minds and the right 
expertise to meet life’s 
many moments of truth. 
We never settle for 
“good enough”.
Max Estates’ 9 Pillars of Holistic Wellbeing 
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
Empathetic Hospitality
An emotionally intelligent approach 
to hospitality and service that begins 
with empathy
Elemental Harmony
Focus on elements like air, water, and 
biophilia through interventions such as 
purifying plants, rainwater harvesting, 
green design, etc.
Generosity
of time, space, and attention 
to detail. Providing more green 
cover per person
Inclusivity
Age-and needs-inclusive  design 
for the wellbeing of all users
Peace of Mind
Focus on best-in-practice safety measures, 
high standards of sanitation, and carefully 
selected locations
Belonging
with specially designed amenities for 
engagement among residents to promote 
social wellbeing 
Intentional Design
Promoting a healthier lifestyle through design 
interventions to ensure comfort, aesthetics, 
mobility, and best-in-class technology solutions
Sustainability
Use of sustainable materials, recycling, 
resource conservation, and efficient usage
Food and Nutrition
Access to organic vegetables and biotic food 
sales, curated F&B options with focus on 
quality and nutrition
17
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
16
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Design Innovation
Guided by our WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophies, Max Estates focuses on creating 
environments that prioritise wellbeing and 
sustainability. Every space is thoughtfully 
designed to deliver an enriching experience.
Each development incorporates:
Sustainability Focus
As a progressive real estate company, Max Estates 
strives to make a lasting, positive impact on the 
environment. Safeguarding natural resources 
through energy and resource efficiency is the core 
of our Sustainable Development Policy.
Our efforts contribute meaningfully to the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). 
These include:
We consciously make choices that reduce carbon 
footprints across the lifecycle of our assets, with 
a long-term goal to create net zero buildings. All 
our developments are LEED- and IGBC-certified, a 
testament to our commitment.
To reduce resource consumption, we implemented:
Max Estates employs green building strategies to 
reduce the carbon footprint across every project 
without compromising on experiences
As an innovative real estate leader, we place 
environmental stewardship at the heart of what 
we do. Every step reflects a quiet commitment to 
creating real, lasting impact.
Energy efficiency
Responsible waste and 
water management
Digitalisation 
Labour welfare practices
High standards of 
governance and conduct
Core Strengths that Set Us Apart
Advanced approach and thermal 
comfort features
	»
Optimised window-to-wall ratios
	»
High-performance glazing
	»
Passive cooling systems for healthier 
indoor environments
Inclusion of biophilic elements and 
curated public art
	»
Encourages physical activity and 
social interaction
Flexible floor plates and 
modular layouts
	»
Serves varied space needs with ease.
Solar-ready 
rooftops
Rainwater 
harvesting
Greywater 
recycling 
systems
Max Estates focuses on 
responsible material sourcing, 
efficient construction waste 
segregation, and the use of LED 
lighting to meet future ESG 
standards while reducing long-
term operating costs.
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
19
18
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
We design for wellbeing by staying in tune with our customers’ evolving expectations. Our solutions 
are thoughtful, accessible, and rooted in research. Studies show that the built environment can directly 
influence quality of life. A well-designed space can uplift health, support connection, and make everyday 
life easier. We focus on creating environments that inspire collaboration, spark innovation, and foster 
community. Every Max Estates offering brings together aesthetics, sustainability, and experiences. Our 
spaces support the full spectrum of wellbeing be it physical, emotional, social, or environmental. We are 
committed to thoughtfully bringing a wellness-first approach to people’s life.
Key Features
Max Estates is committed to building trust and long-term loyalty across its diverse, multi-stage portfolio, 
where every interaction becomes a relationship rooted in trust and thoughtful service.
LiveWell Offerings
For movement-friendly, people-first amenities 
that include:
	»
Themed landscapes
	»
Car-free ground living
	»
Fitness and play zones
	»
Healthcare amenities
	»
Convenience retail
Customer-centric Approach
Customer Experience
A dedicated team that walks with you every step of 
the way, through:
	»
Initial site visits
	»
Post-handover services
An in-house community engagement team helps 
build meaningful connections through:
	»
Curated events
	»
Shared experiences
	»
Thoughtful, responsive services
WorkWell Offerings
Crafted to enhance productivity and connection. 
They include:
	»
Intelligent systems that monitor air quality, 
lighting, and occupancy
	»
Dedicated zones for events and collaboration
	»
Vibrant F&B destinations
	»
Business centres
Digital Engagement
We use real-time digital platforms to make everyday 
tasks simple and seamless. Our customers can:
	»
Raise maintenance requests
	»
Book green spaces
	»
Engage with the wider community
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
21
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
20
Geographic Footprint
Max Estates carefully selects locations across Delhi NCR’s vibrant growth corridors. Each site is 
chosen for its strong connectivity, market potential, and alignment with our vision for wellness-first, 
sustainable development.
Noida: Max Square, Max Square Two, 
Max Towers, Estate 128, Delhi One, 
Sector 105
Gurugram: Max District, 
Estate 360, Estate 361
Delhi: Max House
Market Presence
Max Estates has quickly established a strong 
presence in Delhi NCR by focusing on Grade-A, 
wellness-oriented offerings in the region’s fastest-
growing micro-markets. With the financial strength 
and legacy of Max Group behind us, our land 
acquisitions in Noida and Gurugram reflect a deep 
understanding of evolving needs for thoughtful, 
community-centric spaces.
Supported by a team of over 200 full time 
professionals, a zero net-debt balance sheet, and 
tech-led operations with sustainability at the core, 
we are well-placed to deliver at scale. We currently 
operate four assets, with construction underway on 
four large developments and three more in design.
We are also committed to creating a positive 
societal impact. In partnership with Habitat for 
Humanity India, we are helping provide dignified 
housing for underserved communities living in 
vulnerable conditions. The project will support 50 
families, offering safe shelter and a better quality 
of life.
Additionally, through our partnership with the 
Latika Roy Foundation to create the “Centre 
for Inclusion and Influence”,, we are reaffirming 
our commitment to building inclusive, universally 
accessible spaces for people of all abilities. A 56,000 
square feet campus is being developed, featuring 
activity rooms, therapy and counselling units, a 
library, physiotherapy and sensory areas, a family 
resource centre, inclusive playground, training halls, 
and a ramp-accessible building.
Expanding Horizons, Elevating Estates
MAX TOWER 
Actual Image
23
22
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Max Estates 1.0 (2016–2018)
Max Estates 2.0 (2018–2021)
Max Estates 3.0 (2022 Onwards)
Purpose-led Development Over the Years
Incorporated as the real 
estate arm of
Max Group
Formalised real estate strategy of
“One Region, Multiple 
Asset Classes”
Diversified into residential 
and commercial segments
Operated in specialty packaging 
films alongside real estate
Focused on Commercial Real Estate 
(CRE) in Delhi NCR
Achieved 100%
leasing of Max Towers in Noida and 
Max House in Delhi. Both Grade A 
developments leased at a 25-30% 
premium to their micro-markets
Launched 222 Rajpur, 
Dehradun—a premier residential 
community, consisting of
22 villas,
setting the tone for quality-
led development and laying 
the foundation for our real 
estate journey
Acquisition in 2020 of
Max Square, Noida
Acquired Delhi One after 
receiving approval from
NCLT and NCLAT
for the Resolution Plan; development 
is currently underway
Max Square, Noida achieved over
99% leasing,
commanding ~30% premium to 
the micro market
100% leased
Max House Phase II, Delhi, at rentals 
60% above the market average
Expanded development portfolio 
from 8 million square feet to over
17.1 million square feet
across residential, commercial, and 
mixed-use segments in FY2025
Moving forward, Max Estates 
intends to add at least
3 million square feet
annually to its commercial and 
residential portfolios
Acquired:
10-acre land parcel
in Sector 128, Noida
7.25-acre land parcel
on Golf Course Extension 
Road, Gurugram
3.93-acre land parcel
in Sector 129, Noida
10.3-acre land parcel
in Sector 105, Noida
Secured JDA for:
11.8-acre land parcel
in Sector 36A, Gurugram
18.23-acre land parcel
in Sector 36A, Gurugram
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
24
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
25
Innovation in Design and 
Construction Excellence
Rating
CARE A; Stable 
At Max Estates, every development is a canvas for 
innovative design and seamless execution.
Looking ahead, Max Estates remains committed to raising the bar. Our upcoming commercial 
developments—Max District, Gurugram, and Max Square Two, Noida—along with our residential 
developments in Estate 361, Gurugram, and mixed-use developments like Delhi One, Noida and Sector 
105, Noida will reflect our philosophy of building integrated ecosystems that help people LiveWell 
and WorkWell.
Over the past year, we have implemented robust systems, built organisational capabilities, and attracted 
top talent to facilitate large-scale execution while staying true to our long-term vision.
Max Towers, in Sector 
16B, Noida, reimagines the 
workplace with modular 
façades and integrated 
intelligent systems that 
adapt to the evolving needs 
of tenants.
Max House, in Delhi, 
extends the narrative 
set by its industrial 
vicinity and adapts it to 
a modern workplace.
Max Square, along the 
Noida–Greater Noida 
Expressway is conceived 
from the image of cupped 
hands protecting a growing 
bud and brings the idea of 
nature and nurture to life.
•	 Our first residential project, 
Estate 128 in Sector 128, Noida, 
is thoughtfully designed with 
contemporary architecture, 
centred around resident 
wellbeing.
•	 Estate 360 in Gurugram 
embraces a modern take on 
community living—designed 
for every generation, every 
need. Grounded in our LiveWell 
philosophy, it brings people 
together through intentional 
design, shared spaces, and 
curated amenities.
Each project, developed through dedicated 
Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs), benefits from 
focused governance, top-tier safety protocols, and 
sustainable materials sourcing. This approach ensures 
that Max Estates continues to stand for innovation, 
craftsmanship, and construction excellence.
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
27
26
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
ESG Ratings
Our “One Region, Multiple Asset 
Classes” strategy reflects a deep 
commitment to building a more 
thoughtful and sustainable future 
through diverse, sustainable, and 
well-balanced offerings.
From fully delivered landmarks 
like Max Towers, Max House, 
and Max Square to upcoming 
developments in Gurugram and 
Noida, each space leverages smart 
technologies like IoT-enabled 
building systems, digital twin 
modelling, and prop-tech 
integrations. These improve 
energy use, enhance comfort, and 
simplify our operations.
Pioneering Smart and Sustainable Urban Living
Max Estates is shaping the future of urban living 
by blending together innovative technologies and 
sustainable design at every stage of development. In 
FY2025, we delivered strong operational performance 
across our portfolio, spanning completed projects, 
those nearing completion, and others still in the 
design phase.
Our efforts extend beyond technology. We are committed to making our buildings green-certifiable, 
and implementing rainwater harvesting and circular waste systems and solar-ready rooftops that reduce 
environmental impact and safeguard natural resources. By seamlessly integrating LiveWell and WorkWell 
principles across residential, commercial, and mixed-use spaces, Max Estates fosters balance and wellbeing. Each 
development is managed through a dedicated SPV, ensuring sharper focus and governance. This approach has 
allowed us to scale responsibly, meet evolving urban needs, and shape a smarter, more sustainable Delhi NCR.
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
Pre-certifications 
Max Square Two: 
IGBC Platinum Pre-certified for 
Green Building Strategies
Estate 360: 
IGBC Platinum Pre-certified for 
Green Building Strategies 
Max District, Sector 65, Gurugram: 
LEED Platinum Pre-certified for 
Green Building Strategies
Estate 128: 
IGBC Platinum Pre-certified for 
Green Building Strategies 
 
Ratings and Certifications
Max Towers
LEED Platinum-certified  for 
Green Building Strategies
IGBC Platinum-rated for 
Health and Wellbeing 
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001
LEED Operation and Maintenance 
WELL Health and Safety Rating1
International Safety Awards 2025, 
by the British Safety Council
Max House
LEED Gold-certified for 
Green Building Strategies 
IGBC Gold-rated for Health 
and Well-Being
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001
WELL Health and Safety Rating1
International Safety Awards 2025, 
by the British Safety Council
1Under progress in 2024-25
Max Square
IGBC Platinum-certified for 
Green Building Strategies 
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001
WELL Health & Safety Rating1
29
28
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Forging Futures, Together
Over the last four decades, Max Group has fostered long-standing partnerships with both Indian and global 
organisations. These collaborations have helped expand business operations and unlock new growth 
opportunities. Trusted by leading investors, financial institutions, and global partners, the Group stands for 
ethical practices, operational excellence, and the ability to nurture trust-based long-term partnerships.
Current and Past Joint Venture Partners*:
A Partnership of Trust
New York Life Insurance Company has committed 
₹1,800 crore across multiple co-investments, including a 
20.72% stake in Max Estates. As a platform partner for the 
commercial office business, this reflects their confidence in 
India’s real estate potential and deep trust in Max Estates’ 
ability to create lasting value for stakeholders.
Excellence Recognised 
Max Estates’ people-first vision and 
commitment to creating spaces that 
offer comfort and wellbeing,  has earned 
us recognition at multiple national and 
international platforms.
Current and Past Investors*:
Awards and Accolades of FY2025
Best Organisation 
for Women 
awarded by The 
Times Group—
5th Edition
Max Square was 
recognised  as 
Commercial 
Project of the Year 
by ET Realty
Best Realty 
Brands awarded 
by ET Now Realty 
Convention—Best 
Realty Brands
Max Square was 
awarded Best 
Commercial 
Project by 
CNBC Awaaz
Max Estates was 
recognised as Real 
Estate Company of 
the Year (North) by 
Construction Week
Max House was 
recognised as 
Commercial 
Project of the Year 
by RICS
Estate 360 was 
honoured as 
the High-end 
Residential Project 
of the Year by 
ET Realty
Max Asset 
Services was 
awarded Facility 
Management 
Team of the Year 
by RICS
Estate 128 was 
awarded the 
17th Exceed 
Occupational 
Health, Safety, and 
Security Awards
Estate 360 was 
honoured as the  
Themed Project 
of the Year by 
Realty+
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
*Non-exhaustive
30
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
31
Established in 2016, Max Estates Limited is the real 
estate arm of Max Group. With a vision to bring real 
wellbeing to real estate, Max Estates has curated 
a diversified portfolio of Grade A sustainable 
residential and commercial developments. These 
span across asset classes and key locations in 
Delhi NCR.
Highlights of Our Journey
In just a few years, Max Estates has brought meaningful 
change to the real estate sector. Our Grade A 
developer-managed commercial buildings are built on 
our signature WorkWell philosophy. Backed by our track 
record in commercial development, along with a clear 
design language, a differentiated end-user experience, 
and the governance strength of Max Group, we are now 
scaling both residential and commercial portfolios to 
deliver long-term value to all stakeholders.
In 2023, we launched our first residential development, 
Estate 128. It was a landmark success and gained 
recognition as a redefined experience in the luxury 
segment. A year later, in 2024, we introduced Estate 360 
in Gurugram. It was not only our first residential launch in 
the city, but also the first intergenerational offering of its 
kind in Delhi NCR.
FY2025 marked a period of strong growth. Our 
development portfolio expanded from 8 million 
square feet in FY2024 to over 17.1 million square feet. 
This included residential, commercial, and mixed-
use segments.
We also made a notable entry into the mixed-use space 
by acquiring prime land parcels and development 
rights across Delhi NCR. These moves reinforced our 
operational capabilities and deepened our presence in key 
growth corridors.
With our LiveWell and WorkWell philosophies at the core, 
Max Estates aims to add at least 3 million square feet to 
its portfolio every year. These philosophies guide how we 
design and operate in creating spaces for our customers.
As a wellbeing company enabled 
by real estate, Max Estates is 
committed to creating spaces that 
enable collaboration, innovation, 
and community. 
These spaces go beyond being 
just functional and aesthetically 
pleasing. They are environmentally 
sustainable and designed to 
promote holistic wellness for the 
people who live and work in them.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Innovating  
Spaces with Care
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
Operational Experiences
Max House, New Delhi
Max House sits in a well-connected part of South 
Delhi, echoing the design vocabulary of its industrial 
roots while reimagining them for a modern 
workforce. Spread across ~0.3 million square 
feet, this offering is LEED Gold-certified for Green 
Building strategies, IGBC Gold-rated for Health and 
Wellness aspects and WELL-rated for Health and 
Safety measures. The campus has a dedicated block 
for amenities which hosts a food and beverage 
destination, EatWell by Diva, as well as event spaces, 
a business centre, and multiple collaborative zones 
that foster connection, creativity, and community.
Max Towers, Noida
At the edge of South Delhi in Noida stands Max 
Towers, a 0.6 million square feet of commercial 
offerings designed to shape the future of workspaces. 
The building holds LEED Platinum certification 
for Green Building strategies and Operations and 
Maintenance. It also holds IGBC Platinum for health 
and wellness, and WELL certification for health and 
safety. Every element of the space is curated with 
care, from the in-house auditorium and 374-seater 
cafeteria to the early learning centre, vibrant food and 
beverage spaces, and sports facilities. Biophilia and 
art are woven through conscientiously to enhance 
the wellbeing of our customers. This offering is 100% 
leased to marquee clients across industries.
Max Square, Noida
Conceived from the image of cupped hands 
protecting a growing bud, Max Square brings the 
idea of nature and nurture to life. Located in Sector 
129 along the Noida–Greater Noida Expressway, one 
of Delhi NCR’s fastest-growing micro-markets, the 
development offers ~0.7 million square feet of unique 
office space. At its centre sits a ~11,000 square feet 
forest. It is IGBC Platinum-rated d for Green Building 
strategies, IGBC-rated for Health and Wellness, and 
WELL-rated for Health and Safety measures.
222 Rajpur, Dehradun
Nestled beside the Malsi forest with sweeping views 
of the Mussoorie Hills, 222 Rajpur is created for those 
who value privacy and quiet. Spread across 5 acres 
on Dehradun’s landmark Rajpur Road, this intimate 
community of just 22 villas provides a space to slow 
down and cherish life in a beautiful, natural setting.
33
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
32
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Estate 360, Gurugram
Estate 360 is located in Sector 
36A, along the Dwarka Expressway 
in Gurugram. It embodies a 
unique approach to community 
living, one that honours every 
need and every generation. The 
development is pre-certified 
IGBC Platinum, and spread across 
nearly 11.8 acres, with a potential 
of around 2.4 million square feet. 
The offering spurs from an idea 
of “intergenerational residential 
community”. Two of the six 
residential offerings are dedicated 
to senior living, which will be 
managed by Antara, India’s only 
integrated senior care ecosystem. 
It houses a campus of over 100k 
square feet of amenities that 
caters to all ages, featuring two 
clubhouses, a sports block, and a 
car-free ground plaza for safety and 
reduced pollution.
Max Square Two, Noida
Max Square Two is coming up 
next to the existing Max Square 
campus. Spread across ~4 acres 
and pre-certified IGBC Platinum, 
it will offer a thoughtfully 
balanced mix of commercial 
and amenity spaces, spanning 
nearly 1.1 million square feet. 
The expanded campus will allow 
current tenants to grow within 
the same ecosystem, while 
inviting new ones to join. Its 
future-forward design enhances 
workplace experiences, with 
business centres, multipurpose 
halls, food and beverage spaces, a 
crèche, and more.
Estate 361, Gurugram
Expanding our footprint in 
Gurugram, we have an upcoming 
LiveWell development located 
in Sector 36A along the Dwarka 
Expressway. Spread across about 
18 acres with a development 
potential of ~4 million square 
feet, it is thoughtfully envisioned 
around our LiveWell philosophy. 
At the heart of the community 
lies a lush, 1+ acre forest. This 
green core will anchor the 
experience and support holistic 
wellness for every resident.
Max District, Gurugram
Max District draws inspiration from 
the timeless charm of a walled city. 
It seamlessly weaves structure and 
nature together, with an abundant 
garden flowing effortlessly from 
the outdoors into the heart of the 
space. Located along Golf Course 
Extension Road, the development 
covers nearly 1.6 million square 
feet. This is one of the most sought-
after locations in Delhi NCR, home 
to both Indian and multinational 
businesses Pre-certified LEED 
Platinum, this modern workspace 
seamlessly integrates sustainability 
with a diverse range of amenities, 
including food and beverage 
spaces, gyms, and wellness 
facilities, blurring the boundaries 
between work, wellbeing, 
and lifestyle.
Estate 128, Noida
Max Estates continues to scale 
its portfolio with thoughtfully 
curated upcoming offerings 
across Delhi NCR. Our upcoming 
LiveWell and WorkWell 
experiences in Delhi, Noida, and 
Gurugram are being built on the 
tenets of our operating philosophy 
centred around resident 
wellbeing. Located in Sector 128, 
Estate 128 is designed around a 
simple idea that wellbeing begins 
at home. Spread across 10 acres 
with ~1.4 million square feet of 
development, it offers expansive 
decks for bespoke outdoor 
experiences and amenities 
that encourage movement, 
connection, and interaction. With 
over 80% open spaces in the 
midst of the bustling cityscape, 
it offers a space to live well in the 
heart of the city.
Experiences Under Development
Sector 105, Noida
Located in Sector 105, Noida, 
our upcoming mixed-use 
offering spans 10+ acres with 
a development potential of 2.6 
million square feet. The offering 
comprises 60% residential and 
40% commercial space. With 
three open sides and a prominent 
75-metre frontage along the 
Noida–Greater Noida Expressway, 
the site offers excellent visibility 
and connectivity. Set within 
a growing residential and 
commercial micro-market, the 
offering will reflect our LiveWell 
and WorkWell philosophies, 
seamlessly weaving fitness, 
sports, and an active lifestyle 
into a thoughtfully curated 
urban experience.
Delhi One, Noida
Delhi One is envisioned as a vibrant, 
integrated campus, spanning 
across ~2.5 million square feet on an 
approximate 10-acre land parcel. It 
will be a downtown experience that 
will host ultra-luxury residences, 
premium office spaces, curated high 
street retail and exclusive club facilities, 
thoughtfully blending our philosophy 
of LiveWell, WorkWell, and PlayWell. 
Situated at the edge of South Delhi 
and directly connected via the Delhi-
Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway, the campus 
is also steps away from key metro 
stations, enhancing its connectivity and 
convenience across Delhi NCR.
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
35
34
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
35
Portfolio mix
17.1 million sq. ft.
Of Real Estate 
Residential
7.9 million sq. ft. 
Commercial
4.3 million sq. ft.
Mixed-use
5 million sq. ft.
Estate 128, Noida 
(Total area of 1.4 
million sq. ft.)
*Artistic Renditions
Max Towers, Noida 
(Total area of 
0.6 million sq. ft.)
Delhi One*, Noida  
(Total area of 
2.5 million sq. ft.)
Estate 360, Gurugram 
(Total area of 2.4 
million sq. ft.)
Max Square, Noida 
(Total area of 
0.7 million sq. ft.)
Sector 105*, Noida 
(Total area of 
2.5 million sq. ft.)
Estate 361*, Gurugram 
(Total area of 4 million 
sq. ft.)
222 Rajpur, Dehradun 
(Total Area of 0.1 mn 
sq ft)
Max House, New Delhi  
(Total area of 
0.25 million sq. ft.)
Max Square Two*, Noida 
(Total area of 
1.1 million sq. ft.)
Max District*, Gurugram 
(Total area of 
1.6 million sq. ft.)
The LiveWell and 
WorkWell Difference
At Max Estates, wellbeing is not an afterthought. It is 
at the heart of everything we build. Our LiveWell and 
WorkWell philosophy guides each step of development, 
from the way we design to how we deliver, ensuring 
every space nurtures the body, mind, and spirit.
Rooted in engineering excellence and supported 
by an experienced team, we combine a digital-first 
mindset with a deep sense of Sevabhav. This allows us 
to deliver hospitality-led experiences that go beyond 
what real estate typically offers. Each space is designed 
to support holistic well-being. That includes physical, 
emotional, social, and environmental needs.
From nature-filled, biophilic environments that soothe 
and restore, to thoughtfully placed amenities that 
support movement, nutrition, and rest, we build an 
ecosystem that focuses on your wellness. Our spaces 
encourage community and connection. They promote 
balance. And they are built to last with sustainability 
at the core of every decision. All our developments 
meet the highest standards of LEED, IGBC, and WELL, 
creating resilient, future-ready spaces that enhance 
quality of life.
Facility Management
At Max Estates, we follow a “developer-owned, 
developer-managed” philosophy. All our offerings are 
operated by Max Asset Services (MAS), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Max Estates. MAS brings together a strong 
team of engineering excellence and technical expertise, 
along with a hospitality-first approach shaped by Max 
Group’s value of Sevabhav. This ensures that our service 
and interactions are marked by humility, empathy, 
and care.
Through its in-house engagement vertical, Pulse, 
MAS curates meaningful experiences that build a 
sense of belonging and well-being across all offerings. 
A dedicated culture management team leads 
community engagement programmes that nurture 
a vibrant ecosystem. These efforts reinforce our 
commitment to delivering a thoughtful WorkWell and 
LiveWell experience.
Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs)
Our portfolio of 17.1 million square feet is structured as 
a house of nine SPVs. Each SPV represents a distinct 
project. This includes a mix of wholly owned entities 
and partnerships, particularly across commercial and 
mixed-use offerings where New York Life Insurance 
Company serves as a strategic partner.
37
36
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Designing with Purpose. 
Delivering with Strategy. 
STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
Max Estates is reshaping real estate in Delhi NCR with a focus on people. 
Every residential and commercial offering is thoughtfully designed to 
prioritise comfort, wellbeing,  and ease of experience. 
At the heart of this approach is a wellness-first design philosophy. It is reflected in 
our wrap-around balconies and wide openings to natural light and fresh air, each 
element is intentional. Staying true to our LiveWell and WorkWell principles, we bring 
together sustainability, biophilic design, and a sense of community to create spaces 
that support modern life and enhance the quality of life for our community. With 
smart, ESG-led systems like AI-enabled HVAC, we focus on both performance and 
peace of mind.
Our aim is to go beyond aesthetics, create spaces 
that are highly functional, intuitively designed, 
and made to support everyday living. 
Frameworks Enhancing 
Business Growth
Our strategy is built on clear frameworks that guide how we grow. One key insight from FY2025 was 
the need for more nuanced offerings. Instead of following a one-size-fits-all model, we are designing for 
real people. Targeted offerings for distinct customers such as millennials and seniors, alongside the MEL 
signature product.
This approach helps us meet evolving needs with more empathy and precision. It is backed by weekly 
cross-functional reviews and frequent workshops with external experts. In FY2025, we also entered 
the mixed-use space through two landmark acquisitions. Each new step helps us create places where 
thoughtful design meets hospitality.
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
39
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
38
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
“One Region, Multiple Asset Classes”
Max Estates follows a focused “One Region, Multiple Asset Classes” strategy as it grows 
sustainably in Delhi NCR through a focused, diversified portfolio. With a presence across 
Noida, Gurugram, and Delhi, our portfolio of over 17 million square feet spans residential, 
commercial, and mixed-use spaces at various stages of development (delivered, under-
construction, and in-design).
This clarity of focus allows us to meet real demand with real impact. In a market that often 
prioritises scale over sensitivity, our design-led offerings are shaped by credibility, care, 
and our consumer-first approach. Flagship projects like Max Towers, Max House, and Max 
Square reflect this intent, showing strong leasing momentum and healthy rental yields.
As we are expanding our residential portfolio with offerings for millennials and senior 
living, our strategy remains anchored on maintaining a clear focus on capital efficiency 
and delivering long-term value with care and precision.
Integrated Portfolio Growth
Max Estates is building a future-ready real 
estate organisation, guided by six strategic 
pillars: People, Growth, Capital, Process, 
Brand, and Customer Centricity. Together, 
they support our ability to grow with 
agility, deliver with consistency, and create 
long-term value. In FY2025, we deepened 
our focus across these pillars to sharpen 
our approach and extend our momentum.
Wellness‑first Design
Max Estates continues to prioritise 
wellness-first design as a core growth 
strategy in FY2025. Guided by our 
LiveWell and WorkWell philosophies, we 
are committed to enhancing physical, 
emotional, social, and environmental 
wellbeing in every offering. This 
commitment comes through in elements 
such as the central forest courtyard at Max 
Square, advanced air and water quality 
systems, and thoughtfully integrated art 
and communal spaces.
Digital Enablement
Max Estates is driving digital innovation across 
the real estate lifecycle to enhance customer 
experience and operational efficiency. By 
using platforms like SAP, BIM, Salesforce, 
Zoho, Autodesk, SAP Ariba, and Reloy, we are 
collaborating more effectively, automating 
tasks, and making smarter, data-driven 
decisions. This supports cost-effectiveness, 
growth, and a smoother customer journey, 
backed by a three-year digital roadmap.
Key initiatives include immersive VR tours for 
residential and commercial projects to support 
quicker decision-making. The Tenant Portal 
offers residents a unified, self-service platform 
for facility management, service requests, and 
amenity bookings. Complementing these is 
the Pulse App, which curates wellness events 
and community programmes, reinforcing Max 
Estates’ WorkWell and LiveWell philosophies.
Through these digital tools, Max Estates is 
improving leasing speed, tenant satisfaction, 
and brand loyalty, further strengthening 
its premium edge in the Delhi NCR real 
estate market.
Execution at Scale
From a single project, Max Estates has 
evolved into a robust, multi-project portfolio. 
We now manage four operational assets, 
four projects under construction, and 
three in the design phase. Every project 
is running on time and within budget—a 
reflection of our disciplined planning and 
execution strength.
Strategic Partnerships
Collaboration is key to Max Estates’ ability 
to scale with purpose. We actively seek 
long-term partnerships with experts across 
the value chain. Collaborations with design 
leaders such as Gensler and Studio Lotus 
are helping shape sustainable, future-ready 
projects. Our investments in PropTech are 
building smart infrastructure and enhancing 
digital customer engagement.
With a team of nearly 300 professionals and 
a zero-net-debt balance sheet, Max Estates 
is well-positioned to grow with confidence, 
building a portfolio that blends design, 
delivery, and differentiation.
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
41
40
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
40
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Spaces that Inspire 
Growth and Sustain 
Wellness
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
Embracing Sustainability  
in Every Step
SUSTAINABILITY
At Max Estates, we are committed to “enhancing quality of life through the spaces 
we create”. With sustainability at the core of our work, we are responding to climate 
change and safeguarding our environment by aligning with the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). We are also meeting global standards such 
as the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) to ensure our practices 
keep evolving responsibly.
Through our WorkWell and LiveWell philosophy, every project is curated and shaped 
with care, from our location selection to design and day-to-day operations. By weaving 
nature, open spaces, and biophilia into our offerings, we nurture wellbeing and inspire 
a lifestyle that is both fulfilling and sustainable.
Key ESG Highlights
Environment
Ratings and Certifications
Social
Governance
56 kW
Solar Rooftop Capacity
40,000
Max India Foundation: 
SEEL Learning Beneficiaries 
33.3%
Board Diversity by Gender  
(Female)
16,829 kL
Water Recycled and Reused, 
Comprising 15% of Total 
Consumption 
800+
Max India Foundation: 
Educators
100%
Diversion of Waste from Landfills
12
NGO Partners
5
Independent Directors
Max Towers
LEED Platinum-certified  for 
Green Building Strategies
IGBC Platinum-rated for 
Health and Wellbeing 
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, 
ISO 45001
LEED Operation and Maintenance 
WELL Health and Safety Rating1
International Safety Awards 2025, 
by the British Safety Council
Max House
LEED Gold-certified  for 
Green Building Strategies 
IGBC Gold-rated for Health 
and Wellbeing
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, 
ISO 45001
WELL Health and Safety Rating1
International Safety Awards 
2025, by the  British 
Safety Council
Max Square
IGBC Platinum-certified  for 
Green Building Strategies 
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, 
ISO 45001
WELL Health and Safety Rating1
1Under progress in 2024-25
Pre-certifications  
Max Square Two —IGBC Platinum Pre-certified for Green Building Strategies—
Platinum | Max District, Sector 65, Gurugram —LEED Platinum Pre-certified for Green 
Building Strategies | Estate 128 —IGBC Platinum Pre-certified for Green Building 
Strategies | Estate 360 —Platinum Pre-certified for Green Building Strategies 
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
45
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
44
Sustainability and ESG Focus
At Max Estates, we see sustainability 
as a living practice, not a checklist. 
Our approach is guided by the use of 
resources responsibly, improving energy 
efficiency, and creating spaces centred 
around wellbeing.
Sustainable Excellence
Infrastructure plays a significant role in climate change, 
with buildings contributing nearly 40% of global energy use 
and 30% of greenhouse gas emissions. At Max Estates, we 
understand that the spaces we build shape not only how 
people live and work, but also how our planet breathes. We 
are committed to making a positive environmental impact by 
continuously improving resource efficiency and sustainability
For us, sustainability is at the heart of our business. It guides 
how we conserve resources, reduce our carbon footprint, and 
ensure efficiency that makes our business stronger in the 
long run.
Pillars: Sevabhav, Credibility, and Excellence
Our philosophy is guided by Max Group’s core values of Sevabhav, Credibility, and Excellence. These principles 
reflect our ESG commitments and shape our strategy, especially in how we build and how we care for our 
environment, people, and the future.
Our commitment to Sevabhav inspires us to design spaces that give back, where individuals and communities 
are nurtured and included, wellbeing is prioritised, and we are connected to nature. Credibility is our promise 
of openness and trust, rooted in doing what is right in the long run. Excellence drives our pursuit of innovation, 
architectural distinction, and a sustainable design language that is both practical and aesthetically pleasing.
GRESB Rating 
Journey
GRESB Rating
GRESB Rating
GRESB Rating
69 | 75
83 | 93
86 | 96
2022
2023
2024
In 2024, Max Estates achieved 
a GRESB 4-star rating, 
reflecting our dedication 
to ESG best practices. In 
2025, we are aiming high, 
with a 5-star rating in sight, 
as we continue to deepen 
our commitment to GRESB 
assessments.
We design for life by weaving 
wellness, sustainability, and 
biophilia into every project.
We lead with responsibility 
and care, guided by strong 
ESG practices and governance 
frameworks.
We invest in our people by 
creating a workplace that 
attracts, nurtures, and retains 
talent that is valued and 
inspired to grow.
We stay agile, moving with the 
ever-changing environment while 
staying true to our purpose.
We innovate with intention by 
using technology and data to 
create smart, efficient spaces that 
are ready for tomorrow.
We are working towards clear goals. We want to achieve net zero carbon emissions. Since 2021, our ESG journey 
has been structured, steady, and reflective, helping us learn and refining our ambitions along the way.
Every commercial office we have delivered has secured LEED/
IGBC Platinum or Gold Ratings for Green Building Strategies. 
Our upcoming residential offerings, Estate 128 in Noida and 
Estate 360 in Gurugram, are designed with the same care and 
are pre-certified with an IGBC Platinum rating. Our upcoming 
commercial offerings, Max District, Sector 65 in Gurugram, is 
also pre-certified with LEED Platinum whereas Max Square II is 
pre-certified with an IGBC Platinum rating, underscoring our 
commitment to green, wellness-centred spaces.
ESG Portfolio
We strengthened our ESG 
performance across the 
organisation, earning a 
GRESB 4-star rating, a notable 
achievement, given our young 
operating history. This places us 
among the leading real estate 
developers in India.
With a clear focus on continuous 
improvement, we are now aiming 
for a 5-star rating in 2025. Since 
initiating our structured ESG 
journey in 2021, we have moved 
through defined short, medium, 
and long-term goals. Having 
delivered on our medium-term 
plans, we took a step back this year 
to recalibrate and raise our ESG 
priorities, aligning them with both 
our business needs and evolving 
global practices.
We also put in place new 
ESG policies, including a new 
Sustainable Sourcing Policy, to 
make sure our growth rests on 
responsibility and ethics. As our 
portfolio diversifies, ESG remains 
definitive to our cause, guiding 
how we design, build, and engage 
with communities, and uphold 
strong governance.
ESG Strategy
In FY2025, we continued to evolve 
and take forward-looking steps that 
not only protected the environment 
but also placed people’s wellbeing 
at the centre of our work.
Design Interventions
We design our buildings to optimise 
environmental performance by 
working in harmony with nature. 
We maximise natural daylight 
in over 50% of occupied spaces 
and have adapted a biophilic 
design, with over 15% of each site 
dedicated to green cover for a 
strong connection to nature. We 
use sound-absorbing materials 
and acoustic strategies, ensuring 
our spaces feel calmer and 
more comfortable as we reduce 
background noise.
Operational Interventions
Wellbeing and safety are key to 
our day-to-day operations. Our 
team carries out comfort surveys 
and health sessions to listen and 
respond to people’s wellbeing 
needs. We have advanced indoor 
air quality systems that use MERV 
13+ grade air and UV filters, with 
real-time tracking of air quality. 
We practice regular emergency 
drills, ongoing checks, and staff 
training so that our spaces remain 
safe and people are prepared for 
any incidents.
Community Interventions
Our ESG ethos believes 
communities thrive when people 
feel included and connected. 
Through our Pulse programme, we 
create spaces that bring people 
together and support work-life 
balance, host events like music 
and film screenings, family days, 
wellness sessions, and cultural 
discussions. Beyond this, we 
contribute through CSR initiatives 
in health, education, and wellbeing. 
On-site, our sports tournaments 
and festivals help us foster a sense 
of belonging and create continuity 
across cultures.
Each of these steps is a part of a 
larger promise. Our ESG roadmap 
is not only about delivering high-
performing spaces, it is about 
shaping spaces that nurture people 
and respect the broader ecosystem 
they live in.
Integrating SDGs into 
Our ESG Strategy
We see UN SDGs as a compass, 
keeping us grounded in what truly 
matters. Our spaces are designed 
to foster wellbeing, sustainability, 
and community upliftment. 
Projects enhance physical and 
emotional wellbeing (SDG 3, 11) 
and foster diversity and safety 
in the workplace (SDG 5, 8). We 
focus on sustainable builds and 
optimum resource use (SDG 6, 9, 
12, 13) by adapting energy-efficient 
systems and promoting climate 
responsibility. Additionally, we 
invest in community education and 
biodiversity (SDG 4, 15), knowing 
that a healthy balance between 
people and planet is what will carry 
us all forward.
47
46
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Good Health and 
Wellbeing 
Sustainable Cities 
and Communities
Life on 
Land
Quality 
Education
Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production
Gender 
Equality
Climate 
Action
Aim
Ensure healthy lives and focus on 
wellbeing for all at all ages
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Health-centric building design 
with high indoor air quality, natural 
light, biophilic elements, art, etc.
	»
LEED, IGBC, WELL Health and 
Safety, ISO-certified spaces
Measurable outcome
	»
Certifications
	»
Employee wellness programmes, 
events, workshops, and mental 
health initiatives through Pulse
	»
Enable access to variety of 
food options
	»
Provide access to doctors and 
health testing facilities
Aim
Make cities and human settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient, and 
sustainable
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Mixed-use, transit-oriented 
developments that reduce 
car dependence
	»
Emphasis on public realm design 
and accessibility
Measurable outcome
	»
Green-rated buildings (LEED/IGBC)
	»
Public spaces in all developments, 
promoting walkability and 
social cohesion
	»
Enable community development 
through events, workshops, and 
public spaces for activities
	»
Events focused on culture, 
wellness, food and nutrition, art, 
biophilia, etc.
Aim
Protect, restore, and promote 
sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, halt 
and reverse land degradation, and 
halt biodiversity loss
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Native biodiversity enhancement, 
green roofs, and tree 
plantation drives
	»
Avoidance of ecologically sensitive 
zones in site selection.
Aim
Ensure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Regular sustainability literacy 
programmes for staff and tenants
	»
Regular employee trainings on 
diverse range of topics
	»
Partnerships with NGOs for 
community education initiatives 
near project sites
Measurable outcome
	»
100% employee training in 
ESG practices
	»
Community workshops on 
environmental awareness and 
vocational skills.
Aim
Ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patterns
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Procurement of recycled and 
regional materials
Measurable outcome
	»
Closed-loop system for waste 
management through on-site 
organic waste composters
	»
Responsible recycling of waste 
and 100% diversion of waste 
from landfills
	»
Exploring partnerships for 
construction and demolition 
waste management
	»
Organise workshops for tenants 
to promote importance of 
conscious consumption practices
Aim
Achieve gender equality and 
empower all women and girls
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Gender-balanced hiring in 
corporate teams
	»
Safe and inclusive workspaces 
for women in construction 
and operations
	»
Support for women-led vendors 
and service providers
	»
Focusing on creating an 
equitable environment
Measurable outcome
	»
Gender diversity in leadership roles
	»
Anti-harassment and inclusion 
policies enforced across projects
	»
Concrete study conducted to 
understand issues faced by 
women in real estate and how 
to increase representation in 
the sector
Aim
Take urgent action to combat 
climate change and its impacts
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Actively tracking Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions and 
implementing strategies 
for reduction
	»
Starting a net zero target setting 
journey, then setting project 
design targets to support net 
zero targets
Measurable outcome
	»
Projects designed for 
energy savings
	»
Carbon footprint disclosures 
and climate resilience 
planning in ESG reports
Measurable outcome
	»
Restoration of green cover beyond 
project footprint
	»
Maintenance of internal and 
external landscapes
	»
Eliminated use of single-use plastic 
across properties
	»
Adopted pesticide-free approach 
by initiatives, such as using food 
waste compost and using low-
maintenance native species
Clean Water and 
Sanitation
Decent Work and 
Economic Growth
Industry, Innovation, 
and Infrastructure
Aim
Ensure availability and sustainable 
management of water and sanitation 
for all
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Water-efficient fixtures, dual 
plumbing, and rainwater 
harvesting systems
	»
On-site STPs with a high water 
recycling rate
Measurable outcome
	»
Treated wastewater reused for 
landscaping and flushing
	»
Reduced potable water demand 
across projects.
Aim
Promote sustained, inclusive, and 
sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent 
work for all
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Ethical labour practices and safe 
construction sites
	»
Job creation through green 
construction and local sourcing
Measurable outcome
	»
Zero major workplace incidents
	»
Employment of local workers in 
site-based roles.
Aim
Build resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialisation, and foster innovation
Integration in ESG strategy
	»
Smart buildings with digital twin 
technology, IoT-based energy and 
water monitoring
Measurable outcome
	»
Energy savings through intelligent 
building management systems.
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
48
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
49
Integrated Management Systems 
(IMS)
We embed sustainability into how we work every day 
through globally recognised IMS standards: ISO 9001 
(Quality), ISO 14001 (Environmental), and ISO 45001 
(Occupational Health and Safety). These frameworks 
guide us to act responsibly, with both outcomes and 
processes shaped by care.
ISO 14001 helps us stay mindful of our environmental 
footprint by encouraging energy efficiency, reduced 
waste, conservation of natural resources, and 
thoughtful sourcing. We track our carbon footprint, 
keeping ourselves accountable to both our goals and 
our stakeholders.
ISO 45001 reflects our commitment to health, safety, 
and the wellbeing of our employees. A proactive risk 
management framework and ethical labour practices 
foster a culture where safety comes first, trust is built, 
and community relations are strengthened.
ISO 9001 ensures trust and safety through data 
integrity, strong internal controls, and continuous 
improvement. Standardised processes and clear 
responsibilities drive transparent governance, 
supporting alignment with global ESG reporting 
standards, such as the GRI, and enabling the tracking of 
measurable KPIs.
Strategic Benefits of IMS Implementation:
Strengthened Brand Reputation: Certifications 
reaffirm our commitment to high ESG standards, 
building stakeholder trust.
Investor Confidence: Robust, third-party validated 
systems bring transparency, aligning us with 
sustainable investment mandates.
Operational Efficiency: With one framework, we can 
anticipate risks, manage costs prudently, and deliver 
consistent quality.
Regulatory Compliance: IMS streamlines alignment to 
national and international regulations, helping us stay 
resilient in an evolving landscape.
Risk and Compliance
We uphold a strong commitment to environmental 
compliance and risk mitigation, particularly in 
alignment with evolving regulatory frameworks. 
During FY2025, the Commission for Air Quality 
Management (CAQM) enforced the Graded Response 
Action Plan (GRAP) in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana 
during the winter months to address rising pollution 
levels. In adherence to these directives, Max Estates 
temporarily halted construction activities at select 
sites to prevent environmental degradation. While 
this led to short-term delays in construction timelines, 
it reflected our commitment to sustainable and 
responsible development.
Our sites were also reviewed under the Environment 
(Protection) Act. Every observation was met with care 
and swift action, and we remained fully compliant with 
the applicable legal and environmental standards.
Our key steps to ensure environmental compliance in 
FY2025 included:
	»
Following the conditions set out in Environmental 
Clearance, Consent to Establish, and Consent to 
Operate Certificates.
	»
Submitting required Forms 3, 4, and 5 under the 
Environment (Protection) Act within timelines.
	»
Completed fortnightly e-compliances as required 
by CAQM.
	»
Placed PTZ surveillance cameras at sites to maintain 
complete transparency and compliance with air 
quality measures.
	»
Staying alert to regulatory updates and adopting 
new guidelines shared by CAQM and other 
statutory bodies.
We also invite independent third-party assurance 
audits for energy, water, and waste data. This adds 
credibility to our reporting and reduces environmental 
risks while improving transparency of data. By tracking 
regulations closely, we strengthen our reputation 
as a responsible developer, reduce ecological risks, 
and foster stakeholder trust as we continue our 
ESG journey.
Climate Risk and Scenario Analysis
We recognise that climate change poses real 
challenges to real estate assets. These risks range from 
acute weather events to long-term shifts in climate 
patterns. These changes affect how resilient our assets 
are and how we continue to build confidence among 
our stakeholders.
Physical Climate Risks
We know that climate change is no longer a distant 
concern, it is shaping the way we live and work today. 
Our portfolios are also exposed to climate-related risks, 
including extreme heat, flooding, and erratic rainfall, 
especially in the Delhi NCR region, which, according to 
the State Action Plan on Climate Change (SAPCC), faces 
high vulnerability due to unplanned urbanisation and 
rising temperatures. Looking ahead, climate projections 
for India show a potential 3–5°C rise in temperature 
and a 5–10% increase in monsoon rainfall, elevating the 
risk profile of our physical assets.
CO₂ Emissions by Scenario 
Carbon Price Development 
((GtCO2/year)
USD (2010t tCO₂)
2020
2020
2030
2030
2040
2040
2050
2050
50
800
700
3ºc
2.5ºc
1.7ºc
1.6ºc
1.5ºc
1.5ºc
40
600
30
500
400
20
300
10
200
100
0
0
Delayed transition
Delayed transition
Divergent NZ
Divergent NZ
Current policies
Current policies
NDCs
NDCs
Net Zero 2050 (1.5°C) 
Net Zero 2050 (1.5°C) 
Below 2°C
Below 2°C
Source: IIASA NGFS Climate Scenarios Database, REMIND 
model. End-of-century warning outcomes shown
Source: IIASA NGFS Climate Scenarios Database, REMIND 
model. Carbon prices are weighted global averages. End-of-
century warming outcomes shown.
Orderly
Net Zero 2050 limits global 
warming to 1.5°C through stringent 
climate policies and innovation, 
reaching global net zero CO₂ 
emissions around 2050. Some 
jurisdictions, such as the US, EU, and 
Japan, reach net zero for all GHGs.
Below 2°C gradually increases 
the stringency of climate policies, 
giving a 67% chance of limiting 
global warming to below 2°C.
Disorderly
Divergent Net Zero reaches net 
zero around 2050, but with higher 
costs due to divergent policies 
introduced across sectors, leading 
to a quicker phase out of oil use.
Delayed transition assumes annual 
emissions do not decrease until 
2030. Strong policies are needed 
to limit warming to below 2°C. CO₂ 
removal is limited.
Hot-house World
Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs) includes 
all pledged policies even if not 
yet implemented.
Current Policies assumes that only 
currently implemented policies 
are preserved, leading to high 
physical risks.
Each Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) scenario explores a different set of 
assumptions for how climate policy, emissions, and temperatures evolve.
51
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
50
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Physical Risks to Max Estates
Scenario Analysis Approach
Scenarios are characterised by their overall level of physical and transition risk. This is driven 
by the level of policy ambition, policy timing, coordination, and technology levers.
Colour coding 
indicates whether 
the characteristic 
makes the 
scenario more or 
less severe from 
a macro-financial 
risk perspective
 Lower risk
 Moderate risk
 Higher risk
Increased number of days with higher temperature.
To prepare for these uncertainties, we use scenario analysis as a strategic 
tool. This includes alignment with the Paris Agreement’s 2°C pathway 
(RCP 2.6) while also considering more ambitious (1.5°C) and severe 
(4°C) scenarios:
2°C Scenario:
In step with our climate goals and 
India’s Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs), with 
moderate transition risks and 
sustained decarbonisation efforts.
Increased rainfall
Labour 
productivity 
Increased rainfall may 
lead to flooding and 
waterlogging, potentially 
damaging buildings 
and foundations.
	»
Monitor workers’ 
health and productivity 
during periods of 
extreme heat.
	»
Assess the effectiveness 
of mitigation 
measures through 
worker feedback 
and performance.
Continuous monitoring 
of building conditions, 
maintenance schedules, 
and energy usage to assess 
effectiveness of mitigation 
strategies and smart 
building automation.
Regular inspection of 
drainage systems and 
structural integrity, 
and water damage 
prevention measures.
Risk 
Monitoring 
and 
Evaluation
Climate 
Scenario
Extreme heat can increase 
heat load of buildings and 
may also cause damage 
to buildings and reduce 
their lifespan.
Risk 
Identification
	»
Increased energy 
cooling demand to 
power cooling system 
due to the increased 
heat load.
	»
Extreme heat can lead 
to material expansion, 
contraction, and 
structural damage.
	»
Flooding can cause 
structural damage, 
affecting stability 
and integrity.
	»
Extensive damage 
to electrical systems, 
elevators, and 
interiors may occur.
Labour productivity 
may decline due to 
discomfort and health 
issues among workers.
Risk 
Impact
	»
Installed high-
performance façades 
with combination of 
brick tiles and DGU glass 
with fins.
	»
Adoption of heat-
reflective roofing 
materials, shade trees, 
and light-coloured walls/
roofs.
	»
Installation of energy-
efficient cooling 
systems and smart 
building automation.
	»
Ensure adequate 
ventilation and 
cooling systems at 
construction sites.
	»
Implement heat stress 
prevention measures, 
such as frequent 
breaks and hydration 
through ORS.
	»
Provide training on 
recognising and 
managing heat-related 
health risks.
	»
Elevation of buildings 
and creation of 
drainage systems to 
manage heavy rainfall.
Risk 
Mitigation
1.5°C Scenario:
Calls for rapid 
adoption of clean 
technologies, higher 
energy efficiency, and 
carbon removal.
4°C Scenario: 
Represents severe 
climate disruptions 
with critical socio-
economic and 
environmental impact.
Category
Scenario
Policy 
ambition
Policy 
reaction
Technology 
change
Carbon 
dioxide 
removal
Regional 
policy 
variation*
Orderly
Net Zero 2050
1.5°C
Immediate 
and smooth
Fast change
Medium use
Medium 
variation
Below 2°C
1.7°C
Immediate 
and smooth
Moderate 
change
Medium use
Low 
variation
Disorderly
Divergent 
Net Zero
1.5°C
Immediate 
but divergent
Fast change
Low use
Medium 
variation
Delayed 
Transition
1.8°C
Delayed
Slow/
Fast change
Low use
High 
variation
Hot-house 
World
Nationally Determined 
Contributions (NDCs)
~2.5°C
NDCs
Slow change
Low use
Low 
variation
Current Policies
3°C+
None—
current policies
Slow change
Low use
Low 
variation
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
Physical risk
Transition risk
*Risks will be higher in the countries and regions that have stronger policies. For example, in Net Zero 2050, the EU, USA, and Japan 
reach net zero GHGs by 2050, but globally, only net zero CO₂ is reached by this point.
This assessment is based on expert judgement based on how changing this assumption affects key drivers of physical and transition risk. 
For example, higher temperatures are correlated with higher impacts on physical assets and the economy. On the transition risk side, 
assumptions about policy ambition, timing, coordination, and technology policy levers (a) fast technological change even if carbon price 
changes are modest, (b) limited availability of carbon dioxide removal meaning the transition must be more abrupt in other parts of the 
economy, (c) stronger policy in these particular countries and regions.
53
52
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Transition Risks
Alignment with National and 
Global Climate Goals
Risk Assessment Framework 
at Max Estates
Moving towards a low-carbon economy brings 
shifts in regulatory, technological, and market-
driven risks. These include:
	»
Evolving customer preferences for 
green buildings
	»
Stricter energy efficiency and emissions norms
	»
Capital requirements for retrofitting or 
upgrading technologies
	»
Failure to keep pace with such changes could 
impact property values, restrict financing 
options, and erode the brand’s competitive edge
Max Estates aligns its sustainability strategy with 
India’s Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) 
under the Paris Agreement, aiming to reduce 
emissions, enhance resilience, and contribute 
to global climate goals through sustainable real 
estate development.
Climate risks are integrated into Max Estates’ 
enterprise-wide risk management system:
	»
Risks are mapped across seven frameworks: 
Business, Regulatory, Macroeconomic, People, 
Technology, Brand, and Climate.
	»
Each risk is assessed by scope (portfolio or 
asset-specific), likelihood, and potential impact 
using a 4x4 severity matrix.
	»
Risk severity is categorised  as Low, Moderate, 
Severe, or Critical.
	»
Risk mitigation strategies are actively 
implemented through design resilience, 
green certifications, strategic sourcing, and 
adaptive planning.
By integrating climate scenario analysis and risk mitigation into its operational strategy, Max Estates 
enhances its long-term sustainability, safeguards investor interests, and ensures continued value creation 
in a dynamic environmental landscape.
Risk 
Category
Risk 
Description
Risk 
Probability
Level of 
Impact
Risk 
Severity
Risk 
Mitigation
Changing customer 
preferences 
towards ESG
	»
Top commercial 
occupiers are raising 
ESG compliance 
and technical 
specification demands.
	»
Uncertainty remains 
on whether higher ESG 
investments translate 
into better rentals or 
residential asset prices
Low
Medium
Low
	»
MEL has 
defined FY2026 
sustainability 
initiatives but 
must track 
occupier demands 
to adjust 
ESG priorities
Switching to green 
energy (Unsuccessful 
investment in new 
technologies; costs 
to transition to 
lower emissions 
technology)
	»
The off-site captive solar 
plant is being explored 
for operational assets
	»
Currently the policies 
are favourable in Uttar 
Pradesh to invest in 
off-site solar plants; 
however, the same is 
not applicable to Delhi 
or Gurugram
Low
Medium
Low
	»
Global focus on 
clean and green 
energy, along with 
India’s goal to 
become a net zero 
nation by 2070 
indicates that 
policy changes 
are likely to ease 
the process of 
procuring solar 
energy from off-
site plants
	»
To kickstart Max 
Square renewable 
project in FY2026
Increasing 
ESG reporting 
regulations
	»
There are increasing 
reporting obligations on 
energy consumption, 
GHG emissions and 
water use such as 
requirement of audit/
assurance statement 
from third parties 
before publishing non-
financial data
High
Low
Moderate
	»
MEL published 
its first BRSR in 
November 2023 
and is already 
in the process 
of drafting the 
3rd BRSR
	»
Tracking energy, 
water, GHG, and 
waste data is 
a high priority 
sustainability goal 
which is already 
going through an 
assurance exercise
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
55
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
54
Risk 
Category
Risk 
Description
Risk 
Probability
Level of 
Impact
Risk 
Severity
Risk 
Mitigation
Mandates and 
regulations on critical 
operational assets
	»
The increasing scrutiny 
over air quality in 
Delhi NCR may result 
in the government 
banning use of diesel 
generators (DG) or 
imposing modifications
Medium
Medium
Moderate
	»
Underwent DG 
retrofitting across 
all operational 
projects
Exposure to 
litigation from 
environmental 
authorities
	»
Non-compliance of 
the National Green 
Tribunal (NGT) ban 
on construction and 
usage of DG power 
backups can expose 
MEL to significant fines 
and litigation
Medium
High
Moderate
	»
Compliance to 
NGT norms is 
strictly adhered to 
despite resulting 
in P&L hits and 
project delays
Sustainability and ESG Focus for FY2026
Key Sustainability Initiatives  for FY2026: 
At Max Estates, sustainability is not a parallel pursuit—it is integral to howwe 
design, build, and deliver spaces. As we advance our ESG journey, FY2026 
marks a strategic inflection point in deepening our climate commitment and 
redefining our sustainability framework to reflect evolving material priorities and 
stakeholder expectations.
Moving forward, the key objective is to map and monitor critical ESG topics, 
enabling us to adapt to sustainability trends and regulations. A significant focus 
for FY2026 is developing a Net Zero Roadmap aligned with the SBTi. Max Estates 
is finalising its Net Zero Policy, which includes formal target setting in accordance 
with SBTi guidelines. The roadmap outlines decarbonisation strategies, including 
enhancing energy efficiency, adopting clean construction practices, and reducing 
embedded carbon to achieve net zero emissions through short-term and 
long-term goal setting.
Through these initiatives, Max Estates aims to become a climate-resilient, future-ready organisation, 
integrating growth with climate action to create a sustainable urban future.
ESG Dashboard Integration: 
A centralised platform to track 
sustainability metrics and 
improve decision-making.
Net Zero by Design: 
Planning future projects 
with low-carbon 
strategies and Life Cycle 
Assessments to minimise 
environmental impact.
Scope 3 Emissions and 
Waste Circularity: Assessing 
Scope 3 emissions and promoting 
sustainability in our supply chain, 
including initiatives that support 
a circular economy.
Renewable Energy and 
Decarbonisation: Increasing 
renewable energy use 
and implementing high-
performance systems to 
reduce emissions.
Continuous Innovation 
and Assurance: Regularly 
refining our sustainability 
efforts with internal reviews 
and third-party assurance.
Material Assessment
Understand the impact 
of material used and 
initiate alternative 
material assessment for 
new projects
ESG Dashboard
Develop an ESG 
dashboard for portfolio 
level data exchanges 
and reporting
Net Zero Goal Setting
Establishing Net Zero 
Targets for MEL backed 
with Science Based 
Targets Initiatives 
(SBTi) curriculum
Net Zero Design
Align the 
designing of 
future projects 
towards Net 
Zero Design
Technology 
and Innovation
Identify and implement 
at least 2 initiatives 
aligned towards 
creating efficiencies 
and transforming our 
sustainability journey
Renewables
Sourcing 
renewable power 
for Max Towers and 
Max Square
LCA (Life Cycle 
Assessment)
Initiate and 
formalise Life 
Cycle Assessment
Scope 
3 Calculation
Initiate calculation 
of Scope 3 
emissions 
across portfolio
1
3
5
7
2
4
8
6
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
57
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
56
Industry Trends and 
Market Landscape
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Max Estates operates in a dynamic real estate environment influenced by 
various macroeconomic, demographic, and technological factors. With a deep 
understanding of these trends and the business needs they create, we have 
positioned ourselves to respond to evolving trends and fresh opportunities, 
particularly in the Delhi NCR region, through a dynamic approach in strategy
Despite global uncertainties, India’s macroeconomic 
landscape showed resilience in 2024, staying on track 
as one of the world’s fastest-growing major economies. 
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated 
a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 6.5%1. 
Strong domestic demand, ongoing infrastructure 
development, and easing inflation supported 
this momentum.
As global uncertainties continue, trade tensions 
and supply chain issues, and the announcement of 
new global tariffs by the United States may impact 
the external sector. The US has introduced a 10%2 
universal tariff on imports. While India has a temporary 
exemption from the additional 26%3, we still face the 
baseline 10% duty on exports.
At home, the Union Budget’s tax incentives could boost 
GDP by 0.6-0.7%. Lower inflation, stable oil prices, and 
reduced borrowing rates are expected to enhance both 
spending and investment.
Looking ahead to FY2026, India’s outlook remains 
steady. Structural reforms, a growing workforce, and 
increased global interest in manufacturing continue to 
support momentum. Inflation is projected to ease to 
4.0%4, while GDP growth is expected to remain steady 
at 6.5%5, as per the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)6.
The Indian real estate sector is poised for significant 
growth. It is projected to reach $1 trillion7 by 2030 
and $7–10 trillion by 2047. Growth is driven by 
expanding infrastructure, rapid urbanisation, a young 
population, a growing manufacturing base, new jobs, 
and a sharper focus on sustainability and technology. 
The sector’s contribution to GDP is expected to stay 
steady at 6–8%. Government policies, such as the Real 
Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) and 
the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), add to the 
momentum. The residential market is seeing healthy 
demand across all segments, while strong leasing 
demand supports commercial real estate, led by Global 
Capability Centres (GCCs) that span multiple sectors, 
Max Estates is guided by the belief that people thrive 
when they LiveWell and WorkWell. With this philosophy 
at the core, we are well-positioned for sustainable 
growth in Delhi NCR. We benefit from a strong 
economic environment, a committed team of over 200 
full-time professionals, technology-led operations, and 
a diversified portfolio across residential, commercial, 
and mixed-use segments.
Pre-sales performance has been strong. With Estate 
128 completely sold out and Estate 360 nearing full 
capacity at 96%, we are gearing up for our next chapter 
of growth. To support this, we secured ₹800 crore 
through a Qualified Institutional Placement, along with 
an additional ₹150 crore from preferential allotments 
to promoters and strategic investors.
Our long-term partnership with New York Life 
Insurance Company (NYL) Insurance includes a total 
investment commitment of ₹1,800 crore, with ₹550 
crore earmarked for upcoming projects in Delhi 
One and Sector 105, Noida. As of March 31, 2025, 
Max Estates is net debt-positive with a healthy cash 
surplus of ₹435 crore. This provides the headroom to 
explore fresh opportunities and grow with discipline. 
Favourable urbanisation trends, changing consumer 
preferences and and strong policy support further 
reinforce our outlook. Max Estates is well-equipped to 
navigate macroeconomic uncertainties and continue 
its momentum through FY2026 and beyond.
Resilient Macroeconomic 
Landscape
Outlook
1https://www.imf.org/-/media/Files/Publications/WEO/2025/April/English/text.ashx
2Us-imposes-26-tariff-on-india-36763.html
3https://knnindia.co.in/news/newsdetails/sectors/exportimports/indias-exports-to-us-may-drop-usd-576-bn-in-2025-amid-
steep-tariffs-gtri
4RBI Issues April 2025 Policy UpdatePIBhttps://www.pib.gov.in › PressReleaseIframePage
5https://www.dmifinance.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Indian-Budget-FY26-Review.pdf?utm
6https://www.reuters.com/world/india/india-cenbank-delivers-larger-than-expected-50-bps-cut-key-rate-2025-06-06/
7https://credai.org/knowledge-center/credai-reports/reports/33.pdf
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
and a rise in demand from domestic companies 
seeking Grade A office buildings, especially following 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
59
58
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Rapid Growth and Rising Demand 
for Premium Housing
India’s real estate sector is one of the country’s largest 
employment generators, with over 70 million people 
employed. Its contribution to GDP is expected to rise to 
around 13%8 by 2025, with the market size projected 
to hit $1 trillion by 2030. Institutional investments 
reached $8.9 billion in 2024, up 51%9 from 2023, driven 
by strong capital inflows. Rapid urbanisation is driving 
demand for housing and infrastructure, supported by 
both demand and supply enabling policies. The sector 
is also evolving with green building practices for the 
built environment to enable and not deteriorate better 
quality of life.
Outlook
Max Estates has built a diverse portfolio of over 
17 million square feet across Delhi NCR, covering 
commercial, residential, and mixed-use assets. After 
delivering a series of premium projects in the region, 
we are now focused on accelerating growth through 
carefully selected mixed-use ventures. The plan is to 
add at least 3 million square feet annually, and further 
strengthen our foothold in key micro-markets of 
Delhi NCR.
Office Space Demand and 
Occupier-led Growth
India’s office market hit a record 79 million square 
feet of absorption in 2024, marking a 17%12 year-
on-year increase. This growth was led by domestic 
companies, global entrants, and Global Capability 
Centres, which leased 29 million square feet and are 
expected to continue holding a 35 to 40% share. The 
appeal lies in India’s deep talent pool, tech ecosystem, 
and competitive rentals. Across the board, demand 
is shifting towards green-certified, tech-enabled 
spaces that reflect a growing emphasis on quality and 
sustainability in the post-pandemic world.
Outlook
Max Estates has curated its commercial portfolio to 
deliver premium workspace experiences. Max Square 
was delivered in just 30 months and currently is 
99% leased, at a 30% premium. Its tenants include 
Adobe, NDTV, Cloudangles, and AML Rightsource. Max 
House Phase II, delivered in Q3 FY2024, achieved full 
occupancy within 12 months at a 60% premium. Max 
Towers and Max House Phase I remain fully leased 
at 25–30% above market rates. No tenant holds 
more than 25% of any single asset. Tenant retention 
remains high, with turnover close to zero. This reflects 
the strength, quality, and long-term relevance of 
the portfolio.
Urban Demand Surge
India’s residential real estate market saw strong 
growth in 2024, with housing sales reaching 4.59 
lakh units, 76%10 higher than 2019 levels. Luxury and 
super-luxury homes made up 30% of the new supply, 
rising from just 11% in 2019, while affordable housing 
dropped to 16%11. This shift reflects rising incomes, 
stronger homebuyer confidence, and growing demand 
from affluent buyers, NRIs, and HNIs. The trend is 
likely to continue through FY2026, supported by 
better infrastructure and a growing preference for 
larger homes.
Outlook
Max Estates recorded a landmark year in the residential 
segment in FY2025. Bookings crossed ₹5,300 crore, 
three times higher than FY2024. This underscored the 
strength of our product-market fit. Estate 128 in Noida 
is fully sold, while Phase II achieved a price premium 
of over 40% compared to Phase I. In Gurugram, Estate 
360, Delhi NCR’s first intergenerational residential 
development of its kind, was 96% sold by March 2025. 
Together, these projects contributed ₹980 crore in 
collections. The results reflect Max Estates’ distinct, 
high-quality approach to residential development.
Sustainability and ESG Compliance
Awareness around the environmental impact of the 
built environment is steadily rising. This has led to 
increased regulatory scrutiny and growing investor focus 
on sustainable construction. India now has more than 
60013 IGBC-rated green buildings, most of which deliver 
energy savings of 40–50% and water savings of 30–35%. 
These numbers reflect both widespread adoption and 
sector-wide readiness. GRESB standards are also gaining 
importance, with higher ratings seen as a mark of 
responsible leadership.
Outlook
Rooted in Max Group’s core values of Sevabhav 
(Service), Excellence, and Credibility, and shaped by its 
LiveWell and WorkWell philosophy, Max Estates weaves 
sustainability into every development. The central forest 
courtyard at Max Square, spanning 11,000 square feet, 
and the in-house engagement platform Pulse, which 
hosted over 200 wellbeing events and engaged 8,400 
employees with an Net Promoter Score (NPS) of 6.9 
in FY2025, a very high scale by global standards. This 
shows our on-ground commitment. Since 2021, we have 
held a GRESB 4-star rating, alongside certifications from 
LEED, IGBC, ISO, and WELL. We now aim for a GRESB14 
5-star rating in 2025. Max Estates is also formalising 
its Net Zero targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
2040 in alignment with SBTi. Scope 3 emissions are 
now being tracked, and Life Cycle Assessments are 
underway across the portfolio. Behind these efforts is 
a combination of strong systems, growing in-house 
expertise, and a passionate team. We are all working 
towards the shared goal of improving lives through 
thoughtfully designed spaces.
Key Trends of India’s Real Estate Sector
8https://www.ecb.europa.eu/
9GWI-Wellness-Real-Estate-2024.pdf
10https://www.macrotrends.net/global-metrics/countries/ind/india/urban-population
11Anarock – Indian Residential Real Estate – Annual Report 2024 “Beyond the Growth Trajectory”
12https://www.macrotrends.net/global-metrics/countries/ind/india/urban-population
13https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/more-than-600-igbc-rated-green-buildings-in-raj-now/articleshow/121631266.
cms
14https://www.gresb.com/nl-en/2024-real-estate-assessment-results/
61
60
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Digital Transformation and 
Property Technology
Digitalisation is reshaping every stage of the real 
estate journey, from how properties are discovered 
and built to how they are sold and serviced after 
handover. Real estate firms are increasingly turning 
to PropTech and digital tools to improve everything 
from listings to construction monitoring.
Outlook
Max Estates has adopted digital innovation 
across the business. We use platforms such as 
SAP, BIM, Salesforce, Zoho, Autodesk, FacTech, 
Smart Joules, SAP Ariba, and Reloy to streamline 
workflows, improve collaboration, and support 
faster, more informed decision-making. These 
tools are helping us drive efficiency, reduce 
costs, grow revenues, and offer an enhanced 
customer experience. A structured three-year 
digital roadmap is now in place to further support 
scale readiness. At the same time, Max Estates is 
deploying technology-led solutions to optimise 
energy use, water management, and waste 
handling. These efforts reinforce our commitment 
to sustainable operations.
Policy and Regulatory Reforms
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act15 has played a key role in building buyer 
confidence. Surveys and academic studies show its 
positive impact in speeding up dispute resolution 
and reducing unsold inventory by bringing greater 
transparency into the system and disciplined capital 
deployment. For example, in Maharashtra, RERA 
now issues user-friendly registration certificates that 
clearly outline project details and require developers 
to share regular progress updates with homebuyers.
Outlook
Max Estates takes great pride in meeting the highest 
standards set by RERA and all other applicable laws 
including building bye-laws, environment-related 
compliances and labour-related best practices. 
This compliance reflects our commitment to 
maintaining the highest standards of integrity, 
transparency, and professional excellence. By 
ensuring clear, timely communication throughout 
every stage of the property journey, Max Estates 
creates an environment where customers feel 
valued and confident in their decisions.
Looking Ahead
As India’s real estate sector evolves, growing demand 
for premium experiences, regulatory transparency, and 
sustainable infrastructure continues to shape the market. 
Max Estates continues to stand out by creating integrated 
spaces that are thoughtfully designed and future-ready. 
Every project is guided by our “One Region, Multiple 
Asset Classes” strategy and our LiveWell and WorkWell 
philosophy, both of which place wellness, efficiency, and 
design at the forefront. We aim to become Delhi NCR’s 
leading real estate brand.
In FY2026, Max Estates will focus on scaling pre-sales to 
₹6,000–6,500 crore, securing 2,00,000 square feet of 
pre-leased space and adding 3 million square feet of new 
opportunities. Timely, on-budget execution remains a 
top priority. Our key priorities include financial closures, 
securing a GRESB 5-star rating, expanding digital systems, 
enhancing risk management and talent development, and 
expanding our brand footprint beyond Delhi NCR.
15https://journalspub.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/15-
26-RERA-on-Indias-Economic-Landscape-For-Formatting.pdf
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
62
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
63
Value at the Core: 
Building Beyond Buildings
VALUE CREATION MODEL
At Max Estates, value creation is driven by a cohesive strategy that combines capital efficiency, design-led 
development, and purpose-driven growth. We follow an asset-light model, which allows for scalability through 
financial partnerships and careful capital recycling.
With a strong development pipeline and disciplined execution, Max Estates maintains a clear focus on 
customer-centric experiences through its WorkWell and LiveWell philosophy.
Communities and 
social organisations 
6
Media and public 
communication platforms
7
1
 Investors, shareholders, 
and financial institutions
Suppliers, vendors, 
and channel partners
5
2
Tenants, customers, 
and end-users
3
Employees and 
third-party contractors
4
Government agencies, 
regulators, and industry bodies
Inputs
Value Creation Process/Approach
Financial Capital
Capex: J 677.20 cr
Equity Capital: J 161.00 cr
Debt Equity Ratio: 0.71
Net Worth: J 2,278.46 cr
Working Capital: J 2,111.98 cr
Manufactured Capital
Active project area: ~17.1 million sq. ft.
Under-construction and planned area 
(forthcoming projects) in FY2025: 15.6 million sq. ft.
Total area constructed: 1.6 million sq. ft.
Cost of construction for active projects in FY2025: ₹ 518 cr
Investment spent on land: ₹ 640 cr
Human Capital
Total no. of permanent employees: 223
Employee wellbeing cost: ₹ 2.60 cr
Average training hours per employee per year: 3.94
Hours of training on ESG/Safety: 400
No. of trainings for ESG/Safety/Skill Development: 139
Intellectual Capital
Design and innovation expenditure: J 20 cr
Leveraging technological interventions to optimise 
processes: 12
No. of Green Building memberships: 13
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) implemented 
across the value chain: 15
Social & Relationship Capital
CSR: ₹3 cr (₹1 cr by MEL and ₹2 cr as voluntary donations 
through SPV)
No. of NGO partners: 2
Collaboration with Max India Foundation, Latika Roy 
Foundation, Habitat for Humanity, among others.
Percentage of material sourced from local suppliers: 100%
Community programmes: 2
Natural Capital
Total energy consumption 
(direct and indirect): 69,785 GJ
Total water withdrawal: 95.6 ML
Total GHG Emissions: 84,868 Mt of CO2 Eq
Vision
Max Estates aspires to be the most trusted real 
estate company, driven by the desire to “enhance 
the quality of life” through the spaces we create.
Mission
	»
Augment the quality of life through exceptional 
design, sustainability, and experiences
	»
Be agile in adapting to an evolving 
external environment
	»
Build a great place to work that attracts, nurtures, 
and retains exceptional people
	»
Be the most preferred choice for all stakeholders, 
including customers, communities, shareholders, 
and employees
	»
Lead the market in harnessing technology to 
deliver world-class spaces
	»
Maintain cutting-edge standards of governance
Lease rentals in FY25: J 109.06 cr
Pre-sale bookings: J 5300+ cr
Cash collections on Pre-Sale: 980 cr
Increase in Net Worth : J 1,107.57 cr
Growth in Net Worth in FY25: 95%
Certifications (IGBC/LEED/WELL/BSC): 13
Top-notch Net Promoter Score: 6.9*
Total area leased: 1.5 million sq. ft.
Total area sold: 3.95 million sq. ft.
*High scale as per global standards, reflecting high 	
	 occupant satisfaction and brand loyalty
Employees onboarded last year: 100
Gender diversity: 16% | Retention rate: 86%
Employee coverage under Learning 
and Development initiatives: 100%
Overall employee satisfaction score (ESS): 8.5/10
Revenue per employee: J 0.71 cr
Grievances received from employees for 
harassment: Nil
Number of affiliations with trade and industry 
chambers/associations: 6
Pulse orchestrated 200+ events, driving 
8,400+ tenant employee engagements in 
FY2025 across all operational assets
SOP-driven organisation
No. of CSR beneficiaries: 10,322
No. of employees volunteering hours: 24
Underprivileged communities served: 0.1 lakh
Tenant employee engagements: 8,400+
Facilitated construction of 50 homes for the 
underprivileged (Habitat for Humanity India) 
and developing 56,000 sq ft for individuals 
with disabilities (Latika Roy Foundation)
Water Re-use: Reduction in domestic water 
consumption through use of grey water: 15%
Total water recycled: 16,829 kL
Waste Management: Waste diverted away 
from landfills: 86.89 tonnes
Proportion of diversion of solid waste from 
landfills: 100%
Proportion of diversion of e-waste and 
hazardous waste from landfills: 100%
Energy Efficiency: Energy intensity: 59.75 GJ
Renewable energy generated and consumed: 
154 GJ
Outputs
Outcome
SDGs
Plan to deliver pre-sales of J 6,000-6,500 cr in FY26, 
a 15-20% growth over FY25
Pipeline of over ~7 million sq. ft. with GDV potential of 
J 14,000+ cr to be launched in FY27 and FY28
Commercial portfolio is poised for an annuity rental income 
potential of over J 700 cr over the next 5 years
Strong balance sheet i.e net debt-positive 
with a cash surplus
Built one of the most diversified portfolios in Delhi NCR 
(over 17 million sq. ft.) in terms of geographical footprint 
across asset class and risk spectrum
Design- and hospitality-led differentiated customer 
experiences to promote the holistic wellbeing of our tenants
Commanded 25-30% premium in lease rental and 
residential sales value
Comprehensive ecosystem of services and amenities ranked 
at par with global standands
Attracted top tier talent from real estate and 
non real estate sectors
Highly skilled talent with key domain expertise 
across the value chain
Ability to work in cross functional settings 
with an ownership mindset
Guided by our philosophy of WorkWell and LiveWell, 
our developments personify differentiated working 
and living experiences
Institutionalisation of systems and processess to 
enable execution at scale
Demonstrated that business goals and social 
causes can coexist and our endeavour will be to 
maintain this at scale
The Company is formalising Net Zero targets in 
alignment with the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi), with a commitment to achieving Scope 1 
and Scope 2 Net Zero emissions by 2040. Have 
commenced the measurement of Scope 3 emissions 
and are conducting Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) 
across our asset portfolio.
Max Estates is monitoring and reducing impact of 
natural resource consumption and eliminated single-
use plastic bottles, introduced glass bottles, and 
prioritises a circular waste economy.
Values
Sevabhav
Credibility
Excellence
Stakeholders Impacted
1
2
3
Stakeholders Impacted
2
3
5
Stakeholders Impacted
2
3
6
Stakeholders Impacted
2
3
5
7
Stakeholders Impacted
2
4
6
Stakeholders Impacted
2
4
6
5
7
Key Business 
Activities  
	»
Real-estate development 
(Commercial and Residential)
	»
Facility management/“Real-estate 
as a service”
	»
Investments in other/group companies
	»
Shared/managed services for 
group companies
65
64
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Strengthening Trust, 
Driving Progress
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
At Max Estates, we listen closely to the people and partners who shape our journey. From customers 
and employees to investors and vendors, each voice plays a role in how we grow with care and purpose.
The following table outlines our approach to stakeholder engagement, highlighting the material 
matters, stakeholders' needs and expectations, modes of engagement, and our responses to 
impact areas.
Relevant  
Material Matters
	»
Quality and safety of 
properties
	»
Timeliness of delivery
	»
Value for money
	»
After-sales service
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Established a 
dedicated Customer 
Experience team
	»
Rolled out a 24/7 
digital helpdesk
	»
Introduced periodic 
quality audits and 
post-handover 
inspections
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Transparent pricing 
and contract terms
	»
High-quality 
construction and 
amenities
	»
Responsive customer 
service
Mode of  
Engagement
	»
Customer surveys 
and feedback 
forms
	»
Digital platforms 
(website, app)
	»
Customer care 
hotline and email
Customers and Tenants
Relevant  
Material Matters
	»
Financial 
performance and 
returns
	»
Risk management 
and governance
	»
ESG performance
	»
Capital efficiency
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Adopted annual ESG 
reporting aligned 
with GRI and SASB 
standards
	»
Strengthened the 
Risk Management 
Committee
	»
Launched an investor 
portal for real-time 
updates, upgraded the  
investor section on the 
website for detailed 
updates
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Consistent dividends 
and interest payments
	»
Transparent reporting 
on financials and 
sustainability
	»
Robust governance 
framework
Mode of  
Engagement
	»
Annual investors’ 
meet and earnings 
calls
	»
Investor roadshows 
and one-on-one 
meetings
	»
Regular financial 
and ESG disclosures
Investor and Shareholders
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
Relevant 
Material Matters
	»
Corporate reputation 
and brand image
	»
Accuracy and 
timeliness of 
information
	»
Transparency 
on projects, 
timelines, and ESG 
performance
	»
Crisis and issue 
management 
(construction 
incidents, delays, 
disputes)
	»
Visuals and facts for 
stories (images, site 
access, data)
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Appointed a central 
Corporate Communications 
and PR team and designated 
official spokespersons for 
media enquiries
	»
Published a media policy 
and defined a 24-hour 
response SLA for media 
enquiries; maintains a 
dedicated media inbox 
and hotline
	»
Monitors media and social 
channels and issues timely 
corrections/clarifications 
when misinformation 
appears; issues plain-
language summaries of ESG 
disclosures for easier media 
use
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Quick access to 
verified facts and 
spokespeople
	»
Timely press releases 
and clear statements
	»
Easy access to site 
visits, fact sheets 
and high-resolution 
images
	»
Advance notice 
for major 
announcements and 
embargo handling
	»
Transparent, 
consistent messaging 
on sustainability and 
community impact
Mode of 
Engagement
	»
Press releases and 
media advisories
	»
Press conferences/
media briefings and 
one-on-one interviews
	»
Media kits (fact sheets, 
photos, FAQs) and a 
media portal on the 
website
	»
Site visits and guided 
press tours
	»
Social media channels 
and monitored press 
inbox/hotline
	»
Regular media 
monitoring and 
proactive outreach
Media and Public Relations
67
66
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
66
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Relevant 
Material Matters
	»
Fair procurement 
practices
	»
Quality and 
reliability of 
materials
	»
Payment terms 
and ethics
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Introduced a Supplier 
Code of Conduct
	»
Reduced payment 
cycle up to 60 days
	»
Developed joint 
training sessions 
on quality and 
sustainability 
standards
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Timely payments 
and clarity on 
contracts
	»
Long-term 
partnerships
	»
Ethical business 
conduct and 
compliance
Mode of 
Engagement
	»
Vendor meetings 
and supplier 
conferences
	»
E-procurement 
portal
	»
Periodic supplier 
audits and 
performance reviews
	»
Integrate ESG 
criteria into vendor 
assessments 
and supply chain 
engagement
Suppliers and Channel Partners
Relevant 
Material Matters
	»
Regulatory 
compliance
	»
Land acquisition 
and zoning
	»
Taxation and 
incentives
	»
Building codes 
and standards
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Established a 
Regulatory Affairs 
team
	»
Participated in policy 
consultations on 
housing and urban 
development
	»
Ensured 100% 
compliance with local 
building regulations
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Adherence to statutory 
requirements
	»
Transparent engagement 
on policy changes
	»
Contribution to 
local economic 
development
Mode of 
Engagement
	»
Regular regulatory 
filings and reports
	»
Industry chamber 
memberships and 
roundtables
	»
Bilateral meetings 
with authorities
	»
Policy consultations
Government and Regulators
Relevant 
Material Matters
	»
Health, safety, and 
welfare
	»
Career development 
and retention
	»
Diversity and 
inclusion
	»
Work-life balance
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Initiated HR 
transformation to 
improve and enhance 
the recruitment, 
induction, onboarding 
and performance 
evaluation process
	»
Instituted learning 
charter
	»
Reviewed and refined 
HR policies
	»
Rolled out multiple 
LiveWell/WorkWell 
initiatives across the 
head office and project 
sites
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Safe working conditions
	»
Opportunities 
for training and 
progression
	»
Fair remuneration and 
benefits
	»
Respectful work culture
Mode of 
Engagement
	»
Employee 
engagement surveys
	»
Training workshops 
and e-learning 
modules
	»
Town halls and focus-
group discussions
Employees and Contractors
Relevant 
Material Matters
	»
Environmental 
impact (carbon, 
waste, water)
	»
Community 
wellbeing and 
development
	»
Land use and 
biodiversity
Max Estates’ 
Responses
	»
Implementation of green 
building strategies (LEED, 
IGBC) and Health and 
Wellbeing initiatives 
(WELL, IGBC Health and 
Wellbeing)
	»
Implemented multiple 
LiveWell and WorkWell 
engagement activities 
through the in-house 
vertical, Pulse
	»
Partnered with Habitat 
for Humanity (HFH) to 
build 50 homes for the 
underprivileged
	»
The creation of the 
“Centre for Inclusion 
and Influence” in 
collaboration with the 
Latika Roy Foundation 
reflects our commitment 
to creating universally 
accessible environments 
that support and 
empower individuals with 
disabilities
	»
Undertook external 
development initiatives 
to improve upkeep 
of services road and 
greenbelt.
Needs and 
Expectations
	»
Minimisation of 
construction impact
	»
Job creation 
and community 
investments
	»
Environmental 
stewardship and 
conservation
Mode of 
Engagement
	»
Community 
consultations and 
public hearings
	»
Stakeholder 
forums with NGOs
	»
Site visits and 
environmental 
impact 
assessments (EIAs)
	»
CSR initiatives
Communities and NGOs
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
68
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
69
Materiality at the Core: 
Shaping Sustainable Growth
MATERIALITY
Max Estates’ materiality assessment involved an internal desk review benchmarking 
best practices from industry peers, covering environmental, social, and governance 
pillars. Our review identified priority topics—ranging from Climate Change and 
Governance to Energy Management, Employee Development and Engagement, and 
Customer Health and Safety—each mapped to specific KPIs, such as GHG emissions, 
energy savings, training hours, and CSAT scores.
Moving forward, we intend to integrate these material topics into our strategic 
planning, establish science-based targets, and implement robust governance 
structures to ensure accountability. We will monitor progress through regular data 
collection and audits, leveraging sustainability committees for ongoing oversight and 
continuous improvement. This approach, grounded in peer-led best practices, will 
enhance transparency, stakeholder engagement, and long-term value creation.
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
71
70
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
71
70
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Topic Placement
Climate Change 
(Environmental)
High stakeholder concern (climate 
impacts) and high business impact 
(regulatory and physical risks). 
Plots in the top-right (highest 
priority) quadrant, tracked by GHG 
emissions KPI.
Governance (G)
Core business priority (board 
oversight, risk control) but typically 
has moderate external interest. 
Plots high on the business axis 
and moderate on the stakeholder 
axis (e.g. right-centre quadrant), 
measured by governance audit/
compliance metrics.
Customer Health & Safety (Social)
High stakeholder concern (customer 
wellbeing) and important for 
business (reputation). Plots high on 
the stakeholder axis and moderate 
to high on the business axis, with 
customer satisfaction (CSAT) and 
safety metrics as KPIs.
Energy Management 
(Environmental)
Similarly high on both axes (energy 
efficiency is visible to stakeholders 
and critical for cost/footprint). Also, 
top-right, with energy savings as 
a KPI.
Employee Development and 
Engagement (Social)
High internal priority (talent 
retention, skills) and moderate 
stakeholder interest. Likely plots 
mid/high on both axes (upper-
right or lower-right quadrant), with 
training hours and engagement 
scores as KPIs.
*Net Promoter Score
Material Topic
Description
KPI
Climate Change
Climate Change as a material 
ESG issue
GHG emissions
Energy Management
Energy Management as a 
material ESG issue
Energy savings
Governance
Governance as a material 
ESG issue
Governance compliance
Employee Development 
and Engagement
Employee Development and 
Engagement as a material 
ESG issue
Training hours
Customer Health and SafetyCustomer Health and Safety 
as a material ESG issue
CSAT scores 
(for tenants, we use NPS*)
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
73
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
72
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
The Vision 
that Redefines 
Real Estate
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
Fueling Sustainable Growth, 
Unlocking Long-term Value
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
We at Max Estates take a thoughtful approach to capital, balancing disciplined allocation and a strong 
balance sheet with strategies that support efficient growth. This helps us consistently deliver strong 
shareholder returns while expanding our presence in the premium real estate market.
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
Max Estates reported a 
consolidated revenue of ₹160.48 
crore in FY2025, with leased area 
totaling 1.2 million square feet, 
reflecting our strong operational 
and financial performance.
In FY2025, we identified and activated multiple 
non-traditional revenue opportunities to diversify 
income, improve asset utilisation, and enhance 
customer experiences. 
These steps help build a resilient, high-margin, 
recurring income base that strengthens financial 
stability and aligns capital allocation strategy with 
our long-term growth and value creation objectives.
Key Highlights
J160.49 cr 
Revenue from Operations
16% 
PAT Margin 
J37.62 cr 
Profit Before Tax
1%
Return on Equity  
J2,037.38 cr
Net Fixed Assets
J26.43 cr 
Profit After Tax 
J2,278.46 cr
Shareholder Funds
61.99%
EBIT Margin 
J2,079.92 cr
Reserve and Surplus
Key SDGs
Capitals Impacted
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
Our disciplined financial 
management and prudent 
capital allocation enable 
us to scale sustainably and 
drive strong growth, while 
delivering consistent value 
to our stakeholders. Every 
investment is guided by 
our commitment to long-
term growth.
76
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
77
Delivering Long-term Value
At Max Estates, we remain steadfast in our commitment to creating sustainable, long-term shareholder value 
through careful capital allocation and thoughtful land acquisitions. In FY2025, we exceeded financial forecasts 
and diversified our income, supporting stability while opening new opportunities for growth.
Strengthening Financial Resilience and Efficiency
We believe resilience comes from using our resources wisely; hence, this year, we optimised costs 
and enhanced margins, while adapting targeted measures in our key expense areas.
Through these initiatives, along with careful project budget tracking, we 
achieved a big turnaround: recording a Profit Before Tax of ₹37.61 crore instead 
of the earlier year loss of ₹23.29 crore. We reviewed budgets against actual 
performance reviews every quarter. Each month, we also keep a close eye on our 
operational costs, with any major deviations escalated to senior leadership for 
governance and control.
Our effective tax rate for FY2025 was about 30%. We remain committed to both 
compliance and thoughtful tax management.
We aim to scale our leasing income and expand residential bookings, with a 
target ₹6,000–6,500 crore in FY2026. We continue to prioritise capital-efficient 
growth. This combination of operational excellence and disciplined financial 
management gives us confidence to meet our vision of creating lasting value for 
our shareholders.
In FY2025 Max Estates enhanced operational efficiency and financial discipline: 
The strong performance was driven by increased leasing and interest income from surplus funds, 
as well as adequate cost controls. 
Delivered pre-sales bookings 
of more than
₹5,300 cr
surpassing full-year guidance
Our NYL cumulative 
commitment stands at about
₹1,800 cr
with the signing of MOUs 
for two projects: Sector 105, 
Noida and Delhi One
Consolidated Revenue 
rose from
₹92.94 cr to
₹160.49 cr
in FY2025
Profit After Tax stood at
₹26.43 cr
against a loss of ₹55.12 crore 
in the previous year
Our cash collection on pre-sales 
booking in FY2025 reached 
₹955 cr
Looking ahead to FY2026, we aim to 
deliver pre-sales of
₹6,000-₹6,500 cr
reflecting a healthy 15-20% growth 
over FY2025
EBITDA rose from
₹17.77 cr to
₹44.39 cr
this year
We closed the year with a net 
cash surplus of
₹435 cr
Raised
₹800 cr
through QIP in FY2025
Cash and Equivalents  stood at
₹1,785 cr
exceeding debt of ₹1,350 cr
Profit Before Tax and 
Exceptional Items improved to
₹37.61 cr
recovering from a loss of 
₹23.29 crore in FY2024
Cash and Equivalents stood at
₹1,785 cr
exceeding debt (excluding 
compulsory convertible 
debentures including its 
interest) of ₹1,350 crore
Additionally, non-traditional revenue 
streams, such as healthcare services at Max 
Square, rooftop sports at Max House, and 
curated food and beverage experiences 
at Max Towers, further strengthened the 
recurring revenue base. This solid liquidity 
position enables Max Estates to support 
its growth initiatives, while maintaining 
financial resilience.
Lease rental income from Max 
Towers, Max House, and Max 
Square grew by 76% year-over-
year (Y-O-Y) to ₹109 crore 
in FY2025, covering a total 
leased area of 1.2 million sq. ft. 
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
Manpower Costs
We rationalised roles, 
encouraged multi-skilling, 
and used digital tools to 
increase our productivity.
Finance Costs
Restructured debt by 
shifting to lower-cost debt 
and invested surplus funds 
in high-yield options. 
Marketing Costs
Emphasised on digital 
marketing with better 
contracts and sharper audience 
targeting to improve ROI.
78
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
79
Particulars
As of March 31, 
2025
As of March 31, 
2024
% Change
Reason for Variance (FY2025)
*Current ratio
37.02
2.70
1,273%
We have raised funds via Qualified 
Institutional Placement (QIP) and 
stake sale in the subsidiary company 
to NYL, resulting in a substantial 
increase in the ratio.
Gearing ratio
NA
12%
(100%)
We have repaid outstanding loans, 
resulting in a change in the ratio.
Debt-equity ratio
NA
0.13
(100%)
*Debt services 
coverage ratio
1.50
1.63
(8%)
We have sold our stake in the 
subsidiary company and investment 
property, resulting in a higher ratio.
*Return on equity ratio
11.90%
1.85%
542%
Inventory 
turnover ratio
-
-
NA
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio
1.85
2.49
(26%)
Better collection from receivables.
Trade payable 
turnover ratio
NA
NA
NA
Net capital 
turnover ratio
0.03
0.19
(83%)
We have raised funds via QIP, resulting 
in higher capital. Pending deployment 
of such capital has resulted in a lower 
ratio for the current year.
Net profit ratio
6.83
0.79
761%
We have sold our stake in the 
subsidiary company and the 
investment property, resulting in a 
higher ratio.
*Return on capital 
employed
14.17%
2.20%
543%
*Return on investment
11.44%
1.62%
607%
 *The ratios for the current year are not comparable with the previous year’s on account of funds raised via 
Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) and stake sale in the subsidiary company to NYL. These are one time and 
non-recurring in nature.
Increase in Pre Sale
Increase in Networth
Economic Value Generated (₹ in crore)
1,844
5,300+
FY2024
FY2025
1,259
2,361
FY2024
FY2025
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
80
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
81
Strategic Stewardship of Capital
FY2025 was a turning point for us, as we deployed capital to strengthen our pipeline, expand our portfolio, and 
enhance financial flexibility, all while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
To fuel our next phase of growth, we raised over ₹1,300 crore  through a combination of Qualified Institutional 
Placement (QIP) and preferential allotments, as well as increased investments from our long-standing partner, 
New York Life Insurance Company (NYL). This capital infusion is a quiet vote of confidence from domestic and 
global institutional investors in our plan and people. This gives us breathing room to build thoughtfully and 
continue on our path of bringing our long-term vision to life. 
Pre-sales Growth: 
Unlocking Momentum
FY2025 was a breakthrough year for us, with strong pre-
sales performance that went beyond our guidance and 
underscored the market’s confidence in who we are, what we 
create and how we deliver.
This was driven by the successful launches of Estate 360 in Gurugram, contributing over ₹4,400 crore with 
92% inventory sold, and Estate 128 Phase II in Noida, achieving a 100% sell-out with ₹900 crore in bookings. 
Together, these projects collected ₹980 crore.
Looking ahead, we aim for pre-sales of ₹6,000–6,500 crore in FY2026 and cumulative bookings of over 
₹21,000 crore across FY2026-28. Led by our sharp market insights and a deep commitment to our customers, 
we will continue to achieve product-market fit and elevate everyday experiences for our customers.
Max Estates continues to prioritise capital-efficient models, such as JDAs, to scale its residential portfolio while 
resulting in less upfront cash outflow. By doing so, we enhanced our ability to de-risk projects, align cash flows 
with sales cycles, and create steady, consistent returns.
Every cent matters, so we ensure 
effective capital allocation and tight 
cost management. We treat our 
administrative budgets with care and 
plan them each year using a zero-based 
approach. We compare it with our past 
performances, and review our growth 
every quarter. We track our cost in real 
time, renegotiate with our vendors, and 
apply value engineering to mitigate 
inflationary pressures, especially in 
construction materials. For pricing and 
pre-sales strategies, we lean on detailed 
unit-level profitability analysis and respond 
to the changing rhythms of the market. This 
balanced approach allows us to keep cash 
flows steady and dependable, giving our 
stakeholders peace of mind. 
FY2023:
Focused on commercial 
leasing growth; internal 
accruals funded capex.
FY2025:
Raised over ₹1,300 crore via QIP, NYL, and 
preferential allotments to support portfolio 
expansion and diversify income streams.
FY2024:
Initiated residential portfolio with 
JDAs; early-stage land acquisitions.
The funds allowed us to accelerate key developments, including:
Strategic land acquisitions
Sector 36A, Gurugram 
(Group Housing) and 
Sector 105, Noida 
(Mixed-use project with 
GDV over ₹9,000 crore).
Ongoing construction
Estate 128, Estate 360, Max 
District, Gurugram, and 
Max Square Two.
Strengthening commercial 
partnerships
NYL now holds a 49% stake across 
Max Estates’ commercial portfolio. 
Our cumulative commitments 
reached ₹1,800 crore, including 
investments in our upcoming projects: 
Delhi One and Sector 105.
Capital Allocation Snapshot 
(3-Year Comparison)
Max Estates recorded pre-sales bookings 
of over ₹5,300 crore in FY2025, surpassing 
its initial target of ₹4,000 crore. 
Flexible Payment Plans
Tailored payment 
structures that cater to 
the diverse customer 
needs while supporting 
cash flow efficiency.
Product-market Fit
Our Sales, Design, and Marketing 
teams work hand in hand to 
create offerings that resonate with 
customer preferences, particularly 
for second-home buyers and NRIs 
who seek trust, safety and quality.
Marketing and 
Communication
Through thoughtful, integrated 
campaigns we build greater visibility, 
positioning us as a premium brand 
centred on thoughtful design and 
hospitality-led experiences.
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
83
82
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Strong Foundation for Sustainable Growth
We manage our finances with discipline and a deep sense of responsibility. Our approach to capital allocation, 
investor partnerships and risk management, and our ability  to attract and use capital efficiently, have helped 
us reach our growth goals while ensuring to keep our balance sheet resilient. 
Capital Allocation and Investment Discipline
Max Estates follows a structured capital deployment approach, guided by:
Optimising Liquidity and Cost Management
We managed our working capital and liquidity thoughtfully through:
In FY2025, our land acquisitions and investments were directed towards high-visibility, launch-ready 
developments. Our pricing strategies were agile, with inaugural discounts and flexible payment plans 
maintaining sales momentum.
We strengthened our cost resilience by carefully 
studying scenarios to address material inflation, 
supply chain risks, and construction delays. To protect 
project margins and keep our projects on track, we 
adopted bulk procurement, value engineering, trusted 
partnerships with multiple contractors, and retention-
linked contracts.
We reviewed our administrative expenses and shared 
service costs regularly, ensuring fair allocation based 
on specific project drivers. Even for non-project 
items, our procurement followed transparent policies, 
with thoughtful vendor onboarding, quotation 
benchmarking, and approval workflows designed to 
ensure value for money.
Through these initiatives, Max Estates has reinforced 
its reputation for prudent capital management while 
building a strong financial foundation that supports 
our growth and helps us deliver lasting value for years 
to come.
Staggered land 
payments linked to 
project milestones.
In FY2025, Max Estates raised over ₹1,300 crore through a combination of:
Our capital investments have given us greater 
financial flexibility, enabling us to fund growth, 
diversify our portfolio, and strengthen our recurring 
revenue streams. NYL’s commitment of ₹1,800 crore 
now embraces mixed-use projects that include 
residential components, a step that supports our 
long-term vision.
We maintain strong relationships with leading banks, 
including ICICI, HDFC, Axis, SBI, Bank of Baroda, Yes 
Bank, and IDFC First Bank, who continue to support 
us with seamless construction financing and leasing 
rental discounting facilities. 
Qualified Institutional 
Placement (QIP) of
₹800 crore
attracting major domestic and 
global institutional investors.
New York Life Insurance 
(NYL) invested
₹388 crore
for a 49% stake in key 
commercial assets.
Preferential allotment 
to promoters and 
strategic investors 
worth
₹150 crore
A minimum
25%
IRR on equity, based on 
conservative financial models
Acquiring lands only 
when we can launch the 
project within 
12-18 months
Phased sales and leasing 
strategies to de-risk cash flows 
and optimise market timing
Detailed value engineering 
and scenario planning 
that prepare us for 
any cost escalation or 
market volatility
Internal leverage guardrails 
that help us maintain 
financial prudence
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
Proactive follow-up on 
receivables and disciplined 
management of payables.
Rolling cash flow projections 
to align capex phasing with 
funding needs.
85
84
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Land Strategy for Enduring Growth
Circular Capital, Continuous Growth
Our cash flow practices are in place to effectively 
navigate business cycles, and the ups and downs of 
the market. At every stage of our project lifecycle, 
we maintain cost discipline, which has helped us 
reach where we are today.
	»
We believe true growth comes with sustainability. 
We are aiming for top green building certifications 
like IGBC, LEED, and WELL. But more importantly, 
we design for the people and the planet. Our 
projects feature energy-efficient systems, 
solar infrastructure, water recycling, and eco-
friendly materials.
	»
For operational assets, we are also enhancing 
occupant well-being through the use of IoT-
enabled chiller controls, rooftop solar panels, 
low-flow fixtures, zero wastewater discharge, and 
comprehensive e-waste recycling. Our policies are 
against single-use plastics and in total support for 
biophilic landscaping, as well as community wellness 
programmes like Pulse. These initiatives are bringing 
us closer to our Net Zero goal.
	»
This strategy, centred on capital recycling, cost 
management, and sustainability leadership, 
helps us grow steadily and responsibly, while 
creating improved returns and long-term value for 
the stakeholders.
With these acquisitions, we have grown our portfolio 
to more than 17 million square feet, offering pre-sales 
visibility of ₹14,000 crore. We are well on track 
towards our ₹21,000 crore cumulative booking 
aspiration for FY2026-28.
Land acquisition for us is not about the pace but 
about doing it right. Our proactive, cross-functional 
approach ensures Legal, Finance, Design, and Liaison 
teams work hand in hand to ensure approvals are 
seamless and due diligence is thorough. We also 
work alongside the authorities and involve external 
consultants early to facilitate swift clearances, such 
as environmental sanctions, zoning permissions, and 
development licenses. Even in the face of regulatory 
slowdowns during an election year, we remained 
steady, ready and prepared. 
Our agile yet disciplined land acquisition strategy 
has helped us scale our portfolio. We maintain our 
financial strength and resilience, execute capital-
light projects, and stay committed to developments 
shaped around people’s needs and well-being.
Key highlights of FY2025 land acquisitions include:
Delhi One, Noida
Acquired through the 
Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code 
(IBC) process, this 2.5 million 
square feet mixed-use project 
offers premium residences, 
office spaces, and retail, with an 
estimated GDV of ₹2,000 crore 
and lease rentals of ₹120 crore.
Sector 105, Noida
We added a 10.33-acre mixed-
use parcel acquired through 
a government auction. With 
2.6 million square feet of 
development potential, it is 
expected to generate a GDV 
of over ₹3,000 crore and lease 
rentals of ₹120 crore.
Estate 361, Sector 36A, 
Gurugram
An 18-acre residential site with 
4 million square feet development 
potential with a GDV of  about ₹9,000 
crore. This strategically expands 
our presence along the Dwarka 
Expressway, a corridor for new 
opportunities in the years to come.
In FY2025, we maintained a 
strong cash position of ₹1,785 
crore. This gave us sufficient 
liquidity to move forward with 
project execution, strategically 
acquire land, and meet operational 
needs, all while staying true to our 
conservative leverage profile.
222 RAJPUR, DEHRADUn 
Artistic Rendition
We at Max Estates follow a disciplined capital 
recycling programme that balances growth 
with financial flexibility across our portfolio. 
We systematically release capital from fully 
leased commercial assets through Lease Rental 
Discounting (LRD), which allows us to redeploy 
funds into new high-yield residential and 
commercial projects. Step by step, we are building a 
high-quality commercial portfolio with the potential 
for a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) listing in 
the future. This will open opportunities for creating 
long-term value and steady growth. 
We follow a disciplined approach to land acquisition, central to our long-term strategy of adding 3 million 
square feet annually, with 2 million square feet in residential developments and 1 million square feet in 
commercial developments. All our land acquisitions are made using equity capital, so we grow without the 
weight of debt, ensure financial prudence and maintain a resilient balance sheet.
In FY2025, we moved with pace by securing key land parcels and development rights in high-demand micro-
markets throughout the Delhi-NCR region. These were fully funded through equity raised via QIP, preferential 
allotments, and targeted asset monetisation. This reinforces our commitment to capital efficiency and the 
timely delivery of projects.
86
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
87
Internal Control Systems and Compliance
We at Max Estates maintain a strong internal control and an efficient financial reporting framework. 
This has helped us protect our accuracy, integrity, and clarity of our financial information. Anchored in 
governance and discipline, we ensure compliance with regulatory standards and our strategic goals.
We have built a strong Internal Control Framework to guide our business practices:
Future Roadmap for Steady Value Creation
We aim to become a leading real estate brand in the Delhi-NCR region, known for thoughtful design that cares 
and a hospitality approach that is people-first. Our WorkWell and LiveWell philosophies guide our steps as we 
strengthen capabilities across our real estate journey. Our growth plan focuses on scalability, efficiency, and 
institutional-grade governance.
Our long-term strategy is driven by an asset-light, JV-heavy model, which ensures capital-efficient growth 
while maintaining a strong balance sheet and a steady cash flow. Strategic partnerships, including the 49% 
co-investment from New York Life in our commercial portfolio, help bring this to life. To minimise execution 
risk and enhance operational agility, we are deepening investments in digital transformation, automation, and 
system upgrades.
Key priorities for FY2026:
Our Finance team is grounded in 
accounting standards, tax regulations, and 
evolving regulatory guidelines through 
ongoing training, process updates, and 
close collaborations with trusted external 
advisors. Financial transparency is central to 
all our investor reports and disclosures, with 
audit trails and reconciliations in place. This 
has helped us earn confidence, proactively 
manage risk, and support value that lasts 
for all our stakeholders.
Technology Backbone
SAP S/4HANA ERP with real-time 
dashboards, automated reconciliations, 
and user access controls for improved 
process efficiency and data accuracy.
Cost Control and Optimisation
Cross-functional teams drive cost efficiency 
through value engineering, bulk procurement, 
structured budget reviews, and Cost Reduction 
Opportunity Registers. We also maintain 
margins without compromising on our quality.
Compliance and Transparency
Compliance with Ind AS, SEBI LODR, taxation, 
and corporate governance norms. Related-party 
transactions are disclosed transparently, reviewed by 
the Audit Committees, both internal and external.
Financial Forecasting and Planning
Driver-based forecasting and rolling projections keep 
our planning agile. Annual budgets are bottom-up, 
validated by benchmarking, and regularly updated to 
meet changing market conditions.
Financial Discipline
All financial reporting is aligned with Ind 
AS and regulatory guidelines, backed by a 
maker-checker-approver system, multi-factor 
authentication, and documented SOPs to 
maintain compliance.
Robust MIS and Monitoring
Monthly MIS reviews and quarterly financial 
true-ups that keep operational performance 
in line with our financial targets. Our Finance 
team closely collaborates with project teams 
to monitor costs, assess risks, and take timely 
corrective action when needed.
Scenario Planning and Risk Mitigation
Regular analyses to identify risks such as cost 
escalations, liquidity pressures, and regulatory 
changes. Mitigation plans are developed with 
the help of experts at our Finance, Projects, 
and Procurement teams.
This roadmap reflects our commitment to grow responsibly and deliver profitably, while maintaining 
financial discipline with long-term, sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
Grow pre-sales by
15-20%
(₹6,000–6,500 crore) with the launch 
of Estate 361 (Gurugram), Delhi One 
(Noida), and Sector 105 (Noida).
Add three new development 
opportunities (3 million 
square feet) across residential 
and commercial spaces in 
Delhi-NCR.
Adopt new technology across the 
value chain to make customer 
experience smoother, safer and more 
efficient for everyone.
Keep all projects, be 
it under design or 
construction, on time 
and on budget.
Build a risk-aware culture 
focused on protecting 
portfolio-level cash flows and 
project execution resilience.
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
89
88
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
Crafting With Purpose:  
Transforming Urban Landscapes
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
At Max Estates, we balance purposeful design with scalable execution, grounded in our core values 
of Sevabhav (Service), Excellence, and Credibility. With sustainability at the heart of every space we 
create and wellness woven into the experience, our aim is to redefine urban living through thoughtful, 
experience-driven environments. Everything we do is guided by a simple purpose: enhancing quality 
of life through the spaces we create.
FY2025 was a key year for us, marked by strong performance and strategic growth across the 
Delhi-NCR region.
Supported by a net-debt-free balance 
sheet, a technology-driven approach, 
and a talented team of over 200+ full 
time, we managed a diverse portfolio 
of 17 million square feet, spanning 
commercial, residential, and mixed-
use assets.
Our focus remains on building strong 
systems, sharpening execution, and 
embedding sustainability and design 
thinking throughout the lifecycle. As 
India’s cities drive GDP growth, we 
are dedicated to shaping the future 
responsibly, creatively, and at scale.
Key Highlights
~17.1 mn
Total developable area  
(sq. ft.)
9.1 mn 
Planned Area 
(forthcoming 
projects) (sq. ft.)
4.13 mn
Leasable area (sq. ft.)
1.62 mn
Total area constructed
100%
Material sourced from 
local suppliers
69 units
Under construction
6.5 mn
Area under construction 
(sq. ft.)
7
Number of 
ongoing projects
₹518 cr
Cost of Construction for 
active projects incurred 
in FY2025
6
Commercial rental 
assets ready or under 
development
Key SDGs
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
Intellectual Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
We are scaling with 
purpose, balancing design, 
sustainability, and wellness, 
ss to create spaces that truly 
enhance quality of life. Our 
journey is about delivering 
excellence with credibility 
and heart.
90
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
91
Project Portfolio: Signature 
Developments, Lasting Impact
Our diverse portfolio spans residential, commercial, 
and mixed-use projects, each reflecting our WorkWell/
LiveWell philosophy. Through WELL-certified systems, 
biophilic design, smart air and water quality controls, 
and generous open spaces, we create environments 
that enhance everyday life. We follow strong project 
governance frameworks and stage-gate processes 
to track milestones, budgets, and accountability. 
In FY2025, we began construction and completed 
excavation for Max Square Two and Max District.
Commercial
6 projects
4.13 million square 
feet (4 completed, 2 
under construction)
Residential 
4 projects
7.9 million square feet 
(1 completed, 2 under 
construction, 1 in design)
Mixed-use 
2 projects
5 million square feet 
(2 in design)
Our Portfolio at a Glance
Commercial Projects
Max Towers, Noida
Located at the edge of South Delhi in Noida, Max 
Towers is a 0.6 million square foot commercial 
development designed to set new standards for 
workspaces. The building holds LEED Platinum 
certification for Green Building strategies and 
Operations & Maintenance, IGBC Platinum-rated 
for Health and Wellness, and WELL-certified for 
Health and Safety. It has an in-house auditorium, 
lively F&B spaces, an early learning centre, 
a 374-seater cafeteria, and sports zones, all 
brought to life with biophilia and art.
Max Square, Noida
Conceived from the image of a folded hand 
protecting a growing bud, Max Square brings 
the idea of nature and nurture to life. Spanning 
about 0.7 million square feet, it offers unique 
office spaces centred around an 11,000 
square feet forest. Situated in Sector 129 
along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, 
one of Delhi NCR’s fastest-growing micro-
markets, Max Square is IGBC Platinum-rated 
for Green Building strategies, IGBC-rated for 
Health and Wellness, and WELL-certified for 
Health and Safety.
Max House Phase 1 & 2, Delhi
Situated in the heart of South Delhi, Max 
House draws inspiration from its industrial 
surroundings and reinterprets them for a 
modern workforce. Spanning about 0.25 
million square feet, it is LEED Gold-certified 
for Green Building strategies, IGBC Gold-rated 
for Health and Wellness, and WELL-certified 
for Health and Safety. A dedicated amenities 
block hosts EatWell by Diva, event spaces, a 
business centre, and multiple collaborative 
zones designed to encourage connection, 
creativity, and community.
Every new development expands our geographical 
footprint and redefines urban living with a focus on 
well-being, sustainability, and community. Below are 
our landmark projects that reflect our thoughtful 
design and people-first approach to real estate.
This year, the Company advanced its mixed-use 
development strategy through major acquisitions in 
the Delhi-NCR region, enhancing its innovative real 
estate vision. Working closely across teams and with 
external experts, we navigated land and regulatory 
requirements to keep our plans on track. Our portfolio 
now stands at 17 million square feet, with a clear 
goal to add at least 3 million square feet a year across 
residential and commercial spaces.
93
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
92
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Residential Projects
Estate 128, Noida
Located in Sector 128, Noida, Estate 128 is 
thoughtfully designed with contemporary 
architecture and a focus on resident well-being. 
Spread across 10 acres with approximately 1.4 
million square feet of development, it is IGBC 
Platinum pre-certified. The residences feature 
expansive decks for bespoke outdoor experiences 
and amenities that encourage movement, 
connection, and interaction. With over 80% open 
spaces in the midst of a bustling city, it offers a 
calm, open environment for residents.
Estate 360, Gurugram
In Sector 36A, Gurugram, along the Dwarka 
Expressway, Estate 360 takes a unique 
approach to community living. One that 
honours every need and every generation. 
It is IGBC Platinum pre-certified and spread 
over 11.8 acres, with about 2.4 million square 
feet of development potential. Designed as 
an “intergenerational residential community,” 
with two of its six residences dedicated to 
senior living, it is managed by Antara, India’s 
only integrated senior care ecosystem. It 
houses an ecosystem of over 1,00,000 square 
feet of amenities, featuring two clubhouses, 
a sports block, and a car-free ground plaza 
designed for safety and reduced pollution.
222 Rajpur, Dehradun
Set beside the Malsi forest at one of 
Dehradun’s most exclusive addresses, 222 
Rajpur offers a limited collection of 22 villas. 
Spread across 5 acres, it is designed for 
homeowners who value privacy and a life of 
peace in the lap of nature. 
Delhi One Redevelopment, Noida
We acquired the Delhi One Redevelopment project 
after receiving final approvals under the Insolvency 
& Bankruptcy Code from Hon’ble NCLT and Hon’ble 
NCLAT. Spanning approximately 2.5 million square 
feet, Delhi One will be an integrated downtown 
campus. It will host ultra-luxury serviced residences, 
premium office space, curated high-street retail 
and an exclusive club, all guided by our LiveWell, 
WorkWell and PlayWell approach. Located at the 
edge of South Delhi and connected by the Delhi-
Noida-Direct Flyway, the site is also steps from key 
metro stations, offering strong connectivity across 
Delhi NCR. We expect total sales of approximately 
I2,000 crore, with annuity rental income potential of 
around I120 crore.
Max Square Two
We are expanding the Max Square campus with 
Max Square Two, next to the existing building. The 
project sits on approximately 4 acres and is IGBC 
Platinum pre-certified. It will provide a balanced 
mix of commercial space and amenities, spanning 
about 1.1 million square feet. The expanded campus 
will give existing tenants room to grow and create a 
distinctive campus destination in the micro-market. 
Planned with a focus on enhancing the workplace 
experience, the campus will feature a suite of 
amenities including business centres, multipurpose 
halls, F&B spaces, a creche, and more.
Yield on Upcoming Commercial Projects
Project Name
Completion Timelines
Expected Yield
Max District, Sector 65, Gurugram, Gurugram 
(Commercial Project)
CY 2027 (Phase 1)
CY 2028 (Phase2)
13.90%
Max Square Two, Sector 129, Noida Expressway 
(Commercial Project)
CY27
13.00%
Delhi  One, Sector 16, Noida, Mixed-Use Project)
CY29
12%
Mixed-Use, Noida (Mixed Use Project)
CY30
11%
Capital Requirement in Upcoming Mixed Use Projects
Project Name
Completion Timelines
Investment Requirement
Delhi One, Sector 16, Noida
Mixed-Use Project
CY29
₹500 cr-Equity
₹391 cr-Debt
Sector 105, Noida 
Mixed-Use Project
CY30
₹650 cr-Equity
₹500 cr-Debt
Max District, Gurugram
Inspired by the charm of a walled city, Max District 
blends structure and nature, with gardens flowing 
seamlessly from the outdoors into the heart of the 
space. Spanning approximately 1.6 million square 
feet, it sits on Golf Course Extension Road, a prime 
hub for domestic and multinational businesses in 
Delhi NCR. Pre-certified for LEED Platinum, this 
modern workspace combines sustainability with a 
wide range of amenities, including F&B spaces, gyms, 
and wellness facilities, creating an environment 
where work, well-being, and lifestyle come together.
Sector 105, Noida
In Sector 105, Noida, we are developing a mixed-use 
destination across 10 acres with about 2.6 million 
square feet of potential, split into 40% residential and 
60% commercial space. With three open sides and a 
striking 75-meter frontage along the Noida-Greater 
Noida Expressway, the site enjoys strong visibility and 
connectivity. Set within a vibrant micro-market, it will 
embody our LiveWell and WorkWell philosophies, 
bringing fitness, sports, and active living into a 
thoughtfully curated urban setting.
Estate 361, Gurugram
We are expanding in Gurugram with Estate 361 on 
the Dwarka Expressway. Spread over approximately 
18 acres, it has about 4 million square feet of 
development potential. The scheme is being planned 
around our LiveWell philosophy, with design choices 
that aim to bring real well-being to everyday living.
95
94
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Diverse Spaces that Elevate Living
Efficient Operations, Transforming Experiences
FY2025 was a milestone year of growth for us, 
reaffirming our confidence in the real estate potential 
of the Delhi-NCR region. Staying true to our core 
philosophies of WorkWell and LiveWell philosophies, 
we expanded our development portfolio from 8 million 
square feet in FY2024 to more than 17 million square 
feet in FY2025, covering residential, commercial, and 
mixed-use segments.
Between Estate 128 and 
Estate 360, we achieved 
₹980 crore in collections.
Our portfolio now features a diverse mix of asset classes 
across Delhi-NCR, with projects at various stages 
including delivered, under construction, and under 
design. We focus on creating design-led, hospitality-
driven spaces that address a gap in the market for truly 
consumer-centric developments. 
We also cap any single tenant’s occupancy at 25% of a 
building. This approach reduces dependency risk and 
strengthens tenant retention, reflecting the appeal of 
our spaces and strong tenant relationships.
Modular Construction Pilot
We are driving construction excellence through a 
modular and off-site strategy that delivers speed, 
precision, and sustainability. We prefabricate temporary 
structures and formwork off-site, which minimises 
material waste and reduces on-site disruption. Our fully 
unitised façades are manufactured and assembled with 
a high level of quality control, while aluminium modular 
formwork shortens slab cycle times significantly.
We plan every step in advance and maintain a two-
month material buffer to stay ahead of potential delays. 
On-site batching plants ensure a steady concrete supply, 
and our equipment is regularly calibrated for consistency. 
Modular techniques give us greater design flexibility, 
support ergonomic handling, and enhance worker safety.
Before adopting any new material, we conduct thorough 
case studies and due diligence. This disciplined approach 
reflects our commitment to quality, efficiency, and 
innovation in every build.
We run our operations with a singular focus: delivering 
high-performing assets and exceptional tenant 
experiences. Our collaborative approach combines 
technology, hospitality, and sustainability, with each 
property managed by a dedicated on-site team 
supported by top consultants. Daily monitoring and 
maintenance keep us on budget and on point.
Tenant onboarding is designed for speed and ease, with 
inspections, coordination with tenant project teams, 
and a structured handover process guided by detailed 
checklists and fit-out protocols. Post-handover, the 
FacTech complaint management system enables quick 
resolution of concerns through close collaboration 
between our CRM, Operations, and Projects teams.
At 222 Rajpur, the townhouses and villas have been 
handed over, while apartment handovers at Estate 
128 and Estate 360 are upcoming. We also work 
with trusted external partners to curate wellness 
services, dining options, and cultural programmes, 
Smart Design
We put smart, innovative design at the centre of how 
we create spaces, by blending aesthetics, functionality, 
and financial discipline. In FY2025, we launched 
programmes to test new fittings, finishes, and 
modular components, combining design appeal with 
cost efficiency.
At Estate 128, we used a step-by-step prototyping 
process, starting with material samples and moving to 
miniature mock-ups, then to a full apartment mock-up 
before final finishing. On-site, we created 1:1 scale flex 
layout mock-ups to test room sizes and configurations 
physically. We also used VR tools for immersive layout 
reviews and upgraded our 3D software to speed up 
design iterations and refine prototypes.
We follow a structured, cross-functional value 
engineering process from concept to execution, making 
sure every premium design choice aligns with cost 
efficiency and our brand standards.
	»
Collaborative Ideation: Early-stage workshops bring 
together design, execution, procurement, and finance 
teams to identify cost drivers and optimise them 
without compromising the experience.
	»
Material and Systems Optimisation: We replace 
high-cost elements with durable, locally sourced 
alternatives, especially for façades, HVAC, flooring, and 
common areas.
	»
Mock-Up Validation: Every design is tested 
through full-scale mock-ups to ensure the customer 
experience is never compromised.
	»
Lifecycle Thinking: We assess every choice for long-
term operational and maintenance efficiency.
	»
Tech-Enabled Precision: Tools like BIM, SAP, and 
data analytics guide benchmarking, efficiency, and 
waste reduction.
	»
Strategic Cost Alignment: Partnerships and vendor 
collaboration help unlock design innovations, supply 
chain efficiencies, and enhanced value delivery.
By building intelligence and efficiency into every 
element, we are creating spaces that are beautiful, 
functional, smart, and ready for the future.
while internal meetings and strategy sessions aim to 
enhance operational value, such as improving visitor 
parking services.
Key features of Max Estates’ operational approach:
	»
Technology integration with FacTech and 
internal trackers
	»
Site-specific Single points of Contact (SPOCs) and 
help desks for efficient service delivery
	»
Learning feedback loops between operations 
and design
	»
Regular performance reviews and third-party audits
	»
Integrated ESG-reporting and 
certification alignment
This model allows Max Estates to scale with precision, 
operate with efficiency, sustain responsibly, and deliver 
long-term value through efficiency, quality, and a 
customer-centric approach.
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
97
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
96
Quality Management 
and Assurance
Quality is embedded into every stage of the 
Company’s development and operations. 
Max Estates adopts a proactive, structured 
approach that integrates compliance, 
safety, and performance across its portfolio. 
Compliance with the National Building 
Code (NBC, 2005 & 2016) and certifications 
such as ISO 9001 (Quality Management), 
ISO 14001 (Environmental Management), 
and ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and 
Safety) underpin its project execution and 
asset operations.
Third-party audits, including monthly 
reviews by Bureau Veritas, ensure 
compliance with national standards. 
Façades and temporary structures are 
built off-site for precision and reduced 
waste. Teams are trained on updated 
safety protocols, and contractors work 
under strict compliance norms. Utility 
performance is monitored via IoT sensors 
and dashboards, optimising energy, water, 
and HVAC systems while minimising 
emissions. Energy-efficient technologies, 
such as rooftop solar panels and rainwater 
harvesting, enhance sustainability and 
asset value.
Regular disaster recovery drills, backed 
by documented findings and audit 
validations, strengthen resilience and 
ensure operational continuity across 
every property.
Cost Reduction and Optimisation
Our approach to cost efficiency is rooted in 
sustainability, circular economy principles, and the 
adoption of energy-efficient systems. Initiatives 
such as:
	»
IoT-enabled HVAC and lighting systems
	»
Solar power and green energy purchases
	»
Reuse of treated wastewater and rainwater
	»
Material recycling and e-waste resale
	»
Design in line with IGBC/LEED standards for reduced 
utility and maintenance costs
Annual budgeting, strategic vendor negotiations, and 
proactive asset upgrades help us reduce operational 
costs. Through continuous innovation and disciplined 
governance, we create long-term value while staying 
agile in a dynamic environment.
Ratings and Certifications
Max Towers
	»
LEED Platinum-certifiedfor Green Building Strategies
	»
IGBC Platinum Rated for Health and Well-Being
	»
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001
	»
LEED Operation & Maintenance
	»
WELL Health & Safety Rating1
	»
International Safety Awards 2025 – British 
Safety Council
Pre-Certifications
	»
Max Square Two - Pre-certified IGBC Green 
- Platinum
	»
Max District - Pre-certified LEED Green - Platinum
	»
Estate 128 - Pre-certified IGBC Green - Platinum
	»
Estate 360 - Pre-certified IGBC Green - Platinum
Max House
	»
LEED Gold-certified for Green Building Strategies
	»
IGBC Gold-rated for Health and Well-Being
	»
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001
	»
WELL Health & Safety Rating1
	»
International Safety Awards 2025 – British 
Safety Council
Max Square
	»
IGBC Platinum-certified for Green 
Building Strategies
	»
ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001
	»
WELL Health & Safety Rating1
Managing Risks
We embed risk management into every phase of our 
operations, ensuring projects and assets remain resilient 
under varied conditions.
FY2026 Vision
As part of Vision 2030, we are charting a forward-
focused roadmap for FY2026 and beyond, anchored 
on three pillars: strengthening execution, advancing 
sustainable design, and future-proofing our assets. The 
goal is clear: To deepen our position as a design- and 
hospitality-led real estate brand that delivers a high-
quality, differentiated built environment aligned with 
our WorkWell and LiveWell philosophies.
To embed consistency and risk-managed delivery, 
robust Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are 
being rolled out across the real estate value chain. 
Modular façade systems and advanced construction 
technologies will play a central role in shortening 
delivery timelines, improving design precision, and 
reducing environmental impact.
The execution pipeline remains on track:
	»
Estate 128: Completion aligned with 
FY2028 timeline
	»
Estate 128 Phase II: Excavation and pile foundation 
completed; PCC works underway
	»
Estate 360: D-wall and raft foundation in progress 
for three towers; excavation ongoing
	»
Max District & Max Square Two: Raft/foundation 
RCC works in progress
Sustainability remains at the core of our development 
philosophy. Ongoing initiatives include life cycle 
assessments, carbon footprint evaluations, and 
the integration of renewable energy sources such 
as rooftop solar. Enhanced waste management 
frameworks are being implemented across all sites, 
reinforcing our commitment to circularity.
Operational excellence will be driven by advanced 
digital tools and structured training for project teams, 
sharpening both quality and customer experience. 
These efforts will power our strategic evolution, 
enabling us to scale with precision, sustainability, while 
delivering long-term value and impact.
1 Under process
Simulation drills to test 
and strengthen business 
continuity procedures
Pre-ordered and stocked 
materials for time-sensitive 
construction schedules
Comprehensive labour 
welfare practices (food, 
hygiene, medical support) to 
sustain workforce stability 
and medical uctivity
Monsoon preparedness 
plans to minimise 
weather-related damage
Daily backups and clearly 
defined recovery protocols 
implemented across functions
Diaphragm walls used to 
mitigate weather-related 
delays
Monitoring of tender schedules 
and early procurement reduced 
disruptions
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
99
98
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Steering Innovations 
in Urban Spaces
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
In an urbanising India where cities are projected to 
generate nearly 70% of national GDP by 2030, Max 
Estates is using the power of innovation to rethink 
urban spaces. By seamlessly bringing together design, 
hospitality, wellness, and sustainability with care, intention, 
and precision, we are building spaces that people feel 
connected to and proud of.
In FY2025, Max Estates used digital 
tools to enhance key operational 
functions, including construction 
management, Human Resources (HR), 
legal, compliance, procurement, and 
enterprise-wide processes.
Our digital backbone improved capital productivity by 
uniting design, hospitality, wellness, and sustainability 
in a unified approach. As the Company expands its 
presence across Delhi-NCR with a portfolio of 17 million 
sq. ft., we continue to create innovative, biophilic, and 
high-performance spaces that elevate quality of life and 
foster responsible urban growth.
Key Highlights
₹20 cr
R&D in FY2025
209
Pulse events in FY2025
13
Certifications
Virtual tours of 
sample flats at 
Estate 360
VR/AR sales suites
Key SDGs
Intellectual Capital’s 
ability to encompass 
the collective expertise, 
skills, and relationships 
that drive innovation and 
growth, making it integral 
in defining business and 
organisational success.
ESTATE 60 
Artistic Rendition
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
Manufactured Capital
100
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
101
Innovation that facilitates 
Care-led Growth - LiveWell 
and WorkWell Framework
Innovation at Max Estates begins with people. We 
design spaces that prioritise care, elevate quality of life, 
and nurture a sense of belonging. Growth is guided by 
the LiveWell and WorkWell frameworks, which shape 
how people live, work, and connect within our spaces. 
These frameworks combine wellness, sustainability, 
and digital capability to meet holistic expectations 
across physical, emotional, and social needs.
We design spaces with a wellness-led approach, think 
wrap-around balconies that bring daylight and fresh 
air to homes or a 10,000 square feet forest courtyard 
at Max Square. We use basement cutouts to bring 
natural light to lower levels, and landscapes with native, 
air‑purifying plants to support cleaner and healthier 
living. Amenities including yoga studios, fitness centres, 
and spas help people nurture well-being everyday.
Our delivery backbone is guided by LiveWell and 
WorkWell checklists that help us stay aligned with 
our vision, while BIM and SAP provide real-time 
coordination, quality control, and a consistent, 
customer-focused experience.
Our approach rests on nine steadfast pillars that 
hold our customer-centric innovation model:
Backed by advanced digital platforms and real-time 
feedback, our multidisciplinary team of specialists 
spans real estate, design, operations, and hospitality. 
They work together to ensure every development 
consistently meets high standards of performance 
and experience.
Pulse
At Max Estates, we believe that spaces truly come 
alive when they create moments that matter. Our 
in-house engagement platform, Pulse, brings 
this vision to life by curating a rich mix of events, 
activities, and interactions that nurture community 
spirit, support wellbeing, and deepen the bond 
between people and the places they call home.
In FY2025, Pulse hosted over 
200 events, engaging more than 
8,400 tenant employees and 
reinforcing our commitment to 
building communities where 
people can flourish.
Guided by a care-led and philosophy-driven 
approach, we are shaping a fresh vision for 
urban living and working in India. We transform 
empathy, insight, and thoughtful design into 
lasting value for both our users and stakeholders. 
Pulse carries forward our WorkWell principle, 
cultivating healthier and more connected 
communities with environments full of energy 
and life as our portfolio expands.
Leveraging Technology in 
Real Estate
Digital innovation sits at the core of how we build, 
manage, and grow our portfolio. In FY2025, we rolled 
out a detailed digital transformation across every 
function of the organisation, enabling smarter decisions, 
seamless collaboration, and greater efficiency across 
our ecosystem.
From construction sites and compliance checks to 
customer experience and employee engagement, every 
stakeholder is positively impacted by our thoughtful, 
human-centric digital strategy.
The customer journey is streamlined 
and enriched, through tools like 
Salesforce, Ozontel, Reloy, FacTech, 
and SAP that make every customer 
interaction personal and efficient. 
For our vendors, SAP and SAP 
Ariba support a fully automated 
procurement and payment process 
that is transparent, responsive, and 
cost-conscious, helping people in our 
ecosystem work smarter.
We use Zoho HRMS to simplify the employee lifecycle 
from onboarding to career growth, while TeamLease 
handles compliance digitally to reduce friction and 
make it seamless. In construction, platforms such as 
Autodesk Construction Cloud and SAP Analytics Cloud 
let us track projects in real time, manage resources 
efficiently and control budgets. With an integrated 
technology stack, including SAP S/4HANA, Salesforce, 
SharePoint, and Factech BMS, we safeguard data integrity, 
support cross-functional alignment, and strengthen 
operational performance.
A co-creative, agile approach shapes every innovation. 
We partner with OEMs, start-ups, and digital partners 
to design solutions tailored for real estate. These 
advancements are protected by strong cybersecurity 
and secure VPN access. By embedding technology into 
every department across construction, operations and 
administration, we enhance efficiency, create lasting value 
and better experiences for everyone.
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
Empathetic Hospitality
An emotionally intelligent approach to hospitality and 
service that begins with empathy
Elemental Harmony
Focus on elements like air, water and biophilia through 
interventions like, purifying plant, rainwater harvesting, 
green design, etc.
Generosity
of time, space, and attention to detail. Providing more 
green cover per person
Inclusivity
Age and needs inclusive design for wellbeing of 
all users
Peace of Mind
Focus on best-in-practice safety measures, high 
standards of sanitation, and carefully selected locations
Belonging
Specially designed amenities for engagement among 
residents to promote social well-being
Intentional Design
Promoting a healthier lifestyle through design 
interventions to ensure comfort, aesthetics, mobility 
and best-in-class technology solutions
Sustainability
Use of sustainable materials, recycling, resource 
conservation and efficient use
Food & Nutrition
Access to organic vegetables & biotic food sales, 
curated F&B options with focus on quality & nutrition
103
102
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
102
Digitally Engineered: Tech 
Advancements and Digital Analytics
In FY2025, we strengthened our commitment to 
innovation through a cloud-first strategy, stronger data 
security, and intelligent, data-led decision-making across 
all business functions. Our agile, tech-enabled ecosystem 
now supports project delivery, facility management, 
marketing, and stakeholder engagement.
FacTech Building 
Management System 
(BMS) for preventive 
maintenance and 
complaint resolution
Autodesk Construction 
Cloud (ACC) for 
real-time construction 
management
This approach pushes for 
faster deployment, easier 
scalability, and smoother 
business continuity 
through geo-redundant 
backups and automated 
failovers. Our technicians 
use FacTech mobile apps 
to manage tasks efficiently 
on-site, while every 
complaint and service issue 
is tracked transparently, so 
that our tenants feel heard, 
cared for and valued. 
Cloud-First, Resilient Architecture
All core applications now run on the cloud, delivering 
speed, scalability, and 99.9% uptime. Recent 
implementations include:
Reloy for residential 
project handovers and 
post-sales engagement
Cloud Strategy and Efficiency Gains
Our hybrid multi-cloud model combines Amazon Web 
Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) with 
tools such as Docker and Kubernetes that have made 
our systems faster, safer and more cost-efficient.
48% 
reduction in on-premise infra 
and maintenance costs
30%  
faster customer 
portal response times
40%   
reduction in go-live 
timelines for new 
tech deployments
MarTech Upgrades and 
Digital Attribution
To power insight-driven marketing, Max Estates 
deployed a robust technology stack. Salesforce 
CRM (SFDC) provided 360-degree attribution 
across Google, Meta, and GTM, while streamlining 
lead nurturing for both commercial and residential 
segments. While Apollo IO automated B2B email 
campaigns, achieving a 95% inbox delivery rate 
and improved Marketing Qualified Lead (MQL) 
conversions. Moreover, Taboola help our content 
reach the right people as it supported native content 
distribution in Tier 1 cities and NRI markets.
With SFDC dashboards and weekly G-Review 
meetings, our stakeholders have access to unified 
performance insights, run smarter agile campaigns 
and deliver stronger Return on Ad Spend (ROAS).
Enhanced 
cybersecurity
with Multi-Factor 
Authentication (MFA), 
Identity and Access 
Management (IAM), and 
cloud-native security tools
Content Strategy and SEO Excellence
We expanded our digital presence through a targeted 
content marketing strategy supported by detailed 
technical audits. Quarterly SEO reviews using Semrush 
and Google Search Console (GSC) improved website 
health to 85%, above the industry benchmark of 77%. 
These initiatives secured #1 SERP rankings for strategic 
project keywords and increased domain authority 
from 20 to 36. Organic traffic grew steadily, with Q4 
reporting 9.99% of total visits generated by targeted 
landing pages and thought leadership content. Tools 
like Google Street View for Estate 360 made it easier for 
clients to explore our spaces virtually.
Integrating Digital Initiatives
We have incorporated a wide range of advanced 
tools and platforms across design, development, 
sales, and after-sales engagement to bring out 
precision, efficiency, and deliver personalised 
customer experiences.
VR/AR Sales Suites
We are piloting VR and AR-enabled sales suites to 
enhance customer interactions and provide potential 
clients with interactive walkthroughs of upcoming 
developments. This helps them make well-informed 
decisions. Our approach is particularly valuable for our 
NRIs and remote buyers.
CRM Enhancements
Salesforce (SFDC) is now our central CRM platform 
and integrated with SAP to create a unified customer 
journey from initial inquiry h to onboarding. 
This includes:
Apollo IO 
for automating 
B2B engagement 
campaigns.
LiveWell Circle  
(powered by 
Advantage Club) for 
customer rewards.
Deployed Complaint 
Management System 
(CMS)
Reloy App (Max App) is a 
dedicated customer portal 
for updates, payments, 
and documents.
Regular milestone-based 
updates and WhatsApp 
communications ensure 
proactive engagement.
Monthly events and 
LiveWell community 
initiatives foster community 
and make every interaction 
warm and human.
ESTATE 28 
Artistic Rendition
Integrated Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
105
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
104
Clash Detection 
and Coordination
Automated tools 
identify spatial conflicts, 
significantly reducing on-
site errors.
Data-led 
Decision-making
Dashboards powered by BIM 
integrate project cost and 
scheduling data, enabling 
informed and timely 
decision-making.
Safety and 
Risk Mitigation
BIM enables virtual 
walkthroughs to identify and 
mitigate hazards proactively, 
thereby enhancing safety 
during both design and on-
site construction.
Building Information Modelling (BIM)
Max Estates is piloting Building Information Modelling (BIM) through Autodesk Construction Cloud to strengthen 
design coordination, construction planning, and asset performance. By combining architectural, structural, and 
MEP systems in shared digital models, tools like Revit and Autodesk Construction Cloud help detect early clashes, 
streamline construction sequencing, and manage cost effectively.
Here's how BIM transforms its operations:
Leveraging AI for 
Enhanced Efficiency
We are expanding the use of AI and automation across 
operations, design, construction management, and 
customer service. Current applications include AI-
enabled tools for daylight and ventilation simulations, 
along with generative design platforms, such as Rhino, 
Dynamo, and Grasshopper to support space planning 
and design workflows. Predictive analytics are being 
assessed for applications in HVAC performance, energy 
consumption, and indoor air quality management.
The Building Management System (BMS) has 
been upgraded with IoT sensors, while emerging 
technologies such as digital twins and blockchain 
are under review for potential adoption in BMS and 
contract management. The enhanced BMS now 
features advanced logic and sensor-based controls to 
maintain thermal comfort in tenant areas and manage 
system parameters efficiently. Integration with other 
facility systems allows for automated monitoring 
and control, reinforcing operational efficiency and 
advancing sustainability objectives.
Salesforce (SFDC)
Launched across residential and commercial 
businesses, SFDC supports:
	»
End-to-end customer lifecycle management.
	»
Integration with Google Analytics and GTM for 360° 
marketing attribution.
	»
Real-time funnel visibility and campaign 
performance tracking.
SAP and SAP Ariba
Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing 
(SAP) S/4 HANA is Max Estates’ central Enterprise 
Resource Planning (ERP) system, integrated with SFDC. 
It’s major functions include:
	»
Real-time procurement, finance, and vendor 
management workflows.
	»
Automated reconciliations, dashboarding, and 
secure user access controls.
	»
SAP Ariba ensures transparent and agile 
vendor engagement.
Wobot
Wobot.ai, a video intelligence platform, is being 
implemented to strengthen compliance and monitor 
construction quality, site safety, and productivity 
through AI-powered visual data.
Clairco
Indoor air quality across all operational sites is 
monitored through Clairco, which provides real-
time insights on PM2.5, PM10, CO₂, and VOC 
levels. The platform issues alerts for proactive 
maintenance of AHU filters, helping maintain 
optimal air quality standards.
Smart Joules
Smart Joules’ IoT-based software is deployed 
to optimise energy consumption in HVAC 
systems. Its algorithms assess chiller loads 
and environmental conditions in real time, 
dynamically adjusting operations to improve 
efficiency and reduce costs.
Zykrr
Zykrr is used to capture real-time feedback 
across stakeholder touchpoints, enabling 
data-driven enhancements to the 
customer experience.
Reloy (Max App)
The Reloy app serves as the official customer 
portal for Max Estates, providing clients with a 
single platform to manage interactions, track 
project progress, and access post-sales services.
The app allows clients to:
	»
View construction updates.
	»
Receive milestone-linked invoices.
	»
Download payment receipts.
	»
Access project documentation and 
event calendars.
Ozontel
All inbound calls and client communications 
are managed through Ozontel, facilitating 
real-time query resolution and improving call 
handling efficiency for both residential and 
commercial prospects.
Our commitment to ‘real well-being’ is 
strengthened by many such internal operations 
involving seamless, intelligent, and human-
centred digital experiences.
Digital Intervention for ESG
Max Estates’ digital innovation is tied to our ESG objectives,  
which pushes us to improve our environmental performance. 
Our IT and digital infrastructure are central to supporting 
sustainability while maintaining transparency and 
accountability into everyday business practices.
A key milestone in this journey has been the migration of 
70% of IT workloads to the green-certified cloud, cutting 
energy use and carbon emissions in meaningful ways. We 
joined hands with certified e-waste recyclers and achieved a 
30% year-on-year drop in electronic waste.
Our digital backbone, built on BIM, SAP S/4HANA, and 
advanced analytics platforms, helps us track energy 
and water use in real-time and take steps to cut our 
construction waste.
Max Estates has carried out structured digital practices to 
minimise our environmental footprint of both administrative 
and operational activities. Many of which include:
Our sustainability consultants step in right at the beginning, 
working closely through the schematic and detailed design 
phases. They are committed to meeting our regulatory 
needs and certification standards. Supported by a strong 
digital foundation, we weave ESG principles into everything 
we do, whether it is planning, building, or long-term upkeep. 
In doing so, we nurture a real estate future that is both 
responsible and lasting.
Responsible e-waste 
disposal through 
certified vendors
Tracking indoor air quality 
with real-time dashboards 
and IoT sensors
Adoption of net-zero 
readiness strategies in 
future-ready building design
E-signature 
platforms to 
reduce physical 
documentation
Restricted usage of energy-
intensive resources such as 
colour printers
A cloud-based 
recordkeeping 
and e-approvals 
to enablepaperless 
workflows
Online collaboration 
tools (Microsoft 
Teams, Zoom) 
to minimise 
travel emissions
Regular energy audits 
of IT infrastructure
Integration of LEED 
and IGBC standards 
into project design 
using structured 
checklists
107
106
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Design and Research
Max Estates’ design philosophy is rooted in its 
thoughtful research, user insights, and global best 
practices. Our Design and Product team utilises 
a structured, insight-led approach that lends 
functionality with warmth, creating contemporary 
urban spaces that are relevant and distinctive.
Ideas take shape through a blend of internal exploration 
and collaborations. We combine competitive 
benchmarking, trend studies, and partnerships with 
international consultants and research experts. The 
evolving needs of our customers are understood 
through open conversations, focus groups, expert 
exchanges and prototype trials with potential 
buyers, ensuring each design reflects both aspiration 
and practicality.
From the first sketch to detailed 3D models, every 
project moves through a well-structured design 
journey. Layouts are refined with Sales, Leasing, and 
Finance teams to balance creativity with commercial 
sense. This open, cross-functional approach helps 
create spaces that are cohesive, purposeful, and long-
lasting. To bring fresh perspective and craftsmanship, 
we work alongside global design leaders such 
as Gensler UK, Studio Lotus, and RSP, blending 
international inspiration with a deep understanding 
of local character to shape spaces that are distinctive, 
sustainable, and human in spirit.
Max Estates’ forward-looking design roadmap for 
FY2026 focuses on:
Operational Agility: Delivering 
Differentiation
At Max Estates, operational agility is guided by 
the goal of creating exceptional experiences. It is 
supported by well-structured systems, seamless digital 
integration, and a culture of continual improvement. 
We focus on balancing high performance with costs 
efficiently, never losing sight of long-term value across 
our operations. Through advanced platforms, lean 
processes, and real-time insights, agility is woven into 
every fabric of how we think, design, and deliver.
We also bring consistency and efficiency to every site 
through our Integrated Management System (IMS) that 
follows ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 45001 standards. 
These help us strengthen performance, streamline 
processes, and reinforce safety and sustainability. Our 
teams rely on digital tools like the Vendor Management 
System (VMS) and trackers such as Excel and 
Google Sheets to simplify administrative work. Real-
time dashboards, SOPs, and performance KPIs are 
embedded into daily practices, allowing for transparent 
tracking and timely course corrections.
Key operational enhancements include:
	»
SAP implementation for a streamlined inventory, 
operations, finance, CAM, and CAPEX management, 
which fast-tracks approvals and improves visibility.
	»
Factech App adoption for field technicians, providing 
real-time task updates, swift complaint resolution, 
and seamless coordination across developments.
	»
Predictive Maintenance programmes using vibration 
analysis, thermography, and oil diagnostics to shift 
from scheduled to condition-based servicing that 
minimises downtime and maximises asset life.
	»
Digital energy monitoring and HVAC optimisation 
through IoT sensors and BMS platforms, assisting 
in proactive energy management and greater 
cost efficiency.
	»
Neptune and other smart tech tools, vendor 
management systems, and automated trackers 
are used to simplify workflows and reduce 
manual interventions.
We balance short-term cost controls with long-term 
investments. We use phased capital planning and ROI-
based initiatives such as Cooling-as-a-Service (CaaS) 
and partnerships with OEMs to shrink lifecycle costs. 
Our IT framework remains flexible, steered by a well-
defined skill matrix, continuous learning, agile practices 
and regular feedback to nurture a scalable, future-
ready, people-first roadmap.
Technology upgrades: 
Adopting AI-powered 
tools like Midjourney 
and Cohoom for faster 
visualisation and 
spatial planning.
Collaborative 
platforms: 
Using Miro and similar tools 
for global coordination 
and ideation.
Learning culture: 
Hosting expert 
sessions (e.g., with 
BIG Architecture) and 
roundtables to drive 
continuous improvement.
Wellness-
focused research: 
Partnering with Gensler’s 
innovation team and 
wellness experts to 
shape next-generation 
design frameworks.
Global exposure: 
Participating in forums 
such as India Design 
ID, Bhutan Innovation 
Forum, and the World 
Architecture Festival.
Innovating Sales, Enhancing 
Customer Experience
Our digital integration shapes how we innovate in sales 
and how we connect with our customers, which, in 
turn, leads to stronger conversions. The omni-channel 
outreach strategy combines digital marketing with 
content-led storytelling, interactive tools, and CRM 
systems. These make our content more relatable, 
personal and meaningful.
Lead-generation campaigns across Meta, YouTube, 
LinkedIn, and Google generated over 7,500 qualified 
leads for Estate 360 and Estate 128, with a Return 
on Ad Spend (ROAS) of 42, well beyond the industry 
benchmark. Virtual walkthroughs, interactive 
e-brochures, pricing calculators, and location videos 
help customers explore each project, and make the 
right decision with greater ease and confidence. 
Our experience centres added a physical dimension, 
offering a tactile and immersive view of the brand and 
our spaces.
We use Salesforce CRM and SFDC integrations to make 
lead tracking and lifecycle management seamless. 
This brings accuracy to our campaign and simplifies 
customer onboarding. Email marketing recorded an 
open rate of 28.3%, while social media engagement 
rose by 150% through relevant content that was 
precisely targeted. Strategic Out-of-Home (OOH) ads 
and print campaigns increased brand awareness in 
premium micro-markets. Real-time performance 
monitoring tools helped us optimise and stay cost 
efficient. This brought down Cost Per Mille (CPM) by 
35% reduction and Cost Per Click (CPC) by 21%.
This integrated, data-driven approach ensures we 
remain agile, listen to customers, and stay aligned with 
the pace of digital transformation.
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
109
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
108
Data Privacy: Bolstering 
Digital Security
In FY2025, we strengthened our cybersecurity 
and privacy frameworks through proactive, 
organisation-wide interventions. Data masking 
and access controls were built in CRM applications 
to protect sensitive information. These were 
supported by multi-factor authentication, audit 
trails, and a maker-checker-approver process. We 
also completed a detailed Vulnerability Assessment 
and Penetration Testing (VAPT) exercise, addressing 
all issues flagged. We are also countering data 
breaches and cyber threats through the use of 
Data Loss Prevention (DLP) systems, securing email 
gateways, and encrypting protocols.
All vendor interactions are guided by NDAs, 
with clear Turnaround Time (TAT) protocols that 
respond to the severity of incidents. Governance 
over software usage is maintained through the 
centralised license management system and 
monthly compliance. Our IT operations follow 
the ITIL framework for risk management, change 
control, and incident response. When it comes to 
new tech initiatives, we are using the Eisenhower 
Matrix to set priorities and balance urgency for 
smoother project executions.
Our commitment to continuous improvement is 
reflected in regular application updates, annual 
security reviews, and strategic partnerships. 
Together, these efforts help us remain secure, 
accountable, and well-prepared for the future.
Data Privacy
0
No. of cases 
of data breaches
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
Compliance
Max Estates works within an extensive compliance and 
intensive control framework supported by advanced 
digital systems and ethical governance. Our enterprise 
resource planning platform, SAP, provides financial 
accuracy, control, and regulatory discipline through 
safeguards such as segregation of duties, documented 
SOPs, system-led checks, monthly reconciliations, and 
multi-level management reviews. These steps preserve 
integrity and reliable data.
For auditable, and accessible recordkeeping, we 
maintain a secure Document Management System 
(DMS) fortified by an automated backup policy in line 
with the regulatory standards. This protects us against 
data loss and strengthens business continuity.
Max Estates uses digital tools such as 
Autodesk Construction Cloud (ACC), 
Microsoft Project (MSP), and SAP, to 
enhance project planning, progress 
monitoring, and risk mitigation.
These tools provide us with real-time dashboards 
that simplify reporting, and encourage transparency 
across functions. All financial reporting is compliant 
with Ind AS and other statutory norms. It is supported 
by continuous training for our finance teams 
and strengthened through periodic internal and 
external audits.
Long-term Digital Roadmap
In collaboration with KPMG, we have mapped out a 
comprehensive three-year digital plan that will steer 
us towards our growth ambitions while deepening our 
people-first commitment, operational excellence, and 
sustainability goals. The roadmap aligns with our teams 
with global business practices, making us future-ready 
and KPI-driven.
In FY2026 and beyond, our digital transformation 
efforts will focus on:
	»
Expanding automation across financial workflows, 
improving SAP capabilities, and advancing analytics 
to foster decision-making and business agility.
	»
Scaling technology adoption across the real estate 
value chain, in both commercial and residential 
assets, to elevate health, safety, customer experience, 
operational efficiency, and cost management.
	»
Embedding ESG principles across our portfolio as we 
work towards achieving a 5-star GRESB rating while 
integrating renewable energy solutions and setting 
sharp Net Zero targets.
	»
Broadening brand presence and customer 
engagement by communicating Max Estates 
narrative across Delhi-NCR and select international 
markets, expanding both our reach and 
customer base.
This roadmap positions Max Estates to lead with 
intelligent digital integration, sustainable practices, and 
to create long-term value that stands the test of time 
for all our stakeholders.
Integrated Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
111
110
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
110
Capitals Impacted
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
People at the Heart 
of Our Progress
HUMAN CAPITAL
At Max Estates, people are the foundation of everything we build. We see workplaces not just as spaces, but as 
strategic assets that inspire collaboration, spark creativity, and nurture community. The rise of hybrid work and a 
focus on well-being have prompted us to rethink how we engage and support our team.
Cross-functional teams are in place to drive our WorkWell and LiveWell initiatives across both internal and 
external workstreams. 
Health and safety risks in 
construction are managed 
through a structured, proactive 
approach, guided by ISO 45001 
and ISO 14001 standards.
Our WorkWell philosophy ensures that wellness, flexibility, 
and purpose remain at the core of how we operate. Our 
developments are designed to meet modern expectations, 
prioritising mental and physical health, inclusivity, and 
a deep sense of belonging. By creating agile, supportive 
work environments, we empower every individual to find 
meaning and joy in their journey.
We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture 
where every person is valued, respected, and given the 
opportunity to grow and thrive.
Key Highlights
223
Employee strength
16% 
Gender Diversity
8.5/10
Employee 
engagement score
35
No. of women 
employees
2.26
Upgrading 
Employee Skills
33.33%
Board diversity
86%
Retention rate
75.30%
Employees receiving 
Performance & Career 
Development Review
3.94
Training hours 
per employee
Key SDGs
At Max Estates, our purpose is to 
‘enhance quality of life through the 
spaces we create’. The well-being 
of our stakeholders, including 
employees, is at the core of our 
operating philosophy. We believe in 
attracting and nurturing a diverse, 
best-in-class talent pool, which will 
enable our future journey and uplift 
the overall standard of the real estate 
industry. We believe in creating a 
purpose-driven and performance-
oriented culture through a 
structured approach to talent review, 
career development, upskilling, 
and engagement.
Financial Capital
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
113
112
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Wellness – Curating Enriching Experiences
Details of Employees and Workers
To track the impact of these 
initiatives, a dedicated WorkWell 
section is built into the annual 
Employee Sustainability Survey 
(ESS) and conducted with 
independent partners to ensure 
depth and objectivity.
The Human Resource (HR) is now positioned as 
a driver of ESG capability. ESG goals form a core 
part of individual KRAs, especially for leadership, 
with progress reviewed annually. Expert agencies 
are enhancing in-house ESG capabilities, while a 
dedicated team drives wellness, sustainability, and 
inclusivity through our people strategy, shaping a 
workforce that is agile, engaged, and ready for the 
future of real estate.
At Max Estates, wellness is seen as a fundamental 
enabler for performance, purpose, and a sense of 
belonging. Anchored in our WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophy, wellness is thoughtfully woven into 
our spaces, culture, and operations. We design 
workplaces as vibrant ecosystems that nurture joy, 
collaboration, and holistic well-being. 
Landmarks like Max Towers and Max House bring 
this vision to life with office spaces, sustainable 
design, and amenities that make every day easier 
and more rewarding. Fitness zones, wellness 
corners, and integrated lifestyle services are 
designed to enhance work-life balance.
Wellness is institutionalised internally through 
dedicated WorkWell Committees and well-being-
centric initiatives. From ergonomic workshops 
and yoga sessions to on-site wellness events at 
our projects, we ensure that both employees and 
site workers benefit. Company-wide celebrations, 
such as International Yoga Day, promote long-
term healthy habits and build a shared culture 
of well-being.
68
06
58
08
15
10
150
10
117
188
18
05
12
05
06
16
95
28
24
01
23
35
FY2024
FY2024
FY2023
86
Total Employees
FY2023
FY2023
FY2023
140
Total Employees
223
Total Employees
Employee Distribution
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
By Age (Years)
Less than 30
By Age (Years)
30-50
By Age (Years)
More than 50
Male
Femele
115
114
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
By Region (India)
68
117
188
18
23
FY2023
FY2024
FY2025
Male
Femele
35
Employee Engagement: 
Fostering Potential
At Max Estates, employee engagement 
is a continuous journey rather than a 
one-time event. We focus on building 
a purpose-driven, inspired, and 
emotionally connected workforce. 
Aligned by our WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophies, we use structured 
mechanisms to measure engagement, 
understand sentiments, and design 
interventions that elevate well-being, 
retention, and performance.
In FY2025, our employee satisfaction 
score rose from 8.2 to 8.5, reflecting 
the impact of initiatives like Pulse and 
the integration of wellness and wealth-
sharing tools such as ESOPs.
WorkWell Challenges
As part of our holistic well-being approach, 
Max Estates rolled out wellness challenges 
across teams and locations. Our focus 
areas include physical health, mental 
well-being, sustainable living, and team 
bonding, reinforcing our belief that 
engaged people thrive in a culture of 
care and purpose. From yoga sessions 
to sustainable lifestyle workshops, these 
initiatives helped employees balance work 
demands with personal wellness.
Leadership Programme: 
Max Leaders of Tomorrow
Through our MEL Next programme, now 
called Max Leaders of Tomorrow, we are 
shaping future leaders. More than 20 
high-potential employees have been 
trained through a mix of mentorship, 
360° feedback, and immersive leadership 
development modules. The curriculum 
embeds inclusive leadership and bias-
free decision-making as non-negotiable 
leadership traits.
Pulse Workshops
Our Pulse engagement platform places 
employees at the core of our culture. 
It includes periodic Pulse workshops, 
anonymous surveys, town halls, and 
experience-sharing sessions that shape 
actionable interventions. Managers 
and teams co-own the feedback loops, 
creating a culture of transparency, 
responsiveness and collaboration.
Employee Volunteer Programme
Building on our community-centric philosophy, we are 
building a structured Employee Volunteer Programme  
that channels our team’s passion into meaningful impact. 
Employees contribute time and skills to initiatives such as:
Retain key 
talent, keeping 
attrition below 
industry 
benchmarks
Habitat for 
Humanity builds
Green drives and 
tree plantations
Strengthen 
our employer 
brand in talent 
markets and 
campuses
These have helped:
Enable employee 
wealth creation 
and enhance their 
quality of life
Build a feedback-
positive culture 
where insights 
drive action
We are exploring tech-driven enhancements for engagement, 
evaluating platforms like Zoho HRMS and analytics-based solutions 
for deeper workforce insights. Building on past partnerships with 
Zykrr, we have engaged Deloitte to conduct a comprehensive culture 
survey in FY2026.
This is more than a way to give back. It is also a vehicle for 
deeper employee purpose, pride, and alignment with our 
social impact goals. Together, these initiatives reinforce the 
belief that empowered, heard, and engaged employees 
are the strongest foundation for a resilient and future-
ready organisation.
Health and wellness camps 
in communities near our 
project sites
117
116
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
Performance and 
Career Development
We nurture a performance culture that is transparent, 
structured, and closely tied to business outcomes 
and individual growth. In FY2024, we introduced 
the Performance Enhancement Plan (PEP), further 
strengthened in FY2025, which now anchors our 
biannual review cycle during October-November and 
April-May. This ensures every employee receives timely, 
constructive feedback.
Evaluations are linked to clearly defined Key 
Responsibility Areas (KRAs) and competency parameters 
shared in advance. 
Performance reviews are anchored 
in Measures of Success (MoS), a 
framework aligned with business 
goals and approved by the NRC and 
Board, ensuring every individual’s 
growth is in step with Max Estates’ 
strategic priorities.
Learning and 
Development Framework
A future-focused approach to 
capability-building sits at the core 
of our talent strategy. Each year, 
Max Estates allocate a dedicated 
Learning and Development 
(L&D) budget, shaped by past 
year’s utilisation and projected 
headcount. Following the annual 
review cycle in May, we conduct 
a Training Needs Analysis (TNA) 
that informs tailored Individual 
Development Plans (IDPs) for 
every employee.
Created in consultation with 
managers, each IDP outlines 
targeted learning programmes 
aligned with personal aspirations 
and business priorities. Progress 
is reviewed at both mid-year and 
annual assessments. A dedicated 
L&D budget is allotted at the 
beginning of the year ensuring 
organisation-wide and individual 
learning needs are catered to. This 
ensures that employees are able to 
pursue skill-building programmes, 
tailor their learning journey, track 
progress, and align growth with 
both individual aspirations and 
business needs.
Leadership 
Development
To build the next generation of 
leaders, we have institutionalised 
the MEL Next Leadership 
Development Programme, 
grooming over 20 high-potential 
employees for critical roles through 
action learning projects, mentoring, 
and capability assessments.
Senior leaders undergo 
360-degree feedback to enhance 
self-awareness and enhance 
leadership effectiveness. Select 
talent is nominated for prestigious 
executive education programmes 
with global institutions such 
as Harvard, Wharton, and the 
IIMs, providing exposure to 
international best practices and 
thought leadership.
Retention and Feedback-
driven Growth
We place equal weight on listening 
and acting. Formal exit interviews 
and candid verbal feedback sessions 
with HR, reporting managers, and 
sometimes skip-level leadership 
provide deep insight into the employee 
experience. These inputs are analysed, 
shared with the right stakeholders, 
and used to refine retention strategies 
and foster a positive workplace 
culture. Stay surveys are also being 
introduced to identify the factors 
that drive people to stay and thrive, 
further strengthening its people-
first approach.
Workforce Planning and 
Capability Management
Workforce planning is seamlessly 
woven into both strategic 
business plans and on-ground 
project execution. For every 
new development, a phased 
organogram and hiring roadmap 
are prepared in line with project 
scale, complexity, and the required 
skillsets, then finalised and 
approved ahead of launch.
A headcount and manpower 
plan is developed, reviewed, and 
approved at the beginning of each 
financial year. This allows us to 
proactively plan for talent needs 
across all verticals and projects 
with precision.
Function-specific 
Capability Building
To elevate customer experience and 
engagement, we are launching a 
dedicated capability development 
programme for our CRM team. 
Rooted in our WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophies, our training modules 
will focus on customer-centricity, 
hospitality, and empathy, aligned with 
Max Estates’ core value of Sevabhav.
Talent Management 
and Pipeline
At Max Estates, talent strategy is rooted in building 
future-ready capabilities while attracting, developing, 
and retaining high-performers across the real estate 
value chain. In FY2025, we made strong progress in 
institutionalising digital platforms, structured hiring 
The onboarding process 
was further enhanced with:
Digitised 
pre-joining 
formalities and 
engagement
Site tours 
across 
operational 
and under-
construction 
projects
Group 
induction and 
leadership 
interaction
programmes, and data-driven HR 
processes to strengthen workforce 
agility and leadership succession.
We piloted and rolled out Zoho 
Recruit, a digital recruitment platform 
that automates the end-to-end 
hiring lifecycle. From requisition 
and sourcing to screening and offer 
release, resulting in faster turnaround 
times and a better candidate 
experience. Integrated with Zoho 
Onboard and Zoho People, the 
platform ensures a seamless journey 
from recruitment to onboarding, and 
HR operations.
Max Estates continues to 
strengthen its talent pipeline 
through targeted academic 
partnerships. The Young Business 
Leaders Programme (YBLP) 
attracts top talent from premier 
campuses, while partnerships 
with RICS, NICMAR, and design 
institutions facilitate lateral 
hiring. A Graduate Engineer 
and Architect Trainee (GET/GAT) 
programme is set for launch in 
FY2026. Additionally, we partner 
with key industry forums, such as 
CII, NAREDCO, NHRDN, and GRI, 
to foster thought leadership and 
industry alignment.
118
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
119
Leadership Pipeline 
and Workforce Planning
Max Estates has institutionalised the MEL Next leadership 
development programme to identify and groom high-
potential talent across verticals. Over 20 team members 
have been developed under this initiative, with defined 
succession plans in place across critical executive and 
technical roles. Where gaps exist, structured development 
plans are underway.
To support strategic decisions, HR leverages 
analytics across:
Cost per hire at both 
organisational and 
department levels
We adopted a holistic 
model built around 
IDPs, career progression, 
and wellness.
Attrition trends and 
diversity mix
Formalised a 
benchmarked sales 
incentive plan with 
individual letters.
Headcount tracking 
and compensation 
benchmarking
Rolling out a Sales 
Capability Development 
Programme in FY2026.
HR-to-Employee ratios 
for effective engagement 
management
Succession planning is anchored in the Organisation 
Talent Review (OTR) process, which involves annual and 
mid-year reviews, 360-degree feedback, and Individual 
Development Plans (IDPs). Every key role is mapped to 
identified successors, with readiness assessments shaping 
targeted upskilling initiatives.
To address retention challenges, especially in 
critical roles:
Looking ahead, we are partnering with 
Deloitte to enhance workforce planning, 
in alignment with new project additions. 
The central IT and Learning & Development 
teams are piloting AI-powered analytics 
and productivity tools, with initial training 
sessions already underway.
Empowering Through Expertise – 
Employee Training and Development
At Max Estates, exceptional performance starts with preparation and 
thrives on continuous learning, anchored by Max Asset Services Limited 
(MASL). Our approach is structured, inclusive, and aligned with both 
departmental goals and real-time skill needs. The Annual Training Plan 
promotes both organisational and personal growth, while the Train-the-
Trainer (TtT) programme equips in-house trainers to lead high-quality 
sessions in engineering, housekeeping, and security.
To determine training priorities, we utilise a Training Needs Identification 
(TNI) system that employs a blended learning approach. From classroom 
instruction and digital modules to hands-on practice, the effectiveness 
is measured through assessments and feedback. Upon completing the 
training, participants receive certificates and tokens of appreciation, 
which help foster a positive learning environment.
All our employees are required to complete human rights training, 
covering the Max Code of Conduct and the Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment (POSH) policies, reinforcing our commitment to a zero-
tolerance approach to violations. Emergency drills, safety campaigns, and 
knowledge-sharing sessions further strengthen readiness and resilience.
We have partnered with the globally recognised British Safety Council 
(BSC) to strengthen our health, safety, and sustainability standards. 
Through BSC’s digital learning platform, our employees gain access 
to comprehensive training, assessments, and resources, ensuring our 
workplaces remain safe, healthy, and future-ready.
In FY2026, Max Estates will launch a digital learning platform to make 
training more accessible, trackable, and impactful. Compliance training 
for every new hire will be mandatory, with digital modules and integrated 
assessments ensuring complete readiness from day one.
Through our Organizatson Talent Review 
(OTR), we pair competency assessments 
with in-depth Training Needs Analysis 
(TNA) to form the basis for personalised 
Individual Development Plans (IDPs) for 
every team member.
121
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
120
Integrated Report 2024-25
Through this integrated and continually evolving 
training framework, we are building a high-
performance workforce ready to meet dynamic project 
demands, deliver excellence at speed, while living our 
WorkWell and LiveWell promise in every action.
Structured safety 
induction and 
orientation for 
all site-based 
employees
Regular toolbox 
talks and 
emergency 
response drills 
across project sites
Job-specific 
training tailored 
to operational 
responsibilities
100%
training coverage 
across verticals 
and locations 
during FY2025
Inclusive Benefits for an Evolving Workforce
Employee well-being is central to Max Estates’ ethos, 
focusing on physical, emotional, and professional 
wellness. This philosophy is reflected in thoughtfully 
designed benefit programmes that support all life-
stage needs, promote health, and facilitate a balanced 
work-life experience.
In FY2025, the employee benefits framework was 
strengthened with new offerings and higher uptake 
of existing policies. Paternity leave benefits were 
enhanced, with an increased utilisation during the 
year underscores a more inclusive, family-supportive 
culture. Employees approaching retirement now 
have the option to take advisory roles, helping retain 
institutional knowledge while ensuring smooth 
mentorship for our younger talent.
Hybrid and remote work arrangements are supported 
through department-specific hot desks, enhancing 
mobility across locations, including the Head Office. 
A satellite office in Gurugram makes collaboration 
easier for project-based teams in that area. The 
administration department works closely with Human 
Resources (HR), Information Technology (IT), and 
Security to ensure employees are supported across 
onboarding, seating arrangements, wellness activities, 
grievance resolution, workstations, transport safety, 
and CCTV management.
A dedicated WorkWell team drives year-round 
wellness-centric programmes, while independent 
employee satisfaction surveys track engagement, 
workplace wellness, and overall experience.
These initiatives have fostered a more inclusive 
workplace culture, improved talent diversity across 
geographies, and stronger employee satisfaction.
These evolving policies embed care and empathy into 
our workplace practices, helping employees navigate 
life transitions with dignity and support.
To support strategic decisions, HR leverages analytics across:
Key benefits and wellness initiatives include:
Health check-ups and a partnership with a new 
wellness and insurance provider offering digital 
doctor consultations
An on-site health centre with a certified physician 
during office hours
Access to a clinical psychologist for mental well-
being consultations
Flexible working hours for new mothers returning 
from maternity leave
Hybrid flexibility allowing employees to work from any 
Max Estates office (Delhi, Noida, Gurugram), reducing 
commute and improving work-life balance
Workplace wellness sessions on ergonomics, yoga, 
meditation, and sustainable lifestyles
Parental Leave
Max Estates recognises that caregiving is a critical stage 
of life, and we approach it with empathy, flexibility, and 
support. In line with our people-first philosophy and 
commitment to inclusivity, our enhanced maternity and 
paternity leave policies in FY2024 led to a noticeable 
increase in adoption across the organisation.
To support new mothers in their transition back to work, 
we have established a flexible and accommodating work 
environment that enables them to care for themselves 
and their newborns while transitioning back into the 
workplace. Options to adjust work hours and work from 
any Max Estates office help make this return smoother.
Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion (DEI)
Diversity at Max Estates is not a standalone goal. It is a 
key enabler of a collaborative, empathetic, and high-
performance culture. We are dedicated to fostering 
an inclusive workplace where diversity is valued and 
employees are empowered to grow and thrive.
With a target of 25% gender diversity, particularly in 
project execution teams, we are working to increase 
female representation in on-site roles through targeted 
initiatives, skills development, and a supportive work 
environment. Academic partnerships and mentorship 
programmes encourage young women to pursue 
careers in real estate.
To enhance understanding and drive change, we 
partnered with In Tandem Global Consulting to publish 
Concrete Change, a report highlighting the need for 
pay parity and inclusion in a sector that remains one of 
the least diverse for women.
DEI at Max Estates is a continuous journey. Anchored in 
data-driven interventions, proactive policy shifts, and 
inclusive leadership, we continue to address systemic 
barriers and promote fairness, opportunities, and 
representation across our ecosystem.
To further strengthen our support 
ecosystem, a Bereavement Leave 
policy was introduced, recognising 
the emotional and personal needs of 
employees during times of loss.
Employee Diversity by Gender in %
FY2025
Total Permanent Employees
16%
Women in the workforce
188
Male
35
Female
123
122
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Employees
We have taken concrete steps to ensure equitable 
pay, improve gender representation, and drive 
inclusive practices across teams.
Board Diversity
As of FY2025, our Board reflects a balanced 
mix of experience, perspective, and governance 
independence. Of the eight members, two are women 
directors. The Board brings together Executive 
and Non-executive Directors with cross-functional 
expertise across real estate, finance, and ESG domains. 
DEI is a key boardroom priority, reinforced through 
regular reviews and disclosures under our Corporate 
Governance framework.
We continue to embed inclusivity in policies, leadership 
behaviours, and cultural touchpoints, ensuring 
our spaces and systems reflect the diversity of the 
communities we serve.
Beyond Gender
DEI efforts focus 
beyond gender, now 
extending to age, 
background, and 
abilities, supported 
through targeted 
programmes and 
partnerships for hiring 
and engagement.
Pay Parity
Internal pay ranges are 
updated quarterly based 
on grade, experience, and 
role type.
Gender-agnostic 
benchmarking (internal 
and external) with 
corrective actions 
wherever required.
Inclusive Leadership 
and Bias Training
All people managers 
are trained to conduct 
unbiased reviews 
and provide objective 
performance feedback.
The MEL Next leadership 
programme includes a 
focus on unconscious 
bias and inclusive 
leadership, with over 20 
leaders trained so far.
Gender 
Representation
We are aiming for a 
25% overall gender 
diversity and 30% at the 
Head Office by the end 
of FY2026.
As of FY2025, overall 
diversity stands at 20%, 
with 25% at the Head 
Office, reflecting a 
two-fold increase over 
three years.
We’re committed 
to strengthening 
female participation in 
leadership and decision-
making forums.
Occupational Health 
and Safety Management 
At Max Estates, its foundational priority is the safety, 
health, and well-being of every employee, worker, 
contractor, and visitor. The Company’s Occupational 
Health and Safety (OHS) framework is grounded 
in a proactive, systematic approach aligned with 
international standards, including ISO 45001 and ISO 
14001. This helps us anticipate risks, prevent incidents, 
and nurture a culture of continuous improvement 
across all offices and project sites.
All of its sites implement a structured 
Hazard Identification and Risk 
Assessment (HIRA) process, backed 
by thorough planning and control 
measures.
Hybrid and remote work arrangements are supported 
through department-specific hot desks, enhancing 
mobility across locations, including the Head Office. 
A satellite office in Gurugram makes collaboration 
easier for project-based teams in that area. The 
administration department works closely with Human 
Resources (HR), Information Technology (IT), and 
Security to ensure employees are supported across 
onboarding, seating arrangements, wellness activities, 
grievance resolution, workstations, transport safety, 
and CCTV management.
A dedicated WorkWell team drives year-round 
wellness-centric programmes, while independent 
employee satisfaction surveys track engagement, 
workplace wellness, and overall experience.
Through disciplined processes, close collaboration, 
and continuous monitoring, we are reinforcing a 
zero-harm culture and keeping all offerings safe and 
creating a secure space for all.
Max Estates have institutionalised oversight through 
a dedicated Safety Committee that actively monitors, 
reports, and reviews site performance metrics. 
We have also engaged Bureau Veritas (BVI) as 
an independent third-party auditor to assess the 
effectiveness of our health and safety controls.
Incident Matrix
Occurrence FY2025
Key Performance Safety Matrix*
0
LTISR 0
LTIFR
Key highlights – FY2025 include:
Strengthened performance monitoring under Max 
Estates’ EHS SOPs, resulting in improved LTIFR and 
LTISR indicators
Broader training and audit coverage across sites, 
raising safety compliance and preparedness
Zero major incidents or reportable mishaps across 
any location
Occupational Injury Matrix FY2025
Injury rate
5.11
Fatalities rate
0
Lost Time Injury Rate
0
Lost Time Severity Rate
0
Indicators
Details
Total Safe Work Days 
(No. of manpower X working days)
3,40,011
Total Safe Work Hours 
(Total Safe Work Days X working hours)
34,00,108
Number of Safety Training
345
Number of Participants Training
7,154
No of Near Miss Incidents
56
No of First Aid Cases
87
Reportable Accident
0
Serious and Fatalities
0
*Consolidated data of office staff and workers.
Integrated Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
125
124
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Urban Spaces 
Intertwined with Ecology
NATURAL CAPITAL
We see the environment as a part of our shared home, and caring for it is at the heart of Max Estates, 
particularly in today’s world. Every choice we make seeks to reduce our environmental footprint while leaving 
a healthier planet for the future. We continue to focus on resource conservation in areas like energy, water, and 
waste, as well as biodiversity, which has positioned us as a leader in sustainable development. 
Our WorkWell and LiveWell philosophy blends well-being with ecology together, inspiring us to continuously 
advance sustainable building practices in every project.
Our efforts are reflected in 
milestones, including attaining 
a 4-star rating under the 
GRESB framework in 2024 and 
adopting ISO 14001:2015 to 
strengthen our environmental 
management.
Through independent assurance audits for energy, 
water, and waste data, and Net Zero roadmap under 
progress built on digital-first solutions, we are 
committed to green building with USGBC LEED-
certified strategies and WELL/IGBC Certification for 
Health & Well-being.
Every project is an opportunity to leave a positive 
footprint. By weaving ecological considerations into 
urban design, we aim to create spaces where both 
nature and communities grow side by side.
Key Highlights
6,655 tCO2e 
Total Emissions 
Scope 1 & 2
100 % 
E-waste & Hazardous 
waste recycled 
69,785 GJ
Total Energy Consumption 
(direct and indirect)
56 KWp 
Rooftop solar panel energy 
generation capacity
100 %
Portfolio certified under Green 
Building Strategies (LEED / IGBC) 
84,868
mt of Co2 eq. 
Total GHG Emissions
154 GJ 
Renewable energy generation 
and consumption
12,504 GJ
Total Energy Consumed 
(Direct)
86,894 kg
Waste diverted 
from landfill 
96 mn litres
Total Water Withdrawal 
(Million Litres)
Key SDGs
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
We choose materials 
with care for both 
people and the planet. 
Guided by IGBC/LEED 
guidelines, we prioritise 
green-certified, low-VOC 
products and prefer local 
suppliers to minimise 
logistics emissions and 
support local economies.
Human Capital
Capitals Impacted
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Social and 
Relationship Capital
Financial Capital
126
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
127
Natural Harmony Interwoven 
in Every Space
Sustainable Procurement 
and Circular Economy
We choose materials with care for both people and the 
planet. Guided by IGBC/LEED guidelines, we prioritise 
green-certified, low-VOC products and prefer local 
suppliers to minimise logistics emissions and support 
local economies. Recycled materials like fly ash bricks, 
reclaimed steel, and concrete are now common. In 
some projects, we are exploring local alternatives to 
imported marble to help reduce embodied carbon. 
Next year, a detailed Product Design Guideline 
will provide us with clear direction to strengthen 
sustainable practices. 
We embrace a circular-resource mindset by prioritising 
the principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle. Reusing 
materials on-site, such as dismantled exhibition 
structures, is common practice. Our Circular Economy 
Policy highlights the importance of cutting waste and 
repurposing materials, helping us embed sustainability 
in our everyday business.
Key initiatives and impacts:
Sustainability and natural harmony lie at the heart 
of Max Estates’ identity, influencing every part of 
our design, delivery, and operations. Guided by our 
philosophy, our buildings use MERV-13 air filtration, 
UV filters, continuous air monitoring, and biophilic 
elements to support health, comfort, productivity 
and well-being. Our health and safety protocols 
are aligned with WELL and IGBC/LEED standards, 
always learning and improving through audits and 
feedback. Each project teaches us how to do better, 
from construction to service quality while exploring 
new technologies. To reduce our carbon footprint, 
we rely on e-approvals, digital recordkeeping, 
and virtual meetings. Energy usage is monitored 
through audits, and authorised recyclers safely 
handle electronic and hazardous waste such as lube 
oil, batteries, etc. Small steps, such as careful use of 
color printers and replacing single use plastic items, 
further support sustainability efforts.
Max Estates shows its commitment to resource 
conservation, with a focus on energy and water 
efficiency. We are also creating healthy indoor 
environments by optimising airflow, lightning, 
and natural light. Green materials and regular 
maintenance help us maintain comfort and 
sustainability. Low-VOC paints sourced locally 
support community health, while our biophilic 
designs foster a connection to nature. In-person 
and 3D virtual tours show our spaces in action, 
reflecting the well-being of occupants through our 
WorkWell philosophy and the Pulse programme.
20 %
Expected energy savings 
from base-case buildings 
(ASHRAE 90.1.2010)
100 %
Construction uses only 
municipal treated STP water
100 %
Reduction of potable 
water use for landscape
100 %
Sites operate with 
zero-water-discharge
Energy Targets
Energy-efficient utilities, 
high-performance 
building facade and 
passive shading.
Biodiversity Boost
Over 15% green cover, 
vertical gardens, forest 
atrium plazas, native 
planting, and seasonal 
vegetable gardens.
Water Efficiency
Rainwater harvesting, 
digital metering, and 
micro-herb-infusions in 
drinking water systems.
Climate Resilience
Built-in flood drainage, 
material resistance design, 
low-energy HVAC, and 
real-time weather/quality 
monitoring systems.
Waste Reduction
Tie-ups for 100% diversion of 
waste from landfill. On-site 
segregation, composting.
Certifications
WELL, LEED or IGBC ratings 
across the portfolio; GRESB 
4-star, moving toward 5-star.
Sustainable Procurement 
and Circular Economy
Our solar rooftops generate clean renewable energy, 
easing dependence on the grid. When combined with 
green roofs and vertical gardens, they naturally cool 
buildings, lower ambient temperatures, support local 
biodiversity, and foster a connection between our 
occupants and Mother Nature.
Climate Change Adaptation 
and Governance
We constantly monitor weather patterns, choose 
resilient material, and design with natural elements, 
seamlessly integrate shade, drainage and to ensure our 
assets are climate-ready. Our governance is anchored 
by ISO 14001, GRESB 4-star rating, and internal 
climate-focused committees. This helps us track 
progress on environmental policies, regulations, and 
material risk trends, ensuring practical outcomes for 
our future developments.
We uphold strong governance that rests on 
key policy pillars that support sustainability and 
responsible practices.
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
129
128
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
Through our Climate Change Adaptation Policy, we put 
in place resilience strategies to address climate-related 
risks for each site. We combine practical operations and 
long-term planning to empower preparedness.
Our Procurement Policy focuses on sourcing goods 
and services that are environmentally friendly, locally 
sourced, and low-carbon. This approach not only 
prioritises the well-being of communities but is 
also in line with our vision of achieving sustainable 
development through low-impact real estate initiatives.
Our cross-functional ESG committee oversees 
implementation of these policies, backed by internal 
audits and a central ESG dashboard to track progress.
Our Sustainability Policy guides 
our framework for weaving 
ESG considerations into design, 
procurement, operations, and 
community engagement, striving 
for steady improvement across all 
identified ESG dimensions.
Energy
Water
Waste
Sustainable 
Mterial
Biodiversity
Present 
status
	»
6,655 tCO₂e 
total emissions 
(Scope 1 & 2)
	»
154 GJ renewable 
generation 
& consumption
	»
945 tCO₂e total 
emissions of 
under-construction 
projects 
(Scope 1 & 2)
	»
Recording water 
consumption 
at all sources 
and discharge 
and developing 
reduction 
strategy
	»
86,893 kg 
waste diverted 
from landfill 
	»
100% 
e-waste & 
hazardous 
waste recycled
Evaluation of 
various substitutes 
in construction 
material
Vegetate 
more than 5% 
project site with 
native species
Short-term 
target
	»
10% reduction 
in energy 
consumption 
intensity by 2030
	»
Increase 
renewable 
adoption
	»
Exploring IoT 
sensor-based 
background 
consumption 
tracking
Exploring tie-
ups for recycling 
cigarette butts 
and for creating 
a circular 
waste economy
	»
In-depth 
material 
study to 
identify 
alternatives
	»
Two additional 
materials to be 
explored within 
the next year
Explore new 
opportunities 
& resources
Long-term 
target
Net Zero
Net Zero
Net Zero
100% adoption 
of sustainable 
materials
Keep 
innovating and 
experimenting 
with the natural 
cover offered
Framework SBTi commitment
GRESB
GRESB
LEED
LiveWell 
& WorkWell
Air Emissions 
FY2025 (in KG)
Emissions, GHG Emissions 
FY2025 (%)
GHG Emissions 
(in mtCO2eq)
Specific Intensity Emissions 
(lakh)
% Emission Contribution 
(tco2e)
613
NOx
0.23 %
Scope 1
133
Sox
7.61 %
Scope 2
223
Particulate Matter 
(PM)
92.16 %
Scope 3
15
Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOC)
93
0.57
N/A
0.39%
6,811
6.21%
NA
93.39%
Scope 1
GHG Intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2) 
(in mt CO2eq/₹mn revenue)
GHG Intensity (Scope 3) 
(in mt CO2eq/₹mn revenue)
Natural 
Gas
Scope 2
HSD
Scope 3
Electricity 
Grid
197
0.27
1.96
1.04%
6,458
6.10%
78,213
92.86%
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
131
130
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
131
Energy Management
Energy management is one of the multiple integral facets of our approach to real estate. Our initiatives 
aim at minimising reliance on limited resources, cutting emissions, and providing tenants with healthier, 
cost-effective spaces. By combining energy initiatives with passive design, smart technologies, and 
renewable resources, we create a resilient and low-carbon portfolio for the future.
Double-glazed façades
Sensor-driven lighting
Heat-recovery dedicated 
outdoor air systems (DOAS)
Example: 56 kWp system at 
Max Square
Lowers reliance on the grid and 
cuts Scope 2 emissions
Diesel  14.59%
Natural Gas  3.29%
Solar Power Generated  0.22%
Purchased Electricity  81.90%
69,785 GJ
Energy Consumption
29,944
7,410
37,354
Total electricity consumption (in GJ) through GRID
Total fuel consumption (in GJ)
57,281
12,504
69,938
FY2024
FY2024
FY2025
FY2025
0.00
Total energy consumption (in GJ)
154
FY2024
FY2025
60 GJ/PPP (lakhs)
Energy intensity per million rupees of revenue (in GJ)
60 GJ/PPP (lakhs)
FY2024
FY2025
Energy consumed from renewable sources (in GJ)
Passive strategies to reduce HVAC reliance:
Rooftop solar PV installations:
Utilisation of Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled chiller controls and sophisticated Building 
Management Systems (BMS) for:
FY2024
FY2025
Key initiatives include:
Continuous optimisation of 
temperature and cooling
Reduction of energy consumption 
and utility expenses
Energy 
Consumption
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
133
132
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
Our Energy Management System is designed to 
abide by global ISO principles and incorporates 
systematic Energy Performance Indicators (EnPIs), 
audits, targets, and continuous improvement 
cycles. Our policies address energy consumption, 
renewable energy, pollution control, and GHG 
emission reduction, while we actively access Scope 
3 emissions as part of its Net Zero roadmap. Our 
commitment to energy and resource efficiency 
is reflected in its LEED/IGBC-certified assets, 
including Max Towers, Max House, and Max Square. 
Our integrated approach has reduced energy use, 
lowered HVAC loads, and cut operational costs, as 
confirmed by internal audits and ESG dashboards.
Guided by our formal Waste Management 
Policy, we comply with Central and State 
regulations, spanning solid waste, plastic 
waste, construction and demolition waste, 
e-waste, hazardous waste, and battery 
waste. Max Estates’ cross-functional ESG 
governance ensures that policies are 
followed from design to daily operations. 
Through team training, clear signage, and 
regular audits, we make accountability 
simple and consistent.
To reinforce energy savings by combining energy 
management with green procurement strategies, and 
building designs that prioritise the use of recycled 
or locally sourced materials. This reduces embodied 
carbon and encourages a circular economy. 
At the heart of our decarbonisation efforts is the 
Energy Consumption policy, which guides how 
we limit energy use across projects and our daily 
operations. By using energy responsibly, we protect 
the environment and help owners, renters and 
residents enjoy lower operational expense (OPEX) 
savings, in creating spaces that are both sustainable 
and considerate.
31 mt CO2
Avoided CO2 emissions using renewable energy 
99
FY2024
120
FY2025
Efficiency Standards 
and Governance
Waste Management Policy and Oversight
Circularity and Policy 
Complementarity
Electricity Consumption (GJ)
From renewable sources
FY2024
FY 2025
Total energy consumed from renewable sources
XX
154
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
30,132
57,281
Total fuel consumption (E)
1,410
12,504
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
31,543
69,785
Waste Management
We treat waste not as mere remnants but as valuable chances to rejuvenate, recycle, and revitalise. With 
strong policies, inventive approaches, and a commitment to circular thinking, our goal is to achieve zero 
waste to landfills, protect ecosystems, and enhance urban life.
63.02
0.00
32.90
Dry Waste
E-Waste
Waste (tonnes)
Wet Waste
65.50
0.02
52.77
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
2.93
Battery
1.20
FY2024
FY2025
0.36
Lube oil
Total
0.10
FY2024
FY2025
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
135
134
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
134
We prioritise sorting waste at its source, from 
biodegradable and recyclable materials to 
construction and demolition (C&D) debris, 
e-waste, batteries, and used oil. Our goal 
is zero landfill across all properties, and 
we ensure that 100% of all e-waste and 
hazardous waste, such as lubricant oil and 
batteries, is responsibly recycled through 
systems that comply with all regulations.
Organic waste converters are installed at 
operational sites, transforming food waste 
into rich compost that nourishes its green 
cover and completes the nutrient loop. 
On-site composting has been seamlessly 
integrated into its circular economy 
framework. We have completely phased 
out single-use plastic bottles, opting for 
glass alternatives as the standard across our 
commercial and residential assets.
We design with modularity and focus on 
deconstruction-friendly infrastructure to 
minimise demolition waste. Temporary 
structures, like show units, are given a second 
life as permanent site facilities. By utilising 
recovered materials, such as steel, concrete, 
and fly ash bricks, we’re committed to cutting 
down our embodied carbon footprint.
Innovative Waste Management Approach
43.50
65,054
65,054
56
8,426
Recyclers
Total volume of water consumption (in KL)
Third-party water
Retain decimal for intensity
Water recycled (in KL)
Waste disposed by disposal method (tonnes)
Water management
Water withdrawal by source (in KL)
86.89
95,619
95,619
4
16,829
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2024
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
FY2025
55.70
Landfilling
32.70
FY2024
FY2025
3.29
FY2024
1.32
FY2025
Total hazardous waste recovered (tonnes)
Initiative 
Impact
Segregation and recycling
100% e-waste & hazardous recycling; 
zero landfill
Organic composting
On-site composting across properties; 
compost returned to landscaping
Circular building materials
Reused demo structures; recycled steel, 
concrete & fly-ash bricks
Single‑use plastics elimination
Shifted to glass, reducing plastic waste 
across assets
Water Management
At Max Estates, responsible water stewardship is a critical part of its sustainability blueprint. With an awareness 
of the urgent challenges of water scarcity and pollution both in India and worldwide, we have embraced a 
thoughtful, proactive and systematic approach to conserving, reusing, and optimising water resources. Our 
ambition is to build urban spaces that are resilient to water-related challenges, minimise reliance on external 
sources, nurture surrounding ecosystems, and foster long-term climate resilience.
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
137
136
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
Our Water Consumption Policy supports the 
efficient use of water, ensuring that every drop 
is used wisely, across construction to daily 
practices alike. We keep a close eye on water 
usage, identify areas with high consumption, and 
implement strategies for reducing usage in line 
with our sustainability objectives and Net Zero 
goals. Oversight of water management is built 
into our broader ESG governance, helping us stay 
compliant with relevant environmental laws while 
contributing to national water conservation efforts.
Every Max Estates development reflects the 
philosophy that built spaces should harmonise 
and not burden natural ecosystems. Our 
water-sensitive urban design keeps operations 
efficient while protecting and conserving 
water, supporting our long-term water security 
in its regions where we operate.
Water Consumption Policy and 
Strategic Oversight
We have introduced a suite of water-efficient 
technologies and sustainable design strategies 
across our developments, aiming to lower our 
water footprint while meeting the daily needs 
of tenants and users. Our measures focus 
on improving demand-side efficiency and 
strengthening supply-side augmentation.
Sustainable Water 
Infrastructure
Key interventions include:
Max Estates reports 100% water recycling 
across the entire portfolio. All facilities have 
achieved zero liquid discharge, with treated 
wastewater being fully reused for flushing and 
landscaping. Out of 112,450 litres of water used 
in FY2025, around 15% (16,830 litres) came 
from STP recycled water.  Rainwater harvesting, 
efficient waste management and 100% waste 
diversion from landfills are standard. We aim 
to earn a 5-star GRESB rating, building on our 
4-star achievement in 2023 while we ensure a 
Green Building certification for all our assets.
Low-flow Water Fixtures:
Use of low-flow faucets, waterless urinals, and 
pressure-regulated fixtures in all washrooms to 
cut water consumption at the source.
Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD):
All our projects follow a ZLD model, ensuring 
no untreated wastewater is released. Sewage is 
treated and reused within premises, dramatically 
lowering freshwater withdrawal.
High-Capacity Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs):
	»
Max Square: 375 KLD STP
	»
Max Towers: 100 KLD STP
	»
Max House: 70 KLD MBBR technology STP with 
UV treatment
Greywater Recycling:
Treated greywater is used for flushing and 
landscaping, easing demand on potable water usage.
Rainwater Harvesting:
Installed across multiple developments, 
rainwater is collected and stored for reuse in 
irrigation and other non-potable uses.
Smart Metering:
Floor-wise meters lets us track water usage in 
real-time which helps us detect anomalies, and 
optimise every drop.
Irrigation Management:
Landscaped areas use drip irrigation and 
sprinklers, which cut water use compared to 
traditional watering systems.
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
139
138
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
138
Our Biodiversity Policy commits to protecting, 
restoring, and enriching natural habitats across all 
our developments, making environmental care a core 
part of what we do. Guided by our ESG vision and 
the WorkWell and LiveWell philosophies, the policy 
is put into practice through careful oversight and 
governance. Our objective is to preserve and enhance 
native flora and fauna within and around project sites. 
We go a step further by weaving biophilic design and 
green corridors into master plans to foster ecological 
connectivity. Native plant species bloom on our green 
roofs, while natural stormwater features nurture urban 
wildlife, creating vibrant, living landscapes. We are 
aligned with global frameworks, such as the UN SDGs, 
especially SDG 15 as our biodiversity action plans, 
GRESB recommendations, and local conservation 
efforts make every site a place where people coexist 
with nature. This policy applies to all our Max Estates 
developments across commercial, residential, and 
mixed-use segments.
Max Estates actively seeks partnerships and initiatives 
that enhance our natural capital stewardship. 
Greywater recycling, community alliances, and 
collaborative innovation, all work together to advance 
and scale our sustainability efforts. We nurture natural 
capital while striving to reach net-zero-ready spaces for 
the future.
Biodiversity Policy and Governance
Opportunities and Partnerships
Circular Economy Alliances:
Third-party recyclers turn organic 
and construction waste into 
compost, bricks, and energy.
Building a strong system to 
measure and track emissions, 
consumption of energy and water, 
and generation of waste.
Partnering with third-party 
recycling providers to reach zero 
landfill waste.
Green Material Sourcing:
We prioritise suppliers with 
IGBC/LEED compliance, local 
production, and lower transport 
footprints by supporting green-
certified, low-VOC products 
and driving sustainable 
price benchmarks.
Committing to the Science-
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) on 
our path to Net Zero.
Constant tracking of material 
topics and ESG risks to stay ahead 
of evolving sustainability trends.
Solar Energy Partnerships:
Rooftop solar partnerships (e.g., 
56 kWp at Max Square) cut grid 
reliance and Scope 2 emissions, 
paving the way for solar adoption 
across all our commercial spaces.
Exploring partnerships related 
to the circular economy and 
innovations in recycling.
Biodiversity
Looking Ahead
Max Estates is inspired by the deep connection between humans 
and nature, making it a key aspect of our work-life balance. 
Each project includes at least 5% of the site dedicated to native 
vegetation, offering moments of calm and connection amid busy 
days. Our pesticide-free approach protects local ecosystems 
and improves plant health. We take pride in nurturing both our 
internal green spaces and the surrounding landscape, creating 
developments that uplift both people and nature.
We are committed to growing our impact in real estate by making environmental stewardship a core part 
of how we operate. Clear, measurable, and forward-looking targets help us focus on deeply embedding ESG 
principles into our practices by using a centralised dashboard that helps us track environmental metrics in 
real-time across our portfolio. This helps us make informed choices, take data-driven decisions and manage 
risks for a more sustainable future.
Looking ahead, Max Estates’ environmental roadmap includes the following key initiatives:
Max Estates is shaping urban development by combining design-led execution with a strong commitment 
to well-being and environmental stewardship. Grounded by our WorkWell and LiveWell philosophies, we will 
continue to strengthen our capabilities across the real estate value chain. This includes investing in digital 
tools, embedding sustainable systems, and creating spaces where genuine well-being remains at the heart 
of every human experience.
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
141
140
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
141
Nurturing Communities,  
Empowering People
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
At Max Estates, we are dedicated to building vibrant and inclusive communities while fostering 
relationships that last. Guided by a people-first philosophy, we engage meaningfully with everyone 
connected to our work, including our construction workers, supply chain partners, residents, channel 
partners, and our surrounding communities. Through need-based assessments, local consultations, and 
well-planned CSR initiatives, we aim to uplift the ecosystems we work in while keeping disruption to a 
minimum during project delivery. 
We set high standards for our supply chain by partnering with only ethical vendors who share our 
commitment to transparency, quality, and sustainability. 
Our procurement practices abide by ESG principles that 
ensure fair labor practices, safe workplaces, and the 
creation of local jobs whenever possible.
Each project reflects our belief in social value. This includes inclusive design, open green 
spaces, the beautification of underpasses, and public art initiatives that add character to 
urban experiences. By weaving empathy, equity, and excellence into every interaction, we’re 
building more than real estate spaces. We’re building trust,  dignity, and a brighter future for 
everyone in our ecosystem.
Key Highlights
10322
Total Beneficiaries
12
Partnerships  
with NGO 
₹3 crore 
Total CSR Amount Spent (₹1 cr through Max 
Estates Limited and ₹2 cr through Max Estates 
Gurugram Limited) 
0.10 lakh  
Underprivileged 
communities served
2
Community 
programmes
87
No. of suppliers  
and vendors
24
Volunteer hours
Key SDGs
Capitals Impacted
Financial Capital
Human Capital
Intellectual Capital
Natural Capital
Manufactured Capital
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
143
142
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Elevating Communities, 
Responsibly
We take a purposeful approach to CSR, focusing on 
growth that is inclusive and centred around community 
and well-being. Working with NGOs like Habitat for 
Humanity, we support housing for economically 
weaker sections. Our labor welfare schemes at 
construction sites provide support and dignity for 
on-ground workers. Through our CSR arm, the Max 
India Foundation, we earnestly share our impact 
with transparency by sharing real success stories and 
publishing our ESG disclosures.
Our on-the-ground work includes 
local sanitation drives, shelter 
support for the homeless near Max 
House, and beautification of public 
spaces like the Modi Mill Flyover.
Initiatives such as LiveWell Socials, wellness events, 
and curated gifting programmes deepen client 
relationships and nurture a sense of belonging. These 
efforts reflect our commitment to enhancing spaces 
that foster well-being beyond real estate.
Composition of CSR Committee
Ms. Malini Thadani
Chairperson
Mr. Niten Malhan
Member
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Member
Max India Foundation (SEE Learning)
Max India Foundation is committed to nurturing 
human potential and building an inclusive future. 
In partnership with Emory University in the United 
States, we have brought the globally recognised 
Social, Emotional, and Ethical (SEE) Learning 
programme to India. This initiative is delivered 
through SEE Learning India, an organisation that is 
spearheading the programme across the nation.
Developed by Emory University’s Centre for 
Contemplative Science and Compassion-Based 
Ethics, SEE Learning is a K–12 educational 
framework that brings social-emotional 
competencies, ethical literacy, and systems thinking 
into everyday education. It goes beyond traditional 
Social-Emotional Learning (SEL), with a focus on 
compassion, resilience, moral discernment, and 
global citizenship. The aim is to prepare students 
not only to succeed but to thrive with purpose 
and empathy.
Through SEE Learning India, Max India Foundation 
helps in adapting and localising the programme for 
the Indian context. The initiative focuses on:
	»
Training educators and school leaders through 
workshops, facilitator programmes, and 
ongoing support.
	»
Partnering with schools, educational boards, and 
NGOs to widen reach and enhance our impact.
	»
Bringing SEE Learning into classrooms to 
cultivate emotionally intelligent, ethically aware, 
and socially responsible student communities.
SEE Learning India has already connected with 
hundreds of schools and educators across the 
country, creating safe and nurturing learning 
spaces that encourage well-being, teamwork, and 
mindful engagement.
Community
Building community 
through Pulse (our 
in-house Engagement 
network)
Keep innovating and learning 
about interventions for 
community building
Build a series of touchpoints 
in communities through 
strategic interventions 
(uncertain wording)
Ongoing
Zylar Survey
Health 
& Wellness
Sense of well-being in 
our operational projects
Aligning our projects with IWBI 
WELL Standards
Keep innovating and 
learning about interventions 
across design, daylight 
access and operations (some 
words unclear)
TBD
WELL / 
LiveWell & 
WorkWell (Self-
certification)
Social
	»
₹4 crore CSR spent 
(approx.)
	»
25% gender 
diversity ratio
	»
70 internal training 
sessions provided to 
employees (approx.)
	»
9.1 employee 
engagement score
	»
Conduct regular awareness 
sessions for value-chain partners
	»
Make it mandatory for all 
employees to undergo Human 
Rights training
	»
Increase gender diversity at 
mid-level to 30% (reads like ‘MEL 
to 30%’)
	»
Increase gender diversity in 
project execution team
	»
Increase participation of women 
as labour on construction sites
	»
Academic tie-ups to increase 
awareness and interest of women 
in real estate
Best-in-class social well-
being and training initiatives
TBD
CSR Report
Governance
	»
25% women directors
	»
Zero cases of 
POSH, conflict of 
interest and data & 
privacy breaches
	»
Publish 3rd edition BRSR 
report in conjunction with the 
Annual Report
	»
100% compliance 
to best-in-standard 
governance model
	»
Aim to publish the 
Integrated Reporting
TBD
BRSR Report 
/ Integrated 
Report
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
145
144
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Collaboration with Habitat  
for Humanity
At Max Estates, our commitment to inclusive growth 
goes beyond the boundaries of our offerings. In 
partnership with Habitat for Humanity India, we 
are transforming lives by supporting access to 
safe and dignified housing for underprivileged 
communities, particularly construction workers and 
laborers who form the backbone of our thoughtfully 
designed spaces.
Through this collaboration, a portion of each unit sold 
at Estate 128 helps sponsor homes for economically 
disadvantaged families. This initiative tackles unsafe 
living conditions and related health risks among low-
income construction workers, with the broader aim 
of fostering social equity and well-being.
We are committed to building 50 homes in 
two phases:
	»
Phase I: Successfully completed, with 25 homes 
handed over in Rewari, Haryana, marking a key 
milestone in our social impact journey.
	»
Phase II: We’re building the next 25 homes, 
keeping up with our promise of providing secure 
and sustainable housing.
Looking ahead, we are exploring ways to further 
this initiative to the Noida region, in line with 
our development footprint and commitment to 
uplift communities.
Latika Centre for Inclusion, 
Roy Memorial Foundation
At Max Estates, inclusivity is at the heart of 
what we do. It’s a tangible design principle that 
ensures we create spaces for people across all 
abilities. We partnered with Latika Centre for 
Inclusion, Roy Memorial Foundation, a non-profit 
organisation dedicated to empower people with 
special needs through education, therapy, and 
community activities.
Together with Latika, we are supporting the 
creation of the “Centre for Inclusion and Influence,” 
a 56,000-square-foot campus where accessibility 
meets well-being. Purpose-built with universal 
design principles, the centre will offer a welcoming, 
functional, and empowering space for people 
with disabilities, their families, and everyone in 
the community.
The campus will include:
	»
Therapy and counselling spaces
	»
Physiotherapy and sensory stimulation areas
	»
Activity rooms and training halls
	»
A family resource centre and an inclusive library
	»
An accessible playground
	»
Ramp-friendly movement across all zones
This partnership is helping us to curate inclusive 
spaces that embrace diversity, encourage equity, 
and inspire socially responsible development 
in India.
Pulse Community Events
At Max Estates, we design spaces that bring people 
together, focus on well-being, and foster a sense 
of belonging. Pulse, our in-house engagement 
initiative, offers immersive community experiences for 
commercial and residential occupants.
In FY2025, Pulse hosted over 200 
events, engaging more than 8,400 
tenants and residents through a 
thoughtfully curated mix of wellness 
workshops, cultural celebrations, 
food pop-ups, fitness sessions, 
sustainability initiatives, and 
educational experiences.
From morning yoga sessions and festive décor 
workshops to expert-led talks and live performances, 
each event aimed to energise participants, build 
community, and inspire healthier, happier lifestyles.
These initiatives showed a real impact, with a Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) of 6.9 out of 10, reflecting high 
occupant satisfaction and brand loyalty. Through Pulse, 
we are bringing our LiveWell and WorkWell philosophy 
to life by creating people-first experiences that go 
beyond mere brick and mortar.
Scholarship Scheme
Max Estates, through the Max India Foundation, 
supports education with scholarships to students 
from underprivileged backgrounds. In FY2025, our 
partnerships with 12 NGOs helped over 1,04,000 
students and more than 2,300 teachers benefitted 
from scholarships and skill-development programmes.
Community Health Camps
We host regular health camps for construction 
workers and local communities near our 
developments. These cover screenings, preventive 
care, and wellness workshops help address critical 
health needs among labourers and their neighbours, 
reinstating our commitment to community well-
being.
Skill India Partnership
Through our partnerships with Skill India-aligned 
organisations to provide vocational training in trades 
such as construction support, facility management, 
and hospitality. These programmes help local youth 
and workers gain industry-relevant skills and build 
brighter employment opportunities.
Community Welfare Initiatives
We work alongside local authorities and contractors 
to uplift marginalised communities. We delivered 
25 homes for construction workers in Rewari 
(Phase I) and are building 25 more, supported by a 
portion of the sales from Estate 128. At the same 
time, we have conducted pavement rehabilitation 
and beautification projects around Max Towers and 
Max House, creating healthier, cleaner and more 
welcoming spaces for everyone. 
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
146
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
147
Marketing with Meaning
In FY2025, we strengthened our brand and customer 
engagement with an integrated marketing strategy 
across traditional and digital channels. Max Estates 
maintained a strong presence in Delhi NCR through 
thoughtful Out-of-Home (OOH) advertising in high-
traffic areas. Our campaign reinforced our WorkWell 
and  LiveWell philosophy and showcased Estate 360’s 
wellness-led living concept.
We ran digital campaigns on platforms like Google, 
Meta, and YouTube to build our brand and generate 
leads. SEO optimisation and engaging content 
improved website interaction, with guidance from 
VaynerMedia ensuring insight-driven campaigns.
We also invested in brand storytelling through 
collaborations with Architectural Digest, India Art 
Fair, and immersive experiences with Studio Lotus, 
alongside public art initiatives. Curated offline events 
for Estate 360, including brunches and open house, 
brought clients closer to our community.
To support these efforts, we upgraded our marketing 
technology. Salesforce now helps us track campaigns 
and manage client relationships (CRM), while Apollo 
IO streamlines email automation. Unified analytics 
dashboards provide real-time insights, helping us 
optimise and refine content continuously.
Crafting Shared Experiences: 
Enhancing Engagement with Tenants
At Max Estates, we believe operational excellence and 
thoughtful service are the key to creating soulful tenant 
experiences. Our management philosophy weaves 
hospitality, technology, and sustainability into every 
property to ensure our tenants feel valued and inspired 
by our spaces.
Each asset is supported by an in-house operations 
team that works alongside industry leaders, including 
CBRE, Embassy, and Colliers. Together, we maintain 
high service standards, adherence to budgets, and 
proactive maintenance. Daily checks and a feedback-
driven approach ensure seamless operations.
Our tenant onboarding process is designed for smooth 
transitions, starting with pre-handover inspections 
and coordination with tenant project teams. Fit-out 
guidelines and clear handover checklists simplify 
approvals and reduce friction. After handover, our 
FacTech complaint management system resolves 
issues quickly, enhances service efficiency and 
ensures transparency.
We facilitate seamless transitions from project 
completion to occupancy through strong coordination 
between CRM, Projects, and Operations teams. 
Townhouses and Villas at 222 Rajpur have been 
handed over, while apartment handovers at Estate 128 
and Estate 360 are underway. Maintenance and service 
routines are aligned to support these transitions.
Community-building and wellness are at the heart of 
our commercial campus strategy. We offer a diverse 
range of dining options, wellness services, cultural 
events, and public art installations to enrich tenant 
life and foster a sense of belonging, collaborating with 
third-party partners to create vibrant workspaces.
To keep our operations running smoothly, we share 
the best-practice documents, conduct weekly 
cross-functional syncs, and hold monthly strategic 
meetings, covering everything from visitor parking to 
emergency response protocols.
Our approach to transportation and 
tenant support services includes:
	»
Shuttle services from all campuses to the nearest 
metro stations, promoting sustainable and 
convenient mobility.
	»
On-site ambulances with paramedics during 
office hours, ensuring immediate medical support 
when required.
	»
All transport-related services are outsourced to 
expert partners, ensuring flexibility, responsiveness, 
and cost efficiency.
Engagement extends into our commercial 
ecosystem. We hosted IPC (International Property 
Consultant) and DPC (Direct Property Consultant) 
events, generating high-quality leads. Max Estates’ 
participation in marquee forums such as CoreNet 
Global, has positioned it as a forward-looking developer 
of wellness-led, future-ready workplaces, raising 
awareness and tenant interest in assets like Max Square 
and upcoming launches.
At Max Estates, marketing strategy combines 
performance, culture, and technology, to build our 
brand equity, grow our customer base, and create 
lasting, people-first connections.
These efforts not only boosted visibility and 
engagement but also drove measurable 
business impact:
Over 7,500 qualified leads
generated from domestic and 
international campaigns
35% lower CPM and 21% lower CPC
driven by agile campaign optimisation
35% lower CPM and 21% lower CPC
driven by agile campaign optimisation
28.3% email open rate and 
95% inbox delivery
reflecting high content relevance
Return on Ad Spend (ROAS) of 42,
well above industry norms
Organic traffic growth
from 0.89% in Q1 to 9.99% in Q4, aided by technical SEO
Top SERP rankings
for project keywords and
domain authority jump from 
20 to 36
Over 150 million impressions and 
4.5 million ad clicks
ESTATE 128 
Artistic Rendition
149
148
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Integrated Report 2024-25
Elevating Customer Experiences Through Spaces
Sourcing with Purpose, Building with Integrity  
At Max Estates, customer experience is central to our 
WorkWell and LiveWell philosophy. Every interaction 
is part of a long-term relationship built on care, 
transparency, and responsiveness. Our offerings are 
designed to elevate everyday life with intentional 
design, biophilic thinking, and wellness while 
fostering meaningful engagement throughout the 
customer lifecycle.
We adopt a full-lifecycle approach to customer 
engagement, beginning with immersive pre-sales 
experiences and extending through to handover, 
community living, and repeat investment. Our 
Salesforce (SFDC)-powered CRM, integrated with SAP 
to automate client onboarding, documentation, and 
communications. Every client receives a welcome call 
within 24 hours, a welcome e-mail within three days, 
an allotment letter within 10 days, and an Agreement 
for Sale within 21 days of booking, keeping the process 
simple, timely and transparent.
We enhance client engagement through LiveWell 
Socials, a calendar of wellness events, curated gifting, 
and milestone communication. Thoughtful items, 
such as yoga mats, terrariums, and eco-friendly 
water bottles, reinforce the brand's values while 
creating memorable experiences. CRM, Pulse, and 
marketing teams work in harmony to make every 
interaction meaningful. 
Our CRM segmentation is carried out by property 
type, customer value, geography, and interests. We 
actively gather customer feedback collected through 
structured forms after experience centre visits to 
Max Estates adheres to a high-integrity Sourcing 
Policy, favouring local materials to lower transport 
emissions and selecting green-certified materials, such 
as low-VOC paints and GreenPro-accredited products, 
to minimise embodied carbon. These decisions not 
only uphold global green-building guidelines but 
also support regional communities, contributing 
to local economic well-being while meeting our 
sustainability goals.
Sustainable Procurement
Our Procurement Policy emphasises sourcing goods 
and services that are environmentally friendly, locally 
sourced, and low-carbon. This sustainable approach 
prioritises the well-being of communities and aligns 
with our vision of achieving sustainable development 
through low-impact initiatives. Extraction, production, 
and transport of raw materials used in construction 
require significant energy, often from fossil fuels. 
By reusing and recycling materials, we reduce the 
demand for virgin resources, lower embodied carbon, 
and cut the energy needed for material production, 
contributing to a smaller carbon footprint. Recycling 
steel, aluminium, and concrete saves far more energy 
than producing them from raw resources.
We choose materials with care, following international 
guidelines on green building standards and favouring 
local sourcing of products and materials. With 
this small step, we support the local economy and 
make a small but relevant impact in reducing our 
transportation footprint. Our execution process also 
backs the broader ESG and community development 
goals, such as local employment, resource efficiency, 
and environmentally responsible practices.
Supplier Engagement and 
Capacity Building
We proactively partner with our vendors through 
regular training and performance alignment 
forums. Our Sustainable Procurement Policy sets 
clear expectations with our suppliers to respect the 
environmental, labor, and safety principles, with 
no forced, bonded, or child labour. We also provide 
ongoing capability development, helping suppliers 
adopt eco-friendly techniques and achieve awareness 
of ESG standards.
improve our service performance, guide product 
enhancements, and shape community events.
Key initiatives enhancing customer 
relationships include:
	»
CRM Integration: Salesforce (SFDC) captures 
allocation details and integrates with SAP for 
automated onboarding documents.
	»
Reloy App: Keeps clients updated on construction 
progress and payments, with eco-tracking and 
engagement features coming soon. 
	»
Repeat Investments: Clients across developments 
have returned as buyers, a key indicator of trust 
and satisfaction.
	»
Referral Programmes: Estate 128 and Estate 360 
saw successful conversions through client referrals, 
strengthening brand advocacy.
	»
Premium Client Handling: Dedicated Relationship 
Managers ensure high-value accounts are supported 
with an escalation system for swift support.
	»
Complaint Management: Although current query 
resolution is tracked manually, a Complaint 
Management System (CMS) is being adapted for 
better turnaround times and enhanced insights.
Our CRM team also plays an active role in sustainability 
outreach, sharing information on green features, 
tracking behavioural insights, and enabling event-
based engagement around wellness and the 
environment. Our holistic approach nurtures lasting 
relationships, encourages referrals and repeat sales, 
all while deepening customers' connection with 
the brand.
Looking ahead, we are scaling the capabilities of the 
Reloy app, launching a full-service CMS, and using 
AI-led insights to predict client needs and personalise 
their experiences.
Vendors, Distributors and 
Supply Chain Management
Max Estates follows a thorough vendor selection 
process that includes detailed evaluations and 
commercial benchmarks. We assess each vendor's 
technical capabilities, financial health, and compliance. 
To reduce risks, we maintain a multiple-supplier 
strategy. Vendors are evaluated on quality, working 
methods, safety protocols, and compliance to standard 
operating procedures across 13 sectors. This approach 
helps us build a supply chain we can trust.
Contract and Service-level Agreement (SLA) 
management ensures the necessary services, such 
as housekeeping, transport, catering, and facility 
management are delivered by a list of qualified and 
trusted vendors based on experience, capabilities, and 
pricing. It's essential to verify regulatory compliance, 
including GST and PAN, and to clearly define the scope 
of work before finalising contracts.
We track key performance metrics, such as on-time 
delivery and adherence to standards, and track cost 
variances that ensure financial accountability. We 
have set Key Result Areas (KRAs) that help us evaluate 
our performance, pushing us to consistently exceed 
expectations. Regular audits and performance 
reviews help us maintain accountability while keeping 
sustainable, low-impact development at the heart of 
our operations. 
Vendor Compliance and Societal 
Responsibility
FY2025
No of Vendors
87
Value Purchase in Cr
₹ 153.21
MAX SQUARE 
Actual Image
151
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
150
Follow all local, 
state, and national 
environmental 
regulations
Minimise and 
recycle Construction 
Demolition 
Waste (CDW) and 
operational waste
Foster proactive 
relationships 
with suppliers to 
maximise products 
and minimise 
negative impacts
Utilise life-cycle 
cost analysis 
for design and 
operational 
strategies
Ensure suppliers  
and contractors 
comply with 
health, safety, and 
environmental rules
We plan to 
incorporate ESG 
assessments for all 
supply chain vendors 
moving forward.
Assess low-carbon 
structural and non-
structural materials
Prohibit slavery, 
forced, bonded, or 
child labour across 
the supply chain
Explore modular 
construction 
technology to 
enhance resource 
management and 
reduce waste
Comply with 
ethical business 
and labour 
practices
Vendor Compliance and 
Societal Responsibility   
Max Estates builds long-term partnerships rooted 
in service-level excellence, innovation, and ethical 
conduct. We monitor quality, cost benchmarks, 
and future-ready engineering solutions, such as 
modular formwork and seismic dampers. Every 
supplier is expected to meet ESG standards in 
health, safety, environmental stewardship, and 
legal compliance. Our goal goes beyond ticking 
mere boxes. We work together towards growth 
and meaningful ESG impact. 
Through responsible sourcing, engaging and 
empowering suppliers, and upholding the highest 
standards of quality and sustainability, we are 
driving low-impact developments that stand as 
resilient, future-ready communities.
For us, growth is more than numbers. It is the 
difference we make to communities, the environment, 
and the people who bring our spaces to life. Anchored 
in our WorkWell and LiveWell philosophy, the future 
roadmap focuses on embedding purpose deeper into 
every step of our real estate journey.
To enhance its social and community stewardship, 
Max Estates is committed to:
	»
Strengthening its partnership with Habitat for 
Humanity to support secure, dignified housing 
for underprivileged communities in urban and 
peri-urban areas.
	»
Hosting regular awareness sessions for our 
contractors, vendors, and service providers to share 
our sustainability values, labour standards, and 
environmental expectations.
	»
Reporting transparently on the number of partners 
we train, helping build an informed and ethical 
supply chain.
Charting the Path Ahead
As part of its responsible business evolution, it 
will implement:
	»
Transparent disclosure of Rehabilitation and 
Resettlement (R&R) projects, detailing affected 
communities, compensation, and rehabilitation 
measures to ensure fairness and dignity throughout 
the transition.
These steps bolster Max Estates' belief that real estate 
is more than just buildings. It's about people, purpose, 
and progress. As we grow across Delhi-NCR's diverse 
micro-markets and product categories, embracing 
empathy and equity, bringing every stakeholder—
including underprivileged communities, workers, 
contractors, vendors, and residents—along in our 
journey of value creation. By valuing transparency in 
our rehabilitation practices, empowering partners, and 
strengthening social impact collaborations, we are 
committed to creating an ecosystem that is inclusive, 
sustainable, and meaningful for everyone.
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
153
152
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Purpose-led Governance:  
Powering Responsible Growth
GOVERNANCE
At Max Estates, sound corporate governance is the foundation of long-term value creation. The 
Company’s governance framework emphasises transparency, accountability, and ethical conduct, 
enabling responsible decision making and alignment with applicable laws, including the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations. Robust internal controls, clear delegation of authority, and Board-led 
oversight help safeguard stakeholder interests and support sustainable growth. Engagement with the 
stakeholders remains central to how we operate—building trust, encouraging feedback, and elevating 
operational excellence across the value chain.
In FY2025, the Board of Max Estates comprised 9 members and 
an Alternate Director:
Max Estates’ approach is built around three key pillars:
Outlook: As the Company scales its presence, governance 
remains embedded at every level—guiding growth with integrity, 
reinforcing resilience, and upholding responsibility in everything 
we do.
Mr. Analjit Singh and Mr. Sahil Vachani are the Promoters of the Company. Mr. Singh serves as Chairman, Promoter 
and Non-Executive Director, while Mr. Vachani serves as Vice-Chairman and Managing Director.
Please refer to the Corporate Governance Report, forming part of this Integrated Report, for detailed disclosures 
on the Company’s Governance Philosophy, Board Architecture, Board Processes, and other related matters.
*Excluding the alternate director for one of the non-independent, non-executive directors 
Executive Directors
Non-executive, Non-
independent Directors*
Independent Directors 
(Including Women 
Independent Directors)
Total No. 
of Members
Capital Discipline
Prudent capital 
management practices for 
responsible allocation of 
resources to ensure financial 
strength and sustainability.
Performance Management 
Excellence
Rigorously monitor and 
enhance business performance 
through robust management 
systems to drive efficiency 
and competitiveness.
Stakeholder 
Value Creation
Building enduring 
relationships that deliver 
consistent, long-term value 
for all stakeholders.
Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of Max Estates serves as the Company’s highest governing body, entrusted by shareholders 
to set the vision, safeguard stakeholder interests, and provide strategic oversight. With a balanced composition 
of Executive, Non-Executive, and Independent Directors, the Board brings together deep functional expertise, 
diverse industry experience, and global perspectives. Guided by principles of transparency, accountability, and 
ethical conduct, the Board works closely with Management to shape long-term goals, monitor performance 
against set objectives, and ensure alignment with regulatory standards. Its collective wisdom and independence 
enable informed decision-making, fostering stakeholder confidence and strengthening the Company’s journey of 
sustainable value creation.
1
Chairman, Non-
Executive
1
Vice Chairman 
& Managing 
Director
7
Non-Executive 
Directors, including 
5 Independent 
Directors
1
Alternate Director 
01
05
09
03
FY2025
FY2025
MAX TOWERS 
Actual Image
155
154
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
154
Mr. Analjit Singh 
Founder and Chairman, Max Group
Analjit Singh is the Founder and Chairman of The Max Group, a 
prominent Indian multi-business enterprise with interests in life 
insurance (Max Life), real estate (Max Estates), and senior care (Antara). 
He is the Chairman of the listed companies of Max Group, viz., Max 
Financial Services Limited, Max India Limited and Max Estates Limited 
and earlier, the Founder Chairman of Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited; Max Healthcare; Hutchison Max Telecom; Max Bupa and 
so on.  
  
Over his 40-year career, Mr. Singh has transformed various sectors, 
including telecom, healthcare, life insurance, and real estate in 
India. A self-made entrepreneur, Mr. Singh was awarded the Padma 
Bhushan and holds degrees from The Doon School, Shri Ram College 
of Commerce, and an MBA from Boston University. Mr. Singh founded 
the Leeu Collection, which includes boutique hotels in South Africa, 
the UK, and Italy, alongside a wine business and various restaurant 
partnerships. Mr. Analjit Singh was a member of the Founder 
Executive Board of the Indian School of Business (ISB), He was also 
the non-executive Chairman of Vodafone India until August 2018 and 
served as a Director on the Board of Sofina NV/SA, Belgium till March 
2022. He also serves as the Honorary Consul General of the Republic 
of San Marino in India.
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo-Young 
Alternate director to Mr. Anthony R. Malloy
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo-Young is a Senior-Vice President and Head of 
Alternative Strategy at New York Life Insurance Company, responsible for 
investment strategy, asset allocation, and dynamic portfolio management 
of the company’s general account and alternatives portfolio assets and 
performance metrics. Ms. Moo-Young joined New York Life in 2023 and 
has almost 32 years of investment management and financial services 
experience. She has held senior leadership roles at American International 
Group/Corebridge Financial, AIG Investments and Bank of America Merrill 
Lynch. Ms. Moo-Young earned a BA in Economics from Columbia University, 
and an MBA in Business Administration from Harvard University. 
Mr. Atul B. Lall 
Non-executive Director
Mr. Atul B. Lall is the Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Dixon 
Technologies (India) Limited. He holds a Master’s Degree in Management 
Studies from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani and has 
been instrumental in building Dixon into a market leader in the Electronics 
Manufacturing Services (EMS) industry, with over 31 years of experience in 
driving strategy, innovation and expansion. He also serves as an Independent 
Director on the Board of Happy Forgings Limited and is a member of the 
Governing Board of Plaksha University. Mr. Lall has held leadership roles in 
industry bodies, including as President of the Electronic Industries Association 
of India (2023–24) and Chair of the FICCI Committee on Mobile Manufacturing 
(2025).  He has been recognised with several honours such as the “Man 
of Electronics” award (2022), “India’s Best CEOs – Consumer Durables” by 
Fortune India (2024), and the Distinguished Alumnus Award (2025) by BITS 
Pilani. An avid reader, he is also the author of the book Gita and India Inc.
Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Vice Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Sahil Vachani is the Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Max 
Estates Limited, aiming to transform the Indian real estate sector 
by embodying the Max Group values of Sevabhav, Excellence, and 
Credibility. Since its establishment in 2016, under his leadership, 
Max Estates has emerged as a leading company in the NCR region 
- building a portfolio of over 17.1 Million square feet across both 
commercial and residential asset classes.  
 
The company has achieved this scale while ensuring a deep focus 
on enabling well being across its experiences and also with a 
strong balance sheet driven by its partnership with New York Life 
Insurance Company.
Mr. Anthony R. Malloy 
Non-executive Director
Mr. Anthony Malloy is Executive Vice President and Chief Investment 
Officer of New York Life Insurance Company. He is also responsible for 
the teams which principally manage New York Life’s general account 
portfolio that include Fixed Income Investors, Private Capital Investors 
and Real Estate Investors. He is a member of New York Life’s Executive 
Management Committee and serves on its Risk Steering Committee. 
Anthony joined the firm in 1999. He has held various positions of 
increasing responsibilities at the firm, including Senior Managing 
Director and Head of Fixed Income. He also served as Managing Director 
and Head of Fixed Leveraged Finance. Previously, he achieved positions 
of increasing responsibility in lending, risk management, and debt 
capital markets with J.P. Morgan, Toronto-Dominion, and First Chicago.  
Anthony earned a B.A. in English and Economics from Middlebury 
College and an M.B.A. in Finance from the Stern School of Business of 
New York University. 
Non-executive Directors
157
156
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Mr. Niten Malhan 
Independent Director
Mr. Niten Malhan is a Non-Executive, Independent Director on the 
Company’s Board. He is the founder and partner of New Mark Advisors 
LLP, an investment firm focused on value-oriented, long-term public 
investing in small and mid-cap companies in India. Before this, he 
was the managing director and co-head of India at Warburg Pincus, 
where he started in 2001, became a partner in 2007, and co-led India’s 
operations from 2012 to 2017, overseeing a $3 billion portfolio. Earlier 
in his career, he was the director of business development at Stratum 8 
and an engagement manager at McKinsey & Company.
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan 
Independent Director
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan is a Leadership Consultant with over three 
decades of diversified experience in the services sector and is presently 
an Independent Director and Leadership Advisor for well-known listed 
and private companies. Gauri, as a Global Partner, led the CEO & Board 
and Consumer Markets Practices for Heidrick & Struggles in India. A long 
tenured Global Partner, Gauri worked closely at the top with clients in India 
and the region, assisting them in their strategic talent needs, bringing a 
deep understanding of the challenges that face organisations. Her clients 
included large global and Indian corporations, where she consulted with 
them to build & structure their top leadership during start-up/India entry, 
growth, and business transformation phases. Throughout her career, CEO 
succession, Next Generation leadership & organisation structures – with an 
eye on business and technology trends – have been a focus area. Driving 
digital & diversity agendas has been of special interest and a passion.
Ms. Malini Thadani 
Independent Director
Ms. Malini Thadani is a Non-Executive, Independent Director of the 
Company. She has extensive experience in integrating ESG and 
Sustainability into business strategies and is Visiting Faculty at the 
Indian School of Development Management where she teaches a course 
on CSR, Sustainability, and ESG. Ms. Thadani is Executive Director of 
World Monuments Fund India and is also an Independent Director on 
the boards of Max Estates Limited, AU Small Finance Bank Limited, 
and Mirae Asset Investment Managers (India) Private Limited. She also 
serves on the Boards of several not-for-profit organisations. Previously, 
she was a civil servant with the Indian Revenue Service and worked for 
22 years at HSBC in India and Hong Kong, in the areas of Public Affairs, 
Communications, and Sustainability.
Ms. Ira Gupta 
Independent Director
Ms. Ira Gupta leads an HR Advisory practice specialising in leadership 
coaching, organisational transformation, talent management, and 
culture, serving clients from family-owned businesses to multinationals. 
She holds independent director positions on various boards, including 
Eicher Motors Ltd and SRF Ltd, and is a Senior Advisor to McKinsey. With 
27 years of experience as an HR leader, she previously served as CHRO 
for Microsoft India and South Asia, overseeing a diverse HR organisation 
and driving significant cultural transformations. Prior to Microsoft, she 
was an HR leader at GlaxoSmithKline for 15 years. She also engages with 
NGOs and educational institutions, including XLRI Jamshedpur, and is an 
ICF-certified coach. 
Mr. D. K. Mittal 
Independent Director
Dinesh Kumar Mittal is a Non-Executive, Independent Director of the 
Company and a former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer 
from the 1977 batch (UP cadre). He served in various capacities in 
the Government of India, including as Secretary of the Department of 
Financial Services, overseeing banking, insurance, and pension policies. 
He was involved with the RBI and held board positions with LIC, State 
Bank of India, and others. As Secretary of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
he collaborated with ICAI, ICSI, and ICWAI. With extensive experience 
in infrastructure, international trade, and finance, Mr. Mittal is on the 
boards of several companies, including Max Estates Limited and Niva 
Bupa Health Insurance. He holds a master’s degree in physics with a 
specialisation in electronics from the University of Allahabad, India.
Independent Directors
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
159
158
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Board Committees
The effectiveness of Max Estates’ governance framework is reinforced by a series of well-structured committees of 
the Board. Each committee is entrusted with specific responsibilities, providing focused oversight on key aspects 
of the Company’s operations. Through regular deliberations and robust review mechanisms, these committees 
ensure adherence to regulatory requirements, alignment with strategic objectives, and accountability to 
stakeholders. Collectively, they strengthen the Board’s ability to guide the Company with discipline, transparency, 
and foresight.
Policies and Code of Conduct
Max Estates upholds the highest standards of governance and ethical conduct through a robust framework of 
policies, codes, and procedures that guide its operations and stakeholder engagement. To ensure compliance with 
legal and ethical standards, the Company has in place a comprehensive set of corporate codes and policies, all of 
which are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website: https://maxestates.in/investors. 
Together, these initiatives will help foster a resilient, transparent, and digitally empowered governance ecosystem - 
aligned with global best practices and evolving stakeholder expectations 
Diversity of the Board
Max Estates believes that diversity at the Board level strengthens both decision-making and governance. The 
Company is committed to fostering a Board that reflects a thoughtful balance of functional expertise, industry 
experience, age, gender, and professional backgrounds. This diversity of perspectives enables richer dialogue, 
sharper oversight, and more resilient strategic outcomes, ensuring that the Board remains well-positioned to guide 
the Company in a dynamic business environment.
Shareholding Pattern 
Audit Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee 
Investment and 
Finance Committee
Stakeholder Relationship 
Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee
FY2025 (%)
FY2025 (%)
Board Diversity by Age
Board Diversity by Gender
<= 50 Years (1)
50 - 60 Years (2)
Female
>= 60 Years (6)
Male
11.11
22.22
33.33
66.67
66.66
Promoters & Promoter Group
7,28,53,679 
No. of shares held
45.25 %
shareholding
Mutual Funds
9,55,4571 
No. of shares held
5.94 %
shareholding
Foreign Direct Investment
3,12,82,950 
No. of shares held
19.43 %
shareholding
16,10,00,084 
No. of shares held
100.00 %
shareholding
Banks and NBFCs registered 
with the RBI
16,972 
No. of shares held
0.01 %
shareholding
Alternate Investment Funds
5,73,500 
No. of shares held
0.36 %
shareholding
Foreign Portfolio Investors 
Category I & II
1,28,85,084 
No. of shares held
8.00 %
shareholding
3,38,33,328  
No. of shares held
21.01 %
shareholding
Institutions (Domestic)
Institutions (Foreign)
Total
Non-Institutions
161
160
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Proactive 
Risk Stewardship
RISK MANAGEMENT
At Max Estates, we see risk management as an integral part of how we work and make decisions. As 
we grow across the Delhi-NCR region, we navigate a wide and evolving range of risks, from regulatory 
changes and environmental factors to economic shifts and challenges to our reputation. To stay ahead, 
we keep our approach dynamic, updating our strategies to match changing realities while staying true to 
our strategic goals, operational resilience, and the trust of our stakeholders. 
Strong risk management not only safeguards value. It also creates space for sustainable growth. Our 
approach lays equal emphasis on spotting potential risks early and responding with agility. This helps us 
remain prepared for disruptions while continuing to create thoughtful spaces that stand the test of time.
Risk Management Framework
Our risk management framework is designed for strong cross-functional coordination. This ensures 
that potential risks are identified, escalated, and mitigated effectively in every part of our operations. 
The framework covers a wide range of areas, including operational hazards, supply chain bottlenecks, 
regulatory compliance, and matters affecting our reputation. 
Risk Governance Process
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
Layers of Risk Governance
Risk Register Update – 
Quarterly
Every quarter, the risk 
register SPOC undertakes a 
cycle of updates to the risk 
register in collaboration with 
the respective functional 
owners of the risk buckets.
Functional Risk Review – Monthly
During the functional reviews held every 
month with the CEO and COO, all functions 
review the key risks and the respective 
mitigation strategies.
Cross Functional Risk Review – Weekly
As part of the weekly cross-functional forum held every 
Monday morning, the key risks are brought in turn for a 
cross-functional review of the mitigation plan.
Risk Committee Review – Biannually
Every six months, the red flags for the Company are 
reviewed as part of the risk committee meeting to 
seek the committee’s guidance on the way forward.
163
162
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Identification
We actively identify risks through ongoing 
analysis and real-time monitoring, ensuring 
we catch issues early and act promptly.
Mitigation
We act quickly to contain risks while building 
stronger systems for the future. Mitigation is 
part of how we work every day.
Escalation
We have a clear, multi-layered escalation framework 
to keep risk management proactive and responsive.
Risk Register 
Each department maintains an updated Risk 
Register through regular SWOT analyses. Each 
risk is assessed for how soon it might occur, 
how likely it is, and its impact and severity.
Real-time Monitoring 
An external partner manages a dedicated 
Online Reputation Management (ORM) tracker 
that monitors digital platforms round the clock. 
It swiftly flags potential reputation concerns, 
such as negative press, viral complaints, or 
social media backlash, enabling prompt action.
This approach supports Max Estates in protecting 
operations, safeguarding stakeholders, and continuing 
as a responsible leader in India’s real estate sector.
Digitalisation 
Upgrading digital tools to automate compliance 
workflows, monitoring related party transactions (RPT), 
and controlling insider trading.
Independent Oversight 
Independent audits for related-party transactions 
will ensure greater transparency.
Broadened Risk Culture 
We aim to build a stronger risk-aware mindset 
across business planning, day-to-day operations, and 
stakeholder communications.
Short-term Response 
When negative press or a social backlash hits, 
we run our rapid response playbook, with social 
media containment, clear official press lines, and 
customer grievance redressal mechanisms.
Long-term Measures 
We use trends from the Risk Register to guide 
longer-term strategies, such as reshaping policy, 
enhancing stakeholder engagement, and 
strengthening our business continuity plans.
Operational Hazards and Vendor Risks 
We review operational hazards, supply chain 
dependencies and vendor risks continuously. 
Mitigation is embedded in project delivery, 
vendor selection and contract clauses so risk is 
managed at source.
Strengthening Governance
We are sharpening our risk governance with 
clear, focused steps:
ESTATE 360 
Artistic Rendition
Structured Protocols 
High-severity risks, especially those that can affect 
reputation, are escalated immediately to cross-
functional teams through well-established procedures.
Monthly Risk Reviews 
In monthly functional reviews with the CEO and COO, 
each function reviews its key risks and the mitigation 
strategies in place.
Quarterly Risk Reviews 
Every quarter, our leadership reviews the Company’s risk 
register, ensuring ongoing oversight and reprioritisation 
of risks with the changing business environment.
Weekly Risk Reviews 
In the weekly cross-functional forum held every Monday 
morning, teams bring forward their key risks in turn for 
review and discussion on mitigation plans.
Biannual Risk Committee Review 
Every six months, the Company’s red flags 
are presented to the risk committee to seek 
their guidance on the way forward.
165
164
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
165
Management 
Discussion & Analysis
MAX SQUARE, NOIDA  
Actual Image
Max Estates: Positioned to Lead the Next Phase of Real Estate Growth in NCR
Bringing Real Well-being to Real Estate
FY2025 marked a significant phase of growth for Max 
Estates, reaffirming the company’s strong conviction in 
the real estate opportunity within Delhi-NCR. Staying 
true to its core philosophies of WorkWell & LiveWell, the 
company continued its strategic trajectory—expanding 
its development portfolio from 8 million square feet in 
FY2024 to over 17 million square feet in FY2025 across 
residential, commercial, and mixed-use segments.
This year was particularly notable as the company 
entered the mixed-use development space through 
two marquee acquisitions, furthering its vision of 
delivering differentiated real estate experiences 
that integrate cutting-edge design with exceptional 
hospitality and a focus on wellbeing.
Strategic Acquisitions: Driving Portfolio Growth
Max Estates made bold, forward-looking moves in 
FY2025, acquiring prime land parcels and development 
rights across Delhi-NCR with the following acquisitions:
Delhi One, Sector 16B, Noida – The Company 
successfully acquired the Delhi One project after 
receiving final approvals under the Insolvency & 
Bankruptcy Code from Hon’ble NCLT and Hon’ble 
NCLAT in February 2023 and October 2024, 
respectively. The project is an integrated mixed-use 
development that will have ultra-luxury serviced 
residences, premium office spaces, and retail 
spaces. This strategic acquisition offers significant 
development potential of about 2.5 million square feet, 
inclusive of already sold units. The project is expected 
to generate a total sales potential of approximately 
₹2,000 crore, along with an annuity rental income 
potential of around ₹120 crore.
Sector 105, Noida – Marking the first acquisition under 
government auction, the Company acquired a 10.33-
acre parcel along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway 
for ₹711 crore through a competitive auction. It has a 
development potential of 2.6 million square feet with 
40 per cent residential (group housing) and 60 per cent 
commercial (including office and retail). The project 
has a Gross Development Value (GDV) potential of 
over approximately ₹2,500 crore and an annuity rental 
income potential of more than ₹140 crore.
Estate 361, Sector 36A, Gurugram – Adjacent to its 
flagship residential project Estate 360 in Gurugram, the 
company acquired an 18-acre residential parcel with 
development potential of 4 mn square feet, expanding 
its footprint to nearly 30 acres in this emerging luxury 
corridor on the Dwarka Expressway. Estate 361 adds a 
GDV potential of ₹9,000 crore, bringing the combined 
Gurugram development potential to over ₹13,000 
crore across 6.4 million square feet.
Together, these acquisitions expanded the company’s 
total portfolio to 17 million square feet, laying a 
strong foundation for its long-term growth strategy of 
adding at least 3 million square feet of development 
portfolio annually across residential and commercial 
asset classes.
FY2025 Marks a Milestone Year of Execution at 
Scale and Robust Pre-Sales
In FY2025, the company delivered strong operational 
performance across its portfolio. Estate 128, Noida, 
achieved Phase II bookings of ₹894 crore, exceeding its 
target of ₹800 crore. Spanning 10 acres, the project has 
now evolved into a fully integrated premium residential 
community with a total booking value clocked of~ 
₹2,734 crore and is 100 per cent sold. Estate 360 in 
Gurugram maintained strong momentum, recording 
₹4,634 crore in pre-sales with 96 per cent of the 
inventory sold. Between Estate 128 and Estate 360, the 
company did ₹980 Cr of collections.
In the commercial segment, Max Square in Noida—
designed around the theme “Where Nature Meets 
Work”—achieved over 99 per cent leasing across ~0.7 
million square feet, with rentals commanding a 30 per 
cent premium over the micro-market. Similarly, Max 
House Phase II in Okhla was fully leased at rentals 60 
per cent above the market average, underscoring the 
demand for well-designed, high-quality office spaces.
Backed by a strong team of a strand team of over 
200 full time professionals, a robust zero net-debt 
balance sheet, and technology-led operations with 
sustainability embedded at the core, the company is 
well-positioned to execute and operate at scale with 
four operational assets and construction progressing 
steadily on four large developments with three 
more currently in the design phase. Max Estates is 
strengthening its focus on the LiveWell and WorkWell 
philosophy, embedding it across every aspect — 
from location and design to operations, materials, 
and beyond.
167
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
166
Current Portfolio Snapshot
Asset Name
Location
Asset Class
Project Lifecycle Stage
Size (Leasable/ Saleable area) 
(Approximate)
222 Rajpur
Dehradun
Residential
Operational
0.1 million square feet
Max Towers
Noida
Commercial
Operational
0.6 million square feet
Max House Phase I
Delhi
Commercial
Operational
0.1 million square feet
Max Square
Noida
Commercial
Operational
0.7 million square feet
Max House Phase II
Delhi
Commercial
Operational
0.15 million square feet
Estate 128
Noida
Residential
Under Construction
1.4 million square feet
Max District
Gurugram
Commercial
Under Construction
1.6 million square feet
Max Square Two
Noida
Commercial
Under Construction
1 million square feet
Estate 360
Gurugram
Residential
Under Construction
2.4 million square feet
Estate 361
Gurugram
Residential
Under Design
4 million square feet
Sector 105
Noida
Mixed-Use
Under Design
2.5 million square feet
Delhi One
Noida
Mixed-use
Under Design
2.5 million square feet
Max Estates is committed to making a positive societal 
impact by partnering with Habitat for Humanity India 
to provide homes for underprivileged construction 
workers and labourers, enhancing their living 
conditions and health. In collaboration with Habitat for 
Humanity India, we successfully delivered 25 homes 
in Phase I of the affordable housing project in Rewari, 
Haryana. Phase II, with an additional 25 homes, is 
currently under construction, and we are actively 
exploring additional partnership opportunities in the 
Noida region with them. 
Max Estates has also partnered with the Latika Centre 
for Inclusion, reaffirming our commitment to building 
universally accessible environments that support and 
empower specially abled individuals. As part of this 
initiative, a dedicated 56,000 sq. ft. campus is being 
developed, featuring activity rooms, therapy and 
counselling units, a library, physiotherapy and sensory 
areas, a family resource centre, an inclusive playground, 
training halls, and a ramp-accessible building.
A Purpose-led Organisation with  
Strong Governance
Max Estates is committed to bringing the Max Group’s 
core values—Sevabhav (Service), Excellence, and 
Credibility—to the Indian real estate landscape. The 
Company is guided by a renewed purpose: “Enhancing 
quality of life through the spaces we create”. Over the 
past year, the Company has institutionalised robust 
systems, built organisational depth, and attracted high-
quality talent to enable execution at scale and deliver 
on its long-term vision.
Focused Strategy: One Region, Multiple 
Asset Classes
Max Estates continues to follow a focused strategy of: 
“One region, multiple asset classes”. We have curated 
a portfolio of 17 million square feet, which is well 
diversified in terms of geographical footprint across 
Delhi–NCR (Gurugram, Noida and Delhi), asset class 
(both residential, commercial and mixed use) and risk 
spectrum (delivered, under construction and design). In 
a region with limited presence of credible, consumer-
centric developers, Max Estates aims to fill the gap by 
delivering holistic, design-led, wellness and hospitality 
driven experiences. Anchored in the WorkWell and 
LiveWell philosophies, the company aspires to become 
a leading real estate brand in Delhi-NCR.
Global Economy in 2024: Shifting 
Trajectories, Emerging Opportunities
The global economy in 2024 navigated a complex 
environment shaped by geopolitical tensions, 
uncertainties, rapid technological shifts, and changing 
consumer behaviours. The U.S. economy showed 
notable resilience with 2.8%1  Real GDP growth, 
supported by strong domestic demand and consumer 
spending. In contrast, Europe experienced a sluggish 
recovery, growing at just 0.8%2 , hindered by structural 
headwinds in energy-intensive sectors. Germany, 
the region’s largest economy, slipped into its second 
consecutive year of recession, while China’s recovery 
was constrained by persistent issues in its property 
sector. Amid these challenges, India and Southeast Asia 
emerged as key global growth drivers, benefiting from 
rising consumption, accelerated digital adoption, and 
sustained infrastructure investments.
For India, these global developments bring both 
risks and opportunities. While the imposition of U.S. 
tariffs on various goods raises concerns for global 
trade, India’s economy remains relatively insulated 
due to its higher share of service exports, which are 
less affected by such barriers. S&P Global forecasts 
India’s GDP growth at 6.5% for FY2026, supported by 
cooling inflation and fiscal support announced in the 
Union Budget. Additionally, U.S.-China trade tensions 
are creating new avenues for India, particularly in 
electronics manufacturing. With electronics exports 
reaching $20.4 billion in FY2024 and the continued 
rollout of Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, 
India is well-positioned to expand its manufacturing 
base. While global GDP growth is projected to slow 
from 3.3%3  in 2024 to 2.8%3 in 2025, India’s diversified 
economy and proactive policy measures suggest 
continued resilience and momentum.
India’s Growth Story: Strong 
Momentum and a Stable Outlook
In 2024, the Indian economy demonstrated strong 
resilience amid a challenging global environment. 
With GDP growth estimated at 6.5% by the IMF, India 
remained one of the fastest-growing major economies, 
supported by robust domestic consumption, steady 
services exports, and a rebound in investment activity, 
accelerated digital adoption, robust services, increased 
public and private infrastructure spending, and 
growing momentum in manufacturing. 
Looking ahead, the outlook for FY2026 remains 
optimistic, driven by continued structural reforms, 
a young and growing workforce, and rising global 
interest in India as a reliable alternative manufacturing 
base. Consumer price inflation in India is expected to 
gradually decline, easing from 5.4% in FY2024 to 4.9% 
in FY2025, and further moderating to 4.0% in FY2026. 
According to the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary 
Policy Committee (MPC), the Indian economy is likely 
to sustain its current growth trajectory, with GDP 
projected to grow at 6.5% year-on-year in FY2026, 
maintaining the momentum seen in previous years.
Overall, India’s growth trajectory remains strong, as 
its economic structure adapts to the shifting global 
landscape with a focus on domestic strength and 
future-oriented development.
1U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
2European Central Bank
3International Monetary Fund
MAX SQUARE, NOIDA  
Actual Image
MAX SQUARE, NOIDA 
Actual Image
169
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
168
Real Estate Emerges as Key Economic Engine with Rising Investments  
and Urbanisation
India’s real estate sector demonstrated strong 
momentum in 2024, reflecting growing investor 
confidence and sustained economic activity. The 
sector is one of the largest employment generators in 
the country, employing over 704 million people, and 
is expected to contribute around 13%4 to India’s GDP 
by 2025, with the market size projected to reach USD 
1 trillion4 by 2030. Institutional investments surged to 
USD 8.95 billion in 2024, marking a 51% increase from 
2023, highlighting robust capital inflows. Urbanisation 
remains a key demand driver, with over 50%6 of India’s 
population expected to live in urban areas by 2047, 
fuelling the need for housing, infrastructure, and 
services across major and emerging cities. Government 
initiatives such as the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 
(PMAY) continue to promote affordable housing, 
while growing adoption of PropTech and sustainable, 
green building practices reflect the sector’s evolving 
focus on technology and environmental responsibility. 
Foreign direct investment remains strong, with 100% 
FDI allowed under the automatic route for townships, 
housing, and built-up infrastructure, further boosting 
growth prospects.
Looking ahead, the outlook for FY2026 remains 
positive, supported by recent monetary easing from 
the Reserve Bank of India and ongoing infrastructure 
investments. While the sector faces challenges like 
rising input costs and regulatory complexities, a 
gradual moderation in price growth is expected to 
balance demand and supply. Additionally, the real 
estate industry is undergoing a transformation, 
emphasising innovation in design, sustainability, 
and digital integration to meet changing consumer 
preferences. Overall, real estate continues to be a vital 
pillar of India’s economic expansion, driven by structural 
demand, demographic shifts, and policy support that 
collectively position it for sustained growth in the 
years ahead.
India’s Office Market Hits Historic High in 2024 Amid Increasing  
Occupier Confidence
2024 was a landmark year for India’s office real estate 
sector, achieving a record-high gross absorption of 798 
Million sq. ft.—a 17% YoY growth—reflecting sustained 
occupier confidence and the entry of new firms. 
Both domestic and global firms actively expanded 
in the country, influenced by the availability of talent 
and a robust technological landscape. Development 
completions demonstrated continued resilience, 53.9 
million sq. ft. Additionally, office demand is broad-
based in terms of sectoral mix, with a significant surge 
in domestic demand in line with India’s growing stature 
in the global economy. 
	»
Prominent sectors driving absorption are technology 
-27% (36% in 2019), Flexible space operators -20% 
(16% in 2019), BFSI -15% (19% in 2019), Engineering 
and manufacturing -9% (7% in 2019), among others.
	»
Leasing by domicile during 2024 – Domestic 46% 
(33% in 2019), USA 34% (45% in 2019), EMEA 16% 
(19% in 2019), APAC 4% (4% in 2019)
Global Capability Centres (GCCs) played a pivotal role, 
fuelled by India’s highly skilled and cost-effective 
workforce, thriving on a technological ecosystem, and 
competitive rentals, leasing 29 million sq. ft. in 2024, 
cementing India’s position as a strategic destination 
for global companies. GCCs are projected to maintain 
a 35–40% share in office leasing, driven by expansions 
and the entry of new players. The outlook for FY2026 
remains strong, with office demand expected to 
continue its upward trajectory.
In the post-COVID landscape, with employee 
experience becoming a strategic priority, occupiers 
are expected to continue pursuing ‘flight to quality’ 
relocations and upgrades. Corporations are increasingly 
opting for modern, green-certified office spaces 
aligned with net-zero goals. This trend is driving 
demand for high-quality, sustainable workplaces within 
integrated tech parks, reshaping India’s office market 
with a renewed emphasis on well-being, flexibility, 
and resilience.
India’s Housing Market Sees Strong Growth with Luxury Segment in Lead
India’s residential real estate market witnessed strong 
growth in CY 2024, backed by robust end-user demand 
and rising homebuyer confidence. Housing sales 
reached approximately 4.597 Lakh units—76% higher 
than 2019 levels—despite a slight 4% dip from 2023, 
indicating sustained momentum. Value of sales rose 
16% YoY to ₹5.7 trillion, while new launches saw a 7% 
YoY decline to 4.12 lakh units, still marking a 74% rise 
from 2019. Inventory overhang dropped to 14 months, 
improving from 15 months in 2023 and a significant 
decline from 30 months in 2019, signalling improved 
market efficiency.
There’s been a notable shift in demand, with luxury and 
super-luxury homes making up 30% of new supply, up 
from 11% in 2019, while affordable housing dropped 
from 40% to 16%. Rising demand in the luxury and 
super luxury segments has led to a sharp increase in 
average ticket sizes. The expansion of the luxury and 
super-luxury segments is being fuelled by multiple 
factors, including rising disposable incomes, a growing 
preference among affluent buyers for upscale and 
contemporary living, and the increasing appeal of 
premium properties as an investment avenue for the 
expanding upper middle class, NRIs, and high net 
worth individuals. This upward trajectory in mid-to-
high-end housing is expected to continue in FY2026, 
supported by a sustained appetite for home ownership, 
improving infrastructure, and rising demand for larger, 
more spacious residences.
NCR recorded 61,900 housing sales—a 6% YoY dip but 
32% higher than in 2019—while new supply surged 
44% YoY to 53,000 units. Prices in NCR rose 30% over 
the past year, with an inventory overhang of 17 months. 
With solid economic fundamentals and supportive 
interest rates, the market is poised for continued 
growth in 2025
4Anarock & NAREDCO (National Real Estate Development Council) 
“Real Estate Unboxed” 2014-2024
5JLL - India’s real estate investment trajectory in 2024
6‘Vision 2047’ report by the National Real Estate Development 
Council (NAREDCO) and Knight Frank
7Anarock – Indian Residential Real Estate – Annual Report 2024 
“Beyond the Growth Trajectory”
8CBRE – 2025 – India Market Outlook
MAX HOUSE, NEW DELHI  
Actual Image
170
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
171
Financial Business Performance  
The Company presents a summary of its Standalone and Consolidated financial performance for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2025, as outlined below.
(₹ in crores)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Revenue from Operations
41.10
29.37
160.49
92.94
EBITDA
354.81
26.49
133.58
17.80
Profit/(Loss) before Tax
339.01
17.64
37.61
(23.29)
Profit/(Loss) after Tax
280.90
23.32
26.43
(55.12)
Key Change in Significant Financial Ratios  
(Basis Standalone Financial Statement)
On a standalone basis, the Company’s revenue from 
operations stood at ₹41.10 crores in FY2024-25, 
compared to ₹29.37 crores in FY2023-24. EBITDA 
stood at ₹354.82 crores in FY2024-25, as against 
₹26.49 crores in FY2023-24. Profit before tax stood 
at ₹339.01 crores in FY2024-25, compared to ₹17.64 
crores in FY2023-24. Profit after tax stood at ₹280.90 
crores in FY2024-25, compared to ₹23.32 crores in 
FY2023-24.
On a consolidated basis, the Company’s revenue from 
operations stood at ₹160.48 crores in FY2024-25, 
compared to ₹120.27 crores in FY2023-24. EBITDA 
stood at ₹133.58 crores in FY2024–25, as against 
₹17.80 crores in FY2023-24. Profit before tax stood 
at ₹37.61 crores in FY2024-25, compared to a loss of 
₹23.29 crores in FY2023–24. Profit after tax stood at 
₹26.43 crores in FY2024-25, compared to a loss of 
₹55.12 crores in FY2023-24. As of March 31, 2025, the 
Company’s debt stood at ₹1,350 crores (excluding  
₹ 65 crores towards CCD and its accrued interest 
of New York Life), which included Lease Rental 
Discounting (LRD) loans of ₹852 crores. Cash and cash 
equivalents as of March 31, 2025, stood at ₹1,785  
crores, resulting in a net cash surplus of ₹435 crores.
Particulars
As of  
March 31, 2025
As of  
March 31, 2024
% Change
Reason for  variance 
Current Ratio
37.02
2.70
1273%
During the year, the company has 
raised funds via Qualified Institutional 
Placement (QIP) and stake sale in a 
subsidiary Company to New York Life, 
resulting in a substantial increase in 
the ratio.
Gearing ratio
NA
12%
(100%)
During the year, the company has 
repaid outstanding loans, resulting in a 
change in the ratio.
Debt-Equity Ratio
NA
0.13
(100%)
Debt Services  
Coverage Ratio
1.50
1.63
(8%)
During the year, the company has sold 
a stake in a subsidiary company and 
also an investment property, resulting 
higher ratio.
Return on Equity Ratio
11.90%
1.85%
542%
Inventory Turnover Ratio
-
-
NA
Trade Receivables  
Turnover Ratio
1.85
2.49
(26%)
Better collection of receivables
Trade Payable  
Turnover Ratio
NA
NA
NA
Net Capital Turnover Ratio
0.03
0.19
(83%)
During the year, the company has 
raised funds via Qualified Institutional 
Placement (QIP), resulting in higher 
capital. Pending deployment of such 
capital has resulted in a lower ratio for 
the current year.
Net Profit Ratio
6.83
0.79
761%
During the year, the company has sold 
a stake in a subsidiary company and 
also an investment property, resulting 
higher ratio.
Return on Capital Employed
14.17%
2.20%
543%
Return on Investment
11.44%
1.62%
607%
ESTATE 360, GURUGRAM 
Artistic Rendition
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
173
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
172
innovation, and customer centricity. By continuously 
focusing on and investing in these areas, we will be 
able to scale our operations across micro markets, 
ensuring timely project execution, quality construction, 
efficient project management, and prioritised 
customer satisfaction.
Customer Experience
Empirical evidence suggests that there is a strong 
correlation between the built environment and the 
quality of life experienced by its users. Thus, enhancing 
customer experience through well-designed spaces 
can directly impact the overall health and well-being of 
end users.
At Max Estates, we’ve paid close attention to creating a 
unique confluence of spaces that enable collaboration, 
innovation, and community, that are not just functional 
and aesthetically pleasing, but also environmentally 
sustainable, and designed to promote the holistic 
well-being of our users. Guided by our philosophy 
of WorkWell and LiveWell, we create differentiated 
working and living experiences by moving beyond 
the conventional separation of work, life, and well-
being, and paying attention to the entire spectrum 
of well-being across physical, emotional, social, and 
environmental aspects. Our developments personify 
our wellbeing orientation and bring our WorkWell and 
LiveWell philosophies to life.
Our focus on WorkWell and LiveWell is anchored 
around 9 pillars - empathetic hospitality, elemental 
harmony, generosity, inclusivity, peace of mind, 
belonging, Intentional Design, sustainability and 
food & nutrition. For instance, we integrate nature 
meaningfully into our designs, exemplified by the 
~11,000 square feet forest courtyard at Max Square.
Our in-house engagement vertical, Pulse, breathes life 
into our buildings by curating a collection of events 
and activities that nurture occupants to be healthier 
and happier. Pulse orchestrated 200+ Events, driving 
8,400+ tenant employee engagements in FY2025 
across all our operational assets. All of this has resulted 
in top-notch NPS9. score of 6.9/10
People
To support execution at scale, Max Estates has 
significantly strengthened its organisational capabilities 
over the past year, with a focused effort on attracting 
high-quality talent, particularly to build out the 
residential vertical. Over 120 experienced professionals 
have been onboarded in FY2025 across key functions, 
blending real estate and cross-industry expertise. 
We continue to invest in leadership development 
and capability building through structured learning 
programs, ensuring our teams are equipped to deliver 
on the scale and ambition of our growing portfolio.
9Net Promoter Score - a metric used to gauge customer loyalty and satisfaction. 
Max Estates has made significant strides across its 
core strategic pillars, building a strong foundation for 
scalable execution and sustained value creation.
Growth
Max Estates has built a well-diversified and scalable 
real estate portfolio across Delhi NCR, spanning 
commercial, residential, and mixed-use developments. 
Following the successful execution of premium 
commercial projects in Delhi and Noida and the 
launch of differentiated residential communities in 
Noida and Gurugram, the company has strategically 
expanded into mixed-use assets through targeted 
acquisitions. With a current portfolio of ~17 million 
square feet, Max Estates is positioned to accelerate its 
growth momentum by adding at least 3 million square 
feet annually across both residential and commercial 
segments, thereby strengthening its presence across 
key micro-markets in the region.
Capital
To fuel its next phase of growth, Max Estates 
successfully raised ₹800 crore through a Qualified 
Institutional Placement (QIP), which garnered strong 
participation from leading domestic and global 
institutional investors such as Nippon, Invesco, ITI 
Mutual Fund, and Trust Mutual Fund—reflecting 
robust confidence in the Company’s business model, 
execution capability, and long-term potential.
In addition to the QIP, the Company raised further 
capital of ₹150 crore through preferential allotments to 
promoters and strategic investors. New York Life (NYL), 
a long-standing partner, deepened its commitment by 
acquiring a 49 per cent stake in two SPVs holding Max 
Towers and Max House (Phase I & II) for a total amount 
of ₹388 Cr.
Collectively, the equity infusion from the QIP, 
preferential allotment, and NYL’s investment brings 
in over ₹1,300 crore of fresh capital, significantly 
enhancing the Company’s financial flexibility to pursue 
new development opportunities and scale operations.
With existing stakes in Max Square, Max Square 
Two, and Max District, Gurugram development, NYL 
now holds a 49 per cent interest across the entire 
commercial real estate portfolio of Max Estates. Their 
cumulative investment commitment stands at ₹1,800 
crore, including ₹550 crore towards upcoming mixed-
use projects at Delhi One and Sector 105, Noida.
In parallel, Max Estates continues to adopt capital-
efficient models, including Joint Development 
Agreements (JDAs), which are being successfully 
implemented in its ongoing residential projects 
in Gurugram.
Execution 
Max Estates has transitioned from executing one 
project at a time to managing a robust multi-project 
portfolio. As of FY2025, we have 4 operational projects, 
4 under construction projects and 3 under design 
projects. All under-construction projects remain 
broadly on track in terms of both timelines and 
budgets, reflecting disciplined project management 
and operational rigour.
Residential performance - Max Estates delivered strong 
execution outcomes in FY2025, with total bookings 
surpassing ₹5,000 crore, approximately 3x of last 
FY2024 — demonstrating the strength of our product-
market fit and customer trust. Estate 128, our first 
residential development in Noida, is fully sold. Phase II 
of Estate 128 saw a 40 %+ price premium over Phase 
I, reflecting strong demand for design and hospitality-
led end-user-focused residential developments. Estate 
360 in Gurugram — NCR’s first intergenerational 
living concept- is 96 per cent sold as of March 2025. 
Between Estate 128 and Estate 360, the company 
did ₹980 Cr of collections. These results validate our 
approach of delivering differentiated, high-quality 
residential offerings.
On the commercial side, Max Square was completed in 
a record 30 months and is over 99 per cent leased as 
of June 2025 at a 30 per cent premium to the micro-
market, attracting marquee occupiers such as Adobe, 
NDTV, CloudAngles, and AML Rightsource. Max House 
Phase II was delivered in Q3FY2024 and fully leased 
within 12 months at a 60 per cent rental premium. 
Our legacy commercial assets, Max Towers and Max 
House Phase I, continue to operate at full occupancy 
with lease rentals 25–30 per cent above market, 
supported by a diversified tenant base of leading 
domestic and international firms. We have built a well-
diversified portfolio of office and retail clients, with no 
single tenant occupying more than 25% of respective 
buildings and near-zero attrition — a reflection of 
the enduring appeal of our spaces and the quality 
of our tenant engagements, enabling them to truly 
WorkWell.We are deeply committed to our key pillars 
of execution: people, process, sustainability, digital 
Progress against key pillars to enable execution at scale
MAX TOWERS, NOIDA 
Actual Image
175
174
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
There is enhanced focus on improving diversity within 
our organisation. We are committed to increasing 
women’s participation in our workforce to 30% within 
the next 24 months. To deepen our understanding 
and demonstrate our intent to drive meaningful 
change in gender diversity, we partnered with In 
Tandem Global Consulting to release a joint report 
titled “Concrete Change — A Study of the Economic 
Impact of Better Pay Parity & Inclusion of Women in 
Real Estate.” The report underscores a critical insight: 
real estate continues to be one of the least inclusive 
sectors for women, emphasising the urgent need for 
systemic change.
Process
Max Estates has undertaken several strategic initiatives 
to strengthen systems and processes to enable 
seamless execution at scale, like institutionalising 
SOPs across 13 verticals of the real estate value chain 
with the help of subject matter experts. These SOPs 
are rigorously tested through internal audits to ensure 
robust execution at scale.
Sustainability remains central to our operations. Since 
publishing our first Sustainability Report in 2021, 
we’ve made consistent progress, achieving a GRESB 
4-star rating and securing LEED, IGBC, ISO, and WELL 
certifications for our operational assets. We aspire to 
reach a 5-star GRESB rating in 2025. We continue 
to embed ESG principles and digital innovation 
across functions—leveraging tools such as SAP, BIM, 
Salesforce, Zoho, Autodesk, SAP Ariba, Reloy and others 
to enhance collaboration, streamlining processes, 
improving decision making, driving operational 
efficiency, cost-effectiveness, revenue enhancement, 
and customer experience. Our three-year digital 
roadmap will further enhance scale readiness.
The Company is formalising Net Zero targets in 
alignment with the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi), with a commitment to achieving Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 Net Zero emissions by 2040, contributing 
meaningfully to India’s broader climate objectives. 
Additionally, we have commenced the measurement 
of Scope 3 emissions and are conducting Life 
Cycle Assessments (LCA) across our asset portfolio. 
To enhance operational efficiency, we are also 
implementing technology-driven solutions focused 
on optimising energy use, water management, and 
waste handling.
We aim to ‘become a leading real estate brand in 
Delhi NCR with focus on design and hospitality-led 
differentiation in customer experience’. We endeavour 
to continuously strengthen our capabilities across 
the real estate value chain anchored in our WorkWell 
and LiveWell philosophies to effectively serve across 
a range of micro-markets within Delhi-NCR through 
a wide spectrum of product, price, demand mix, 
and regulatory landscape. Further, the Company will 
continue to invest in institutionalising systems and 
processes aided by best-in-class digital tools and 
technologies to minimise execution risk in terms of cost 
and time as well as enhance customer experience and 
operational efficiency.
Our key priorities for FY2026 are listed as under:
	»
Grow pre-sales booking value by 15 to 20 per 
cent year-on-year (~ ₹6,000 to 6,500 crore) from 
three planned launches of residential/mixed-use 
developments in FY2026 - Estate 360 (Gurugram), 
Delhi One (Noida), and Sector 105 (Noida)
	»
Achieve pre-leasing of 100,000 square feet each in 
two upcoming commercial projects - Max Square 
Two (Noida) and Max District (Gurugram).
	»
Secure three new opportunities (adding up to at 
least 3 million square feet) in Delhi NCR across 
residential and commercial asset classes
	»
Execution within budgeted timelines and cost 
across portfolio under design and construction - Max 
Square Two (Noida), Max District (Gurugram), Estate 
128 (Noida), Estate 360 (Gurugram), Delhi One 
(Noida) and Sector 105 (Noida)
	»
Financial closure for Delhi One (Noida) and Sector 
105 (Noida) mixed-use projects
	»
Scale and drive adoption of tech-enabled systems 
and processes across the value chain in both asset 
classes to ensure health and safety, customer 
experience, operational efficiency, and cost 
stewardship at scale
	»
Focus on broad basing the culture of identifying, 
engaging, and mitigating risks that can materially 
impact portfolio-level cash flow and derail execution 
at scale
	»
Identify and fill capability gaps across the value chain 
with a specialised and experienced talent pool
	»
Embed the ‘LiveWell WorkWell’ philosophy across 
‘Experiences’ developed by Max Estates – curating 
an ecosystem that integrates sustainability, biophilia, 
nutrition, community, and health & fitness offerings 
to ‘bring real well-being to real estate’
	»
Continue to implement ESG best practices across 
the growing portfolio, while specifically aspiring 
for GRESB10 ranking (5-star), rollout of renewable 
energy as a source, as well as establishing Net 
Zero Targets
	»
Broaden the awareness of the Max Estates brand 
story both within and outside Delhi-NCR, including 
select international markets, to expand the 
distribution reach and client base
Driven by our articulated priorities, an unwavering 
commitment to execution, utmost attention to detail, 
and an integrated approach from design to asset 
management, anchored in the WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophies, Max Estates aspires to be the top real 
estate brand in NCR. 
Key Milestones for FY2026
Risk
The Company has implemented a comprehensive Risk 
Register framework, which identifies and evaluates 
risks across seven key areas: macroeconomic, business, 
regulatory, brand, capital, people, and technology. Each 
risk is categorised based on its likelihood and potential 
impact, with four risk levels: low, moderate, severe, and 
critical. Our goal is to cultivate a strong ‘Risk Culture’ by 
encouraging team members at all levels to contribute 
to risk discussions and mitigation strategies, ensuring 
these insights are integrated into the Risk Register for 
ongoing tracking and review.
Additionally, we have established a dedicated Risk 
Management Committee to oversee and refine our 
risk management processes, ensuring continuous 
alignment with the company’s strategic objectives.
Brand
Max Estates is fast emerging as a real estate brand 
synonymous with thoughtful design, hospitality-led 
experiences, and a deep commitment to wellbeing, 
all aimed at enhancing quality of life through the 
spaces it creates. The Company’s purpose — ‘bringing 
real wellbeing to real estate’— has become a clear 
differentiator in the market.
By prioritising wellbeing in every space, we offer a 
unique value proposition that sets us apart from 
competitors. This unique positioning has earned 
industry recognition, including “Real Estate Company 
of the Year – North” by Construction Week, “Best Realty 
Brands” by ET Now in 2024 and “Best Organisation for 
Women 2025” by ET Now.
The Company is dedicated to giving back to society by 
partnering with Habitat for Humanity India to sponsor 
homes for underprivileged construction workers 
and labourers, improving their living conditions and 
health and has successfully handed over 25 homes 
in Phase I of the affordable housing project in Rewari, 
Haryana. Phase II, with an additional 25 homes, is 
currently under construction, and we are exploring 
further partnership opportunities in the Noida area. Our 
partnership with the Latika Centre for Inclusion reflects 
our commitment to creating universally accessible 
environments that support and empower specially-
abled individuals. As part of this initiative, a dedicated 
56,000 sq. ft. campus is being developed, featuring 
activity rooms, therapy and counselling units, a library, 
physiotherapy and sensory areas, a family resource 
centre, an inclusive playground, training halls, and a 
ramp-accessible building.
10Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark
ESTATE 360, GURUGRAM 
Artistic Rendition
176
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
177
Corporate Governance Report
OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
PHILOSOPHY
Your Company maintains a steadfast commitment 
to upholding the highest standards of Corporate 
Governance. We believe that exemplary governance 
serves as a cornerstone for value-oriented leadership, 
fostering accountability, transparency, and ethical 
conduct throughout our organization.
We have been dedicated to implementing a 
comprehensive governance framework across the 
Group. This journey has involved the introduction of 
transformative initiatives focused on three pivotal 
aspects of governance:
	»
Capital Management Discipline: We prioritize 
prudent capital management practices to ensure 
the responsible allocation of resources and 
sustainable growth.
	»
Performance Management Excellence: Through 
robust performance management systems, we 
continuously monitor and enhance the performance of 
our businesses to drive efficiency and competitiveness.
	»
Stakeholder Value Creation: Our efforts are geared 
towards creating sustained value for all stakeholders, 
fostering long-term relationships built on trust and 
mutual benefit.
We remain committed in our pursuit of excellence 
in Corporate Governance, recognizing its pivotal 
role in driving our continued success and fostering 
stakeholder confidence.
BOARD ARCHITECTURE
Your Company has undertaken significant steps to 
optimize board structures, ensuring they embody the 
ideal composition for effective governance. This includes:
	»
Independent Directorship: We have strived to achieve 
the optimal balance by appointing a suitable number 
of Independent Directors, bringing diverse expertise 
and perspectives to the table.
	»
Board Diversity: Recognizing the value of diverse 
viewpoints, we have worked to ensure representation 
across various functional and industry domains within 
our boards.
	»
Active Lead Directors: Each board benefits from 
the presence of an engaged lead Director, facilitating 
proactive governance and strategic oversight.
	»
Separation of Roles: To reinforce accountability and 
decision-making clarity, we have separated the roles 
of CEOs and Chairmen within our boards.
Moreover, we have clearly defined the board’s role in key 
areas such as:
	»
Strategy Formulation: Boards actively contribute to 
shaping strategic direction and long-term goals.
	»
Financial Monitoring: Rigorous oversight mechanisms 
are in place to monitor the financial health of 
our companies.
	»
Leadership Development: Boards are actively 
involved in fostering a culture of leadership excellence 
and talent development.
	»
Risk Management: Comprehensive risk management 
strategies are formulated and monitored by the board 
to safeguard our interests.
	»
Succession Planning: Robust succession plans are 
developed and overseen by the board, ensuring 
continuity of leadership and organizational stability.
Through these initiatives, we aim to bolster governance 
effectiveness, enhance stakeholder confidence, and 
drive sustainable value creation across our Group.
BOARD PROCESSES
Our commitment to optimizing the effectiveness of our 
Board extends to various facets, including:
	»
Director Onboarding: We ensure a smooth 
onboarding process for new Directors, equipping them 
with the necessary knowledge and resources to fulfill 
their roles effectively.
	»
Board Education and Engagement: Continuous 
education and engagement initiatives are undertaken 
to enhance Directors’ understanding of our business 
and industry landscape, enabling informed decision-
making.
	»
Promoting Independence: We foster an environment 
that encourages independent thinking and actions, 
adhering strictly to our code of conduct to uphold 
ethical standards and integrity.
	»
Meeting Efficiency: Key operational aspects, such 
as crafting comprehensive meeting agendas and 
facilitating the flow of timely and relevant information 
to the Board, are meticulously managed to optimize 
the Board’s time and focus on critical business areas.
	»
External Expertise: External speakers are invited 
to share insights and best practices, enriching the 
Board’s discussions and keeping them informed of 
industry trends and benchmarks.
	»
Comprehensive Board Materials: Board materials are 
curated to be comprehensive, concise, and strategically 
relevant, facilitating meaningful discussions and 
decision-making.
	»
Sub-committee Review: Material matters are 
thoroughly reviewed by specific Board sub-
committees, comprising a balanced mix of Non-
executive and Independent Directors with relevant 
expertise. Detailed charters are in place for each sub-
committee, outlining their roles and responsibilities.
Through these measures, we ensure that our Board 
functions optimally, with a focus on strategic oversight, 
value creation, and prudent governance across all critical 
aspects of our business.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
To continually enhance Board effectiveness, we employ 
several mechanisms:
	»
Annual Evaluation: An annual evaluation of Board 
Members is conducted to assess performance and 
identify areas for improvement, ensuring ongoing 
alignment with organizational goals and values.
	»
Inter-Company Board Movements: When necessary, 
inter-company Board movements are facilitated to 
ensure that each Board is composed of members 
who bring relevant expertise and are fully engaged in 
decision-making processes.
	»
Performance Improvement Mechanisms: Various 
mechanisms are in place to improve Board 
performance, including:
	
−Clear Standards of Conduct: We establish clear 
standards of conduct and behavior to guide Board 
members in fulfilling their responsibilities with 
integrity and professionalism.
	
−Governance Interventions: A calendar of key 
governance interventions, such as strategy-setting 
sessions and risk management sessions, is set 
to ensure that the Board remains proactive in 
addressing critical issues and opportunities.
	
−Consequence 
Management: 
Ef fective 
consequence management processes are 
implemented to address deviations from expected 
behavior or performance standards, fostering 
accountability and continuous improvement.
By implementing these measures, we aim to continuously 
strengthen our Boards’ effectiveness, enabling them to 
make informed decisions that drive sustainable business 
growth and value creation.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors (“the Board”), set up by the 
shareholders as the top governing body, plays an 
important role in setting the Company’s vision and 
protecting the interests of all stakeholders. The Board 
guides the Company’s main goals, supports Management 
to carry out plans, and reviews progress against set 
targets. This shared oversight helps the Company stay 
strong, responsible, and focused on creating long-term 
value for shareholders, employees, customers, and 
the community.
During the year, the Board’s composition followed 
the requirements of Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, along with Sections 149 and 152 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act), and the related rules. As 
of March 31, 2025, the Board of Directors consisted of 
9 (Nine) Directors, including 1 (one) Executive Director, 
and 8 (Eight) Non-Executive Directors, out of which 
5 (Five) are Independent Directors, including three 
Women Directors. In addition, there is 1 (one) Alternate 
Director on the Board of the Company. Mr. Analjit Singh, 
the Chairman of the Company, is a Promoter and Non-
Executive Director.
None of the Directors on the Board holds the office 
of Director in more than 20 companies, including 10 
public companies, as disclosed under Section 184 of 
the Act read with Rules framed thereunder. None of 
the IDs serve as IDs in more than seven listed entities. 
In accordance with Regulation 26 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, none of the Directors are members in more 
than 10 committees or act as chairperson of more than 
5 committees (the committees being, Audit Committee 
and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee) across all 
public limited companies in which he/she is a Director. 
All Non-Independent Directors, except Mr. Sahil Vachani, 
Vice Chairman and Managing Director, on the Board are 
liable to retire by rotation.
All Independent Directors (IDs) have confirmed, in line 
with Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
that they meet the independence criteria given under 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
Section 149 of the Act, along with the Rules made under 
it. The IDs have also stated that they are not aware of 
any situation or circumstance that exists or could 
reasonably be expected to arise, which might impair or 
impact their ability to carry out their duties with objective 
and independent judgment and without any outside 
influence. The Board also assessed the independence of 
Directors and confirmed that the Independent Directors 
met the conditions specified in the Listing Regulations 
and were independent of the Management.
179
178
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
The composition of the Directors, their attendance at the last Annual General Meeting held on August 23, 2024, 
including the details of their other Directorships, including the listed entities with category of directorship, and 
Committee Memberships etc., are provided below: 
Name of Director and 
Category
Attendance  
at last AGM 
held on 
August 23, 
2024
Number of 
Directorships 
in other 
Companies as 
at March 31, 
2025
Number of 
committee 
positions held 
in other public 
companies as at 
March 31, 2025
Shareholding 
in the 
Company
Directorships in other Listed 
Companies
Member
Chairman 
Non-executive Chairman (Promoter)
Mr. Analjit Singh
Yes
11
-
-
4,42,401
Promoter, Non-Executive 
Chairman – Max Financial 
Services Limited; Max India 
Limited
Vice-Chairman & Managing Director (Promoter)
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Yes
16
2
1
-
Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Director – Max 
Financial Services Limited; 
Axis Max Life Insurance 
Limited (Debt-listed)
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Anthony R. Malloy #
No
-
-
-
-
-
Ms. Jilian L Moo Young# 
[Alternate Director] 
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Atul B. Lall
No
9
1
-
25,77,384
Managing Director in Dixon 
Technologies (India) Limited 
and Independent Director in 
Happy Forgings Limited
Independent Directors
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Yes
10
5
1
6,315
Independent Director – New 
Delhi Television Limited; 
Indus Towers Limited; APL 
Apollo Tubes Limited and 
Arohan Financial Services 
Limited (Debt Limited)
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
No
1
-
-
-
-
Mr. Niten Malhan
No
9
2
1
-
Independent Director – Max 
India Limited; Lemon Tree 
Hotels Limited
Ms. Malini Thadani @
Yes
3
3
-
-
Independent Director – AU 
Small Finance Bank Limited; 
Max Financial Services 
Limited
Ms. Ira Gupta $
NA
2
1
1
-
Independent Director – SRF 
Limited; Eicher Motors 
Limited
# Mr. Anthony R. Malloy is the representative of New York Life Insurance Holdings Limited and Ms. Jilian L Moo Young is Alternate 
Director to Mr. Malloy. Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo-Young was re-appointed as Alternate Director to Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy, Non-
Executive Director, with effect from February 17, 2025. She had earlier vacated the position when Mr. Malloy attended the Board 
meeting in India on that date.
@ Ms. Malini Thadani, appointed on the Board effective from May 22, 2024.
$ Ms. Ira Gupta, appointed on the Board effective from March 27, 2025.
Notes:
1.	
Mr. Sahil Vachani does not hold any Independent Directorship.
2.	
Mr. Analjit Singh is the father-in-law of Mr. Sahil Vachani, and they are related to each other. Apart from this 
relationship, none of the other directors are related to one another.
3.	
Excluding Foreign Companies and Companies formed under Section 8 of the Act.
4.	
Represents Memberships/Chairmanships of Audit Committee & Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Indian 
Public Limited Companies other than companies formed under Section 8 of the Act.
Attendance at the Board Meetings
10 (Ten) Board meetings were held during FY2025, details of which are as under:
Name of Director
April 
30
May 
22
July 
15
August 
9
August 
31
October 
25
January 
17
February 
7
February 
17
March 
27
Mr. Analjit Singh
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Sahil Vachani
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Anthony R. 
Malloy
√
√
√
√
√
×
√
√
√
×
Ms. Jillian Leigh 
Moo-Young
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Atul B. Lall
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
×
Mr. D.K. Mittal
×
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Niten Malhan
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Ms. Malini Thadani #
-
×
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Ms. Ira Gupta $
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
√
Ms. Avani Vishal 
Davda @
√
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Legend
√ = Present,  ×  = Leave of absence,  - = Not applicable (not on the Board at that time)
Notes:
@ Ms. Avani Vishal Davda resigned w.e.f. May 2, 2025.
# Ms. Malini Thadani appointed w.e.f. May 22, 2024.
$ Ms. Ira Gupta appointed w.e.f. March 27, 2025.
How do we make sure our board is effective?
The calendar for the Board and Committee meetings is 
fixed in advance for the whole year, along with significant 
agenda items. At least one Board meeting is held within 
45 days from the close of each quarter (within 60 days 
for the fourth quarter) to review financial results and 
business performance and the gap between two Board 
meetings does not exceed the time gap as prescribed 
under the law from time to time.
Apart from the aforesaid four quarterly meetings, 
additional Board meetings are also convened to meet 
business exigencies, as required. In addition, matters 
of exigency may also be approved through resolutions 
passed by circulation, as permissible under the provisions 
of the Act, and Secretarial Standard-1.
Committee meets generally prior to the Board meetings. 
The Chairpersons of the respective Committees brief 
the Board about the proceedings of the Committee 
meetings and its recommendations on matters that the 
Board needs to consider and approve.
All Agenda items are accompanied by comprehensive 
notes on the related subject and in certain areas such 
as business plans/business reviews and financial results, 
detailed presentations are made to the Board members. 
The materials for the Board and Committee meetings are 
generally circulated (electronically in a secure dedicated 
portal). The Board is regularly updated on the key risks 
and the steps and processes initiated for managing, 
reducing, and if feasible, eliminating various risks. 
Business risk evaluation and management is an ongoing 
process within the Company.
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities 
effectively, members of the Board are apprised of the 
overall performance of the Company and its subsidiaries 
at every Board meeting. The Board has complete access 
to all the relevant information within the Company and 
all its employees. Senior Management is invited to attend 
the Board/Committee meetings to provide detailed 
insight into the items being discussed.
Further, the Company has made familiarization 
programmes to familiarise Independent Directors 
with the Company, their roles, rights, responsibilities in 
the Company, the nature of the industry in which the 
Company operates, the business model of the Company, 
etc. The detail of such a familiarisation programme 
is available at https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/MEL-Familiarization-Program-of-
Independent-Directors-1.pdf.
181
180
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Key Board qualifications, expertise 
and attributes
The Board is comprised of qualified members who bring 
the required skills, competence, and expertise to make 
effective contributions to the Board and its committees. 
The Board members are committed to ensuring that the 
Company is in compliance with the highest standards of 
corporate governance.
In terms of the requirement of Listing Regulations, 
the Board has identified the following core skills/
expertise/ competencies of the Directors for the effective 
functioning of the Company in the context of the 
Company’s business:
Sr. 
No. Matrix of skills identified by the Board of Directors
1.
Corporate governance - Maintaining Board 
and management accountability, protecting 
shareholder interests, and observing appropriate 
governance practices.
2.
Leadership - Leadership experience in developing 
talent, planning succession, and driving change 
and long-term growth. Practical understanding 
of managing organisations, processes, strategic 
planning, and risk management. 
3.
Strategic thinking - Forming strategies to analyze 
the marketplace and identify opportunities to 
stimulate growth, considering the impact of 
key decisions, offer contingency plans and risk 
mitigation, bearing in mind the stakeholders’ best 
interests.
4.
Diversity - Representation of gender, ethnic, 
geographic, cultural, or other perspectives that 
expand the Board’s understanding of the needs 
and viewpoints of our customers, partners, 
employees, governments, and other stakeholders 
worldwide.
5.
Financial acumen - Proficiency in financial 
management, financial reporting processes, or 
experience in actively supervising the finance 
function.
6.
Business Growth - Identifying market trends, 
developing strategies for growth of business. 
Building brand awareness and equity and 
enhancing enterprise reputation. Ability to assess 
investment or acquisition decisions, evaluation of 
operational integration plans.
7.
Merger and acquisitions - Experience in 
acquisitions and other business combinations, 
with the ability to assess ‘build and buy’ decision, 
accurately valuing the transactions and evaluating 
the operational integration plans.
As on March 31, 2025, Mr. Analjit Singh, Mr. Sahil Vachani, 
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal, Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy, 
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo – Young and Mr. Atul B. Lall possess 
all the aforementioned skills/expertise/competencies. 
Further, Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan possesses skills 
specified in serial numbers 1, 2, and 4; Mr. Niten Malhan 
possesses skills specified in serial numbers 1, 3, 6, and 
7; Ms. Malini Thadani possesses skills specified in serial 
numbers 1 to 6; and Ms. Ira Gupta possesses skills 
specified in serial numbers 1 to 4 & 6. The brief profile 
of directors, which forms part of this annual report, 
provides insight into the education, expertise, skills, and 
experience of the directors.
Code of Conduct
In compliance with Regulation 26(3) of Listing 
Regulations, the Company adopted a Code of Conduct 
for the Directors and Senior Management (‘the Code’). 
The Code is available on the Company’s website at https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Code-
of-Conduct-Directors-and-Sr.-Management-1.pdf.
All the members of the Board of Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel affirmed compliance with the 
above-mentioned Regulation, including the Code for 
FY2025. A declaration to this effect signed by the Vice-
Chairman and Managing Director forms part of this 
report as Annexure-I.
Pursuant to the requirements of the SEBI (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 as amended, 
the Company has also adopted a Code of Conduct to 
Regulate, Monitor and Report trading by insiders for 
prevention of insider trading, which is applicable to all the 
Directors, Designated Persons and Connected Persons of 
the Company. A copy of the Code of Conduct is available 
on the Company’s website: https://maxestates.in/wp-
content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Code-of-Conduct-to-
Regulate-Monitor-and-Report-Trading-by-Insiders.pdf.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
AUDIT COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2025, the Audit Committee comprised 
of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (Chairman), Mr. Niten Malhan 
and Mr. Sahil Vachani. The members of the Committee, 
except Mr. Sahil Vachani, are Independent Directors. All 
members of the Committee possess requisite accounting 
and financial knowledge. The Chairman of the Committee 
has accounting and financial management expertise. 
Mr. Abhishek Mishra, Company Secretary of the Company 
acts as the Secretary to this Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have 
been defined by the Board of Directors in accordance 
with Regulation 18 and Part C of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations and applicable provisions of the Act. This 
Committee, inter-alia, recommends the appointment and 
remuneration of statutory auditors, secretarial auditors, 
and internal auditors, reviews Company’s financial 
reporting processes & systems and internal financial 
controls, financial and risk management policies, 
related party transactions, significant transactions and 
arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiaries, 
review of inter-corporate loans and investments, review 
the statement of uses/application of funds raised through 
preferential issue, Company’s financial statements, 
including annual and quarterly financial results and 
financial accounting practices & policies and reviews the 
functioning of the whistle-blower mechanism.
Representatives of Internal and Statutory Auditors are 
invited to the committee meetings, as and when required. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the 
last Annual General Meeting of the Company to answer 
shareholder queries.
Meetings & attendance during FY2025
The Committee met 6 (Six) times during FY2025 on 
April 29, 2024, May 22, 2024, August 9, 2024, October 
25, 2024, February 7, 2025 and March 27, 2025. The 
details of the attendance of Directors at the meetings 
are as follows:
Name of Director
Number of 
meetings held 
during tenure
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal, Chairman
6
6
Mr. Niten Malhan
6
6
Mr. Sahil Vachani
6
5
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2025, the Committee comprised of 
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan (Chairperson), Mr. Dinesh 
Kumar Mittal, and Mr. Analjit Singh. All the members of 
the Committee, except Mr. Analjit Singh, are Independent 
Directors. Mr. Abhishek Mishra, Company Secretary of the 
Company acts as the Secretary to this Committee.
The scope, including terms of reference of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, has been defined by 
the Board of Directors in accordance with Regulation 
19 and Part D of Schedule II to the Listing Regulations 
and applicable provisions of the Act. This Committee, 
inter-alia, evaluates the compensation and benefits 
for Executive Directors and Senior management, 
recruitment of key managerial personnel and finalisation 
of their compensation, induction of Executive and Non-
Executive Directors and fixing the method, criteria 
and quantum of compensation to be paid to the Non- 
Executive Directors and formulate the criteria for 
evaluation of independent directors and the Board. The 
details of the annual evaluation of the performance of the 
Board, its committees and individual directors have been 
disclosed in the Board’s Report. It also administers the 
ESOP Scheme(s) of the Company, including approval for 
grant of stock options and the allotment of equity shares 
arising from the exercise of stock options.
The Company’s Appointment Criteria, Qualification & 
Remuneration Policy aims to attract and retain the best 
talent to leverage performance significantly. The strategy 
takes into account remuneration trends, the talent 
market, and competitive requirements. The company’s 
Remuneration Policy is available on its website at https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-
Appointment-Criteria-Qualification-and-Remuneration-
Policy-1.pdf.
Meetings & attendance during FY2025:
The Committee met thrice during FY2025, on May 22, 
2024, February 7, 2025 and March 27, 2025. The details of 
the attendance of Directors at the meetings are as follows:
Name of Director
Number of 
meetings held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan, 
Chairperson
3
3
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal
3
3
Mr. Analjit Singh
3
2
Performance Evaluation Criteria for 
Independent Directors
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and Regulation 17(10) 
of the Listing Regulations, the performance evaluation of 
Independent Directors was done by the entire Board of 
Directors and in the evaluation, the directors who were 
subject to evaluation had not participated. The evaluation 
of Independent Directors was based on criteria such as 
current knowledge of the Company’s business sector 
& trends, understanding of the Company’s business, 
its subsidiaries, operational structure and key risks, 
meaningful & constructive contribution in meetings, 
guidance to the management, etc.
Criteria for making payments to Non-
Executive Directors
The Company pays its non-executive directors sitting fees 
of ₹1,00,000/- per meeting for attending the meetings 
of the Board and Committees of the Board and separate 
meeting(s) of Independent Directors.
The Company has not paid any remuneration to its Non-
Executive/ Independent Directors during FY2025, except 
sitting fee and annual compensation of ₹3,00,00,000/- 
(Rupees Three crores only) to Mr. Analjit Singh, Non-
Executive Chairman of the Company in terms of 
applicable provisions of the Act.
Sitting Fee paid to Directors during FY2025
Details of the sitting fees paid to Non-Executive/ 
Independent Directors of the Company during FY2025 
are as follows:
S. 
No. Name of the Director
Sitting Fee paid 
(in ₹)
1
Mr. Analjit Singh
12,00,000
2
Mr. Atul B. Lall
11,00,000
3
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
22,00,000
4
Mr. Niten Malhan
21,00,000
5
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
17,00,000
6
Ms. Malini Thadani *
9,00,000
7
Ms. Ira Gupta **
1,00,000
8
Ms. Avani Vishal Davda #
1,00,000
*Ms. Malini Thadani appointed w.e.f. May 22, 2024. 
**Ms. Ira Gupta appointed w.e.f. March 27, 2025. 
#Ms. Avani Vishal Davda resigned w.e.f. May 2, 2025.
183
182
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
The remuneration payable/ paid to Executive 
Director of the Company including performance 
incentives is determined from time to time by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee in terms of 
applicable provisions of the Act read with Company’s 
remuneration policy.
Details of the remuneration charged to profit and loss 
account in respect of Mr. Sahil Vachani as Vice-Chairman 
and Managing Director for FY2025 is as under:
Description 
(Amount in ₹)
Salary 
2,07,10,420
Benefits (Perquisites) + Insurance 
63,89,404
Performance Incentive/special 
payments
1,74,29,117
Retirals (PF)
12,42,624
TOTAL
4,57,71,565
Service contract
5 years w.e.f. 
July 31, 2023
HR Notice period
3 Months 
Stock options granted (in numbers)
N/A
The severance fee, if any, shall be payable as per the 
provisions of the Act. The Variable Compensation / 
Performance Incentive shall be paid depending on the 
performance rating and the Company’s performance 
within the limits approved by the shareholders of 
the Company.
The Company did not have any pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the Non-Executive Directors other than 
payment of the sitting fees/remuneration for attending 
meetings. Further, during FY2025, none of the directors 
of the Company were granted/held any outstanding stock 
options under the Max Estates Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2023 or other convertible securities of the Company.
Details of equity shares held by Directors of the Company 
as on March 31, 2025, are:
S. 
No. Name of the Director
No. of equity 
shares of ₹10/- 
each
1
Mr. Analjit Singh
4,42,401
2
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Nil
3
Mr. Anthony R. Malloy
Nil
4
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo - Young
Nil
5
Mr. Atul B. Lall
25,77,384
6
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
6,315
7
Mr. Niten Malhan
Nil
8
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Nil
9
Ms. Malini Thadani
Nil
10 Ms. Ira Gupta
Nil
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP 
COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2025, the Committee comprised 
of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (Chairman), Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan and Mr. Sahil Vachani. All the members of 
the Committee, except Mr. Sahil Vachani, are Independent 
Directors. Mr. Abhishek Mishra Company Secretary, 
serves as the Secretary of this Committee and also acts 
as the Compliance Officer in accordance with Regulation 
6 of the Listing Regulations. Key responsibilities of this 
Committee are formulation of procedures in line with 
the statutory guidelines to ensure speedy disposal of 
various requests received from shareholders from time to 
time, redressal of shareholders and investor complaints/
grievances. The scope of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee has been defined by the Board of Directors 
in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 20 read 
with Part D of Schedule II to the Listing Regulations. The 
Committee also approves the transfer and transmission 
of securities; issuance of duplicate certificates etc. The 
Chairman of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
was present at the last Annual General Meeting of the 
Company to answer shareholder queries.
During the year under review, the Company received 1 
complaint, which was duly resolved.
Meetings & attendance during FY2025
The Committee met once during FY2025 on March 
27, 2025. All the Committee members were present at 
the meeting.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
As of March 31, 2025, the Committee comprised 
Mr. Niten Malhan (Chairman), Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan, 
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Mr. Nitin Kumar and Mr. Rishi 
Raj as its member. The Committee comprises two 
independent directors, one executive director and 
two members of senior management. The terms of 
reference of the Committee have been defined by 
the Board of Directors inter-alia to include functions 
prescribed under Regulation 21 and Part D of Schedule 
II of the Listing Regulations. The Committee inter-alia 
has been entrusted with formulating a detailed risk 
management policy, which includes a framework for 
identifying internal and external risks such as financial, 
operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly ESG), 
information, cyber security, and other risks as may 
be determined; measures for risk mitigation through 
appropriate internal control systems and processes; 
and a business continuity plan. The Committee ensures 
that suitable methodology, processes, and systems are 
in place to monitor and evaluate business risks, oversees 
the implementation of the risk management policy, 
and evaluates the adequacy of the risk management 
systems. The policy is reviewed at least once every two 
years, taking into account changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexities. The Committee keeps the 
Board informed of the nature, content, and outcome 
of its discussions, recommendations, and actions, and 
also reviews the appointment, removal, and terms 
of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer, if any. The 
Committee further discharges such other duties and 
responsibilities as may be prescribed under applicable 
laws or delegated by the Board from time to time.
Meetings & attendance during FY2025
The Committee met twice during FY2025 on October 
15, 2024 and March 27, 2025. All the members attended 
the said meeting.
INVESTMENT & FINANCE COMMITTEE
As of March 31, 2025, the Committee is comprised of 
Mr. Atul B. Lall (Chairman), Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal, 
Mr. Niten Malhan, Mr. Sahil Vachani and Mr. Anthony R. 
Malloy (Alternate Director - Ms. Jilian L Moo Young.
During the period under review the terms of reference 
of the committee has been changed by the Board 
of directors in their meeting held on May 22, 2024 
and July 15, 2024. The revised terms of reference of 
the committee are to review financial performance 
of businesses carried on by the Company and its 
subsidiaries, review and recommend revenue and capital 
budgets of the Company and its subsidiaries, review and 
recommend various fund raising options and financial 
resources allocation to Company’s subsidiaries and to 
review proposals on business restructuring, mergers, 
consolidations acquisitions, investments, establishment 
of joint ventures and divestments of any businesses, etc.
Meetings & attendance during FY2025
The Committee met twice during FY2025, on August 29, 
2024. The details of the attendance of Directors at the 
meetings are as under:
Name of Director
Number of 
meetings held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Atul B. Lall
2
2
Mr. Sahil Vachani
2
1
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal
2
2
Mr. Niten Malhan
2
1
Mr. Anthony R. Malloy
2
1
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
& SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2025, the Corporate Social Responsibility 
& Sustainability Committee comprised of Ms. Malini 
Thadani (Chairperson), Mr. Niten Malhan and Mr. Sahil 
Vachani. Mr. Abhishek Mishra, Company Secretary of the 
Company, acts as the Secretary to this Committee.
The Committee was constituted by the Board on 
February 17, 2025, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 135 of the Act, and the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, in view of the 
Company’s CSR expenditure exceeding the threshold 
of ₹50 lakh. The constitution of this Committee ensures 
compliance with statutory requirements as well as the 
Company’s commitment to integrating sustainability 
into its governance framework.
The terms of reference of the Committee include 
formulating and recommending the CSR Policy and 
the Annual CSR Action Plan to the Board, specifying 
activities to be undertaken in line with Schedule VII of the 
Act; recommending budget allocation for CSR activities 
and monitoring implementation, impact assessments 
and regulatory compliance. In addition, the Committee 
oversees the Company’s sustainability agenda, guiding 
initiatives that integrate environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) best practices into business decisions 
and ensuring periodic reporting of sustainability 
performance. The responsibilities of the Committee 
also extend to discharging such other duties as may be 
prescribed under law or delegated by the Board from 
time to time.
The company’s Corporate Social Responsibility & 
Sustainability Policy is available on its website at; chrome-
extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-CSR-
Policy.pdf
Meetings & attendance during FY2025
The Committee met once during FY2025, on February 
18, 2025. All the Committee members were present at 
the meeting.
SEPARATE MEETING OF 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
The Independent directors had a separate meeting 
on May 22, 2024, during FY2025, where the following 
agenda items were considered in terms of Schedule IV of 
the Act and provisions of the Listing Regulations:
(a)	
Evaluation of the performance of Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole;
(b)	 Evaluation of the performance of the Chairman of 
the Company; and
(c) 	 Assessment of the quality, quantity and timeliness 
of flow of information between the Company 
management and the Board.
Further, the Company has made a familiarisation 
programme to familiarise Independent Directors with 
the Company, their roles, rights, responsibilities in the 
Company, the nature of the industry in which the Company 
operates, the business model of the Company, etc. The 
familiarisation programme is available at the following 
link of website of the Company https://maxestates.in/wp-
content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Familiarization-Program-
of-Independent-Directors-1.pdf.
185
184
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
POSTAL BALLOT AND POSTAL BALLOT PROCESS
During FY2025, 5 (Five) postal ballot notices were issued to the Members of the Company. The details of special 
resolutions carried under the said postal ballots are as follows: 
Date of 
postal 
ballot 
notice
Date of 
passing of 
Postal Ballot 
resolutions
Special Resolutions passed by 
the shareholders at the postal 
ballot
Details of Voting Pattern
Votes in favour of the resolution Votes against the resolution
No. of Votes
% of votes
No. of Votes
% of votes
February 
07, 2025
March 16, 
2025
Approval for Payment of 
Compensation to Mr. Analjit 
Singh, Non-executive 
Chairman, for FY2025-26.
6,53,52,889
86.33
1,03,47,372
13.67
August 
31, 2024
September 
30, 2024
Approval of Issuance of 
Convertible Warrants on a 
Preferential Basis and matters 
related therewith.
10.89,08,369
99.6956
3,32,488
0.3044
May 22, 
2024
July 19, 
2024
Approving the appointment 
of Ms. Malini Thadani 
(DIN: 01516555) as an 
Independent Director of the 
Company.
7,30,81,465
99.9973
2002
0.0027
COMPANY SECRETARY
Mr. Abhishek Mishra is the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer.
PARTICULARS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT
During FY2025, the details of the Senior Management personnels are follows:
Employee Name
Designation 
Mr. Nitin Kumar
Chief Financial Officer 
Mr. Rishi Raj
Chief Operating Officer  
Mr. Abhishek Mishra 
DGM & Company Secretary 
Mr. Kumar Alok Shubham 
Head - Human Capital
Mr. Vikram Vij 
Head - Digital & IT
Mr. Arjun Gandhi 
Head - Marketing
Further, during the year under review, there was no change in the Senior Management. 
GENERAL MEETINGS
The details of Annual General Meetings held in the last 3 (three) years, and Special Resolutions passed by the 
shareholders at the said meetings are as under:
Particulars
Date, time and venue of 
General Meeting
Special Resolution passed by the shareholders at the General Meeting
8th Annual General 
Meeting 
August 23, 2024, at 1115  
hours (IST) through Video 
Conference
Approval of the raising of funds in one or more tranches by issuance 
of Equity Shares and/or other eligible securities.  
7th Annual General 
Meeting
December 22, 2023, at 
1600 hours (IST) through 
Video Conference
1.	 Approval of compensation of Mr. Analjit Singh (DIN: 00029641), 
Chairman (Non-Executive) of the Company.
2.	 Appointment of Mr. Sahil Vachani (DIN: 00761695) as the 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the 
Company
3.	 Appointment of Mr. Niten Malhan (DIN: 00614624) as an 
Independent Director of the Company
4.	 Appointment of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (DIN: 00040000) as an 
Independent Director of the Company
5.	 Appointment of Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan (DIN: 01550668) as an 
Independent Director of the Company
6.	 Approval for implementation of “Max Estates Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023”
7.	 Approval to extension and grant of Employee Stock Option to 
the eligible employees of the group company(ies), including 
subsidiary company(ies) and/or associate company(ies) (present 
or future) of the Company under “Max Estates Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023”
8.	 Approval of Borrowing Powers of the Company under Section 
180(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013
9.	 Approval under Section 180(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013 
inter alia for creation of mortgage or charge on the assets, 
properties or undertaking(s) of the Company
10.	Approval to give loans, inter corporate deposits, give guarantees 
in connection with loans made by any person or body corporate 
and acquire by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise the 
securities of any other body corporate under Section 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013
6th Annual General 
Meeting
September 26, 2022, at 
1130 hours (IST) at 419, 
Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, 
Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, 
District Naanshahr, 
Punjab-144533
Approval to give loans, give guarantee or provide security in 
connection with loans made by any person or body corporate and 
acquire by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise the securities 
of any other body corporate under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013
In accordance with Section 110 of the Act and Rules 22 and 
20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 read with the General Circular No. No. 
14/2020 dated April 8, 2020, read with General Circular 
No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, No. 22/2020 dated 
June 15, 2020, No. 33/2020 dated September 28, 2020, 
No. 39/2020 dated December 31, 2020, No. 10/2021 
dated June 23, 2021, No. 20/2021 dated December 8, 
2021, No. 03/2022 dated May 5, 2022, No. 11/2022 dated 
December 28, 2022, 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 
and the latest being No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 
2024, issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, physical 
copies of the Notice were not circulated to the Members 
and voting was conducted only electronically through 
e-voting facility availed through NSDL.
Mr. Kapil Dev Taneja (C.P. No. 22944), Practicing Company 
Secretary and partner at Sanjay Grover & Associates, 
Company Secretaries, having office at B-88, 1st Floor, 
Defence Colony, New Delhi -110024, was appointed as 
the scrutinizer for conducting the postal ballot process 
in a fair and transparent manner.
Mr. Abhishek Mishra, Company Secretary, declared the 
result of the remote e-voting on resolutions passed 
through the aforesaid postal ballots, based on which the 
resolutions were declared to have been passed with the 
requisite majority.
WHETHER ANY SPECIAL RESOLUTION 
IS PROPOSED TO BE CONDUCTED 
THROUGH POSTAL BALLOT
The board of directors at their meeting held on March 27, 
2025, have approved the following special resolutions to 
be passed through postal ballot by the shareholders of 
the Company by way of remote e-voting:
	»
Approval of the appointment of Ms. Ira Gupta (DIN: 
07517101) as an Independent Director of the Company.
	»
Approval of limits under Section 186 of the Companies 
Act 2013.
As per the postal ballot notice, the last date of closure of 
the postal ballot would be May 26, 2025.
PROCEDURE FOR POSTAL BALLOT
	»
The notices containing the proposed resolutions 
and explanatory statements thereto are sent to all 
members of the Company at their registered e-mail 
addresses with the details of the scrutinizers.
	»
The Postal Ballot Forms/e-voting received within 30 
days of dispatch are considered by the Scrutinizer.
	»
The Scrutinizer submits his report to the Chairman of 
the Company or a person authorised by him, who on 
the basis of the report, announces the results; and
	»
The Company has entered into an agreement with 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) for 
providing e-voting facility to its members. Under this 
facility, members are provided an electronic platform to 
participate and vote on the proposals of the Company.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Timely disclosure of reliable information and corporate 
financial performance is at the core of good Corporate 
Governance. Towards this direction, the quarterly / 
annual results of the Company were announced within 
the prescribed period and published in the Mint and 
Financial Express (English) and Desh Sewak (Punjabi), 
RashtriyaSahara (Hindi). The results can also be accessed 
on the Company’s website www.maxestates.in. The 
official news releases and the presentations made to the 
investors / analysts (if any) are displayed on the Company’s 
website and also sent to the BSE Ltd. and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited for dissemination.
187
186
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
DISCLOSURES
(a)	 Related party transactions
	
There are no materially significant related party 
transactions of the Company with its Promoters, the 
Directors or the Management, their subsidiaries or 
relatives, etc., that may have potential conflict with 
the interests of the Company at large.
	
The Company has in place a policy for transacting 
with related parties, which is available at the following 
link on the website of the Company at https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/
MEL-Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions-1.pdf. 
Transactions entered with the related parties are 
disclosed in Notes to the Financial Statements in 
the Annual Report.
(b)	 Compliance by the Company
	
The Company has duly complied with all the 
mandatory requirements of Listing Regulations, 
including other Regulations and Guidelines issued 
by SEBI from time to time on all matters relating to 
capital markets.
	
No penalties or restrictions have been imposed 
on the Company by the stock exchanges, SEBI 
or any other statutory authorities on any matter 
relating to capital markets during FY2025, FY2024, 
and FY2023.
(c)	 Whistle Blower Policy
	
The Company has a vigil mechanism pursuant 
to which a Whistle Blower Policy has been put in 
place. The Company has established the necessary 
mechanism for employees to report concerns about 
unethical behaviour. It is hereby affirmed that no 
person has been denied access to the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee on matters relating to the 
Whistle Blower Policy of the Company.
(d)	 Material Subsidiary Companies
	
During FY2025, the Company had five material 
unlisted subsidiary companies: Max Towers Private 
Limited (MTPL), Max Asset Services Limited (MASL), 
Max Square Limited (MSL), Acreage Builders Private 
Limited (ABPL) and Pharmax Corporation Limited 
(PCL). As of March 31, 2025, Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan 
served as a common Independent Director in the 
Company and MTPL and Mr. Niten Malhan served 
as a common Independent Director in the Company 
and MASL, MSL and ABPL.
	
Further, the Company has in place a policy for 
determining ‘material subsidiaries’ which is 
disclosed at the following link on the website of 
the Company at https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/MEL-Policy-for-determination-of-
Material-Subsidiaries-1.pdf.
	
Details of material subsidiaries in terms of Para C of Schedule V of SEBI Listing Regulations are furnished below:
Name of material 
subsidiary
Date and place of incorporation
Name and date of appointment of statutory 
auditors
Max Towers Private 
Limited
October 27, 2016 Noida, Uttar 
Pradesh
S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP Appointed on September 
28, 2023, for a period of 4 years.
Max Asset Services 
Limited
August 23, 2016, Nawan Shehar, 
Punjab
G. K. Kedia & Co. Appointed on September 26, 
2024, for a period of 5 years.
Max Square Limited
June 24, 2019, Noida, Uttar Pradesh
S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP Appointed on September 
27, 2023, for a period of 4 years.
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
June 18, 2010, Delhi
G. K. Kedia & Co. Appointed on September 24, 
2024, for a period of 5 years.
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
September 27, 1989, Chandigarh
Dewan P. N. Chopra, Appointed on August 25, 
2022 for 5 years.
(h)	 Details of the utilization of funds 
raised through preferential allotment 
or qualified institutions placement as 
specified under Regulation 32 (7A) of 
Listing Regulations.
	
On September 3, 2024, the Company made a QIP 
of 133,89,121 equity shares of face value of ₹10/- 
at a price of ₹597.50 per Equity Share (including 
premium of ₹587.50 per Equity Share) and reflecting 
a discount of ₹31.24 (i.e. approx. 4.97%) on the floor 
price of ₹628.74 per Equity Share, to Qualified 
Institutional Buyers aggregating to approximately 
₹800 crore in accordance with the provisions of 
Listing Regulations and the Act.
	
As of March 31, 2025, a total of ₹474.96 crores has 
been utilized and ₹325.04 crores remains unutilized 
and temporarily parked in FDs and mutual funds.
	
Further, on October 29, 2024, the Company allotted 
22,83,104 Convertible Warrants at a price of ₹657/- 
per warrant, aggregating to approximately ₹150/- 
crores, on receipt of an amount of ₹37.50/- crore 
being 25% of the issue price, on a preferential 
basis, to Max Ventures Investment Holdings Private 
Limited, promoter Category and Mr. Sunil Vachani, 
Public Category, with a right to apply for and be 
allotted 1 equity share of face value of ₹10/- each of 
the Company (“Equity Shares”) for each Warrant on 
payment of balance amount of 75% amount of the 
Warrant Issue Price within a period of 18 (Eighteen) 
months from the date of allotment of the Warrants 
as determined in accordance with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and 
the Act.
	
As of March 31, 2025, out of upfront consideration, 
only ₹0.01 crores has been utilized from General 
Corporate Purposes and the remaining ₹37.49 crores 
are parked in mutual funds and bank accounts. 
	
In accordance with Regulation 32(6) of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, and Regulations 162A read with 
Regulation 173(2) of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, the 
Monitoring Agency Report for the quarter ended 
March 31, 2025 - issued by CARE Ratings Limited, 
the Monitoring Agency appointed in respect of the 
Qualified Institutional Placement and preferential 
issue of convertible warrants of the Company - is 
available on the Company’s website at: https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/
Report-Monitoring-Agency-March-31-2025.pdf
(i)	 Recommendation of Committees to the 
Board
	
During FY2025, there were no such recommendations 
of the Committees, which the Board had not accepted.
(j)	 Fees paid to statutory auditors and all 
entities in the network firm/ entity - 
	
₹1.47 crores
(k)	 Disclosure in relation to Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013: 
	
No complaint was received during FY2025.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
A section on the ‘Shareholder Information’ is annexed 
and forms part of this Annual Report.
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE ON 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The certification by the Vice - Chairman & Managing 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, 
in compliance of Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of 
Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, is enclosed as 
Annexure-II.
M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries have certified that the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated in Schedule V of the Listing Regulations 
and the said certificate is annexed to the Report as 
Annexure-III.
A certificate from M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries, certifying that none 
of the directors on the board of the company have 
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as directors of companies by the Board/
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory is 
annexed as Annexure-IV to the Report.
DISCLOSURE ON NON-MANDATORY 
REQUIREMENTS
The status of adoption of non-mandatory/discretionary 
requirements as specified in Regulation 27(1) read 
with Part E of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations is 
given below:
1.	 The Board – Non-Executive Chairman’s 
Office and Woman Independent Director
	
The Chairman of the Company is a Non-Executive 
Director (Promoter) and is allowed reimbursement of 
expenses incurred in the performance of his duties.
	
Woman Independent Director: The Company has 
five IDs, including three Woman IDs.
(e)	 Disclosure on loans or advances
	
During FY2025, the Company and its subsidiaries 
have not given loans and advances in the nature of 
loans to firms/companies (other than subsidiaries) in 
which Directors are interested.
(f)	 Commodity price risks and foreign 
exchange risk and hedging activities
	
The Company does not deal in commodity activities. 
Accordingly, the disclosures required to be made 
in terms of SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2018/0000000141 dated November 15, 
2018 pertaining to commodity price risks and 
commodity hedging activities are not applicable 
to the Company. The Company does not have any 
material foreign currency risk as at March 31, 2025
	
The details of financial risk management objectives 
and policies are disclosed in Note no. 37 to the 
standalone financial statements for FY2025.
(g)	 Dividend Distribution Policy
	
The Company has in place Dividend Distribution 
Policy in terms of Regulation 43A of the Listing 
Regulations. The said policy is available on the 
website of the Company at https://maxestates.
in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Dividend-
Distribution-Policy-1.pdf.
189
188
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
2.	 Shareholders’ Rights
	
Half-yearly financial performance is not being sent 
to Shareholders. However, the same are available on 
the company’s website.
3.	 Modified Opinion(s) in Audit Report
	
Audit Reports on the Financial Statements for 
FY2025 of the Company do not contain any 
modified opinion.
4.	 Separate posts of Chairman and 
Managing Director
	
The Company has separate posts of Chairman and 
Managing Director.
5.	 Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
Internal Auditor reports to the Audit Committee.
6. 	 Independent Directors Meetings
	
During the year under review, the non-mandatory 
requirement of holding two separate meetings of 
Independent Directors was not adopted; however, 
one meeting was held on May 22, 2024, without 
the presence of Non-Independent Directors and 
members of the Management.
7.	
Risk Management 
	
The Company has in place risk management 
committee with the composition, roles and 
responsibilities specified in regulation 21 of the 
Listing Regulations.
DETAILS OF COMPLIANCE WITH 
THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED IN 
REGULATIONS 17 TO 27 AND CLAUSE 
(B) TO (I) OF SUB – REGULATION 
(2) OF REGULATION 46 OF LISTING 
REGULATIONS
The Company is in compliance with the corporate 
governance requirements specified in Regulations 
17 to 27 and clause (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of 
Listing Regulations.
Further, there is no non-compliance of any requirement 
of corporate governance report of sub-paras (2) to (10) of 
Part C to Schedule V of Listing Regulations.
DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN TYPES 
OF AGREEMENTS BINDING LISTED 
ENTITIES - INFORMATION DISCLOSED 
UNDER CLAUSE 5A OF PARA A OF 
PART A OF SCHEDULE III OF SEBI 
(LODR), 2015
There is no such agreement.
EQUITY SHARES IN UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE ACCOUNT
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations, the Company has transferred the unclaimed 
equity shares in the Demat Account titled as ‘Max Estates Limited– Unclaimed Suspense Account’. The equity shares 
transferred to said Unclaimed Suspense Account belong to the members who have not claimed their Share Certificates 
pertaining to the equity shares of the Face Value of ₹10/- each.  
The details of Equity Shares held in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as at March 31, 2025 are as follows:
S. No. Particulars
No. of 
Shareholders
Number of 
Equity Shares
1.
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares lying in 
the Unclaimed Suspense Account lying at the beginning of the year. 
5515
281608
2.
Number of shareholders who approached the issuer for transfer of shares 
from the Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year.
 98
 15413
3.
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the 
Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year.
 98
 15413
4.
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
Suspense Account lying at the end of the year.
5,417
2,66,195
Further the voting rights on the above-mentioned shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares 
claims the shares.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000 
For Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00761695
Annexure - I
Declaration signed by the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director on Code of Conduct as required 
by Regulation 26(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
This is to declare and confirm that the Company has received affirmations of compliance with the provisions of 
Company’s Code of Conduct for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 from all Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel of the Company.
191
190
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure - II
CERTIFICATION BY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
To
The Board of Directors,
Max Estates Limited,
We, Sahil Vachani, Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
and Nitin Kumar, Chief Financial Officer of Max Estates 
Limited (“the Company”) certify that:
A.	
We have reviewed the financial statements and the 
cash flow statement of the Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025 and that to the best of 
our knowledge and belief:
	
(a)	
these statements do not contain any materially 
untrue statement or omit any material fact or 
contain statements that are misleading; and
	
(b) 	 these statements together present a true and 
fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in 
compliance with existing accounting standards, 
applicable laws and regulations.
B. 	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, 
no transactions entered into by the Company during 
the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of 
the Company’s code of conduct.
C. 	
We accept responsibility for establishing and 
maintaining internal controls for financial reporting 
and that we have evaluated the effectiveness of 
internal control systems of the Company pertaining 
to financial reporting and we have disclosed to 
the Auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever 
applicable, deficiencies in the design or operation of 
such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware 
of, and the steps we have taken or propose to take 
to rectify these deficiencies.
D. 	 We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit 
Committee, wherever applicable:
	
(i)	
significant changes in internal control over 
financial reporting during the year;
	
(ii)	
significant changes in accounting policies 
during the year and that the same have 
been disclosed in the notes to the financial 
statements; and
	
(iii)	 instances of significant fraud of which we have 
become aware and the involvement therein, 
if any, of the management or any employee 
having a significant role in the Company’s 
internal control system over financial reporting.
For Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Noida
Nitin Kumar
Chief Financial Officer
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00761695
For Sanjay Grover & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No. 6311/2024
May 22, 2025
New Delhi
Kapil Dev Taneja
Partner
CP No.: 22944 / Mem. No. F4019
UDIN: F004019G000403737
Annexure - III
Corporate Governance Certificate
To
The Members
Max Estates Limited
(L70200DL2016PLC438718)
Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3, 
Opposite Okhla Railway Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
New Delhi, India, 110020
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Max Estates Limited (“the Company”), for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 
46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”).
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring 
the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the 
Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
193
192
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure - IV
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C Clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
(L70200DL2016PLC438718)
Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3, 
Opposite Okhla Railway Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
New Delhi, India, 110020
1.	
That the equity shares of Max Estates Limited (herein after referred as the Company) are listed on BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
2.	
We have examined the relevant disclosures received from the Directors, registers, records, forms, and returns 
maintained by the Company and produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, 
in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
3.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications and examination of the 
disclosures under section 149, 164, 170, 184, 189 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and Director Identification 
Number (DIN) status at MCA portal, www.mca.gov.in, and explanations furnished to us by the Company and 
its officers, we certify that none of the below named Directors on the Board of the Company as on March 31, 
2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
Sr. No.
Name of Director
Director Identification Number
Date of Appointment
1.
Mr. Analjit Singh
00029641
31/07/2023
2.
Mr. Sahil Vachani
00761695
31/07/2023
3.
Mr. Anthony R. Malloy
10545256
27/03/2024
4.
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo – Young*
10545257
17/02/2025
5.
Mr. Atul B. Lall
00781436
27/03/2024
6.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
00040000
31/07/2023
7.
Mr. Niten Malhan
00614624
31/07/2023
8.
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
01550668
31/07/2023
9.
Ms. Malini Thadani
01516555
22/05/2024
10.
Ms. Ira Gupta
07517101
27/03/2025
	
*Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo - Young is an alternate director for Mr. Anthony R. Malloy.
4.	
Ensuring the eligibility of the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company and our responsibility is to express an opinion on this based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
5.	
This certificate is based on the information and records available up to this date and we have no responsibility 
to update this certificate for the events and circumstances occurring after the date of the certificate.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
May 22, 2025
New Delhi
Kapil Dev Taneja
Partner
CP No.: 22944 / Mem. No. F4019
UDIN: F004019G000403748
General Shareholder Information
Registered Office:
Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3,  
Opposite Okhla Railway Station,  
Okhla Industrial Estate, New Delhi -110020
Investor Helpline:
Tel. No.: 0120-4743222
Fax: 0120-4743250
E-mail: secretarial@maxestates.in
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent:
Mas Services Limited, T-34, 2nd Floor,
Okhla Industrial Area, Phase - II
New Delhi–110 020, Tel–011 26387281/82/83
Fax–011 26387384
e-mail: info@masserv.com
Annual General Meeting:
Date and Time: 18th day of September, 2025  
at 1700 hrs. (IST) 
Venue: Through Video Conference (“VC”) or Other 
Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”). Deemed venue shall be 
registered office of the Company.
Book Closure & Dividend Payment Dates:
Sr. No.
Item
Date
1.
Date of Book Closure
-
2.
Dividend Payment Date
No Dividend has been recommended by the Board for the FY2025
Financial Year: The Financial Year of the Company starts from 1st April of a year and ends on 31st March of the 
following year.
Financial Year and Calendar:
1
First quarter results
By August 14, 2025
2
Second quarter & half yearly results
By November 14, 2025
3
Third quarter results
By February 14, 2026
4
Annual results
By May 30, 2026
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES:
The equity shares of the Company are listed on the BSE Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited. The Company confirms that it has duly paid annual listing fees due to BSE and NSE for the FY2025.
The following are the details of the Company’s shares:
BSE - Script Code
544008
NSE - Script Name 
MAXESTATES 
ISIN of Equity Shares INE03EI01018
BSE Address
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001; www.bseindia.com 
NSE Address 
Exchange Plaza”, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051; www.nseindia.com 
CONNECTIVITY WITH DEPOSITORIES:
The Company’s shares are in dematerialized mode through National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2025
No. of Shareholders
Percentage to Total
Shareholdings
No. of shares
Percentage to Total
26,328
87.530
1 to 5000
2305312
1.432
1514
5.033
5001 to 10000
1192591
0.741
836
2.779
10001 to 20000
1248549
0.775
354
1.177
20001 to 30000
900702
0.559
170
0.565
30001 to 40000
606362
0.377
141
0.469
40001 to 50000
658147
0.409
287
0.954
50001 to 100000
2137911
1.328
449
1.493
100001 and Above
151950510
94.379
30079
100.00
161000084
100.00
195
194
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
LIQUIDITY
The Equity Shares of the Company are frequently traded 
on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited as well 
as on the BSE Limited and are in the category of Group 
A scrips on BSE Limited.
DEMATERIALISATION STATUS AS ON 
MARCH 31, 2025
The entire shareholding of the Company is in De-
mat form.
RECONCILIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL 
AUDIT
As stipulated by Regulation 76 of SEBI (Depositories and 
Participants) Regulations, 2018, a practising Company 
Secretary carries out the Reconciliation of Share Capital 
Audit on a quarterly basis to reconcile the total admitted 
capital with the National Securities Depository Limited 
(NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
(CDSL) with the total listed and paid-up capital. The 
audit report, inter alia, confirms that the total listed and 
paid-up capital of the Company is in agreement with the 
aggregate of the total number of shares in dematerialised 
form and the total number of shares in physical form.
FOR SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING 
SHARES IN DEMATERIALISED MODE
Shareholders holding shares in dematerialised mode are 
requested to intimate all changes with respect to bank 
details, mandate, nomination, power of attorney, change 
of address, change of name, etc. to their Depository 
Participant (DP). These changes will be reflected in the 
Company’s records when information is downloaded 
from Depositories, which will help the Company provide 
better service to its shareholders.
SHARE TRANSFER/TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM
The entire share capital of the Company is in demat form. 
The transfer of Equity Shares in dematerialized form 
are done through depositories with no involvement of 
the Company.
In terms of the Listing Regulations, securities of listed 
companies can only be transferred in dematerialized 
form including where the claim is lodged for transmission 
or transposition of shares.
Shares transferred to “Max Estates Limited – Unclaimed 
Securities - Suspense Escrow Account” can be claimed 
from the Company in demat form only. All such 
shareholders are requested to approach the Registrar 
and Transfer Agent (RTA) of the Company to know the 
procedure of claiming such shares by forwarding a 
request letter duly signed by them along with their 
complete postal address along with PIN code, a copy of 
PAN card & proof of address.
OUTSTANDING GDRS/ADRS/ 
WARRANTS OR ANY CONVERTIBLE 
INSTRUMENTS, CONVERSION DATE 
AND LIKELY IMPACT ON EQUITY:
During the year under review, on October 29, 2024, the 
Company allotted 22,83,104 Convertible Warrants at a 
price of ₹657 per warrant, aggregating to ~₹150 crore, on 
a preferential basis, to Max Ventures Investment Holdings 
Private Limited (Promoter Category) and Mr. Sunil Vachani 
(Public Category). An upfront payment of 25% of the issue 
price amounting to ₹37.50 crore was received, conferring 
a right to apply for and be allotted one equity share of 
face value ₹10 each for every warrant, upon payment 
of the balance 75% within 18 months from the date of 
allotment, in accordance with SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the Act. 
Upon full conversion of the outstanding warrants, the 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company will increase 
by 22,83,104 equity shares, resulting in a corresponding 
dilution in the shareholding of existing shareholders.
Except as mentioned above, as at March 31, 2025, the 
Company did not have any outstanding GDRS/ADRS/ or 
any convertible instruments.
COMMODITY PRICE RISKS AND 
COMMODITY HEDGING ACTIVITIES
The Company does not deal in commodity activities, so 
commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities 
are not applicable to it.
PLANT LOCATIONS:
Not Applicable, as the Company is in Real Estates business.
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE 
WITH THE COMPANY
Investors and shareholders can correspond with the 
office of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Company or the Corporate Office of the Company at the 
following addresses:
Mas Services Limited (Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent)
T-34, 2nd Floor
Okhla Industrial Area, Phase – II
New Delhi – 110 020
Contact Persons
Mr. Sharwan Mangla
Tel No.:-011-26387281/82/83
Fax No.:- 011 – 26387384
e-mail: investor@masserv.com
Max Estates Limited (Corporate Office)
Secretarial Department
Max Towers, L -20
C001/A/1, Sector 16B,
Noida, Uttar Pradesh-201301.
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
Mr. Abhishek Mishra
Tel. No.: 0120 4743222
E-mail: abhishek.mishra@maxestates.in
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000 
LIST OF ALL CREDIT RATINGS OBTAINED BY THE ENTITY ALONG WITH ANY 
REVISIONS THERETO DURING THE RELEVANT FINANCIAL YEAR, FOR ALL 
DEBT INSTRUMENTS OF SUCH ENTITY OR ANY FIXED DEPOSIT PROGRAMME 
OR ANY SCHEME OR PROPOSAL OF THE LISTED ENTITY INVOLVING 
MOBILISATION OF FUNDS, WHETHER IN INDIA OR ABROAD:
Facility
Amount (₹crore)
Rating
Rating Action
Long Term Bank 
Facilities
1.00
CARE A; Stable (Single A; Outlook: 
Stable)
Upgraded from CARE A-; Stable
Long Term / Short 
Term Bank Facilities
50.00
CARE A; Stable / CARE A2+ (Single A; 
Outlook: Stable / A Two Plus)
Upgraded from CARE A-; Stable / 
CARE A2
Please visit us at www. https://maxestates.in/ for financial and other information about your Company.
197
196
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
Your directors are pleased to present the 9th Board’s Report of Max Estates Limited (‘the Company’) along with the 
Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 (“FY2025").
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Standalone and Consolidated financial performance of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
is summarised below:
(₹in lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY2025
FY2024
FY2025
FY2024
Income
Revenue from Operations
4,109.86
2,937.36
16,048.76
9,294.37
Other Income
36,595.28
4,699.76
8,918.50
2,732.64
Total Income
40,705.14
7,637.12
24,967.26
12,027.01
Expenses
Cost of land, plots development rights, constructed 
properties and others
-
-
267.75
-
Change in inventories of constructed properties
186.75
-
186.75
-
Employee benefits expenses
2,212.00
1,644.21
1,763.18
1,227.96
Finance costs
884.60
1,411.07
6,186.76
4,298.60
Depreciation and amortization expense
695.92
525.96
3,409.66
2,540.23
Other expenses
2,824.79
2,291.63
9,391.24*
6,289.18*
Total Expenses
6,804.06
5,872.87
21,205.34
14,355.97
Profit/(Loss) before exception items and tax
33,901.08
1,764.25
3,761.92
(2,328.96)
Exceptional items
-
-
-
(4,445.06)
Profit/(Loss) before tax
33,901.08
1,764.25
3,761.92
(6,774.02)
Tax expense/(credit)
5,810.94
(567.78)
1,118.91
(1,261.58)
Profit/(Loss) after Tax
28,090.14
2,332.03
2,643.01
(5,512.44)
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
4.08
(9.65)
2.88
(11.83)
Total other comprehensive income for the year
28,094.22
2,322.38
2,645.89
(5,524.27)
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company
4,083.88
(4,228.13)
Non-controlling interest
(1,437.99)
(1,296.14)
*includes advertisement & sales promotion and facility management services.
Your company's net worth on a standalone basis grew 
considerably by ₹1,10,180.20 lakhs to ₹2,36,093.73 lakhs 
as of March 31, 2025, as against ₹1,25,913.53 lakhs as 
of March 31, 2024. The increase in net worth was mainly 
due to an increase in profit.
In FY2025, the Company reported consolidated revenues 
of ₹16,048.76 lakh and a Profit after tax of ₹2,643.01 
lakhs and standalone revenues of ₹4,109.86 lakh and a 
Profit after tax of ₹28,090.14 lakhs.
In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) 
and Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations & 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing 
Regulations”), the audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements are included as part of this Annual Report 
and will also be presented at the upcoming Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been prepared in compliance with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (IND AS) as notified under the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended from time to time.
OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS 
PERFORMANCE /STATE OF COMPANY 
AFFAIRS
Kindly refer to the Management Discussion & Analysis 
which forms part of this report.
MATERIAL CHANGES AFFECTING THE 
FINANCIAL POSITION
Subsequent to the year end, on April 23, 2025, the 
Company acquired 100% of Boulevard Projects Private 
Limited (“BPPL”) pursuant to an NCLT-approved and 
NCLAT affirmed resolution plan for the ‘Delhi One’ 
project in Noida. This acquisition adds approximately 
3 million sq. ft. of incremental development potential 
to the portfolio and is expected to enhance medium-
term revenue visibility and annuity income potential 
(estimated aggregate sales potential of about ₹2,000 
crore and annuity rentals of about ₹120 crore), subject 
to project execution timelines, requisite approvals and 
market conditions. Consequent to the acquisition, BPPL 
has become a wholly owned subsidiary and its assets 
and liabilities will be consolidated with those of the 
Company from the acquisition date, which may influence 
the Company’s capital deployment and operating cash 
flows during the project cycle.
Except as stated above, there were no other material 
changes and commitments affecting the financial 
position of the Company between March 31, 2025 and 
the date of this Report.
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES
As of March 31, 2025, the following were the details of the Subsidiary/Joint Ventures/Associate Companies of 
the Company:
S. No.
Name of Subsidiary Company
Status
1.
Max Towers Private Limited *
Material Subsidiary
2.
Max Square Limited
Material Subsidiary
3.
Acreage Builders Private Limited
Material Subsidiary
4.
Pharmax Corporation Limited *
Material Subsidiary
5.
Max Asset Services Limited
Material Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
6.
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
7.
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
8.
Max I. Limited
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
9.
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
10.
Max Estates Noida Private Limited (formerly Astiki Realty Pvt. Ltd.) # Subsidiary
*Ceased to be wholly owned subsidiary w.e.f. September 24, 2024. 
#Ceased to be wholly owned subsidiary w.e.f. March 20, 2025.
There were no associates or joint ventures of the Company 
during FY2025.
Form AOC-1, containing the salient features of the 
financial statements of the Company’s subsidiaries, is 
enclosed with this Report as ‘Annexure - 1’. Further, the 
contribution of subsidiaries to the overall performance 
of your Company is outlined in Note No. 48 of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
As per Section 136 of the Act, the financial statements 
of the subsidiaries are available on the Company's 
website at www.maxestates.in and are also available for 
inspection during business hours at the registered office 
of the Company.
Further, in terms of the provisions of Listing Regulations, 
your Company has a policy for determining ‘Material 
Subsidiary’, and the said policy is available on the 
Company’s website at www.maxestates.in.
DIVIDEND
Your Directors have not recommended any dividend for 
the financial year 25.
Your Company has in place a Dividend Distribution 
Policy in accordance with Regulation 43A of the 
Listing Regulations. This policy is available on the 
company's website: https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/MEL-Dividend-Distribution-Policy-1.
pdf
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
The Company has not transferred any amount to reserve 
during FY2025.
SHARE CAPITAL
Update on Authorised Share Capital
As of March 31, 2025, the authorized share capital of 
the Company was ₹228,00,00,000 (Indian Rupees Two 
Hundred and Twenty-Eight crore Only), divided into 
22,80,00,000 (Twenty-Two crore and Eighty lakhs) equity 
shares of ₹10 (Indian Rupees Ten Only) each.
Update on paid-up Share Capital
As of March 31, 2025, the paid-up share capital of the 
Company stood at ₹161,00,00,840 (Indian Rupees One 
Hundred Sixty One crores Eight Hundred Forty Only), 
comprising 16,10,00,084 (Sixteen crores Ten lakhs Eighty 
Four) equity shares of ₹10 (Indian Rupees Ten Only) each.
199
198
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Qualified Institutions Placement
During the year under review, the Company successfully 
completed a Qualified Institutions Placement (“QIP”) on 
September 3, 2024. Pursuant to the QIP, 1,33,89,121 
equity shares of face value ₹10 each were allotted to 31 
Qualified Institutional Buyers at an issue price of ₹597.50 
per share (including a premium of ₹587.50 per share), 
representing a discount of ₹31.24 (approximately 4.97%) 
to the floor price of ₹628.74 per share, in compliance 
with Regulation 176(1) of the SEBI (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“SEBI 
ICDR”). The QIP raised an aggregate of ₹800 crore, with 
application monies received in the ‘Max Estates Limited 
– QIP Escrow Account’. In accordance with Regulation 
173A of the SEBI ICDR and Regulation 32 of the Listing 
Regulations, the Company appointed CARE Ratings 
Limited as the Monitoring Agency for utilisation of 
the proceeds.
Convertible Warrants
Further, the Company, on October 29, 2024, allotted 
22,83,104 convertible warrants (“Warrants”) at an issue 
price of ₹657 per Warrant, aggregating to approximately 
₹150 crore, in compliance with Regulation 169(2) of 
the SEBI ICDR, the Act, and other applicable laws. Each 
Warrant entitles the holder to apply for and be allotted 
one fully paid-up equity share of ₹10 each at a premium 
of ₹647, at any time within 18 months from the date 
of allotment. In accordance with Regulation 169(5) of 
the SEBI ICDR, the Company appointed CARE Ratings 
Limited as the Monitoring Agency to oversee utilisation of 
the ₹37.50 crore upfront amount (representing 25% of the 
Warrant issue price) received in the designated account.
Pursuant to Regulation 32(4) of the Listing Regulations, 
the Board confirms that no deviation or variation has 
occurred in the utilisation of proceeds from (i) the 
Qualified Institutions Placement and (ii) the issue of 
Convertible Warrants, vis-à-vis the objects stated in the 
placement document and the shareholders’ approvals. 
The Audit Committee and the Board reviewed the 
Monitoring Agency report(s) presented during FY2025 
and noted utilisation strictly in line with the stated 
objects; accordingly, no explanation for variation falls due.
Further, during the year under review, the Company 
allotted 4,76,419 equity shares to eligible option holders 
upon exercise of options granted under the ‘Max Estates 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2023’.
EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION PLAN
The Company has Employee Stock Option plan, viz 
“Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023” (‘the 
ESOP Plan’). The primary objective of the ESOP plan is 
to reward employees for their association, performance 
and contribution to the goals of the Company and to 
attract, retain and motivate key talent by rewarding good 
performance and motivating them to contribute to the 
overall corporate growth and profitability of the Company. 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (‘NRC’) 
administers and monitors the ESOP plan.
The ESOP plan is in compliance with the SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations 
2021 ('SBEB Regulations 2021'). A certificate from the 
Secretarial Auditor with respect to implementation of 
Company's ESOP plan, will be available for inspection 
by the members, at the ensuing AGM. Details of 
ESOPs granted and vested are available in notes to the 
Standalone financial statements.
The ESOP plan and the disclosures required under 
the SBEB Regulations, 2021 with respect to the ESOP 
Schemes, as on March 31, 2025 are available on the 
Company's website at https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2025/03/ESOP-Scheme-MEL.pdf and https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Disclosure-
under-SEBI-Share-Based-Employee-Benefits-and-
Sweat-Equity-Regulations-2021.pdf respectively
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL 
PERSONAL(S)
As of the date of this report, your company's Board 
comprised of 9 (Nine) Directors, including 1 (one) 
Executive Director, and 8 (Eight) Non-Executive Directors, 
out of which 5 (Five) are Independent Directors and 1 
(one) Alternate Director.
During FY2025, the following changes in the Board 
composition and Key Managerial Personnel took place:
(i)	
Ms. Avani Vishal Davda (DIN: 07504739), resigned 
from her positions as Director of the Company 
effective from the closure of business hours of May 
2, 2024, due to her full-time business leadership 
role elsewhere. She also confirmed that there 
are no material reasons other than what is stated 
for her resignation as an independent director 
of the Company. The Board placed on record its 
appreciation for her valuable contributions during 
her association as Director with the Company.
(ii)	
Ms. Malini Thadani (DIN: 01516555) was appointed 
as an Additional Director in the capacity of a Non-
Executive Independent Director for a term of 5 
years, effective from May 22, 2024, and shareholders 
of the company approved her appointment on July 
19, 2024. The Board of Directors evaluated and 
opined that her integrity, expertise, and experience 
(including proficiency) are satisfactory.
(iii)	 Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo-Young (DIN:10545257) was 
reappointed an Alternate Director of the Company 
for Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy (DIN: 10545256), 
Non-Executive Director of the Company w.e.f. 
February 17 ,2025. Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo-Young had 
vacated her office as Alternate Director in view of 
Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy having visited India 
to attend the Board meeting held on February 
17, 2025.
(iv)	 Ms. Ira Gupta (DIN: 07517101) was appointed as 
an Additional Director in the capacity of a Non-
Executive Independent Director for a term of 5 
years, effective from March 27, 2025, subject to the 
approval of shareholders of the Company. The Board 
of Directors evaluated and opined that her integrity, 
expertise, and experience (including proficiency) 
are satisfactory.
In terms of Section 152 of the Act and the Articles of 
Association of the Company, Mr. Atul B. Lall shall retire 
by rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
of the Company. Being eligible, he has offered himself 
for re-appointment at the ensuing AGM. A brief profile 
of Mr. Atul B. Lall shall form part of the Notice convening 
the AGM of the Company.
As of the date of this Report, Mr. Sahil Vachani, Vice-
Chairman and Managing Director, Mr. Nitin Kumar, 
Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Abhishek Mishra, 
Company Secretary, are the Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company.
BOARD MEETINGS
During FY2025, 10 (Ten) meetings of the Board of 
Directors were held. The details of Board Meetings and 
the attendance of Directors have been provided in the 
Corporate Governance Report, which is being part of this 
Annual Report.
DISCLOSURE ABOUT THE RECEIPT OF 
THE COMMISSION
In terms of Section 197(14) of the Act and rules made 
there under, no director has received any commission 
from the company or its subsidiary company, thus the 
said provision is not applicable on the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025.
STATEMENT OF DECLARATION BY 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
In accordance with Section 149(6) of the Act, and 
Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, all Independent 
Directors have given declaration that they meet the 
criteria of independence with relevant integrity, expertise, 
experience and proficiency as provided under Section 
149, read with Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 16 
of the Listing Regulations and have also given declaration 
for compliance of inclusion of name in the data bank, 
being maintained with ‘Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs’ as provided under the Act read with applicable 
rules made thereunder.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
As of March 31, 2025, the Company has 6 (Six) Board-
level Committees, which have been established in 
compliance with the requirements of the business and 
relevant provisions of applicable laws and statutes:
1.	
Audit Committee;
2.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
3.	
Stakeholders Relationship Committee;
4.	
Risk Management Committee;
5.	
Investment and Finance Committee; and
6.	
Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee;
A detailed note on the composition of the Board and its 
Committees, governance of committees including its 
terms of reference, number of committee meetings held 
during the FY2025 and attendance of the members, is 
provided in the Report of Corporate Governance forming 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
During FY2025, all the recommendations made by Board 
committees were accepted by the Board.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION 
POLICY
In accordance with the provisions of Section 178 of the 
Act, and Listing Regulations, the Company has in place 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy. The Policy sets 
out the criteria for appointment, qualifications, positive 
attributes, independence of Directors, and framework for 
performance evaluation and remuneration of Directors 
and Key Managerial Personnel. The Policy is available on 
the Company’s website at www.maxestates.in.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE 
BOARD
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and 
Listing Regulations, the Company conducted a formal 
annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, 
its Committees, and individual Directors, including 
the Chairperson.
The evaluation process was conducted through an online 
survey mechanism using the Diligent Boards platform, 
enabling Directors to provide confidential feedback. 
The results of the evaluation were presented to the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the meeting 
of Independent Directors, and the Board.
Based on the feedback received, the Board noted that 
the performance of the Board as a whole, its Committees, 
the Chairperson, and individual Directors, including 
Independent Directors, continues to reflect a high level 
of commitment to good governance and effective 
contribution towards the Company’s growth.
Human Capital: Enabling Excellence, 
Growth, and Well-being
At Max Estates, our people are at the heart of growth 
and value creation. In FY2025, we stepped up efforts to 
build a future-ready, performance-driven, and inclusive 
workplace. Guided by our purpose to ‘Enhance quality 
201
200
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
of life through the spaces we create’, and grounded 
in the Max Group values of Sevabhav, Credibility, and 
Excellence, we continued to nurture a workplace that 
empowers individuals and teams to thrive.
Through a sharper focus on leadership, digital 
transformation, talent, and employee well-being, we 
strengthened our people’s practices to grow responsibly, 
stay agile, while fostering a strong workplace culture.
FY2025 Human Capital Highlights
We invested in our people, our culture and our future by 
building a resilient, capable and dedicated workforce. 
The key steps we took include:
	»
Grew our team to 200+ permanent employees, aligned 
with business growth and our priorities.
	»
Redesigned structures and talent deployment 
to improve clarity, agility and readiness for 
future challenges.
	»
Strengthened recruitment and onboarding to 
attract high-impact talent across leadership and 
specialist roles.
	»
Fostered a culture of ownership, learning, and 
continuous feedback while building leaders at 
every level.
	»
Launched key transformation initiatives like 
Performance Enhancement Plan (PEP) 3.0, 
360-Degree Feedback, Automation of People 
processes, alongside the MEL Next program, to drive 
performance, leadership, and initiatives centred 
around thoughtful service.
	»
Reinforced our diversity, equity, and inclusion agenda, 
creating a merit-based, people-centric, and inclusive 
workplace culture.
We further extended the WorkWell philosophy to project 
sites, focusing on the safety, welfare, and holistic well-
being of our employees and partners.
Strategic HR Priorities & Initiatives
Leadership Development
	»
Through the MEL NEXT Leadership Program (Cohort 
2), we built future-ready leaders with structured 
development and hands-on mentorship.
	»
Pan-MEL Learning Charter delivered targeted growth 
opportunities for both leadership and functional teams.
	»
The Young Business Leaders Program (YBLP) grew to 
strengthen our early-career leadership talent.
	»
Consistently reviewed and realigned our organisation 
structure and capabilities aligned with our long term 
business priorities.
Talent Acquisition & Experience
	»
We improved our recruitment capabilities, minimising 
time-to-hire and onboarding high-impact talent across 
Design, Operations, Finance, and Land Acquisition.
	»
We delivered a digital-led onboarding experience, 
helping new hires feel welcomed, connected and 
ready to go from Day 1.
Performance & Career Growth
	»
PEP 
3.0 
nurtured 
a 
development-led 
performance culture.
	»
Our 360-Degree Feedback process helps leaders grow 
and provides clear pathways for career progression.
	»
Individual Development Plan (IDP) supported 
our team’s personal growth in line with our 
business priorities.
HR Digital Transformation
	»
We rolled out Zoho People to make Human Resources 
(HR) interactions simpler, clearer and more connected. 
This helped in improved governance and encouraged 
data-driven decision-making.
	»
Automated core Human Resources (HR) processes like 
attendance, leave, onboarding and announcements 
improving efficiency and employee experience.
Culture, Diversity & Inclusion
	»
Deepened our DEI commitment through initiatives 
promoting multiculturalism, gender equity, and 
equal opportunity.
	»
To make our workplaces more inclusive, we rolled 
out an initiative to foster gender diversity in project 
execution teams. This reflects our thought, approach 
to commitment to innovation led by equality.
Employee Well-being
	»
Our WorkWell initiatives extended to project sites, 
ensuring the welfare, safety, ergonomics, mental 
health, and wellness amenities of our people.
	»
The WorkWell initiative aimed at improving the well-
being and peace of mind of our workers, extends to 
their accommodation, care, amenities, and daily needs.
The Road Ahead
As we move to FY2026, we will continue to strengthen 
our focus on leadership, digital HR, employee well-being, 
and creation of an even more inclusive high-performance 
culture. We want our employees to feel heard and valued. 
After all, they are our greatest competitive advantage.
“At Max Estates, we believe thriving people build 
thriving businesses. Through WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophy, we remain committed to nurturing 
growth, excellence, and well-being for our employees, 
customers, and communities alike.”
Please refer chapter on ‘Human Capital’ of the Integrated 
Report for detailed analysis.
The statement of Disclosure of Remuneration under 
Section 197 of the Act and Rule 5 (1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 (‘Rules’), is annexed as 
Annexure - 2 and forms an integral part of this Report. 
As per second proviso to Section 136 (1) of the Act and 
second proviso of Rule 5 of the Rules, the Report and 
Financial Statements are being sent to the members of 
the Company excluding the statement of particulars of 
employees under Rule 5 (2) & (3) of the Rules. The said 
Statement is also open for inspection. Any member 
interested in obtaining a copy of the said statement may 
write to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office 
of your Company or at the email address at secretarial@
maxestates.in.
LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES
The details of loans given, guarantees provided, and 
investments made by the Company, as required under 
Section 186 of the Act, are provided in Note No. 39 to 
the standalone financial statements of the Company, 
forming part of this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & 
ANALYSIS
In accordance with Regulation 34 of the Listing 
Regulations, the Management Discussion & Analysis 
Report, covering the performance of the Company and 
its subsidiaries, forms part of this Annual Report.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
POLICY (CSR POLICY)
During FY2025, the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Act, relating to Corporate Social Responsibility were 
applicable to the Company.
A brief outline of the Company’s Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Policy and the CSR initiatives 
undertaken during FY2025, including the CSR 
expenditure of ₹100 lakhs made during the year, in the 
format prescribed under the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, are provided in 
Annexure - 3 to this Report.
The CSR Policy is available on the Company’s website at 
www.maxestates.in.
POLICY ON PREVENTION OF SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT
Your Company has requisite policy for the Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment, which is available on the Company’s 
website at www.maxestates.in. This comprehensive 
policy ensures gender equality and the right to work 
with dignity for all employees (permanent, contractual, 
temporary, and trainees). Your Company has complied 
with the provisions relating to the constitution of the 
Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 2013. No cases were 
reported to the Committee during FY2025.
REPORT ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
The Company has complied with all mandatory 
requirements of Corporate Governance, as specified 
under Part C of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations. A 
separate report on Corporate Governance forms part of 
this Annual Report.
A certificate from the Vice-Chairman and Managing 
Director and the Chief Financial Officer, certifying 
compliance with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations, forms part of the Corporate Governance 
Report as Annexure II. Further, a certificate from 
M/s Sanjay Grover & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries, confirming compliance with the conditions 
of Corporate Governance pursuant to Part E of Schedule 
V of the Listing Regulations, is annexed to the Corporate 
Governance Report as Annexure III.
Copies of various policies adopted by the Company are 
available on the website of the Company under the 
section ‘Corporate Governance’ at www.maxestates.in/
investors.
STATUTORY AUDITORS AND 
AUDITORS’ REPORT
Pursuant to Sections 139 of the Act, S. R. Batliboi & 
Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 
301003E/E300005), were appointed as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a period of four years at the 
AGM held on December 22, 2023. They hold office from 
the conclusion of the 7th Annual General Meeting held 
in the year 2023 until the conclusion of the 11th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company to be held in year 2027.
There are no audit qualifications, reservations, 
disclaimers, adverse remarks, or reports of fraud in the 
Statutory Auditors' Report given by S. R. Batliboi & Co. 
LLP for FY2025, which is annexed to this Annual Report.
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS AND 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 204 of the Act, the Company 
appointed M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Practicing 
Company 
Secretaries 
(Firm 
Registration 
No.: 
P2001DE052900), New Delhi, as its Secretarial Auditors 
to conduct the secretarial audit of the Company for 
FY2025. The Report of the Secretarial Auditor for FY2025 
is annexed to this report as ‘Annexure 4’.
There are no audit qualifications, reservations, disclaimers, 
or adverse remarks in the said Secretarial Audit Report.
Furthermore, Max Square Limited, Pharmax Corporation 
Limited, Max Asset Services Limited, Max Towers Private 
Limited, and Acreage Builders Private Limited, the 
material subsidiaries of the Company, underwent a 
Secretarial Audit for the year ended March 31, 2025. 
203
202
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
The Secretarial Audit Reports issued by the Secretarial 
Auditors of the material subsidiary companies are 
enclosed as ‘Annexure-4A - 4E’. There are no audit 
qualifications, reservations, disclaimers, or adverse 
remarks in the said Secretarial Audit Reports of the 
material subsidiary companies.
INTERNAL AUDITORS
The Company follows a robust Internal Audit process, 
with audits conducted regularly throughout the year 
according to the approved audit plan. For FY2025, M/s 
Deloitte Haskins & Sells was appointed as the Internal 
Auditors to conduct the Internal Audit.
COST RECORDS
The Company has maintained cost records in accordance 
with the rules prescribed by the Central Government 
under Section 148(1) of the Act.
REPORTING OF FRAUDS BY 
AUDITORS
During FY2025, the Statutory Auditors and Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company did not report any instances 
of fraud committed against the Company by its officers 
or employees to the Audit Committee under Section 
143(12) of the Act.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The Company has adequate internal financial controls in 
place. During FY2025, these controls were tested, and no 
reportable material weaknesses in design or operation 
were observed. The Management reviewed and tested 
the key risk-based controls to ensure operational 
effectiveness and compliance during the year.
In the opinion of the Board, the existing internal control 
framework is adequate and commensurate with the size 
and nature of the Company’s business. Furthermore, the 
Statutory Auditors independently tested the adequacy 
of internal financial controls over financial reporting, as 
mandated under the provisions of the Act.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
In terms of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Listing Regulations, 
a Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report of 
the Company and its material subsidiary(ies), describing 
the initiatives undertaken on environmental, social and 
governance matters, is enclosed as part of this Report as 
‘Annexure – 5’.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company considers risk management an integral 
part of its business operations and follows a proactive 
approach to identify, assess and mitigate risks. Your 
company has in place the Risk Management Committee 
to identify the risks impacting the business and 
formulate strategies and policies for risk mitigation. 
Further, a central cross-functional team maintains the 
‘Risk Register’, which is a framework used to identify and 
assess key risks, risk probability, risk impact, risk horizon 
and formulate mitigation strategies in consultation with 
process owners.
In the ‘Risk Register’, the value chain has been split into 
seven risk categories: Business, Regulatory, Capital, 
Macroeconomic, People, Technology and Brand. Each 
risk is classified into one of these categories. The Risk 
Register is updated quarterly by the respective process 
owners, and risk movements are tracked and recorded 
to strengthen the culture of risk awareness across 
the organisation.
There are no risks that, in the opinion of the Board, 
threaten the existence of the Company.
Please refer paragraph on Risk Management of the 
Integrated Report for detailed analysis.
VIGIL MECHANISM
The Company has in place the vigil mechanism The Policy 
ensures that strict confidentiality is maintained while 
dealing with concerns raised and that no discrimination is 
made against any person for a genuinely raised concern 
about any unethical or improper practices, fraud, or 
violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
The Policy, which covers all Directors, stakeholders and 
employees of the Company, is available on the Company’s 
website at www.maxestates.in.
A brief note on the Vigil Mechanism/Whistleblower Policy 
is also provided in the Corporate Governance Report, 
which forms part of this Annual Report.
RELATED PARTIES TRANSACTIONS
All transactions entered into by the Company during 
FY2025 with related parties were in the ordinary 
course of business and on an arm’s length basis, and 
did not attract the provisions of Section 188 of the Act. 
Accordingly, the disclosure of related party transactions, 
as required under Section 134(3)(h) of the Act, in Form 
AOC-2, is not applicable for FY2025 and hence does not 
form part of this Report.
However, during FY2025, the Company entered into 
related party transactions that qualified as material 
under Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations, and 
necessary approvals were taken from the shareholders 
where applicable.
The details of all the related party transactions form part 
of Note No. 38 to the standalone financial statements 
attached to this Annual Report.
The Policy on materiality of related party transactions 
and dealing with related party transactions, as approved 
by the Board, is available on the Company’s website at 
www.maxestates.in.
PARTICULARS OF CONSERVATION OF 
ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
& FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING AND 
OUTGO
The information on the conservation of energy, 
technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings & 
outgo as stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act 
read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is as follows:
a)	 Conservation of Energy
	
(i)	
The steps are taken or impact on the 
conservation of energy: The Company took the 
following steps for the conservation of energy:
	»
Double glazing unit glasses fixed in the façade 
at all assets to reduce air conditioning load;
	»
Implemented IoT (Internet of Things) based 
chiller operations with advanced logic 
controls to optimize energy usage and 
achieve savings;
	»
Use of Heat Recovery mechanism to retract 
the temperature from exhaust air; and
	»
Use of advanced logic controls in Building 
Management Systems to save energy.
	
(ii)	
the steps taken by the Company for using 
alternate sources of energy:
	
	
Installation of rooftop solar to increase 
renewable energy generation and consumption
	
(iii)	 C apital 
inve s tment 
on 
energ y 
conservation equipment: 
	
	
Not Applicable
b)	 Technology Absorption
	
(i)	
Efforts made towards technology absorption:
	
	
The Company had taken initiatives towards 
digital journey implementing Factech, SAP 
Ariba (Bid Management), MSP (Project 
Scheduling) and ACC (Autodesk Construction 
Cloud).
	
	
The Company has in place the following 
digital technologies:
	»
SAP - for entire enterprise resource planning: 
SAP is adopted as a core Integrated ERP 
system for Procurement, Financial Data 
Processing, Planning, Sales, Leasing, 
Budgeting, etc.
	»
Salesforce - to manage leads and entire sales/
leasing process: being used to manage leads, 
opportunities, and the entire end-to-end 
sales and leasing process.
	»
Ozontel - to manage Leasing, pre-sales and 
funnelling leads, and manage business 
interactions with customers.
	»
Reloy – Customer experience application.
	»
Teamlease: to track legal and operational 
compliance.
	»
ZOHO HRMS: to manage HR operations
	»
SharePoint Document Management System: 
to organize and manage documents.
	
(ii)	
Benefits derived like product improvement, 
cost reduction, product development or 
import substitution; The Benefits derived from 
technology absorption are as follows:
	
	
At a broader level, opting cloud model for 
whole Digital transformation and moving IT 
operations on standard platforms considering 
the overall organizational growth and volume 
with virtually zero business application system 
outage has derived the following benefits from 
technology absorption:
	»
Process efficiency, cost optimisation, and use 
of international best practices.
	»
Centralised data processing for core functions 
such as finance, sales & leasing, procurement.
	»
Data 
security, 
cross 
functional 
integrated 
controls, 
and 
Improved 
compliance management.
	»
Systems Integration and automation 
enablement for faster data processing 
without manual intervention.
	»
Near real time facilitation of Reports, 
Dashboards & MIS.
	»
I m p r o v e d  
c u s t o m e r  
a n d 
supplier management.
	
(iii)	 In case of imported technology (imported 
during the last three years reckoned from the 
beginning of the financial year): Not Applicable
	
(iv)	 The expenditure incurred on Research and 
Development; Not Applicable
205
204
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
c)	 Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
	
The foreign exchange earnings and outgo during 
FY2025 are given below:
	
Total Foreign Exchange earned 	 : 	
Nil
	
Total Foreign Exchange used 	
: 	
₹6.23 crores
ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Act, and Rule 12 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014, the annual return of the Company for FY2023-24 is 
available on the Company’s website at www.maxestates.
in. Further, the annual return for FY2025 will be uploaded 
on the Company’s website upon completion of filing with 
the Registrar of Companies.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY 
STATEMENT
Pursuant to the requirement under Section 134(3)(c) of 
the Act, it is hereby confirmed that:
(a)	
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards had been followed 
along with proper explanation relating to material 
departures, if any;
(b)	 The Directors had selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company at the end of the financial year and of 
the profit of the Company for that period;
(c)	
The Directors had taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities;
(d)	 The Directors had prepared the annual accounts on 
a going concern basis;
(e)	
The Directors had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
(f)	
The Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems were adequate and 
operating effectively.
DETAILS OF THE APPLICATION MADE 
OR ANY PROCEEDING PENDING 
UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND 
BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016
During the FY2022-23, an insolvency petition was 
filed by one Sanjiv Bhayana(“Applicant”) before NCLT, 
Chandigarh, alleging that Max Estates Ltd.(“Company”) 
owed ₹361.08 lakhs to him on account of brokerage fee 
payable by Company for purchase of certain property. 
The Company has already responded to said Insolvency 
petition by filing an appropriate reply based on facts and 
merits of the matter, and the claim of Applicant has been 
denied on account of lack of any contractual obligation to 
pay any brokerage on part of Company and further false 
averments relied upon by the Applicant have also been 
refuted by the Company in course of its reply. The matter 
is presently pending before the Hon’ble Tribunal, with the 
previous date of hearing being May 14, 2025.
During FY2025, no application was made by or against 
the company, and except as mentioned above, no 
proceeding is pending under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
SIGNIFICANT AND/OR MATERIAL 
ORDERS PASSED BY REGULATORS 
OR THE COURTS
During FY2025, no significant or material orders were 
passed by regulators, courts, or tribunals, which may 
impact its going concern status and future operations 
of the Company.
UNCLAIMED SHARES
During FY2023-24, the Company, on August 18, 2023, 
allotted the equal number of shares appearing under "Max 
Ventures and Industries Limited– Unclaimed Suspense 
Account" and the shares previously held by shareholders 
in physical form in MVIL as of the Record Date (August 
11, 2023), to the Company’s “Unclaimed Securities-
Suspense Escrow Account” with the nomenclature of 
"Max Estates Limited - Unclaimed Securities - Suspense 
Escrow Account."
The Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of 
this Annual Report, provides details of the company's 
equity shares held in the Unclaimed Suspense Account.
Other Disclosures
i.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 118 of the 
Act, the Company has complied with the applicable 
provisions of the Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
ii.	
During FY2025, the Company has not accepted or 
renewed any deposits from the public.
ii.	
There were no instances where your Company 
required the valuation for one time settlement 
or while taking the loan from the Banks or 
Financial institutions.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
Statements in this Report, particularly those related 
to Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company’s objectives, projections, estimates 
and expectations, may constitute “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of applicable laws and 
regulations. Actual results might differ materially from 
those either expressed or implied in the statement, 
depending on the circumstances.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Your Directors would like to place on record their 
sincere appreciation for the continued co-operation and 
contribution made by its management and employees 
towards the growth of the Company. Your Directors 
acknowledge with thanks the co-operation and 
assistance received from various agencies of the Central 
and State Governments, local authorities, Financial 
Institutions and Banks, valued Customers, Suppliers, 
Vendors, Shareholders and all other business associates.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director
DIN: 00040000
207
206
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure – 1
Form AOC-1
[Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries or associate companies or joint ventures
Part A - Subsidiaries
(₹ in lakhs unless 
otherwise stated)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Max I. Limited
Max Asset 
Services 
Limited
Max Towers 
Private 
Limited
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
Max Square 
Limited
Acreage 
Builders 
Private 
Limited
Max Estates 
128 Private 
Limited
Max Estates 
Gurgaon 
Limited
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Two 
Limited
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited 
(Formerly known as 
Astiki Realty Private 
Limited)
1.
Reporting period for the 
subsidiary concerned, if different 
from the holding company’s 
reporting period.
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
Date of Acquisition of Control/
Date of Incorporation 
31-07-2023
31-07-2023
29-04-2017
25-11-2019
24-06-2019
27-10-2022
17-06-2022
05-09-2022
03-01-2024
01-01-2024
3.
Reporting currency and 
Exchange rate as on the last 
date of the relevant Financial 
year in the case of foreign 
subsidiaries
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
4.
Share capital
5.00
205.00
7,584.93
848.38
21,750.96
54.48
965.20
10.00
10.00
7,033.80
5.
Reserves & Surplus 
2,393.39
(1,951.86)
7,559.30
5,557.56
597.43
25,971.75
610.13
(1,474.22)
3,544.30
(21.18)
6.
Total Assets
2,778.14
4,013.15
52,464.86
31,833.29
98,407.18
62,949.05
95,616.30
2,23,197.67
32,270.78
34,535.70
7.
Total Liabilities
379.75
5,760.00
37,320.63
25,427.35
76,058.79
36,922.82
94,040.97
2,24,662.36
28,716.48
27,523.08
8.
Investments  
2,743.73
-
752.70
953.78
3,536.39
2,025.57
2,842.72
8,312.14
-
-
9.
Turnover 
333.48
4,912.99
4,324.05
4,110.01
3,625.00
-
3,633.31
1,610.50
-
6.42
10.
Profit before taxation
294.73
200.11
(253.10)
1,168.51
(4,160.66)
(25.88)
1,274.33
(1,577.31)
(5.70)
(20.98)
11.
Provision for taxation
(74.01)
56.12
372.81
309.62
(1,030.00)
-
320.67
(396.99)
-
-
12.
Profit after taxation
220.72
143.99
(625.91)
858.89
(3,130.66)
(25.88)
953.66
(1,180.33)
(5.70)
(20.98)
13.
Other Comprehensive Income
-
(1.20)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
14.
Total Comprehensive income
220.72
142.79
(625.91)
858.89
(3,130.66)
(25.88)
953.66
(1,180.33)
(5.70)
(20.98)
15.
Proposed Dividend
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
16.
% of shareholding
100%
100%
51%
51%
51%
51%
100%
100%
100%
70%#
#includes both direct holding and indirect holding via subsidiary companies.
1.	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Not Applicable 
2.	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Not Applicable 
Note:
a)	
Reserves and Surplus includes security premium reserves, employee stock option reserves and equity component of loan and securities.
b)	
Turnover also includes other income.
c)	
Effective September 24, 2024, the Company’s equity shareholding in Max Towers Private Limited (MTPL) and Pharmax Corporation Limited (PCL) was reduced from 
100% to 51%. Consequently, MTPL and PCL ceased to be wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company. On the same date, New York Life Insurance Company acquired 
a 49% equity shareholding in each of MTPL and PCL.
d) 	
Investments includes both current and non-current investments.
PART – B – Not Applicable since there are no associates or joint ventures of the company.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director
DIN: 00040000
May 22, 2025
Noida
Abhishek Mishra
Company Secretary 
Nitin Kumar
Chief Financial Officer
209
208
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure – 2
DETAILS PERTAINING TO REMUNERATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 197(12) OF THE 
COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 15(1) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT OF 
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014.
(a)	 The Ratio of remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of all employees of 
the Company for the financial year:
Name of Director
Designation
Ratio to median remuneration
Mr. Analjit Singh
Chairman
3.7
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman & Managing Director
5.2
(b)	 The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the financial year:
Name
Designation
% Increase in remuneration
Mr. Analjit Singh
Non-Executive Chairman*
0%
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman & Managing Director
11.4%
Mr. Nitin Kumar
Chief Financial Officer#
287.9%
Mr. Abhishek Mishra
Company Secretary$
43.10%
	
* Mr. Analjit Singh received gross compensation (other than sitting fees) of ₹3 crore per annum during FY2024-25 as per the 
terms approved by the shareholders of the Company.
	
# The percentage increase for the CFO is due to the perquisite value arises due to the exercise of stock options and a one-time 
bonus.
	
$ The percentage increase for the Company Secretary was due to one-time bonus.
	
Note: % increase in remuneration refers to increase in fixed salary as per the appraisal process. Positive % is in 
case of CFO and Company Secretary is due to exercise stock options during FY2024-25
(c)	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 23.2%
(d)	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company: 39 (Thirty-Nine)
(e)	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries in the employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase 
in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any 
exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: The average percentage 
increase in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel was 11.3% (excluding ESOP perquisites) 
and 68.9% (including ESOP perquisites), while the increase in the remuneration of managerial personnel was 
11.4%. The higher percentage including ESOP perquisites is due to employees exercising stock options during 
the year.
(f) 	 The key parameters for any variable component of remuneration availed by the directors: The 
Variable Component is a critical element of the Total Rewards framework and is designed to deliver value 
to employees, including Directors and Key Managerial Personnel, who achieve tangible results against 
agreed performance targets. Variable Pay is directly linked to both Company Performance and Individual 
Performance, assessed against role-specific objectives and contributions.
(g)	 The Company confirms that remuneration paid during FY2024-25, is as per the Remuneration Policy of the 
Company.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Vice Chairman and Managing Director
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director
DIN: 00040000
Annexure - 3
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
YEAR 2024-25
1.	 Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company: 
	
The Board of Directors has adopted a CSR Policy, which comprises of the Vision and Mission Statement, philosophy 
and objectives. The CSR Policy is available on the website of the Company at https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/MEL-CSR-Policy.pdf 
	
Under the said policy, the Company had proposed to undertake or contribute for the activities relating to 
community development, promotion of healthcare and education etc.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee: 
Sl.
No Name of Director
Designation/ Nature of Directorship
Number of Meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of Meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1.
Ms. Malini Thadani
Chairperson, Independent Director
1
1
2.
Mr. Niten Malhan
Member, Independent Director
1
1
3.
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Member, Managing Director
1
1
3.	
Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the 
board are disclosed on the website of the company.
	
CSR committee:	
https://maxestates.in/composition-of-various-committees-of-board-of-directors 
	
CSR Policy: 	
https://maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-CSR-Policy.pdf 
	
CSR projects: 	https://maxestates.in/sustainability
4.	 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR 
Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable: 
	
Not Applicable
5.
(₹In lakhs)
a.
Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)
2044.20  
b.
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5) 
40.88 
c.
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous 
financial years.
Nil 
d.
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
Nil
e.
Total CSR obligations for the financial Year (b)+(c)-(d)
40.88
6.
(₹In lakhs)
a.
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing 
Project).
100.00
b.
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
Nil
c.
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
Nil
d.
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)].
100.00
e.
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial Year
(₹In lakhs)
Total Amount
Spent for the
Financial Year
(₹in lakhs)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
100.00 
Nil
211
210
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
f.
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
(₹In lakhs)
Sl.
No. Particulars
Amounts
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
40.88
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
100.00
(iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
59.12
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
59.12
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding  three 
Financial years:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
as per section 
135(6) (in ₹)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135(6) 
(in ₹)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year (in ₹)
Amount transferred to 
any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second 
proviso to section 135(5)
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(in ₹)
Deficiency, if 
any
Amount
(in ₹)
Date of  
Transfer 
1.
2021-22
Nil
2.
2022-23
Nil
3.
2023-24
Nil
Total
Nil
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social 
Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year:
	
□ Yes	 □
√ No
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) [including 
complete address and location 
of the property
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or asset(s)
Date of 
Creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR Registration 
Number, if applicable Name
Registered 
Address
	
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/ 
Municipal Corporation/ Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well 
as boundaries)
9.	 Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net 
profit as per section 135(5).
	
Not Applicable
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
May 22, 2025
Pune
Malini Thadani 
Chairperson
DIN: 01516555
Annexure – 4
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Board of Directors,
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
(CIN: L70200DL2016PLC438718)
Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3,
Opposite Okhla Railway Station,
Okhla Industrial Estate, New Delhi - 110020
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by Max Estates 
Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). Secretarial 
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate 
conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon.
We report that-
a)	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our review.
b)	
We have followed the review practices and processes 
as appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial 
records. The verification was done on a test check 
basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in the 
secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices, we followed, provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and 
appropriateness of the financial statements of 
the Company.
d)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the 
management representation about the compliances 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, and 
standards is the responsibility of the management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on a test check basis.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor 
of the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025 (“Audit Period”) 
generally complied with the statutory provisions listed 
hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board 
processes and compliance mechanism in place to the 
extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting 
made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i) 	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii) 	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(“SCRA”) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii) 	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv) 	 The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings, 
wherever applicable;
(v) 	 The following Regulations prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(“SEBI Act”):
	
(a) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(b) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018, to the extent applicable;
213
212
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
(e) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; {not applicable during the 
audit period};
	
(f) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 to the extent of 
the Act and dealing with client to the extent of 
securities issued;
	
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 
{not applicable during the audit period};
	
(h) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 {not 
applicable during the audit period}; and
	
(i) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard 
on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India, which has been generally complied with.
	
During the Audit Period, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations 
and Guidelines, to the extent applicable, as 
mentioned above.
(vi) 	 The Company is mainly engaged in the business 
of Construction of Buildings carried out on own 
account basis or on a fee or contract basis i.e. real 
estate development and letting, sub-letting, leasing, 
selling and distribution of residential or commercial 
complex, house, building etc.
	
We have checked the compliance management 
system of the Company to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the adequacy of systems in place to 
ensure compliance of specifically applicable law and 
this verification was done on test basis. We believe 
that the Audit evidence which we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion. In our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to explanations given to 
us, we believe that the compliance management 
system of the Company seems adequate to 
ensure compliance of law specifically applicable to 
the Company:
	
a)	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act, 2016.
	
b)	
The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment & Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance 
of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors including Woman Director. 
Further, the changes in the Board of Directors that 
took place during the audit period were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda were sent in advance 
other than meeting held at shorter notice and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting for 
meaningful participation at the meeting.
Board decisions were carried out with requisite majority 
and therefore, no dissenting views were noticed while 
reviewing the minutes.
We further report that there are systems and processes 
in the company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period:
	»
the Board of Directors of the Company at their 
meeting held on July 15, 2024 and the members of 
the Company at 8th Annual General Meeting held on 
August 23, 2024 approved the proposal for raising 
of funds for an aggregate amount not exceeding 
₹8000 million. Pursuant to this approval, Investment 
and Finance Committee through circulation dated 
September 03, 2024 approved the issue and allotment 
of 133,89,121 equity shares of face value ₹10/- each of 
the Company (Equity Shares) to 31 successful qualified 
institutional buyers, at a price of ₹597.50 per Equity 
Share (Issue Price) (including premium of ₹587.50 per 
Equity Share) and reflecting a discount of ₹31.24 (i.e. 
approx. 4.97%) on the floor price of ₹628.74 per Equity 
Share under the Qualified Institutions Placement 
(QIP) route. The said equity shares got listed on BSE 
Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
on September 04, 2024.
	»
the members of the Company through Postal 
ballot dated June 12, 2024 inter-alia approved the 
following proposals:
	
−Investment by New York Life Insurance Company 
(NYL) by way of subscription to 10,789,330 equity 
shares of face value of ₹10/- each of Max Tower 
Private Limited for an aggregate consideration of 
approximately ₹565.25 million;
	
−sale of 2,63,76,841 equity shares held by the 
Company in Max Tower Private Limited at a price of 
₹52.39 per share for an aggregate consideration of 
approximately ₹1,381.88 million by the Company 
to NYL;
	
−Investment by NYL by way of subscription to 
7,448,814 equity shares of face value of ₹1/- each 
of Pharmax Corporation Limited, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company, for an aggregate 
consideration of approximately ₹347.56 million; and
	
−Sale of 34,064,700 equity shares of face value of 
₹1/- each of Pharmax Corporation Limited by 
the Company for an aggregate consideration of 
approximately ₹1,589.46 million to NYL.
	»
the Board of Directors of the Company at their meeting 
held on August 31, 2024 and the members of the 
Company through Postal ballot dated September 30, 
2024 approved the proposal for issuance of Convertible 
Warrants on Preferential Basis for an amount not 
exceeding in aggregate ₹150 crores.
	»
the Regional Director vide an order dated August 13, 
2024 approved the shifting of the registered office 
of the Company from the State of Punjab, under the 
jurisdiction existing ROC Chandigarh to New Delhi 
under the jurisdiction of ROC Delhi.
	»
the members of the Company through Postal ballot 
dated January 29, 2025 inter-alia approved the 
following proposals:
	
−Corporate Guarantee against the financial facility 
of ₹800 crores availed by Acreage Builders Private 
Limited.
	
−Corporate Guarantee against the financial facility of 
₹584 crores availed by Max Square Limited.
	
−Further investment by the Company and NYL in 
Acreage Builders Private Limited.
	»
the members of the Company through Postal 
ballot dated March 16, 2025 inter-alia approved the 
following proposals:
	
−for an equity infusion in ₹42.21 crores into Max 
Estates Noida Private Limited, as part of a total 
equity infusion of approximately ₹70.34 crores 
by the consortium partners, which includes the 
Company, Max Square Limited, Max Towers Private 
Limited, Max Ventures Investment Holdings Private 
Limited and Antara Senior Living Limited.
	
−for funding of ₹500 crores by the Company into 
in Max Estates Noida Private Limited through 
Compulsory Convertible Debentures (CCDs).
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
New Delhi
May 22, 2025
Kapil Dev Taneja
Partner
M. No.: FCS 4019/CP No. 22944
UDIN: F004019G000403715
215
214
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure – 4A
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Max Square Limited
(CIN: U70200UP2019PLC118369)
L-20, Max Towers, C-001/A/1,
Sector- 16B, Gautam Buddha Nagar,
Uttar Pradesh - 201301
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherences to good corporate practices by Max Square 
Limited (hereinafter called the Company), which is 
an Unlisted Public Company. Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
We report that-
a)	
Maintenance of secretarial records are the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
b)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and 
appropriateness of the financial statements of 
the Company.
d)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the 
management representation about the compliances 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the Corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
standards is the responsibility of the management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on test basis.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025 (“Audit Period”) 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct 
Investment, wherever applicable;
	
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of Secretarial Standards on 
Meetings of the Board of Directors and General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (Secretarial Standards) which 
the Company has generally complied with.
	
We report that the Company has generally complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations 
and Guidelines to the extent applicable, as 
mentioned above.
(iv)	 The Company is material subsidiary of Max Estates 
Limited and the Company is mainly engaged in the 
business of Real Estates development.
	
We have checked the compliance management 
system of the Company to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the adequacy of systems in place to 
ensure compliance of specifically applicable law and 
this verification was done on test basis. We believe 
that the Audit evidence which we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion. In our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to explanations given to 
us, we believe that the compliance management 
system of the Company seems adequate to 
ensure compliance of law specifically applicable to 
the Company:
	
(a)	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act, 2016.
	
(b)	 The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment & Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance 
of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors including Woman Director. 
Further, the changes in the Board of Directors that 
took place during the audit period were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings, Agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent in advance other than meeting 
held at shorter notice and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clarifications on 
the agenda items before the meeting for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
Board decisions are carried out with unanimous consent 
and therefore, no dissenting views were required to be 
captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the 
members of the Company at their Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting held on November 11, 2024 approved 
the following proposals;
	»
Increase in borrowing limits pursuant to Section 180(1)
(c) of the Companies Act, 2013 from ₹900 crores to 
₹1000 crores; and
	»
Creation of mortgage/charge pursuant to Section 
180(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013 on the 
borrowings of the Company and/or associate(s) or 
group companies or any other body corporate (if 
any) subject to borrowing limit(s) fixed under Section 
180(1)(c) of the Act.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2025
Rizwan Khan
Partner
CP No.: 27281 / Mem. No. A37664
UDIN: A037664GO00396517
217
216
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure – 4B
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Pharmax Corporation Limited
(CIN: U24232PB1989PLC009741)
Bhi Mohan Singh Nagarrailmajra
Teh Balachaur Distt Nawanshahr,
Punjab - 144533
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherences to good corporate practices by Pharmax 
Corporation Limited (hereinafter called the Company), 
which is an Unlisted Public Company. Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
We report that-
a)	
Maintenance of secretarial records are the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
b)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and 
appropriateness of the financial statements of 
the Company.
d)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the 
management representation about the compliances 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the Corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
standards is the responsibility of the management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on test basis.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025 (“Audit Period”) 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct 
Investment, wherever applicable;
	
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of Secretarial Standards on 
Meetings of the Board of Directors and General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (Secretarial Standards) which 
the Company has generally complied with.
	
We report that the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations 
and Guidelines to the extent applicable, as 
mentioned above
(iv)	 The Company is engaged in the business of deals in 
leasing of Estates.
	
We have checked the compliance management 
system of the Company to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the adequacy of systems in place to 
ensure compliance of specifically applicable law and 
this verification was done on test basis. We believe 
that the Audit evidence which we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion. In our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to explanations given to 
us, we believe that the compliance management 
system of the Company seems adequate to 
ensure compliance of law specifically applicable to 
the Company:
	
(a)	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act, 2016.
	
(b)	 The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment & Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Non-
Executive Directors and Independent Directors including 
Woman Director. Further, the changes in the board of 
directors that took place during the audit period were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule 
the Board and Committee Meetings, Agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent in advance other 
than meeting held at shorter notice and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Board decisions are carried out with unanimous consent 
and therefore, no dissenting views were required to be 
captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period –
(a)	
the members of the Company at their Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting held on May 23, 2024 approved the 
following proposals:
	»
Increase in borrowing limits upto an amount of 
₹500,00,00,000/- (Rupees Five Hundred crores 
only) in compliance with the provisions of Section 
180(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	»
Increase in threshold for providing security 
by creating pledge, hypothecation, mortgage 
and/ or charge on the assets of the Company in 
compliance of the provisions Section 180(1)(a) of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
	»
Increase in the Authorized Share Capital of the 
Company from ₹25,70,00,000 divided into 
(i) 6,00,00,000 equity shares of ₹1/- each, (ii) 
4,70,000 10% Cumulative Convertible Preference 
Shares of ₹100/- each and (iii) 15,00,000 9% 
Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares of 
₹100/- each, to ₹28,70,00,000/-, by creation 
of additional 3,00,00,000 equity shares of ₹1/- 
each and consequent amendment to Clause V 
of Memorandum of Association of the Company.
	»
Shifting of the Registered Office of the Company 
from the State of Punjab to the National Capital 
Territory of Delhi and consequent amendment to 
Memorandum of Association.
	»
Alteration in Memorandum of Association of the 
Company by adoption of amended and restated 
Memorandum of Association in substitution 
and supersession of the existing Memorandum 
of Association.
	»
Alteration in Articles of Association of the 
Company by adoption of amended and restated 
Articles in substitution and supersession of the 
existing Articles.
(b)	 the members of the Company, at their Extra-
Ordinary General Meeting held on September 12, 
2024, approved the proposal for the issuance of 
74,48,814 equity shares having a face value of ₹1/- 
each at an issue price of ₹47.20 per share (including a 
premium of ₹46.20), for an aggregate consideration 
of ₹35,15,84,020.80. The allotment was approved 
by way of preferential issue on a private placement 
basis to New York Life Insurance Company.
(c) 	 the members of the Company, at their Extra- 
Ordinary General Meeting held on September 24, 
2024 accorded their approval for amendment to the 
Articles of Association of the Company.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
Place: New Delhi
Date: May 21, 2025
Rizwan Khan
Partner
CP No.: 27281 / Mem. No. A37664
UDIN: A037664GO00396451
219
218
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure – 4C
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the financial year ended on March 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Max Asset Services Limited
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar Village Railmajra,
Tehsil Balachaur, Nawan Shehar,
Nawanshehar, Punjab, India, 144533
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by Max Asset Services 
Limited [CIN: U74999PB2016PLC045648] (hereinafter 
to be referred as “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025 complied with 
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper board-processes and compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and 
subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; (Not 
Applicable)
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the regulations and 
bye-laws framed thereunder; (Not Applicable)
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings; 
(Not Applicable)
(v)	
Regulations and guidelines prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’); (Not Applicable)
(vi)	 The other laws, as informed and certified by the 
management of the Company which are specifically 
applicable to the Company based on Company’s 
sector/ businesses are:
	
a)	
Employee State Insurance Act, 1948;
	
b)	
Employee Provident Fund and Misc. Provisions 
Act, 1952;
	
c)	
Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972;
	
d)	
Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923; and
	
e)	
Maternity Benefit Act, 1961.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India related to board 
and general meetings.
We report that during the period under review, the 
Company has complied with the provisions of the 
Act, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. 
mentioned above.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
as per the provisions of the Act and the changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place 
during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule 
the board and committee meetings, agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven 
days in advance (except in cases where meetings were 
convened at shorter notice for which necessary approval 
were obtained as per applicable provisions) and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
All the decisions at Board and Committee meetings were approved unanimously. There was no instance of any dissent 
raised by any member in any of the business matter convened at such meetings.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
For CL & Associates
Company Secretaries
Firm Unique Code: P2021DE084900
Harish Chawla
(Partner)
Membership No. F9002
Certificate of Practice No. 15492 
Peer Review No. 4741/2023
UDIN: F009002G000421458
Date: May 21, 2025 
Place: New Delhi
221
220
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
For CL & Associates
Company Secretaries
Firm Unique Code: P2021DE084900
Harish Chawla
(Partner)
Membership No. F9002
Certificate of Practice No. 15492 
Peer Review No. 4741/2023
UDIN: F009002G000421458
Date: May 21, 2025 
Place: New Delhi
Addendum -1
To,
The Members,
Max Asset Services Limited
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar Village Railmajra,
Tehsil Balachaur, Nawan Shehar,
Nawanshehar, Punjab, India, 144533
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is 
to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide 
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of 
the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Annexure – 4D
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Max Towers Private Limited
(CIN: U70109UP2016PTC087374)
L-20, Max Towers, C-001/A/1,
Sector- 16B, Gautam Buddha Nagar,
Noida, Uttar Pradesh - 201301
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherences to 
good corporate practices by Max Towers Private Limited 
(hereinafter called the Company). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
We report that-
a)	
Maintenance of secretarial records are the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
b)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices, we followed provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and 
appropriateness of the financial statements of 
the Company.
d)	
Wherever required, we have obtained the 
management representation about the compliances 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the Corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
standards is the responsibility of the management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on test basis.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025 (“Audit Period”) 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent 
of Foreign Direct Investment and Overseas Direct 
Investment, wherever applicable;
	
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of Secretarial Standards on 
Meetings of the Board of Directors and General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (Secretarial Standards) which 
the Company has generally complied with.
	
The Company is mainly engaged in the business of 
Real Estates development and following are laws 
specifically applicable to the Company:
	
a) 	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act, 2016 and rules of the state(s) where project 
were being undertaken;
	
b) 	
Transfer of Property Act, 1882;
	
c) 	
The Building and Other Construction 
Workers(Regulation of Employment & 
Conditions of Service) Act, 1996.
223
222
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
On our test-check basis, we are of the view that the 
Company has ensured compliance of law specifically 
applicable on it
We report that on the basis of documents and 
information provided to us by the management of the 
Company during the course of audit, the Company has 
generally complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations and Guidelines to the extent applicable, as 
mentioned above.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance 
of Executive Director, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors including Woman Director. 
Further, the changes in the Board of Directors that 
took place during the audit period were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings, Agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent in advance other than meeting 
held at shorter notice and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clarifications on 
the agenda items before the meeting for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
Board decisions are carried out with unanimous consent 
and therefore, no dissenting views were required to be 
captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period –
(a)	
the members of the Company at their Meeting held 
on May 28, 2024 approved increase in the Authorised 
Share Capital of the Company and consequent 
alteration in the Memorandum of Association of 
the Company;
(b)	 pursuant to the provisions of Section 23, 42, 62 and 
other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, members of the Company at their meeting 
held on September 12, 2024 approved issuance of 
1,07,89,330 equity shares of the Company of the 
face value of ₹10/- each at a price of ₹52.29 per 
equity share (including a premium of ₹42.29 per 
equity share) by way of preferential allotment on 
private placement basis to New York Life Insurance 
Company. Consequently, the board of directors of 
the Company at their meeting held on September 
24, 2024 approved allotment of 1,07,89,330 equity 
shares of the Company to New York Life Insurance 
Company; and
(c)	
the members of the Company at their Meeting 
held on September 24, 2024 approved alteration in 
Articles of the Association of the Company.
For Neeraj Arora & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
Firm Peer Review No.: 3738/2023
New Delhi
May 21, 2025
Neeraj Arora
Proprietor 
M. No.: FCS 10781; CP No.: 16186
UDIN: F010781G000376993
Annexure – 4E
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the financial year ended on March 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Acreage Builders Private Limited
10th Floor, Tower-B Unitech Cyber Park, Sector 39,
Gurgaon, Haryana- 122001, India
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Acreage Builders Private 
Limited [CIN: U70101HR2010PTC047012] (hereinafter 
to be referred as “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025 complied with 
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper board-processes and compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and 
subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; (Not 
Applicable)
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the regulations and 
bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	
Regulations and guidelines prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’); (Not Applicable)
(vi)	 The other laws, as informed and certified by the 
management of the Company which are specifically 
applicable to the Company based on Company’s 
sector/ businesses are:
	
a)	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act, 2016 and rules of the state(s) where project 
were being undertaken;
	
b)	
The Transfer of Property Act, 1882;
	
c)	
The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment & Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996;
	
d)	
The Indian Stamp Act, 1899; and
	
e)	
The Haryana Development and Regulation of 
Urban Areas Act, 1975.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India related to board 
and general meetings.
We report that during the period under review, the 
Company has complied with the provisions of the 
Act, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. 
mentioned above.
225
224
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
as per the provisions of the Act and the changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took place 
during the period under review were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule 
the board and committee meetings, agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven 
days in advance (except in cases where meetings were 
convened at shorter notice for which necessary approval 
were obtained as per applicable provisions) and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
For CL & Associates
Company Secretaries
Firm Unique Code: P2021DE084900
Harish Chawla
(Partner)
Membership No. F9002
Certificate of Practice No. 15492 
Peer Review No. 4741/2023
UDIN: F009002G000421557
Date: May 21, 2025 
Place: New Delhi
Addendum -1
To,
The Members,
Acreage Builders Private Limited
10th Floor, Tower-B Unitech Cyber Park, Sector 39,
Gurgaon, Haryana- 122001, India
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is 
to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide 
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of 
the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For CL & Associates
Company Secretaries
Firm Unique Code: P2021DE084900
Harish Chawla
(Partner)
Membership No. F9002
Certificate of Practice No. 15492 
Peer Review No. 4741/2023
UDIN: F009002G000421557
Date: May 21, 2025 
Place: New Delhi
All the decisions at Board and Committee meetings 
were approved with requisite majority. There was no 
instance of any dissent raised by any member in any of 
the business matter convened at such meetings.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
227
226
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure – 5
Letter to Stakeholders
Dear Stakeholders,
At Max Estates, our mission to "enhance the quality 
of life through the spaces we create" is more than just 
rhetorical; it is the driving force behind everything we 
do. As a leading real estate player in Delhi NCR, we 
recognize the pivotal role we play in shaping sustainable 
urban environments and positively impacting the lives 
of our stakeholders.
From the outset, sustainability has been woven into the 
fabric of our organization. We understand the urgency 
of addressing climate change and environmental 
degradation, which is why we've embarked on a steadfast 
journey towards sustainability. Our actions are aligned 
with the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
as we endeavor to set a new standard for responsible 
development in the real estate sector.
Our approach to sustainability is comprehensive and 
dynamic. We've implemented robust measures to boost 
energy efficiency and optimize resource utilization across 
all our projects. All our commercial office developments 
which are already delivered have secured LEED/IGBC 
Platinum Ratings for Green Building Strategies and 
WELL Health & Safety Rated. Our upcoming Residential 
developments including Estate 128 in Noida, and Estate 
360 in Gurugram are designed for and pre-certified 
with IGBC Platinum rating. In addition, for Max Towers 
we have achieved LEED Operations & Maintenance 
Platinum certified. Moreover, our upcoming commercial 
developments including Max 65 in Gurgaon is pre-
certified LEED Platinum for green building strategies, 
and Max Square II is pre-certified with IGBC Platinum 
rating exemplifying our commitment to green 
building practices.
At the heart of our sustainability strategy lies the seamless 
integration of nature into our built environment. We 
prioritize green spaces and innovative landscape designs 
to foster well-being and combat the adverse effects of 
urbanization. Estate 128 with its sprawling green cover 
comprising over 70%, of the development, epitomizes 
our pledge to create thriving and healthy communities.
Energy, water, waste and biodiversity are critical aspects 
for Max Estates to address because they significantly 
influence the environmental footprint of the built 
environment. Neglecting these areas can exacerbate 
resource depletion, climate change, pollution, and 
ecological imbalance, while prioritizing them can 
contribute to environmental restoration and long-term 
sustainable development.
At Max Estates, we have aligned our processes towards 
responsible use and protection of the natural environment 
through sustainable practices and conservation 
efforts, aiming to preserve the health and resilience of 
ecosystems for present and future generations. We have 
implemented Environment Management System (ISO 
14001:2015) in our operations to reduce environmental 
impact and achieve our environmental goals.
We believe that building designs that prioritize waste 
management can facilitate reduction, sorting, and 
recycling of waste, minimizing the environmental 
footprint are crucial to streamline operations. Spaces 
dedicated to recycling and organic composting 
encourage segregation of waste effectively. Combined 
with diversion of waste from landfill, we champion a 
sustainable lifestyle for our residents and occupants.
Water conservation is another cornerstone of our 
sustainability agenda. Recognizing the water challenges 
faced by urban centers, like Delhi NCR, we've embraced 
innovative solutions such as recycling water from onsite 
sewage treatment plants and implementing on-site 
treatment measures to curb groundwater depletion 
during construction activities. Innovative building 
designs can significantly reduce water consumption 
through the incorporation of efficient fixtures and water 
reuse systems. At our commercial development, Max 
Square, we have achieved a zero-waste water discharge 
facility through our water conservation interventions.
In our unwavering commitment to transparency and 
accountability, we've published a Sustainability Note 
& our BRSR report, offering insights into our progress 
and future aspirations. Moreover, we have adopted 
global standards, such as GRESB, to benchmark our 
performance and drive continuous improvement in our 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. 
We have also begun our journey of computing and 
monitoring our GHG emissions to ultimately set targets, 
following the SBTi curriculum, and move towards net 
zero buildings.
Since 2021, we have been on a structured ESG journey, 
delineating short-term, medium-term, and long-
term goals to drive sustainable development. Having 
successfully achieved our medium-term objectives, we 
have undertaken a comprehensive review to refine and 
prioritize our ESG goals for FY26. These goals include:
	»
Strategize and develop targets for Net Zero emissions
	»
Committing to SBTi for our Net Zero goal
	»
Life Cycle Embodied Carbon Analysis for Max Towers
	»
Explore partnerships to create a circular economy
	»
Source Renewable energy for our delivered 
commercial assets
	»
Increase gender diversity at Max Estates Head Office 
level to 25%
	»
Increase participation of women as labour on 
construction site
	»
Academic tie-ups to increase awareness and interest 
of women in real estate
	»
Provide dedicated channels for lodging grievances, 
thereby improving governance and efficient 
stakeholder management
These specific and measurable goals underscore our 
dedication to advancing sustainability across all facets of 
our operations, from environmental stewardship to social 
responsibility and governance. By aligning our actions 
with these targets, we aim to strengthen our position as a 
leader in sustainable real estate development and create 
lasting value for our stakeholders.
229
228
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
L70200DL2016PLC438718
2
Name of the Listed Entity
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
3
Year of Incorporation
2016
4
Registered office address
Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3, Opposite 
Okhla Railway Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, New 
Delhi-110020, India
5
Corporate address
Max Towers, L-20, C - 001/A/1, Sector- 16B, Gautam 
Buddha Nagar, Noida- 201301, Uttar Pradesh
6
E-mail
secretarial@maxestates.in
7
Telephone
0120-4743222
8
Website
www.maxestates.in
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
NSE and BSE
11
Paid-up capital
H1,610,000,840
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Name- Abhishek Mishra
Designation - Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer
Phone No.: +91 120-4743222
Email ID: abhishek.mishra@maxestates.in
13
Reporting Boundary
Consolidated
14
Name of assurance provider
NA
15
Type of assurance obtained
NA
II.	 Products/services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No
Description of main 
activity
Description of business activity
% Turnover of the 
entity
1.
Real Estate
Real Estate Activities including facility management - With owned or 
leased assets.
100%
*As per Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
17.	 Products/services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1.
Real Estate Development
681
100%
*As per Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated.
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
-
4
4
International
-
-
-
19.	 Markets served by the entity
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of states)
4
International (No. of countries)
-
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
Not applicable. Max Estates Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Company” or “Max Estates” or “MEL” in 
this report), the real estate development arm of the Max Group, has strategically chosen to focus currently on 
developing multiple asset classes in Delhi NCR.
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
Established in 2016, Max Estates aspires to build sustainable, grade A+ residential and commercial developments 
in Delhi NCR, with a focus on well-being. Our endeavour is to consciously create a unique confluence of spaces 
that enables collaboration, innovation, and community, and promotes holistic well-being of our consumers. Our 
current and planned developments are diversified across various asset classes, key strategic locations across Delhi 
NCR, as well as across the risk spectrum between delivered, nearing completion and under design projects.
	
Max Estates Limited is steadfastly emerging as a top brand in real estate at Delhi NCR. Max Estates Ltd. continues 
to be driven by its desire to enhance wellbeing through its exceptional experiences. Post Covid, the CRE industry 
witnessed a trend of flight to quality, with top-notch companies upgrading to developer owned Grade A+ spaces. 
Organisations have chosen well-maintained contemporary office complexes that offer better employee well-
being, a sustainable outlook, and the best of amenities, which are suited to the future of work in the new normal. 
Aligning with the market trend and the need of the hour, we have built offices with a host of amenities and 
allocated dedicated areas for flexible workspace solutions across our assets as well. This has allowed us to be the 
preferred choice for tenants that are looking to occupy Grade A+ commercial office spaces in Delhi NCR. Our 
developments are now synonymous with quality and have enjoyed a surge in leasing demand from a reputed 
and diverse clientele, as well as commanded premium rentals, across micro markets. Our occupants belong to 
a varied set of industries including professional services, media, financial services, IT/ITES, real estate related 
businesses, manufacturing, etc.
	
On the residential front, our LiveWell philosophy guides the design and operational intent of our developments, 
with carefully selected locations, multitude of amenities, inclusive design, and a focus on sustainability becoming 
signature markers of all our developments. Operating in the premium and luxury segments, our residential 
developments are created to cater to discerning homeowners, who are looking to opt for a lifestyle of privacy 
and holistic well-being, across physical, social, emotional, and environmental aspects.
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as on March 31, 2025
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
223
188
84.30%
35
15.70%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3
Total employees (D+E)
223
188
84.30%
35
15.70%
Workers
1
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable*
2
Other than Permanent (G)
3
Total workers (F+G)
	
*All workers at the construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
b.	
Differently abled employees and workers
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
-
-
-
-
-
2
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
1
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable*
2
Other than Permanent (G)
	
*All workers at the construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
231
230
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
21.	 Participation/inclusion/representation of women
No. and percentage of females
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
9
3
33.33%
Key Management Personnel
3
-
0%
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Particulars
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
FY2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
11.00%
3.30%
14.30%
12.38%
5.30%
17.68%
19.00%
8.30%
27.30%
Permanent Workers*
Not Applicable*
	
Note: The average of the count of employees at the beginning and end of the financial year has been taken as the base for the 
calculation of the Attrition %.
	
*All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23.	 a.	
Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures:
S. 
No.
Name of Holding/ Subsidiary/ Associate 
Companies/ Joint Venture (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
in column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of listed entity? 
(Yes/No)
1
Max Square Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
2
Acreage Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
3
Pharmax Corporation Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
4
Max Towers Private Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
5
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
6
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
7
Max I. Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
8
Max Asset Services Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
9
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
10
Max Estates Noida Private Limited (formerly 
Astiki Realty Private Limited)
Subsidiary
60
Yes
VI.	 CSR Details
24.	(i)	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013:
	
	
Yes. CSR is applicable as per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
(ii)	 Turnover*:	 H4,109.86 lakhs
	
(iii)	 Net worth*:	H2,36,093.73 lakhs
	
A total of H100 lakhs was contributed to Max India Foundation by the Company in the form of CSR.
	
*The information provided here is on a standalone basis for Max Estates Limited during the financial year 2024-25.
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No) (If yes, then 
provide web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy)
FY2024-25
Remark
FY2023-24
Remark
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
the close of 
the year
Communities
Yes
(Link: https://
maxestates.in/
contact-us)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investors 
(other than 
Shareholders)
Yes
(Email: 
investorhelpline@
maxestates.in)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Shareholders
Yes
(Email: 
investorhelpline@
maxestates.in)
1
-
-
1
-
-
Employees 
and workers
Yes
(Link: https://
maxestates.in/
wp-content/
uploads/2025/03/
Vigil-Mechanism-
Whistle-Blower.pdf)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Customers
Yes
(Email: crm@
maxestates.in)
-
-
Operational 
complaints 
by 
customers 
are not 
captured 
in this 
disclosure
-
-
Operational 
complaints 
by 
customers 
are not 
captured 
in this 
disclosure
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes, 
(Link: https://
maxestates.in/
wp-content/
uploads/2025/03/
Vigil-Mechanism-
Whistle-Blower.pdf)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others, please 
specify
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
*The information provided here is on a standalone basis for Max Estates Limited during the financial year 2024-25
233
232
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and 
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach 
to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate.
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
ENVIRONMENT
1
Energy Efficiency 
& Emissions
Opportunity
Improve energy 
efficiency and 
benchmark 
performance with 
market trends.
-
Positive: Reduced 
energy costs, 
operational savings
2
Building Material 
Efficiency
Opportunity
Reducing waste and 
efficient use of building 
materials. 
Finding substitutes: 
sustainable and recycled 
materials. 
-
Positive: Cost 
savings, reduced 
waste, enhanced 
reputation, reduced 
embodied carbon
3
Water Efficiency
Opportunity
Implementing water 
efficiency measures 
and demonstrate 
environmental 
stewardship.
-
Positive: Reduced 
water costs, 
operational savings
4
Environmental 
Compliance
Risk
Non-compliance 
with environmental 
regulations can result 
in penalties, legal 
consequences, and 
reputational harm.
Establish an 
environmental 
management system, 
adhere to regulations, 
monitor and report on 
compliance.
Negative: Potential 
fines, legal costs, 
reputational 
damage
5
Unpredictable 
climate pattern
Risk
Increasing climate-
related events 
(floods, heatwaves, 
thunderstorms, 
smog situations, 
unprecedented heavy 
rainfall, urban heat 
effect. 
Negatively affect 
building structure, 
facade and tenant 
experience.
Schedule periodic 
inspections and review 
maintenance needs of 
exterior finishes and 
mechanical systems. 
Post-event reviews 
to improve response 
protocols.
Compare tenant 
health reports or 
satisfaction scores 
over time.
Negative: Increased 
maintenance 
costs, insurance 
premiums, impact 
on customer 
experience
6
Waste 
Management
Opportunity
Implementing 
comprehensive waste 
handling procedures 
Emphasise on reduction, 
recycling and reuse of 
waste. Minimize landfills
-
Positive: Reduced 
disposal costs, 
enhanced ESG 
score, minimize 
impact on 
environment
7
Renewable energy Opportunity
Transitioning to 
renewable energy.
Align with national 
energy target and 
reduces dependency on 
fossil fuels.
-
Positive: Reduced 
long-term energy 
costs, reduce 
carbon emissions
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk / opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate.
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
SOCIAL
8
Child Labour
Risk
Involvement in child 
labour can lead to 
legal and reputational 
consequences, 
affecting the company's 
operations.
Establish strict 
supplier codes of 
conduct, conduct 
regular audits, verify 
and monitor supply 
chain practices.
Negative: 
Potential legal and 
compensation 
costs, reputational 
damage
9
Human Right 
Assessment
Risk
Ignoring human rights 
can result in legal 
actions, brand damage, 
and negative impact on 
company reputation.
Conduct human rights 
due diligence, engage 
with stakeholders, 
address issues, and 
establish remediation 
processes.
Negative: Potential 
legal costs, 
reputational 
damage
10
Anti-corruption
Risk
Involvement in corrupt 
practices can result in 
legal penalties, loss of 
trust, and damage to 
company reputation.
Implement anti-
corruption policies 
and procedures, 
provide training, 
conduct regular 
monitoring and 
internal audits.
Negative: Potential 
legal costs, fines, 
reputational 
damage
11
Non-
discrimination
Opportunity
Promoting non-
discrimination practices 
can attract diverse 
customers and talent, 
leading to business 
growth.
-
Positive: Increased 
revenue, market
share
12
Labour welfare
Opportunity
Ensuring the welfare 
of labour engaged at 
the site can attract 
and retain blue collar 
workforce engaged 
in different skill based 
work and from diverse 
geographic areas
-
Positive: Labour 
retention, less 
likelihood of labour 
shortage and 
delays 
13
Diversity
Opportunity
Promoting diversity 
in the workforce can 
help bring diverse and 
multiple perspectives 
and skill sets.
-
Positive: increased 
productivity 
through diverse 
perspectives and 
skill sets
14
Occupational 
Health & Safety
Risk
Inadequate health and 
safety measures can 
lead to accidents, legal 
liabilities, and damage 
to reputation.
Implement robust 
health and safety 
protocols, provide 
training, conduct 
regular inspections 
and audits.
Negative: 
Potential legal and 
compensation 
costs, reputational 
damage
15
Customer Health 
Safety
Risk
Neglecting customer 
health and safety can 
lead to liability claims, 
loss of customers, and 
reputational damage.
Implement health 
and safety protocols, 
conduct regular 
inspections, ensure 
product and service 
quality.
Negative: 
Potential legal and 
compensation 
costs, loss of 
customers
ECONOMIC
16
Tax - Strategy & 
Governance
Risk
Poor tax strategy and 
governance can lead to 
financial penalties, legal 
issues, and reputational 
risks.
Establish a robust 
tax strategy, ensure 
compliance, maintain 
transparent and 
accountable tax 
governance.
Negative: Potential 
fines, legal costs, 
reputational 
damage
235
234
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) Principles and Core Elements.
The NGRBC as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent 
and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Question
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/ 
policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved 
by the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
N
N
Y
N
	
c.	 Web link of the policies, if 
available
All policies are available on the Sustainability Page of Max Estates Limited 
website
2.	 Whether the entity has translated 
the 
policy 
into 
procedures. 
(Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend 
to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
N
Y
Y
Y
4.	 Name the national and 
international codes/ 
certifications/ labels/ standards
USGBC LEED (Core & Shell) Platinum and Gold certified projects
IGBC New Buildings Platinum certified projects
IGBC Health & Well-being Platinum and Gold certified projects
ISO 9001,14001, 45001
5.	 Specific 
commitments, 
goals 
and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any
Our goals for calendar year 2025 are as follows (All goals or targets mentioned 
below are voluntary in nature):
Implementing Integrated Management Systems (IMS) standards within our 
operational assets.
Initiating the upgrade of the Gurgaon 65 project to LEED Platinum 
certification.
Pursuing LEED Operations & Maintenance (O&M) certification for Max Towers.
Leveraging rating agencies such as GRESB to drive continuous improvement.
Seeking WELL Health & Safety ratings for our operational assets.
6.	 Performance 
of 
the 
entity 
against specific commitments, 
goals and targets
All projects delivered by Max Estates Limited (Max Towers, Max House and 
Max Square) have IGBC/LEED Platinum certification and WELL Health & 
Safety Rating.
Further, in FY2025, in terms of green building certification performance, the 
Company has secured the following:
-	
IGBC Heath & Wellbeing Platinum – Max House
-	
WELL Health & Safety Rating – Max Towers, Max House, Max Square
GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND OVERSIGHT
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG 
related challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the 
placement of this disclosure)
	
Please refer to “Letter to Stakeholders” section at the beginning of this report.
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility & Sustainability (BRSR) Policy
	
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Vice Chairman and Managing Director (DIN:00761695)
9.	
Does the entity have a specified committee of the board/ director responsible for decision 
making on sustainability related issues? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide details.
	
Yes. Company has Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Committee, details of which are as follows:
Name of Committee 
Member
Designation
(Chairman/ Member 
of the Committee)
Category
DIN
Ms. Malini Thadani 
Chairperson
 Non- Executive (Independent) Director 01516555
Mr. Niten Malhan
Member
Non- Executive (Independent) Director
00614624
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Member
Executive Director- Vice Chairman and 
Managing Director
00761695
10.	 Details of Review of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) by the 
company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half yearly (H) / 
Quarterly (Q) / Any other – please specify*
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against 
above policies & follow 
up action
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Compliance with 
statutory requirements 
of relevance to 
the principles, and 
rectification of any non- 
compliances
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
*As and when required
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies 
by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide the name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to 
be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
237
236
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY 
AND IN A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the principles during the 
financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programs held
Topics/ principles covered under the training audits 
impact
% of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programs
Board of Directors
1
	»
Strategic ESG Integration & Industry Trends
	»
Operational Deep Dive - Environmental & 
Social Initiatives
	»
ESG Performance Targets & 
Leadership Reinforcement
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
10
	»
Re-Dis-Covering Yourself- Sustainability
	»
Strategy Workshop
	»
Prevention of Sexual Harassment-
Awareness session
	»
General Health, Safety and 
Environmental Awareness
	»
MEL NEXT 2.0- Leadership journey
	»
Goal setting and year-end review trainings
	»
Fire Mock Drill
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
58
	»
Business Communication Mastery program
	»
First-Aid awareness program
	»
Behaviour based Safety
	»
Customer Service Excellence
	»
Impactful Presentations
	»
Project Management Certification
	»
MEL NEXT 2.0- Leadership journey program
	»
MS-Excel training
	»
Sustainability Workshop- Net Zero Strategy
100%
Workers
NA*
NA*
	
*All Workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not form 
part of this disclosure.
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in 
proceedings (by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions, in the financial year. (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of 
materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) 
Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount 
(In ₹)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
-
Not Applicable
-
Not Applicable
Settlement
-
-
Compounding fee
-
-
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
-
Not Applicable
Punishment
-
 	
*The information provided here is on a standalone basis for Max Estates Limited during the financial year 2024-25
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and 
if available, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Max Estates distinguishes itself in the real estate sector by strongly emphasising ethical conduct. This is achieved 
by implementing a comprehensive governance framework designed to combat corruption.
	
The company has a long-standing commitment to ethical business practices, which is reflected in the high 
standards of conduct expected from all employees. A cornerstone of this framework is a robust Whistleblower 
Policy that encourages the reporting of misconduct and ensures appropriate corrective actions are taken 
when necessary.
	
The following publicly available anti-corruption policies underscore Max Estates’ dedication to transparency and 
ethical operations:
	»
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management: Defines the ethical expectations for the 
company's leadership.
	»
Whistleblower Policy: Encourages the reporting of potential wrongdoing while safeguarding whistleblowers.
	»
Code of Conduct for Insider Trading: Establishes procedures to regulate, monitor, and report insider 
trading activities.
	»
Code of Conduct for Handling incoming business courtesies: Provided guidelines to ensure no unfair business 
practices and quid-pro-quo arrangements exist or are pursued between employees and external stakeholders.
	»
Related Party Transactions Policy: Provides guidelines for fair and transparent interactions with affiliated entities.
	
Building a Culture of Integrity
	
These policies ensure that all employees, regardless of their role, understand the importance of ethical conduct. 
They are embedded into the onboarding process for new hires and are reinforced regularly through emails, 
training workshops, and ongoing communication.
	
By placing a strong focus on ethical practices and transparency, Max Estates reinforces its reputation as a leader 
in responsible business conduct within the real estate industry.
	
Weblink to our relevant Policies and Code of Conduct: https://maxestates.in/investors
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Directors
-
-
KMPs
-
-
Employees
-
-
Workers
-
-
6.	
Details of complaints about conflict of interest
Particulars
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
-
NA
-
N/A
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
-
N/A
-
N/A
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/
action taken by regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of 
corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
No complaints received in the reporting year, i.e., FY2024-25.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the appeal/revision preferred in cases 
where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NA
NA
239
238
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services 
procured) in the following format:
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
(Current 
Financial Year)
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Number of days of accounts payables
105.48
65.17
9.	
Open-ness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties 
along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameters
Metrics
Current 
FY2024-25
Previous 
FY2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
5.66%
1.40%
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made 
from
167
21
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total 
purchases from trading houses
82.15%
93.61%
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales
NA
NA
b.	 Number of dealers /distributors to whom sales are 
made
NA
NA
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total sales 
to dealers/distributors
NA
NA
Share of RPTs in
a.	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total 
Purchases)
1.61%
NA
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
1.28%
2.85%
c.	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances 
given to related parties/ Total loans & advances)
-
-
d.	 Investments (Investments in related 
parties / Total Investments made)
-
-
Leadership Indicator
1)	 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the 
financial year:
Total no. of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered in training
% age of value chain 
partners covered
11
	»
Sustainability practices
	»
Green certification
	»
Inclusivity
	»
Programs for social initiatives, e.g. Habitat for 
Humanity association
	»
Compliance policies.
70% 
(basis of the award value)
2)	 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving 
members of the Board? (Yes/No). If Yes, provide details of the same
Yes. Max Estates utilises a Related Party Transactions Policy, Code of Conduct for Directors, Board composition 
practices, and Whistleblower Policy to proactively avoid and manage potential conflicts of interest involving 
Board members.
PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS 
SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to 
improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex 
investments made by the entity, respectively.
Particulars
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impact
R&D
-
-
-
Capex
-
0.26%
FY2023-24
Installation of Dual fuel kits: Dual 
fuel kits for DG sets offer several 
environmental 
advantages, 
including 
reduced 
emissions, 
improved fuel efficiency, and 
compliance with environmental 
regulations.
2.	
a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, Max Estates is committed to sustainable sourcing, in line with the company’s long-standing vision and 
corporate policies for sustainable development within the real estate sector. 
	
Our sourcing practices are followed by the principles of green building certification of the highest standards that 
we aim for, comply with applicable environmental regulations and include ongoing evaluation of sustainably for 
both structural and non-structural materials. 
	
We also actively explore advancements in modular construction technologies and place a strong emphasis on 
reducing and recycling construction and demolition waste.
	
Additionally, we maintain stringent standards to ensure that all suppliers, manufacturers, and contractors comply 
with relevant legislation.
	
Max Estates maintains a zero-tolerance policy towards forced, bonded, or child labour across its supply chain. We 
also promote collaborative partnerships with our suppliers to drive continuous product innovation and minimize 
environmental impact.
	
Weblink to our Sustainable Procurement Policy.
	
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
Max Estates mandates that all its developments achieve at least LEED/IGBC Gold certification. In line with this 
overarching commitment, we adhere to the guidelines set forth by LEED/IGBC for material usage in sustainable 
buildings. For instance, only low-VOC paints are utilised in our assets, in compliance with LEED/IGBC standards. 
Additionally, we incorporate (encourage) the use of the materials with GreenPro Ecolabel, which are products 
that qualify as Green Products.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and 
disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous 
waste and (d) other waste.
	
We only use sustainable and environmentally responsible materials and practices during construction. Specifically, 
we use AAC Blocks, Fly Ash Bricks, and incorporate fly ash in Ready-Mix Concrete (RMC). Additionally, waste 
materials such as debris from block work, brickwork, and concrete are reused as filling material at our sites, 
reducing the need for virgin resources and minimizing construction waste.
	
Our developments are designed and constructed for longevity, typically exceeding 50 years. These assets meet 
high quality benchmarks and are certified under LEED and IGBC with a minimum Gold rating
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / 
No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility 
(EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the 
same.
	
No, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is currently not applicable to the core activities of our organization, 
as we are primarily engaged in real estate development and do not manufacture or sell products that fall under 
EPR mandates (such as plastic packaging, electrical and electronic equipment, or batteries).
241
240
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
	
However, we have instituted a structured system for the segregation and responsible collection of reusable and 
recyclable materials at all our project sites. These materials are managed through authorized agencies who are 
licensed to handle and dispose of or recycle such waste streams in an environmentally compliant manner. This 
approach ensures that even in the absence of formal EPR obligations, our waste management practices align 
with the principles of resource recovery, circularity, and environmental responsibility.
	
We continuously monitor regulatory developments and are prepared to adapt our waste collection processes 
should EPR applicability change in the future.
Leadership Indicators
1)	 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the 
following format?
NIC code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency
Results communicated in 
public domain
(Yes/No)
(Yes/No)
If yes, provide the web-link
While an LCA was not conducted this year, we are taking proactive steps towards sustainability. We plan to 
conduct an LCA of our buildings to assess their environmental impact, including emissions and embodied 
carbon.
2) 	 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production 
or disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments 
(LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate 
the same.
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
We are committed to conducting a full LCA in the near future to gain a deeper understanding of the environmental 
and social impacts associated with our operations.
3)	 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production 
(for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate Input Material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Data collection for the percentage of recycled or reused input material used in our operations is currently under 
development. We recognise the importance of resource efficiency and are actively working to implement a 
system to track and report this metric in future BRSR reports.
4)	 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) 
reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics 
(including packaging)
-
-
-
-
-
-
E-waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
Hazardous waste
-
-
-
-
-
-
Max Estates' core business involves real estate development and management, not the production or sale 
of consumer products with a typical end-of-life cycle ("end-of-life" for us might refer to demolition or major 
renovations in our constructed and operated buildings). Therefore currently, the question is not directly 
applicable.
5)	 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each 
product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products & packaging materials as % of total 
products sold
-
-
Due to the focus on real estate development and management, Max Estates does not have product categories 
involving reclaimed products and packaging materials. This metric would not be relevant in our current 
operations.
PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL 
EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
1.	
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care 
facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
188
188
100%
188
100%
-
-
188
100%
-
0%
Female
35
35
100%
35
100%
35
100%
-
-
-
0%
Total
223
223
100%
223
100%
35
16%
188
84%
-
0%
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES*
Male
NA
Female
Total
	
*All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
	
b.  Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
Facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
PERMANENT WORKERS*
Male
NA
Female
Total
OTHER THAN PERMANENT WORKERS*
Male
NA
Female
Total
	
*All Workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not form 
part of this disclosure.
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent 
and other than permanent) in the following format –
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as a % of total revenue of the company
1.62%
0.50%
243
242
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
2.	
Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial year.
Benefits
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered (as 
a % of total 
employees)
No. of 
workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)*
Deducted & 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Yes/No/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered (as 
a % of total 
employees)
No. of 
workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)*
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Yes/No/N.A.)
PF
100%
NA
Yes
100%
NA
Yes
Gratuity
100%
NA
No
100%
NA
No
ESI
N/A
NA
N/A
NA
NA
NA
Others – Please 
specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
*All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/offices accessible to differently abled employees and workers as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, Max Estates prioritizes an inclusive work environment for all employees, including those with disabilities. Our 
properties are designed with accessibility in mind, following the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. We 
continuously evaluate and improve accessibility features, welcoming feedback for ongoing enhancement.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, Max Estates has drafted and follows a policy on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion which is publicly available on 
our website.
5.	
Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent Workers*
Return to 
work rate
Retention rate
Return to 
work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
-
-
Female
100%
100%
-
-
Total
100%
100%
-
-
	
*All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories 
of employees and workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Employee Category
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes, Max Estates has a Whistleblower Policy that gives all stakeholders a 
formal way to bring any complaints or concerns to the attention of the 
whistleblower committee. The primary objective of the policy is to make sure 
that stakeholders can report instances of unethical or improper behaviour as 
well as any complaints for the appropriate action. Through this policy, Max 
Estates offers all stakeholders the protection they need to disclose in good 
faith without fearing retaliation.
Further, we regularly conduct employee satisfaction surveys (ESS) to capture 
employee feedback.
Other than Permanent 
Employees*
Not Applicable
Permanent Workers**
We have employee satisfaction survey (ESS) to capture feedback from 
employees
Other than Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
	
*Max Estates does not have any “Other than Permanent Employees”. Hence, all the sections pertaining to these details are not 
applicable.
	
**All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
7.	
Membership of employees in association(s) or unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Total 
employees / 
workers
No. of 
employees / 
workers part of 
association(s) 
or Union
% of employees 
/ workers 
part of 
association(s) 
or Union
Total 
employees / 
workers
No. of 
employees / 
workers part of 
association(s) 
or Union
% of employees 
/ workers 
part of 
association(s) 
or Union
Total Permanent 
Employees
223
-
-
140
-
-
- Male
188
-
-
117
-
-
- Female
35
-
-
23
-
-
Total Permanent 
Workers
NA*
- Male
- Female
	
*All Workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not form 
part of this disclosure.
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Total (A)
On health & 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On health and 
safety measures/ 
wellness
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. F
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male
188
174
92.6%
174
92.6%
117
55
47.0%
91
77.8%
Female
35
34
97.1%
34
97.1%
23
14
60.9%
14
60.9%
Total
223
208
93.3%
208
93.3%
140
69
49.3%
105
75%
WORKERS
Male
Not Applicable*
Female
Total
	
*All Workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not form 
part of this disclosure.
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers.
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES*
Male
188
139
73.9%
117
90
76.92%
Female
35
27
77.1%
23
18
78.26%
Total
223
166
74%
140
108
77.14%
WORKERS
Male
Not Applicable**
Female
Total
	
*The eligibility criteria for year-end performance are those onboarded on or before 30th September of the financial year
	
**All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
245
244
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
10.	 Health & Safety Management System
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage of such system?
	
Yes. Max Estates have implemented a Safety Management System, including a comprehensive Safety Manual 
and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Our Health and Safety manual for projects applies to all individuals 
working at the project sites. Additionally, each project site may present unique challenges, and site-specific 
safety plans are developed and implemented by the vendor/contractor to address these concerns. A site safety 
management committee is responsible for monitoring the execution of each safety plan. Regular internal and 
external safety audits are conducted to ensure compliance with safety guidelines. Any safety gaps, incidents, 
or operational improvements are communicated to the site safety committee and the corporate safety team. 
Lessons learned from each site are recorded at the corporate level and incorporated into the safety instruction 
manual, which is prominently displayed at the site through various signage in both Hindi and English. We have 
successfully obtained Occupational Health and Safety certification (ISO 45001), demonstrating our commitment 
to maintaining the highest safety standards across all operations.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
Max Estates appoints a dedicated safety manager for each site under development and operational assets. The 
respective site safety managers are responsible for training, following the SOP, and inspecting and maintaining 
the safety logs.
	
Max Estates conducts weekly site safety inspections, generating reports based on these inspections. Copies 
of the completed inspection reports are kept on-site and are available for review at all times. Any deficiencies 
identified or unsafe practices discovered during these inspections are promptly addressed through remedial 
actions. Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) is conducted as per the Safety SOP on both routine 
and non-routine basis.
	
The entire portfolio adheres to the National Building Code (NBC) 2016, ensuring the safety of both premises 
and employees.
	
We have successfully received ISO 9001 certification for Quality Management, ISO 45001 certification for 
Occupational Health and Safety, and ISO 14001 certification for Environmental Management.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Yes/No)
	
Yes. Workers are trained to report hazards through toolbox talks and safety committees. These toolbox talks are 
conducted regularly at the site level and serve as interactive platforms for frontline workers to discuss specific 
safety topics, raise concerns, and reinforce awareness of hazard identification and mitigation. Additionally, safety 
committees, comprising representatives from both management and workers, provide a structured mechanism 
for reviewing, escalating, and resolving safety issues that arise on-site.
	
Workers are also empowered to stop work if any risk is identified. This is a key feature of our safety culture, 
encouraging workers to take immediate action without fear of retaliation when they observe unsafe conditions. 
Such empowerment ensures proactive risk mitigation and reinforces shared responsibility for workplace safety.
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/No)
	
Yes, Max Estates Limited provides employees and workers with access to non-occupational medical and 
healthcare services, including:
	»
Emergency response equipment is available at every project site, with paramedics on call 24/7 to address 
both occupational and non-occupational injuries or illnesses.
	»
General health check-ups, medical camps, and first-aid facilities are made available at project sites.
	»
Medical camps are organized in collaboration with healthcare providers.
	»
Periodic training sessions focused on health and well-being are conducted by the Human Capital team.
	»
All employees are covered under a comprehensive health insurance plan.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked)
Employees
-
-
Workers
Not Applicable*
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
-
-
Workers
Not Applicable*
No. of fatalities
Employees
-
-
Workers
Not Applicable*
High-consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
-
-
Workers
Not Applicable*
	
*All Workers at a construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
In alignment with our “WorkWell philosophy”, all of Max Estates’ assets are people-centric, with all possible 
measures having been incorporated for enhancing workplace health and well-being not only at the design 
stage but also whilst operating the assets. These measures address various aspects such as indoor air quality, 
water quality, daylight access, biophilia, hygiene parameters, healthy food choices, lifestyle etc. We ensure safety 
through structured daily toolbox talks, periodic safety audits, mandatory use of personal protective equipment 
(PPE), comprehensive emergency response plans, regular safety trainings, and strict adherence to applicable 
statutory norms.
	
This collectively helps in promoting physical, psychological, and social well-being among all building occupants. 
To implement these measures, design, operational and policy level interventions are required which are well 
incorporated in all the assets.
	
Safety & Compliance:
	»
All properties adhere to the National Building Code (NBC) 2016 for safety standards.
	»
ISO certifications
	
−ISO 9001 (Quality Management)
	
−ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety)
	
−ISO 14001 (Environmental Management)
	
Safety Management:
	»
Comprehensive H&S manual with site-specific plans & dedicated safety committees.
	»
Regular audits & incident learning for continuous improvement.
	»
Clear safety instructions displayed in Hindi & English.
	
Employee Empowerment:
	»
Weekly safety inspections identify & address hazards.
	»
Permit-to-work system for high-risk operations.
	»
Employees are empowered to report concerns & remove themselves from risks.
	
Non-occupational Healthcare:
	»
On-site medical camps with healthcare providers.
	»
Health insurance coverage for all employees.
	
Max Estates fosters a safe, healthy & supportive work environment for everyone.
247
246
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
13.	 Number of complaints on working conditions and health and safety made by employees and 
workers.
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
-
-
-
-
NA
NA
Health & Safety
-
-
-
-
NA
NA
14.	 Assessments for the year
% Of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
15.	  Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents 
(if any) and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety 
practices and working conditions. –
No significant incidents were reported, and no such risks were identified post-safety assessment.
Leadership Indicators
1)	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death 
of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
	
Yes, Max Estates provides a Group life insurance policy to all our permanent employees. We provide Group health 
insurance coverage for employees & families along with group personal accidents for employees.
2)	 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been 
deducted and deposited by the value chain partners.
	
Yes. Max Estates ensures statutory compliance by:
	»
Contractual Clauses: Requiring vendor compliance with statutory regulations.
	»
Pre-qualification Checks: Verifying compliance history before onboarding partners.
	»
Monitoring: Reviewing documents and requesting relevant certificates.
3)	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related 
injury / ill-health / fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been 
are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been 
placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected 
employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that 
are rehabilitated & placed in 
suitable employment or whose 
family members have been 
placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(Current 
Financial Year)
(Previous 
Financial Year)
(Current 
Financial Year)
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Employees
-
-
-
-
Workers*
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
*All Workers at a construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
	»
Termination: Depending on the circumstances, Max Estates may offer severance packages and outplacement 
services to support job searches and career coaching.
	
These programs reflect our commitment to employee well-being and aim to ensure a smooth transition for 
departing employees.
5)	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) were assessed
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
6)	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/
concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of 
value chain partners.
Not applicable, since no significant risks/concerns have been raised from assessments of health and safety 
practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL 
ITS STAKEHOLDERS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Max Estates Limited had conducted a comprehensive assessment in the past to identify its critical stakeholders, 
categorising them into primary and secondary groups based on priority. Primary stakeholders include investors, 
employees, tenants, suppliers, and contractors, while secondary stakeholders encompass local and regional 
communities, government entities, and media outlets. Both primary and secondary stakeholders play vital roles 
in the company’s growth, providing financial and strategic support.
	
This stakeholder mapping exercise provided Max Estates Limited with valuable insights into the key stakeholders 
and their expectations from the business. The selection criteria for primary and secondary stakeholders were based 
on their direct or indirect dependence on the company’s activities, real estate portfolio, services, performance, 
or influence on strategic and operational decisions.
	
To enhance organisational learning and improve decision-making, a cross-functional team comprising experts 
from finance, law, operations, and management was formed. This team conducted a materiality assessment to 
gather deeper insights, helping Max Estates Limited make more informed decisions.
	
Additionally, we maintain consistent engagement with our stakeholders through various communication 
channels. Acknowledging that each stakeholder group has distinct expectations, we customise our engagement 
efforts to address the topics that are most relevant to each group.
4)	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and 
the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? 
(Yes/ No).
	
Yes, Max Estates acknowledges the importance of supporting employees during career transitions. We offer 
various programs based on the reason for departure:
	»
Retirement: Pre-retirement planning workshops and resources are provided to assist employees in preparing 
financially and emotionally for retirement.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with 
each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Investors & 
shareholder
No
Investor briefings, annual 
general meetings (AGMs), 
quarterly earning calls, 
direct investor relations 
channels.
Quarterly
Economic 
performance and 
growth Competition, 
market and other risks
Employees and 
Third-party 
Contractors
No
Internal communication 
channels, leadership 
town halls, training 
sessions, performance 
management systems.
Continuous As and 
when required
Career advancement 
opportunities Health 
and safety Training 
and development 
Transparent 
communication and 
grievance redressal 
Performance 
evaluation Rewards 
and recognition
249
248
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Stakeholder Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Customers and 
Tenants
No
Customer service 
portals, tenant meetings, 
feedback surveys, digital 
communication. There is 
a digital tool for servicing 
all our customer queries. 
A central helpline and a 
dedicated helpdesk email 
ID have been allocated for 
both residential clients and 
commercial tenants.
At least once a 
week through 
social media 
In-person, once 
a month For 
grievance redressal 
as and when 
required
Assured quality Timely 
delivery Grievance 
redressal
Communities* and 
NGOs
Yes
Community development 
programs, stakeholder 
dialogue forums, CSR 
initiatives.
At least once a 
week in-person For 
grievance redressal 
as and when 
required
Local infrastructure 
Facilities Providing 
employment
Government and 
Regulators
No
Compliance reporting, 
policy consultations, 
participation in industry 
associations.
At least once in 
six months As and 
when required
Regulatory 
compliance, CSR 
activities
Media and Public 
Relations
No
Press briefings, digital 
and print media updates, 
corporate communication.
As and when 
required
Business Transparency 
& Ethics
Suppliers and 
Channel Partners
No
Vendor assessments, 
supplier audits, 
sustainability collaboration 
initiatives.
At least once a 
quarter Feedback – 
once a year
Pricing and payment 
terms Delivery time
Growth
	
*The Company communicates with Communities in local/ regional languages as well.
Leadership Indicators
1)	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, 
environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such 
consultations provided to the Board.
	
Max Estates prioritizes stakeholder engagement on economic, environmental, and social (EES) topics. We utilize 
a multi-channel approach to facilitate consultation on economic, environmental, and social (EES) topics:
	»
Formal Channels: 
	
−Annual surveys, meetings with key stakeholder groups (investors, employees, communities).
	
−Quarterly meetings with member(s) of Board on ESG initiatives, future plans and implementation status.
	»
Informal Channels:
	
−Employees Survey: Feedback mechanisms like employee surveys.
	
−Social media, Articles & Blogs: We actively engage with stakeholders on social media platforms, share 
informative articles and blogs, and encourage online discussions on relevant EES issues.
	
−Website and Marketing Collaterals: Our website and marketing materials are designed to transparently 
communicate our EES commitments and encourage stakeholder engagement.
	
All feedback received through these channels is meticulously analyzed and summarized. This comprehensive 
overview is then presented to the Board of Directors, with our Head (Engineering and Sustainability) providing 
updates on all ESG matters. This ensures that stakeholder voices are not only heard but also directly inform and 
influence our strategic decision-making across all economic, environmental, and social considerations.
2)	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of 
environmental, and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the 
inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities 
of the entity.
	
Yes, Max Estates actively engages in stakeholder consultation to support the identification and management of 
environmental and social issues. Here’s how:
	»
Validating Material Topics: Our initial materiality assessment conducted in the past, built on direct stakeholder 
consultation, established core EES priorities like environmental impact and employee well-being. This historical 
input continues to inform and validate the priority topics identified in our current internal materiality review, 
such as Climate Change, Energy Management, Employee Development and Engagement, and Customer 
Health and Safety.
	»
Driving Policy and Action:
	»
Climate & Energy: Investor and community concerns about environmental impact directly led to our GHG 
emission reduction targets and investments in energy-efficient designs. Our GHG emissions and energy 
savings KPIs reflect this.
	»
Employee Well-being: Consistent employee feedback on growth and development has driven our robust 
training programs and mentorship initiatives, tracked by training hours.
	»
Customer Safety: Customer feedback on health and safety influences our stringent safety protocols and our 
focus on CSAT scores for safety aspects.
	»
Community Impact: Community input guides our policies for local employment and our engagement in 
community development initiatives.
	
In essence, stakeholder feedback is integral to Max Estates. It doesn’t just inform our EES priorities; it 
directly translates into tangible policies and activities, ensuring we remain responsive and responsible to all 
our stakeholders.
3)	 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of 
vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
Yes, Max Estates recognizes the importance of supporting vulnerable and marginalized stakeholder groups. We 
actively engage with these communities and take concrete actions to address their concerns:
	»
Community Development Programs: We go beyond just neighbouring communities. We partner with local 
NGOs and organizations like Habitat for Humanity (HFH) to support initiatives that address the needs of 
underprivileged communities across our project locations, promoting inclusive development.
	»
Human Rights and Labour Welfare Policy: We have a comprehensive Labour Welfare Policy that ensures fair 
treatment and working conditions for all our employees and those employed by our contractors. This policy 
adheres to all applicable labour laws and goes beyond legal requirements to promote worker well-being.
	»
Supplier Code of Conduct: Our Contractor Code of Conduct emphasizes fair labour practices throughout 
our supply chain. We work with suppliers who share our commitment to protecting vulnerable workers and 
ensuring ethical business practices.
	
These examples demonstrate Max Estates’ dedication to creating a positive social impact and fostering inclusive 
growth. We continuously explore new avenues for engagement and remain committed to strengthening our 
social responsibility efforts.
PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) 
of the entity:
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
Total (A)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
223
184
82.5
140
92
65.71
Other than Permanent
Total employees
223
184
82.5
140
92
65.71
251
250
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Category
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
Total (A)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
% (D/C)
WORKERS
Permanent
NA**
Other than Permanent
Total workers
	
*Max Estates does not have any “Other than Permanent Employees”. Hence, all the sections pertaining to these details are not 
applicable.
	
**All Workers at a construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Category
Total (A)
FY2024-25
Total (D)
FY2023-24
Equal to 
minimum wage
More than 
minimum wage
Equal to 
minimum wage
More than 
minimum wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
223
-
-
223
100%
140
-
-
140
100%
Male
188
-
-
188
100%
117
-
-
117
100%
Female
35
-
-
35
100%
23
-
-
23
100%
Non-
permanent
NA*
Male
Female
WORKERS
Permanent
NA**
Male
Female
Non-
permanent
Male
Female
	
*Max Estates does not have any “Other than Permanent Employees”. Hence, all the sections pertaining to these details are not 
applicable.
	
**All Workers at a construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does not 
form part of this disclosure.
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
a. Median remuneration/ wages:
Number
Male
Female
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD)
5*
2,100,000
3
900,000
KMP (other than BoD)
3
40,049,993
-
N/A
Employees other than BOD & KMP
185
1,235,309
35
1,434,271
Workers
Not Applicable**
b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY2025 Current Financial Year
FY2024 (Previous Financial Year)
Gross wages paid to females as % 
of total wages
9.50%
9%
	
*One of the directors is not being paid remuneration.
	
**All Workers at a construction site are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the 
same does not form part of this disclosure.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights 
impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights 
issues?
	
An internal central committee, consisting of the Safety Head, Head of Projects, Head of Legal, Head of Human 
Resources, and Chief Operating Officer, is responsible for reviewing, investigating, and recommending actions 
related to safety, security, and matters concerning human, employee, and labour rights.
6.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
Filed 
during the 
year
FY2024-25
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
FY2023-24
Remarks
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Sexual Harassment
-
-
-
-
-
-
Discrimination at workplace
-
-
-
-
-
-
Child Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Forced Labour
/Involuntary Labour
-
-
-
-
-
-
Wages
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other issues
-
-
-
-
-
-
Max Estates Limited has formulated and published a POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) Policy that outlines 
the mechanism for redressal of complaints in detail. The anonymity of those raising complaints and also those 
involved is ensured for a fairy enquiry and redressal. The policy also outlines the details of the members of the 
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) which is reviewed and updated periodically, and published to all stakeholders.
Complaints can be filed physically and handwritten to the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC). Before filing 
the inquiry, the aggrieved person may request the respective team in the ICC to take steps to resolve the matter 
through conciliation. This can include counselling, educating, orienting, or warning the respondent to promptly 
stop the unwelcome behavior. In some cases, a neutral person might even be appointed to act as a conciliator 
between the parties to resolve the complaint.
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
-
-
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/workers
-
-
Complaints on POSH upheld
-
-
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and 
harassment cases.
Complaints can be filed in a physical handwritten complaint to the respective team in the Internal Complaints 
Committee (ICC). Before the inquiry, the aggrieved person may request the respective team to take steps to resolve 
the matter through conciliation. This can include counselling, educating, orienting, or warning the respondent 
to promptly stop unwelcome behaviour or appointing a neutral person to be a conciliator between the parties 
to resolve the complaint through conciliation. Max Estate has formulated a “Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
Policy. We respect the anonymity of those who raise concerns and do not accept any form of retaliation.”
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, this is part of the agreement/contract with vendors and contractors. There are specific points regarding 
the complete prohibition of child labour, as well as the rights and entitlements of workers at the sites and 
working conditions.
253
252
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Currently, 100% of our offices, properties, and suppliers undergo annual internal 
assessments to ensure compliance with:
	»
Fundamental human rights principles
	»
Applicable labour laws
We are committed to continuous improvement and plan to onboard a third-
party auditor in the future to complement our internal assessments. This 
comprehensive approach helps us maintain a safe and ethical work environment 
for all.
Forced/ involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
-
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / 
concerns arising from the assessments at Question 10 above.
	
No specific risks were identified or observed.
Parameter
FY2024-25*
FY2023-24*
(Current 
Financial Year)
(Previous 
Financial Year)
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
57,281.02 GJ
30,132.29 GJ
Total fuel consumption(E)
12,503.57 GJ
1,410.31 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumption from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
69,784.95 GJ
31,542.59 GJ
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
69,938.25 GJ
31,542.59 GJ
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/ turnover 
in rupees)
2.81 GJ/INR 
(lakhs)
2.62 GJ/INR 
(lakhs)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
58.00 GJ/PPP 
(lakhs)
58.75 GJ/PPP 
(lakhs)
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
0.00719 GJ/
Sq. Ft
0.011 GJ/Sq. 
Ft.
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
*This data applies to operational buildings: Max Towers Noida, Max House Okhla, and Max Square Noida and under construction 
projects in FY2024-25.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the 
Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose 
whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been 
achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any-
	
No, as our business operations are into real estate construction and management we do not fall under PAT Scheme.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY2024-25*
FY2023-24*
(Current 
Financial Year)
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
-
-
(iii) Third party water
95,618.84
-
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others**
16,828.67
66,936.00
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
112,447.51
66,936.00
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
112,447.51
66,936.00
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
4.50 Kl/INR 
(lakhs)
5.57 Kl/INR 
(lakhs)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
93.05 Kl/PPP 
(lakhs)
124.67 Kl/PPP 
(lakhs)
Water intensity in terms of physical output
0.07614 Kl/
Sq. Ft.
0.024 Kl/Sq. 
Ft.
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
*This data applies to operational buildings: Max Towers Noida, Max House Okhla, and Max Square Noida.
	
** For FY2024-25 this includes STP recycled water consumed for landscaping and flushing.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N)- No
Leadership Indicators
1)	 Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights 
grievances/complaints.
	
No human rights complaints were received in the reporting year. Max Estates remains proactive through regular 
human rights impact assessments, policy reviews, and employee training.
2)	 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
	
Yes, Max Estates undertakes human rights due diligence encompassing its operations and business relationships. 
This approach ensures we assess potential human rights impacts across our activities and supply chain.
3)	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements 
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes. Max Estates is committed to creating an inclusive environment for all visitors. Our offices are designed and 
equipped to be accessible to differently-abled individuals, adhering to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
Act, 2016.
4)	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) were assessed
Child labour
100%
Forced/ involuntary labour
100%
Sexual harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
0.0%
Others – specify
5)	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / 
concerns arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
No human rights risks found in recent value chain assessments. Max Estates remains proactive through partner 
engagement, contractual clauses, and ongoing monitoring.
PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESS SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE 
THE ENVIRONMENT
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Giga Joules) and energy intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
FY2024-25*
FY2023-24*
(Current 
Financial Year)
(Previous 
Financial Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
153.66
-
Total fuel consumption(B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption from renewable sources (A+B+C)
153.66
-
255
254
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
4.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25* 
 Current 
Financial Year
FY 2023-24* 
(Previous 
Financial Year)
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 To Surface water
	
No treatment
-
-
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii)	 To Groundwater
	
No treatment
-
-
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii)	To Seawater
	
No treatment
-
-
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
	
No treatment
-
-
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v)	 Others
	
No treatment
-
-
	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
-
-
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of 
its coverage and implementation.
	
Yes, Max Estates prioritizes responsible water management. Our projects incorporate mechanisms to minimize 
liquid discharge:
	
Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs): High-capacity STPs are implemented in key developments, including:
	»
Max Square: 375 KLD STP
	»
Max Towers: 100 KLD STP
	»
Max House Okhla (MHO) Block C: 70 KLD MBBR technology STP with UV treatment
	
Rainwater Harvesting (RWH): We utilize rainwater harvesting systems in multiple projects, collecting and storing 
rainwater for reuse.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:
Parameter
Unit
FY2024-25*
FY2023-24**
NOx
Kg
612.51
959.31
SOx
Kg
132.93
96.653
Particulate matter (PM)
Kg
223.33
172.48
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Microgram/ m3
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Kg
15.21
5.88
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
Microgram/ m3
-
Others- please specify – Carbon Monoxide
Kg
18.61
23.134
	
*This data applies to operational buildings: Max Towers Noida, Max House Okhla and Max Square Noida and the under 
construction projects in FY2024-25.
	
**The data for the last year has been updated due to a change in the methodology for estimating air emissions.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
Yes - The readings are provided by NABL approved laboratories recognised by the Central Pollution Control Board.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25*
FY 2023-24*
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
196.893
92.76
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
6458.493
6811
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations)
Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
equivalent/ 
Rupees (lakhs)
0.27
0.57
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee 
of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
tCO2e/PPP 
(lakhs)
5.51
12.86
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
tCO2e/Sq. Ft.
0.00068
0.0025
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional)– 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-
	
*This data applies to operational buildings: Max Towers Noida, Max House Okhla, and Max Square Noida and the under 
construction projects in FY2024-25.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
– No
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then 
provide details.
	
Max Estates Limited has onboarded Smart Joules as a vendor to track electricity consumption across its assets in 
a real-time basis. This system helps Max Estates monitor consumption patterns and develop effective strategies 
for reducing energy use. In addition, Max Estates is actively exploring options for renewable power purchases to 
decrease reliance on grid electricity for its commercial assets. To further support sustainable energy use, rooftop 
solar generation is being considered for assets that currently lack solar generation capabilities.
	
In its efforts to reduce GHG emissions across under-construction projects, Max Estates is implementing several 
energy-efficient initiatives, including:
	»
Double glazing unit glasses fixed in all commercial building façades across assets to reduce air conditioning load.
	»
The Heat Recovery Mechanism (DOAS) recycles exhaust air to retract temperature, enhancing energy efficiency.
	»
Utilising AAC (Autoclaved Aerated Concrete) blocks in construction to improve thermal insulation and enhance 
energy efficiency.
	»
The implementation of cooling as a service module to optimise equipment efficiency and reduce 
electricity consumption.
	»
Exploring solar power purchases to help reduce Scope 2 emissions and facilitate a transition to green energy.
	»
Installing sensor-based LED lights in common areas to further reduce electricity consumption.
	
These combined efforts reflect Max Estates’ commitment to enhancing sustainability and reducing environmental 
impact across its developments.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity:
Parameter
FY2024-25**
FY2023-24**
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
-
-
E-Waste (B)
0.02
-
Bio-Medical Waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery For (E)
1.20
3.3696
257
256
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Parameter
FY2024-25**
FY2023-24**
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) – Lube Oil from DG Sets
0.101
0.572
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
- Dry and Wet Waste
118.28
94.91
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)*
119.599
98.85
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue from 
operations)
0.0048
0.0082
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.099
0.184
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
0.000081
0.000036
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
Recycled
86.89
-
Re-used
-
-
Other recovery operations (safely disposed)*
-
-
Total
86.89
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method 
(in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
Incineration
-
-
Landfilling
32.705
-
Other disposal operations*
-
98.85
Total
32.705
98.85
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
– No
	
*We have a contract with state-authorized garbage collectors and recyclers. We segregate waste in our buildings and hand it 
over separately to an authorized agency for handling and treatment.
	
**This data applies to operational buildings: Max Towers Noida, Max House Okhla, and Max Square Noida.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe 
the strategy adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in 
your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Max Estates Limited has created a comprehensive waste management strategy that includes identifying different 
types of waste, such as hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and ensuring appropriate waste management 
mechanisms are in place. Further, we have elaborated waste management on-site, segregating waste in 
accordance with various regulations. Specifically, we segregate waste in the garbage room under the Solid 
Waste Management Rules, 2016; plastic waste under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016; Construction 
and Demolition Waste under the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016; E-waste under 
the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2016; used lube oil from DG sets and machines under the Hazardous Wastes 
(Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016; and batteries waste under the Batteries (Management 
and Handling) Rules, 2001. This includes minimizing waste at the source, promoting recycling and diversion of 
waste from landfills, in-office development, applying appropriate methods to handle and dispose of electronic 
waste, ensuring waste storage, working with tenants to ensure proper waste management, securing waste and 
debris disposal, and deploying construction and demolition waste handling, storage & diversion techniques.
	
For properties in Noida 100% waste diversion from landfill is currently being followed through help of onboarded 
vendors. Furthermore, cigarette waste recycling initiative has been started across properties to ensure the 
cigarette waste is being recycled into products that can be bought from onboarded vendors.
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national 
parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal 
regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify 
details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of 
operations/ offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ clearance are being 
complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not applicable, as none of our registered or corporate offices are situated in any ecologically sensitive areas
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year:
Name & brief details 
of project
EIA Notification No.*
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
Max Estates 128 
Pvt. Ltd. – Estate 
128 Project 
Located at Sector 
128, Noida
EC Identification No.
EC23B083UP185828
07.11.2024 &
01.04.2025
Yes
Submitted to 
MoEF, Regional 
Office Lucknow
NA
Max Square Ltd. – 
Max Square Project 
Located at Sector 
129, Noida
Reference No. 244223/
Parya/SEIAA/5605/2019
07.11.2024 &
01.04.2025
Yes
Submitted to 
MoEF, Regional 
Office Lucknow
NA
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Ltd. – 
Estate 360 Project 
Located at Sector 
36A, Gurugram
EC Identification No. 
EC24B3812HR5470514N
07.11.2024 &
01.04.2025
Yes
Submitted 
to MoEF, 
Regional Office 
Chandigarh
NA
Acreage Builders 
Pvt. Ltd. – Project 
Located at Sector 
65, Gurugram
EC Identification No. 
EC23C3803HR5379415N
07.11.2024 &
01.04.2025
Yes
Submitted 
to MoEF, 
Regional Office 
Chandigarh
NA
Max Towers 
Project Located 
at 001/A/1, Sector 
16B, Noida
Reference No. 687/
SEAC/546/2010
07.11.2024 &
01.04.2025
Yes
Submitted to 
MoEF, Regional 
Office Lucknow
NA
Max Square Ltd. – 
Max Square Two 
Project Located at 
Sector 129, Noida
EC Identification No. 
EC24C3802UP5320043N
07.11.2024 &
01.04.2025
Yes
Submitted to 
MoEF, Regional 
Office Lucknow
NA
	
*Environment Clearance Notification Number
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; 
such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of 
Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of 
all such non-compliances, in the following format: Yes.
S. No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards / by courts
Corrective 
action taken
1
NA
NA
NA
NA
Leadership Indicators
1)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area: NA
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations: Real estate development
259
258
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
NA
NA
(iii)	Third party water
NA
NA
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters)
NA
NA
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
NA
NA
Water intensity – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)	 To Surface water
 
 
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 To Groundwater
 
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment    specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	To Seawater
 
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
 
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
 
	
- No treatment
NA
NA
	
- With treatment specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
NA
NA
	
Note: No independent assessment, evaluation, or assurance has been conducted by an external agency.
2)	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter*
Unit
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
78,212.82
NA
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e/INR 
(lakhs)
3.13
NA
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
tCO2e/Sq. Ft.
0.0083
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) - No
	
*This data applies to operational buildings: Max Towers Noida, Max House Okhla, and Max Square Noida and the under 
construction projects in FY2024-25.
3)	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators 
above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such 
areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
	
Not applicable, as none of our registered or corporate offices are situated in any ecologically sensitive areas.
4)	 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions 
to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste 
generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the 
following format:
Sr. 
No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-
link, may be provided along-
with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
All facilities are Zero Liquid Discharge 
(ZLD).
-
Recycling 
and 
reusing 
water 
withdrawal
2
Treatment of wastewater and its reuse 
in flushing and gardening.
-
Saving of Fresh water withdrawal
3
Rainwater harvesting.
-
It helps to recharge ground water 
and increase the level of water 
table
4
Use of STP water for construction
-
Water conservation
5)	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 
words/ web link.
Yes, Max Estates has a business continuity and disaster management plan (BCP/DMP) to ensure operational 
resilience. This plan outlines procedures for:
	»
Identifying and prioritizing risks
	»
Responding to disruptions
	»
Restoring critical business functions
The plan is regularly reviewed and tested to ensure its effectiveness.
Weblink of our “Risk Management Policy”.
6)	 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the 
entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
No significant environmental impacts have been identified. Max Estates remains proactive through:
	»
Supplier selection: Prioritizing suppliers with strong environmental practices.
	»
Collaboration: Working with partners to reduce environmental impact throughout the supply chain.
	»
Sustainable procurement: Encouraging use of recycled or responsibly sourced materials.
7)	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were 
assessed for environmental impacts.
0%
8)	 How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:
a.	
By the listed entity - Nil
b.	
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners - Nil
PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESS, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY 
POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
1.	
a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
Max Estates Limited is associated with 10 industry chambers/ associations and these have been listed below.
	
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total 
members of such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO)
National
2
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3
Indian Green Building Council (IGBC)
National
261
260
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
4
Urban Land Institute (ULI)
International
5
Corenet Global
International
6
GRI Club
International
7
National Association of Software and Service Companies 
(NASSCOM)
National
8
Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India 
(CREDAI)
National
9
British Safety Council
International
10
GRESB
International
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive 
conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of the Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action Taken
There is no incidence of anti-competitive conduct by Max Estates Limited.
Leadership Indicator:
1)	 Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. No
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such 
advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of 
Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, if 
available
Max Estates currently doesn't advocate for specific public policies. However, we actively monitor relevant 
developments and prioritize alignment with policies promoting responsible and sustainable development. We 
remain open to communication with policymakers and stakeholders.
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE 
DEVELOPMENT
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on 
applicable laws, in the current financial year.
Name and brief details 
of project
SIA Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
Max Estates prioritizes responsible development. While formal Social Impact Assessments (SIAs) weren't 
required for projects in the current year, we:
	»
Engage Communities: Actively engage potentially affected communities through open communication 
and seeking feedback.
	»
Focus on Sustainability: Integrate environmentally and socially responsible practices throughout development.
Currently, SIAs are conducted internally. We continuously evaluate our approach and are exploring opportunities 
to involve independent external agencies for comprehensive SIAs in the future.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is 
being undertaken by your entity
S. No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by 
R&R
Amounts paid 
to PAFs in the 
FY (In ₹)
Max Estates Limited is currently not undertaking any projects requiring R&R activities. However, we remain 
committed to responsible development practices. Should any future projects necessitate R&R, we will strictly 
adhere to all applicable regulations and ensure fair and transparent compensation for any potentially affected 
communities.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
At Max Estates, we firmly believe that the ecosystem and community surrounding our assets are just as important 
as the assets themselves. Through regular interactions with neighbouring communities, we collect valuable 
feedback to enhance the surrounding ecosystem and improve the lives of local residents.
	
We are maintaining the area under the flyover near Max House (project located at 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 
3, Okhla Industrial Estate, New Delhi -110020) to enhance aesthetics and safety for the local community. 
Furthermore, we have adopted and maintaining green belts across all our projects in Delhi NCR region, further 
reinforcing our commitment to improving hygiene and health in the communities surrounding our developments.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
8%
20%*
Directly from within India
100%
100%
	
*We have enhanced our internal processes and system to record and report this data. As a result, there has been an update in 
the last year data.
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees 
or workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following 
locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY2024-25
FY2023-24
Rural 
NA
NA
Semi-urban
NA
NA
Urban
NA
NA
Metropolitan
100%
100%
Leadership Indicator:
1)	 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social 
Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Max Estates Limited is yet to undertake any project which will require a Social Impact Assessment to be 
conducted.
2)	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated 
aspirational districts as identified by government bodies:
S.No
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In ₹)
Max Estates is committed to contributing to the development of Aspirational Districts. We do not currently have 
any project in aspirational district as mentioned by NITI Aayog.
3)	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
	
No, Max Estates does not currently have a formal preferential procurement policy specifically for marginalized/
vulnerable groups.
	
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Currently, we are unable to provide data on procurement from such groups or the percentage of total procurement 
it represents. However, as part of our ongoing commitment to responsible development and sustainability, we 
are dedicated to integrating responsible sourcing practices across all operations. We continuously evaluate 
opportunities to strengthen our social impact, and moving forward, we aim to incorporate transparent reporting 
on procurement from diverse and underrepresented groups.
4)	 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired 
by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
-
-
-
-
Not applicable, Max Estates' core business activities primarily focus on real estate development and management. 
These activities typically don't involve the use of traditional knowledge in the current financial year. However, we 
recognize the importance of respecting and potentially incorporating traditional knowledge in future endeavors. 
We will report on any relevant developments in future BRSR reports.
263
262
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
5)	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual 
property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
-
-
-
Max Estates has not been involved in any intellectual property disputes related to the use of traditional knowledge 
in the current financial year. As our core business focuses on real estate development and management, such 
disputes are not typically applicable to our operations.
6)	 Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. No
CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefitted from CSR 
Projects
Details of Project
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Social Emotional Ethical 
Learning (India)
9943
Provided education on social 
emotional learning skills by 
capacitating the educators with a 
K-12 SEE Learning curriculum
100%
PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS 
IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer feedback.
	
Mechanism for receiving and responding to customer queries:
	»
Complaints are logged through CMS (Complaint Management Software) - We are now using Factech, where 
all tenants raise their complaints
	»
Complaints are automatically assigned to assistants to close the task e.g. Plumber, Electrician, etc.
	»
If not resolved within the stipulated Turnaround Time (TAT), they escalate to supervisors, then managers, and 
finally to the Head of Department for resolution
	»
Additionally, verbal or email complaints from tenants are logged in the Factech by complaint desk attendant, 
and the above process is followed
	»
After the closure of the complaint, an automated email is sent to the client confirming the closure of the 
assigned complaint
2.	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that 
carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters 
relevant to the product
As a real estate developer, we do inform our tenants and clients 
about our sustainability practices. Even still, the parameters listed 
here are not applicable to us.
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
3.	
Number of consumer complaints:
FY2024-25
Remarks
FY2023-24
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data Privacy
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advertising
-
-
-
-
-
-
Cyber-security
-
-
-
-
-
-
Delivery of essential 
services
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Unfair Trade Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on accounts of safety issues
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
-
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
-
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? 
(Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, Max Estates Limited has a comprehensive Cyber Security Policy, effective since February 12, 2023, to manage 
cybersecurity and data privacy risks.
This policy mandates strict standards for protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all IT assets 
and information.
	
Our Cybersecurity & Data Privacy Framework:
	
Guided by the NIST Cybersecurity Framework v1.1 (2018), our approach covers five key areas:
1.	
Identify: Proactive management of IT assets, understanding our business environment, ensuring regulatory 
compliance (including privacy laws), escalating risks to the Executive Risk Committee, conducting Security 
Impact Assessments, and managing supply chain risks.
2.	
Protect: Implementing robust measures including strong Identity Management and Access Control (multi-
factor authentication, least privilege), mandatory Awareness & Training for all staff, comprehensive Data 
Security (encryption, secure destruction, lifecycle management), well-defined Information Protection 
Processes (backups, vulnerability management), secure Maintenance protocols, and advanced Protective 
Technologies (network protection, logging).
3.	
Detect: Continuous monitoring and detection processes for security events, including identifying anomalies, 
continuous vulnerability scans, and well-defined detection procedures.
4.	
Respond: Clear incident response plans within our Business Continuity & Resilience Framework, ensuring 
trained personnel, consistent reporting, and effective communication and mitigation strategies.
5.	
Recover: Robust recovery plans, regularly rehearsed, with a focus on lessons learned and effective public 
relations management after an event.
	
This integrated framework underscores our commitment to data protection and robust cybersecurity.
	
Weblink to our policy is “Cybersecurity Policy”.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising 
and delivery of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence 
of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of 
products / services.
No such incident took place or was applicable to Max Estates Limited.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches- Not Applicable
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers- Not Applicable
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches- Not Applicable
Leadership Indicator
1)	 Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed 
(provide a web link, if available).
Max Estates provides information on our products and services through the following channels:
	»
Website: https://maxestates.in/
	»
Brochures and Marketing Materials: Available at our sales offices and partner locations.
265
264
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
2)	 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products 
and/or services.
Max Estates recognizes the importance of informing potential tenants and buyers about the features and 
functionalities of our commercial and residential spaces. This information empowers them to make informed 
decisions and optimize their use of our properties. Here’s what we provide:
	»
Sustainability Features: We highlight the green features incorporated into our developments, including 
energy-efficient technologies and resource-saving practices through multiple channels such as our dedicated 
sustainability page on the website, and sustainability report
	»
Property Details: We provide detailed information about the property layout, construction updates, and 
important construction milestones through emailers and a dedicated customer app. Additionally, we actively 
communicate the amenities and services available within our spaces.
	»
Compliance and Regulations: We ensure clarity on any relevant regulations or guidelines applicable to the 
use of our commercial and residential spaces.
3)	 Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential 
services.
We have established communication channels to inform tenants and buyers about potential service disruptions. 
These channels include:
We have established communication channels to inform tenants and buyers about potential service disruptions. 
These channels include sending Emails or SMS alerts to be affected tenants with clear information and timelines.
4)	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated 
as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry 
out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of 
the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
Product Information Display:
Not Applicable. Max Estates primarily develops and manages real estate, not physical products. Therefore, 
mandated product information display regulations wouldn’t apply.
	
Consumer Satisfaction Surveys:
Yes. Max Estates conducts periodic surveys to gauge customer satisfaction with our products and services, 
including tenant satisfaction surveys for our commercial and residential properties. We use this feedback to 
improve our offerings and enhance the overall customer experience.
266
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Max Estates Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of 
Max Estates Limited (“the Company”), which comprise 
the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Statement 
of Profit and Loss, including the statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income/(loss), the Cash Flow Statement 
and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then 
ended, and notes to the Standalone financial statements, 
including a summary of material accounting policies and 
other explanatory information .
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us , the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the 
Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and 
fair view in conformity with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the 
Company as at March 31, 2025, its profit including other 
comprehensive income/(loss), its cash flows and the 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are 
further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the 
Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ section 
of our report. We are independent of the Company 
in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the financial statements under the provisions of the 
Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the standalone financial statements for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our 
description of how our audit addressed the matter is 
provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be 
the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. 
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone 
financial statements section of our report, including in 
relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included 
the performance of procedures designed to respond to 
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the standalone financial statements. The results of our 
audit procedures, including the procedures performed 
to address the matters below, provide the basis for 
our audit opinion on the accompanying standalone 
financial statements.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment of investments in subsidiaries and loan recoverable from subsidiaries ( as described 
in note 5 and 10(v) of standalone financial statements)
The Company has significant investments in subsidiaries. 
The management reviews annually whether there are any 
indicators of impairment of the investments by reference 
to the requirements under Ind AS 36 “Impairment of 
Assets”.
Further, the Company has loans and advances given its 
subsidiaries, which are assessed for recoverability thereof.
Our audit procedures related to this key audit matter 
included, amongst others:
	»
We assessed the compliance of Company’s accounting 
policies for impairment of investments with Ind AS 36 
‘Impairment of Assets’ and recoverability of loans and 
advances with Ind AS 109 ‘Financial instruments.
	»
We understood, evaluated and tested the operating 
effectiveness of related internal controls implemented 
by the Company.
We have determined that there are no other key audit 
matters to communicate in our report.
Other Information
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Director’s report, but does 
not include the standalone financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other 
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone 
financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on work we have performed, we conclude that 
there is material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report the fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Management for the 
standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these standalone financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, 
financial performance including other comprehensive 
income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company 
in accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of 
the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility 
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act 
for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting 
policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company 
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but 
to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	»
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
	»
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The assessment is driven by various internal and external 
factors including but not limited to business performance, 
financial condition, external environment/development 
impacting the respective business.
In view of significance of the amount involved and factors 
which require judgement, this matter was determined 
to be a key audit matter in our audit of standalone 
financial statements.
	»
We assessed and performed procedures for 
impairment indicator and recoverability assessment 
performed by the Company.
	»
We assessed the disclosures made in the standalone 
financial statements regarding such investments, 
loans and advances.
269
268
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls.
	»
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.
	»
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease 
to continue as a going concern.
	»
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the standalone 
financial statements for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025 and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless 
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of 
section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” 
a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 
3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
to the extent applicable, that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books except 
for the matters stated in the paragraph (i)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss 
including the Statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and Statement 
of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account ;
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended;
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act;
(f)	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph (b) above on reporting 
under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph (i)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(g)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 
2” to this report;
(h)	 In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the 
year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided 
by the Company to its directors in accordance with 
the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V 
to the Act;
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us:
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in 
its standalone financial statements – Refer Note 
31 to the standalone financial statements;
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable losses;
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company;
	
iv.	
a)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
b)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
	
	
c)	
Based on such audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused 
us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any 
material misstatement.
	
v.	
No dividend has been declared or paid during 
the year by the Company.
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, the Company has used accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account 
which has a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software except that, audit 
trail feature is not enabled for certain changes 
made directly to the database using privileged/ 
administrative access rights, as described in 
Note 45 to the financial statements. Further, 
during the course of our audit we did not come 
across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with in respect of other accounting 
software wherever audit log was enabled. 
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year(s) has 
not been preserved by the company as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention to 
the extend it was enabled from the prior years, 
as stated in Note 36 to the financial statements.
For S.R. BATLIBOI & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
_____________________________
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 25108044BMIBGD7708
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: May 22, 2025
271
270
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Annexure 1 referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading of “Report on other 
legal and regulatory requirements” of our audit report of even date
Re: Max Estates Limited (“the Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by 
us and given by the Company and the books of account 
and records examined by us in the normal course of audit 
and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
i	
(a)	
(A)	 The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of 
property, plant and equipment and 
investment property.
	
(a)	
(B)	 The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars of 
intangible assets.
	
(b)	 Property, Plant and Equipment and Investment 
Property have been physically verified by 
the management during the year and no 
material discrepancies were identified on 
such verification.
	
(c)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties 
(other than properties where the Company is 
the lessee and the lease agreements are duly 
iii	
(a)	
During the year the Company has provided loans and stood guarantee as follows: 
(Amount in ₹ lakhs)
Particulars
Guarantees
Security
Loans
Advances in 
nature of loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided 
during the year
Subsidiaries
60,000.00
-
53,316.77
-
Balance outstanding as at balance 
sheet date in respect of above cases
- Subsidiaries
81,998.13
-
57,029.25
-
executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the 
name of the Company.
	
(d)	 The Company has not revalued its property, 
plant and equipment (including Right of use 
assets) or intangible assets during the year 
ended March 31, 2025.
	
(e)	
There are no proceedings initiated or are 
pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of 
Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and 
rules made thereunder.
ii	
(a)	
The Company’s business does not require 
maintenance of inventories and, accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause 3(ii)(a) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has not been sanctioned working 
capital limits in excess of ₹ five crores in 
aggregate from banks or financial institutions 
during any point of time of the year on the basis 
of security of current assets. Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause 3(ii)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
During the year the Company has not provided loans, 
advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantees and 
provided security to firms, Limited Liability Partnerships 
or any other parties.
(b)	 During the year, the investments made and 
guarantees provided to companies are not 
prejudicial to the Company's interest. During the 
year the Company has not made investments, 
provided guarantees, provided security and granted 
loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms, 
Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
(c)	
In respect to loans granted to Companies and firms, 
the loans are repayable on demand. The repayment 
of loans demanded during the year have been 
received. For loans outstanding at the year-end that 
are repayable on demand, we have been informed 
by the management of the Company that it has not 
demanded repayment of such loans during the year. 
The Company has not granted loans and advances 
in the nature of loans to firms, Limited Liability 
Partnerships or any other parties.
(d)	 There are no amounts of loans granted to companies 
which are overdue for more than ninety days. The 
Company has not granted loans or advances in the 
nature of loans to firms, Limited Liability Partnerships 
or any other parties.
(e)	
There were no loans to companies which had 
fallen due during the year, that have been renewed 
or extended or fresh loans granted to settle the 
overdue of existing loans given to the same parties. 
There were no loans or advance in the nature of loan 
granted to firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or 
any other parties.
(f)	
As disclosed in the standalone financial statements, 
the Company has granted loans, repayable on 
demand to companies. Of these following are the 
details of the aggregate amount of loans granted to 
related parties as defined in clause (76) of section 2 
of the Companies Act, 2013: 
(Amount in ₹ lakhs)
Particulars
All Parties
Promoters
Related 
Parties
Aggregate 
amount of 
loans
- Repayable 
on demand
57,029.25
-
57,029.25
Percentage 
of loans to 
the total 
loans
100%
-
100%
	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances 
in the nature of loans, either repayable on demand 
or without specifying any terms or period of 
repayment to firms, Limited Liability Partnerships 
or any other parties. Also, none of these loans are 
granted to promoters.
(iv)	 There are no loans, investments, guarantees, and 
security in respect of which provisions of sections 
185 of the Companies Act, 2013 are applicable and 
accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(iv) of the Order insofar as it relates to section 185 
of the Act is not applicable to the Company. Loans, 
investments, guarantees and security in respect of 
which provisions of section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 are applicable have been complied with 
by the Company.
(v)	
The Company has neither accepted any deposits 
from the public nor accepted any amounts which 
are deemed to be deposits within the meaning of 
sections 73 to 76 of the Companies Act and the 
rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	 We have broadly reviewed the books of account 
maintained by the Company pursuant to the 
rules made by the Central Government for the 
maintenance of cost records under section 148(1) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, related to construction 
industry, and are of the opinion that prima facie, the 
specified accounts and records have been made 
and maintained. We have not, however, made a 
detailed examination of the same.
(vii)	 (a)	
The Company is regular in depositing with 
appropriate authorities undisputed statutory 
dues including goods and services tax, 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, cess and other statutory dues 
applicable to it. According to the information 
and explanations given to us and based on audit 
procedures performed by us, no undisputed 
amounts payable in respect of these statutory 
dues were outstanding, at the year end, for a 
period of more than six months from the date 
they became payable.
	
	
We have been informed by the management of 
the Company that due of sales-tax, service tax, 
duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, 
are not applicable to the Company.
(vii)	 (b)	 The dues of value added tax have not been deposited on account of any dispute, are as follows:
Name of the 
statute
Nature of 
the dues
Amount 
(in ₹ lakhs)
Period to which 
the amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Remarks, if any
Uttarakhand 
VAT, 2005
Value 
Added Tax
21.24
AY 2016-17
Joint 
Commissioner 
(Appeals)
Net of amount 
deposited under 
protest
	
	
There are no dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales 
tax, service tax, duty of custom, duty of excise, cess, and other statutory dues which have not been deposited 
on account of any dispute.
273
272
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
(viii)	The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any 
transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of 
account, in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. Accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause 3(viii) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)	 (a)	
The Company has not defaulted in repayment 
of loans or other borrowings or in the payment 
of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	 The Company has not been declared willful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
	
(c)	
Term loans were applied for the purpose for 
which the loans were obtained.
	
(d)	 On an overall examination of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company, no funds 
raised on short-term basis have been used for 
long-term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	
On an overall examination of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company, the 
Company has not taken any funds from any 
entity or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries. The Company 
does not have any associate or joint venture.
	
(f)	
The Company has not raised loans during 
the year on the pledge of securities held in 
its subsidiaries. The Company does not have 
any associate or joint venture. Hence, the 
requirement to report on clause (ix)(f) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(x)	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any money during 
the year by way of initial public offer / further 
public offer (including debt instruments) hence, 
the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has complied with provisions 
of sections 42 and 62 of the Companies Act, 
2013 in respect of the preferential allotment 
and private placement through qualified 
institutional placement of shares during the 
year. The amount raised through qualified 
institutional placement, have been used for the 
purposes for which the funds were raised except 
for idle/surplus funds amounting to ₹32,496.99 
lakhs which were not required for immediate 
utilization, and which have been temporarily 
invested in fixed deposits with scheduled bank 
and mutual funds and kept in current account 
with monitoring agency bank account. The 
amount raised through preferential allotment, 
have been used for the purposes for which the 
funds were raised except for idle/surplus funds 
amounting to ₹3,749.70 lakhs which were not 
required for immediate utilization, and which 
have been temporarily invested in mutual funds 
and bank account and remained unutilized as 
at the balance sheet date.
(xi)	 (a)	
No fraud by the Company or no fraud on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during 
the year.
	
(b)	 During the year, no report under sub-section 
(12) of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 
has been filed by cost auditor/ secretarial auditor 
or by us in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under 
Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
	
(c)	
As represented to us by the management, there 
are no whistle blower complaints received by 
the Company during the year.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi company as per the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, 
the requirement to report on clause 3(xii)(a), (b), (c) 
of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)	According to the information and explanations given 
by the management, transactions with the related 
parties are in compliance with section 177 and 188 
of the Companies Act, 2013 where applicable and 
the details have been disclosed in the notes to the 
standalone financial statements, as required by the 
applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)	(a)	
The Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of 
its business.
	
(b)	 The internal audit reports of the Company 
issued till the date of the audit report, for the 
period under audit have been considered by us.
(xv)	 The Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with its directors and hence requirement to report 
on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
(xvi)	(a)	
The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not 
applicable to the Company. Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company is not engaged in any Non-
Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on 
clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 The Group does not have more than one CIC 
as part of the Group, hence, the requirement 
to report on clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the 
current financial year and in the immediately 
preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year and accordingly 
requirement to report on Clause 3(xviii) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
(xix)	On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 
42 to the standalone financial statements, ageing 
and expected dates of realization of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the standalone financial statements, 
our knowledge of the Board of Directors and 
management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, 
nothing has come to our attention, which causes 
us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as 
on the date of the audit report that Company is not 
capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, 
however, state that this is not an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within 
a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the Company as and when they 
fall due.
(xx)	 (a)	
In respect of other than ongoing projects, there 
are no unspent amounts that are required to be 
transferred to a fund specified in Schedule VII of 
the Companies Act (the Act), in compliance with 
second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135 
of the Act. This matter has been disclosed in 
note 27 to the standalone financial statements.
	
(b)	 There are no unspent amounts in respect 
of ongoing projects, that are required to be 
transferred to a special account in compliance 
of provision of sub section (6) of section 
135 of Companies Act. This matter has 
been disclosed in note 27 to the standalone 
financial statements.
For S.R. BATLIBOI & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
_____________________________
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 25108044BMIBGD7708
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: May 22, 2025
275
274
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 2 TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON 
THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF Max Estates Limited 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements of Max 
Estates Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2025 
in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended on 
that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of its business, including adherence to the Company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference 
to these standalone financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and 
the Standards on Auditing, as specified under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
these standalone financial statements was established 
and maintained and if such controls operated effectively 
in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to these standalone 
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to these standalone financial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to these standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With 
Reference to these standalone Financial 
Statements
A company's internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company's 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company's assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls With Reference to standalone 
Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal financial control with reference 
to standalone financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements and such 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements were operating effectively as at 
March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For S.R. BATLIBOI & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
_____________________________
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 25108044BMIBGD7708
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: May 22, 2025
277
276
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
337.41
306.80
Investment Property
3.1
-
6,930.80
Right to use asset
4
943.20
1,437.33
Intangible assets
4.1
283.09
303.82
Intangible assets under development
4.2
0.00
26.60
Financial assets
(i)	
Investment
5
1,13,464.29
1,14,681.48
(ii)	 Other bank balances
6
624.38
611.06
(iii)	 Other financial assets
7
3,408.59
3,708.53
Other non current assets
8
-
14.62
Non-current tax asset
8.1
452.52
941.67
1,19,513.48
1,28,962.71
Current assets
Inventories
9
-
194.49
Financial assets
(i)	
Investment
10(i)
35,578.17
412.03
(ii)	 Trade receivables
10(ii)
2,107.43
1,102.15
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
10(iii)
95.69
150.29
(iv)	 Bank balances other than (iii) above
10(iv)
32,617.63
1,710.99
(v)	 Loans
10(v)
57,195.54
18,238.99
(vi)	 Other financial assets
10(vi)
285.65
1,214.47
Other current assets
1
1,649.62
954.62
1,29,529.73
23,978.03
TOTAL ASSETS
2,49,043.21
1,52,940.74
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
12(i)
16,100.01
14,713.45
Share application money pending allotement
12(i)
4.65
38.69
Money received against warrants
12(i)
3,750.00
-
Other equity
12(ii)
2,16,239.07
1,11,161.39
Total equity
2,36,093.73
1,25,913.53
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
13
10.23
9,161.52
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
14
3,430.90
4,142.53
(iii)	 Other non current financial liabilities
15
1,323.76
1,289.16
Long term provisions
16
147.55
116.33
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
17
4,538.15
3,423.23
9,450.59
18,132.77
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
18(i)
1,063.97
6,893.29
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
18 (ii)
713.05
613.81
(iii)	 Trade payables
18 (iii)
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
21.72
18.66
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
664.53
369.07
(iv)	 Other current financial liabilities
18(iv)
729.45
798.14
Other current liabilities
1
130.35
70.28
Short term provisions
2
175.82
131.19
3,498.89
8,894.44
TOTAL LIABILITIES
12,949.48
27,027.21
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
2,49,043.21
1,52,940.74
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
INCOME
Revenue from operations
21
4,109.86
2,937.36
Other income
22
36,595.28
4,699.76
Total income
40,705.14
7,637.12
EXPENSES
Change in inventories of constructed properties
23.2
186.75
-
Employee benefits expense
24
2,212.00
1,644.21
Finance costs
25
884.60
1,411.07
Depreciation and amortization expense
26
695.92
525.96
Other expenses
27
2,824.79
2,291.63
Total expenses
6,804.06
5,872.87
Profit before tax
33,901.08
1,764.25
Tax expenses
- Current tax
30
5,081.35
184.51
- Income tax for earlier years
30
144.98
156.09
- Deferred tax
30
584.61
(908.38)
Total tax expense
5,810.94
(567.78)
Profit for the year
28,090.14
2,332.03
Other comprehensive income/(loss) not to be reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent years:
Re-measurement gain/(losses) on defined benefit plans
28
5.45
(12.90)
Income tax effect
(1.37)
3.25
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
4.08
(9.65)
Total comprehensive income for the year
28,094.22
2,322.38
Earnings per equity share (Nominal Value of share ₹10/-) 
(refer note 29)
29
Basic (₹)
18.10
1.59
Diluted (₹)
18.06
1.59
279
278
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from Operating Activities
Profit before tax
33,901.08
1,764.25
Adjusted for:
Depreciation and amortization expense
695.92
525.96
Expense recognized on employee stock option scheme
119.75
69.12
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment 
property (net)
(5,621.71)
4.37
Gain on sale of Investment in Subsidiaries
(21,889.39)
-
Gain on sale of Mutual Funds
(1,023.66)
(596.85)
Fair value of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
(396.88)
(2.83)
Profit on derecognition of Right to use asset
-
(15.82)
Interest income
(7,149.25)
(3,998.58)
Guarantee fee income
(318.62)
(112.73)
Interest expense on lease liability
486.17
438.76
Finance costs other than lease liability
398.43
972.31
Operating profit/ (loss) before working capital changes
(798.16)
(952.04)
Working capital adjustments:
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables
298.52
(248.80)
Increase/(Decrease) in other current and non-current financial liabilities
(98.60)
89.87
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions
81.30
(81.86)
Increase/(Decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities
60.07
(128.03)
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables
(1,005.28)
(708.13)
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
194.49
0.61
(Increase)/Decrease in other current and non current assets
(680.38)
(72.78)
(Increase)/Decrease in current and non current financial assets
1,285.57
(1,022.46)
Cash generated (used in) operations
(662.47)
(3,123.62)
Income tax paid (net)
(4,208.24)
(510.53)
Net cash flow (used in) operating activities
(4,870.71)
(3,634.15)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including investment 
property, intangible assets, CWIP and capital advances)
(158.29)
(156.50)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment (including 
investment property)
12,527.16
-
Loan given to related parties
(53,316.77)
(11,340.59)
Loan repaid by related parties
14,035.55
10,968.34
Investment in subsidiary company
(9,988.64)
(19,116.20)
Sale of Investment in subsidiaries
29,249.47
14,490.64
Redemption of Non Convertible Debentures
7,617.07
-
Sale of current investments
83,493.43
10,603.29
Purchase of current investments
(1,17,239.03)
-
Interest received
2,926.35
1,103.17
Net movement in deposits
(29,759.04)
(508.79)
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
(60,612.74)
6,043.36
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of equity share capital including securities 
premium reserve
79,999.98
18.85
Share issue expenses
(1,976.87)
-
Money received against warrants
3,750.00
-
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock option plan
94.26
38.69
Interest paid
(446.85)
(884.34)
Repayment of lease liability
(1,098.56)
(745.07)
Repayment of long-term borrowings
(9,824.61)
(862.58)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
11.00
19.92
Proceeds from short-term borrowings
7,913.00
-
Repayment of short-term borrowings
(12,992.50)
-
Net cash flows from/(used in) financing activities
65,428.85
(2,414.53)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(54.60)
(5.32)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
150.29
155.61
Cash and cash equivalents at year end
95.69
150.29
Components of cash and cash equivalents :-
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
95.18
146.20
Cash on hand
0.51
4.09
95.69
150.29
Note:
(i)	
The Cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in the Ind AS 7 “Statement of 
Cash Flows”
(ii)	
There are no non-cash transaction in investing activities.
(iii)	 Figures in brackets indicates cash outflow.
(iv)	 Refer note 13A for reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flow from financing activities.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
281
280
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2025
a)	 Equity share capital (refer note 12(i))
Particulars
Nos.
(₹ in lakhs)
Shares of ₹10/- each, issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2024
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
Add: Shares issued during the year
1,38,65,540
1,386.55
As at March 31, 2025
16,10,00,084
16,100.01
Shares of ₹10/- each, issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2023
-
-
Add: Shares issued during the year
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
As at March 31, 2024
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
b) Other equity (refer note 12(ii))
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Other equity
Money 
received 
against 
warrants
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotement
Total
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding
Equity 
component 
on guarantee
Retained 
earnings
Remeasurement 
loss on defined 
benefit plan
Total other 
equity
As at April 01, 2024
13,042.52
50,119.24
393.96
-
47,621.17
(15.50)
1,11,161.39
-
38.69
1,11,200.08
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
28,090.15
-
28,090.15
-
-
28,090.15
Premium on issue 
of share capital
-
78,741.74
-
-
-
-
78,741.74
-
(128.30)
78,613.44
Proceeds from exercise of 
Employee stock option plan 
during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
94.26
94.26
Other comprehensive 
income for the year
-
-
-
-
-
4.08
4.08
-
-
4.08
Expenses pertaining to 
Qualified Institutional 
Placement
(1,976.87)
(1,976.87)
-
-
(1,976.87)
Transfer of ESOP reserve on 
allotment of shares
-
186.07
(186.07)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Money received 
against warrants
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,750.00
-
3,750.00
Cost of stock option granted 
to employees of subsidiaries
-
-
98.83
-
-
-
98.83
-
-
98.83
Cost of stock option granted 
to employees of company
-
-
119.75
-
-
-
119.75
-
-
119.75
As at March 31, 2025
13,042.52 1,27,070.18
426.47
-
75,711.32
(11.42)
2,16,239.07
3,750.00
4.65
2,19,993.72
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Other equity
Money 
received 
against 
warrants
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotement
Total
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding
Equity 
component 
on guarantee
Retained 
earnings
Remeasurement 
loss on defined 
benefit plan
Total other 
equity
As at April 01, 2023
13,042.52
50,095.91
229.11
-
45,289.14
(5.85)
1,08,650.83
 - 
 14,710.36 
 1,23,361.19 
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
2,332.03
-
2,332.03
 - 
 - 
 2,332.03 
Premium on issue of share 
capital
-
15.76
-
-
-
-
15.76
 - 
 (14,671.67)
 (14,655.91)
Other comprehensive 
income for the year
-
-
-
-
-
(9.65)
(9.65)
 - 
 - 
 (9.65)
Transfer of ESOP reserve on 
allotment of shares
-
7.57
(7.57)
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cost of stock option granted 
to employees of subsidiaries
-
-
103.30
-
-
-
103.30
 - 
 - 
103.30
Cost of stock option granted 
to employees of company
-
-
69.12
-
-
-
69.12
 - 
 - 
 69.12 
As at March 31, 2024
13,042.52
50,119.24
393.96
-
47,621.17
(15.50)
1,11,161.39
 - 
 38.69 
1,11,200.08
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
283
282
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
1.	 Corporate Information
Max 
Estates 
Limited 
(the 
Company) 
(CIN: 
L70200DL2016PLC438718) is a Company registered 
under Companies Act, 2013 and incorporated on March 
22, 2016. The Company is engaged in the business of real 
estate development.
Registered office of the Company is located at Max House 
1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3, Opposite Okhla Railway 
Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, South Delhi, New Delhi, 
India, 110020.
During the previous year, the Company has completed 
the merger of Max Ventures and Industries Limited 
(‘Transferor Company’) (appointed date April 01, 2022) 
pursuant to the scheme of merger filed under the 
provisions of Section 230 to 232 read with Section 66 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Rules made thereunder. The Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench (“Hon’ble 
NCLT”) vide its order dated July 03, 2023, approved the 
aforesaid Scheme.
Pursuant to merger of Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited (‘Transferor Company’) and Max Estates 
Limited (‘Company’ or ‘Transferee Company’), as per 
the Scheme, the merger of Transferor Company into 
Company has been accounted with effect from April 01, 
2022 (‘Appointed Date’) to comply with the accounting 
treatment prescribed in the Scheme. The share capital 
of Transferor Company and Transferee Company was 
cancelled and the Company issued 147,134,544 equity 
shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up to the shareholders of the 
Transferor Company in the previous quarter. On October 
30, 2023, the equity shares of the Company were listed 
on National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock 
Exchange (BSE). (Refer Note 12(i)).
The standalone financial statements were approved 
for issue in accordance with a resolution passed by the 
Board of Directors of the Company on May 22, 2025.
The financial statements once approved by the Board 
of directors needs to be adopted by the shareholders 
at the annual general meeting of the company. The 
Board of directors can withdraw and re-issue the 
financial statements so adopted only in specific cases 
such as non-compliance with the applicable accounting 
standards, with the approval of Tribunal, after following 
the appropriate procedure as per Companies Act, 2013.
2.	 Material Accounting policies
2A	 Basis of preparation
These standalone financial statements of the Company 
have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (IND AS) notified under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time) and presentation requirements of division 
II of Schedule III to the Companies Act 2013 (Ind AS 
Compliant Schedule III), as applicable to these standalone 
financial statements.
Further, the standalone financial statements have been 
prepared on historical cost basis except for certain 
financial assets and financial liabilities and share based 
payments which are measured at fair values as explained 
in relevant accounting policies.
The standalone financial statements are presented in INR 
and all values are rounded to nearest lakhs (INR 00,000) 
except when otherwise indicated.
The Company has prepared the financial statements on 
the basis that it will continue to operate as a going concern.
2B	 Summary of accounting policies
a.	
Current versus non-current classification
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet based on current/ non-current 
classification. An asset is treated as current when 
it is:
	
a)	
Expected to be realized or intended to be sold 
or consumed in normal operating cycle;
	
b)	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	
c)	
Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period; or
	
d)	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
A liability is current when:
	
a)	
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle;
	
b)	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	
c)	
It is due to settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
	
d)	
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
	
The terms of the liability that could, at the option of 
the counterparty, result in its settlement by the issue 
of equity instruments do not affect its classification.
	
The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-
current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as 
non-current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. The 
Company has identified twelve months as its 
operating cycle.
b.	
Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Property, Plant and equipment are stated at cost, 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. The cost comprises of 
purchase price, taxes, duties, freight and other 
incidental expenses directly attributable and related 
to acquisition and installation of the concerned 
assets and are further adjusted by the amount of GST 
credit availed wherever applicable. When significant 
parts of plant and equipment are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them 
separately based on their respective useful lives. 
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, 
its cost is recognized in the carrying amount of 
the plant and equipment as a replacement if the 
recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and 
maintenance costs are recognized in profit or loss 
as incurred.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognized is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or 
loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is 
included in the income statement when the asset 
is derecognized.
	
The Company identifies and determines cost of 
each component/ part of the asset separately, if the 
component/ part has a cost which is significant to 
the total cost of the asset and has useful life that is 
materially different from that of the remaining asset.
	
Capital work- in- progress includes cost of property, 
plant and equipment under installation / under 
development as at the balance sheet date.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is 
provided on pro rata basis on straight-line method 
using the useful lives of the assets estimated by 
management and in the manner prescribed in 
Schedule II of the Companies Act 2013. The useful 
life is as follows:
Assets
Useful lives 
estimated 
by the 
management 
(years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
Schedule II to 
the Companies 
Act, 2013 
(in years)
Furniture and 
fixtures
10
10
Office equipment
5
5
Computers
6
6
Vehicles
8
8
	
Leasehold improvements are amortised over the 
period of lease.
d.	
Investment Property
	
Recognition and initial measurement:
	
Investment properties are properties held to 
earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. 
Investment properties are measured initially at 
their cost of acquisition including transaction costs 
The cost comprises purchase price, borrowing 
cost, if capitalization criteria are met and directly 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working 
condition for the intended use. Any trade discount 
and rebates are deducted in arriving at the purchase 
price When significant parts of the investment 
285
284
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
property are required to be replaced at intervals, 
the Company depreciates them separately based 
on their specific useful lives.
	
Property held under lease is classified as investment 
property when it is held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or for both, rather than for sale in the 
ordinary course of business or for use in production 
or administrative functions. Subsequent costs 
are included in the asset’s carrying amount or 
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company All 
other repair and maintenance costs are recognised 
in statement of profit and loss as incurred The cost 
includes the cost of replacing parts and borrowing 
costs for long-term construction projects if the 
recognition criteria are met When significant parts of 
the investment property are required to be replaced 
at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or 
loss as incurred.
	
Depreciation on investment properties is provided 
on the straight-line method, over the useful lives of 
the assets are as follows:
Asset category
Useful lives 
estimated 
by the 
management 
(years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
Schedule II to 
the Companies 
Act, 2013 
(in years)
Buildings
60
60
Plant & Machinery 
& other 
equipment
6 to 10
15
	
The Company based on technical assessment made 
by technical expert and management estimate, 
depreciates plant & machinery & other equipment 
over estimated useful lives which are different 
from the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the 
Companies Act, 2013. The management believes 
that these estimated useful lives are realistic and 
reflect fair approximation of the period over which 
the assets are likely to be used.
	
Estimated useful life of Leasehold land is the period 
of lease or useful life whichever is lower.
	
Though the Company measures investment 
property using cost-based measurement, the fair 
value of investment properly is disclosed in the 
notes Fair values are determined based on an annual 
evaluation performed by the company applying a 
valuation model acceptable.
	
De-recognition
	
Investment properties are de-recognised either 
when they have been disposed of or when they are 
permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from their disposal. 
The difference between the net disposal proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised 
in statement of profit and loss in the period of de-
recognition.
e.	
Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Internally generated 
intangibles, excluding capitalized development 
cost, are not capitalized and the related expenditure 
is reflected in statement of Profit and Loss in the 
period in which the expenditure is incurred. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and any attributable 
cost of bringing the asset to its working condition 
for its intended use.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortized over their useful economic 
lives and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and the 
amortization method for an intangible asset with 
a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end of 
each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate and are treated as 
changes in accounting estimates. The amortization 
expense on intangible assets with finite lives is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss in the 
expense category consistent with the function of the 
intangible assets.
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 
amortized, but are tested for impairment annually, 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a 
prospective basis.
	
Gains or losses arising from disposal of the intangible 
assets are measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset and are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss when the assets are disposed-off.
	
The useful live of intangible assets are as follows:
Asset category
Useful lives 
estimated 
by the 
management 
(years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
Schedule II to 
the Companies 
Act, 2013 
(in years)
Computer 
Software                               
3-6
3
f.	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset may 
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, 
the Company estimates the asset's, recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher 
of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) net fair 
value less cost of disposal and its value in use. The 
recoverable amount is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying 
amount of asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered impaired and 
is written down to its recoverable amount. In 
assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
net fair value less cost of disposal, recent market 
transactions are taken into account, if available. If no 
such transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share 
prices for publicly traded companies or other 
available fair value indicators.
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations which 
are prepared separately for each of the Company’s 
cash-generating units to which the individual 
assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast 
calculations are generally covering a period of five 
years. For the remaining economic life of the asset or 
cash-generating unit (CGU), a long term growth rate 
is calculated and applied to project future cash flows 
after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow projections 
beyond periods covered by the most recent 
budgets/forecasts, the Company extrapolates cash 
flow projections in the budget using a steady or 
declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless 
an increasing rate can be justified. In this case, the 
growth rate does not exceed the long-term average 
growth rate for the products, industries, or country 
or countries in which the entity operates, or for the 
market in which the asset is used.
	
After impairment, depreciation is provided on 
the revised carrying amount of the asset over its 
remaining economic life.
	
An assessment is made at each reporting date as 
to whether there is any indication that previously 
recognized impairment losses no longer exist or 
may have decreased. If such indication exists, the 
Company estimates the asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s recoverable amount. A previously recognized 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been 
a change in the assumptions used to determine 
the asset’s recoverable amount since the last 
impairment loss was recognized. The reversal is 
limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does 
not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined, 
net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss unless 
the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which 
case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
g.	
Investment Property in an Unincorporated 
Joint Venture
	
The Company is a party to joint arrangements 
which are not structured through separate legal 
entities and are classified as joint operations in 
accordance with Ind AS 111 – Joint Arrangements. 
These arrangements are governed by contractual 
agreements that confer joint control and 
enforceable rights and obligations over specific 
assets and liabilities.
	
The Company recognizes in relation to its interest 
in a joint operation its share of the joint assets, joint 
liabilities, revenue from the joint operation, and 
expenses incurred jointly or individually.
h.	
Financial Instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
287
286
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(i)	
Financial assets
	
The Company classified its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories: -
	
-	
Those to be measured subsequently at fair value 
(either through other comprehensive income or 
through profit & loss)
	
-	
Those measured at amortized cost
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial assets (other than equity in subsidiaries) 
are recognized initially at fair value plus, in the case 
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through 
profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset. Equity 
investment in subsidiaries are recognised at cost. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
delivery of assets within a time frame established by 
regulation or convention in the market place (regular 
way trades) are recognized on the trade date, i.e., the 
date that the Company commits to purchase or sell 
the asset. The difference between the transaction 
amount and amortised cost in case of interest free 
loan to subsidiaries based on expected repayment 
period is considered as deemed investment.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets are classified in following categories:
	
a)	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
b)	
Debt instruments and equity instruments at fair 
value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
A 'debt instrument' is measured at the amortized 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
(i)	
Business model test: The asset is held within 
a business model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual cash flows 
(rather than to sell the instrument prior to its 
contractual maturity to released its fair value 
change), and
	
(ii)	
Cash flow characteristics test: Contractual 
terms of the asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal 
amount outstanding.
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. EIR is the rate that 
exactly discount the estimated future cash receipts 
over the expected life of the financial instrument 
or a shorter period, where appropriate to the 
gross carrying amount of financial assets. When 
calculating the effective interest rate the company 
estimate the expected cash flow by considering all 
contractual terms of the financial instruments. The 
EIR amortization is included in finance income in 
the statement of profit or loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognized in the profit or 
loss. This category generally applies to trade and 
other receivables.
	
Debt instruments at Fair value through profit 
and loss
	
FVTPL is a residual category for financial instruments. 
Any financial instrument, which does not meet the 
criteria for amortized cost or FVTOCI, is classified as 
at FVTPL. gain or loss on a Debt instrument that is 
subsequently measured at FVTPL and is not a part 
of a hedging relationship is recognized in statement 
of profit or loss and presented net in the statement 
of profit and loss within other gains or losses in the 
period in which it arises. Interest income from these 
Debt instruments is included in other income.
	
Equity investments of other than Subsidiaries
	
All equity investments in scope of IND AS 109 are 
measured at fair value. Equity instruments which 
are held for trading and contingent consideration 
recognized by an acquirer in a business combination 
to which IND AS103 applies are classified as at FVTPL. 
For all other equity instruments, the Company may 
make an irrevocable election to present in other 
comprehensive income all subsequent changes in 
the fair value. The Company makes such election 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The 
classification is made on initial recognition and 
is irrevocable.
	
If the Company decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes 
on the instrument, excluding dividends, are 
recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the 
amounts from OCI to profit and loss, even on sale 
of investment. However, the Company may transfer 
the cumulative gain or loss within equity. Equity 
instruments included within the FVTPL category are 
measured at fair value with all changes recognized 
in the Profit and loss.
	
Investment in Compound Financial Instruments 
issued by subsidiaries
	
Company considers issuance of Zero Coupon Non-
Convertible Debentures by subsidiary as compound 
instrument comprising a loan with market terms 
and a capital injection and hence treat the difference 
between the cash paid and fair value on initial 
recognition as an addition to the investment in 
the subsidiary and presented separately as 'Equity 
component of Zero Coupon Non-Convertible 
Debentures under 'Non-Current Investments’. 
Equity Component is not subsequently remeasured.
	
Derecognition
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of 
a financial asset or part of a Company of similar 
financial assets) is primarily derecognized (i.e., 
removed from the Company's statement of financial 
position) when:
	
-	
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or
	
-	
the Company has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
"pass through" arrangement and either;
	
a)	
the Company has transferred the rights to 
receive cash flows from the financial assets or
	
b)	
the Company has retained the contractual right 
to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, 
but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the 
cash flows to one or more recipients.
	
Where the Company has transferred its right to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into 
a pass-through agreement, the Company evaluates 
whether it has transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the ownership of the financial assets. 
In such cases, the financial asset is derecognized. 
Where the entity has not transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the ownership of the financial 
assets, the financial asset is not derecognized.
	
Where the Company has transferred an asset, the 
Company evaluates whether it has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
ownership of the financial assets. In such cases, the 
financial asset is derecognized. Where the entity has 
not transferred substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the ownership of the financial assets, the financial 
asset is not derecognized.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Company applies 
expected credit losses (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss on the following 
financial asset and credit risk exposure.
	
-	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost; 
e.g. Loans, Security deposits, trade receivable, 
bank balance, other financial assets etc;
	
-	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI);
	
-	
Financial guarantee contracts are which are not 
measured at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)
	
The Company follows “simplified approach” for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade 
receivables. Under the simplified approach, the 
Company does not track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognizes impairment loss allowance 
based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, 
right from its initial recognition. The Company uses 
a provision matrix to determine impairment loss 
allowance on the portfolio of trade receivables. 
The provision matrix is based on its historically 
observed default rates over the expected life of 
trade receivable and is adjusted for estimates. At 
every reporting date, the historical observed default 
rates are updated and changes in the estimates 
are analysed.
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Company determines 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If
	
credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month 
ECL is used to provide for impairment loss.
	
However, if credit risk has increased significantly, 
lifetime ECL is used. If, in subsequent period, credit 
quality of the instrument improves such that there 
is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition, then the Company reverts to 
recognizing impairment loss allowance based on 
12- months ECL.
289
288
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Reclassification of financial assets
	
The Company determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt 
instruments, a reclassification is made only if there 
is a change in the business model for managing 
those assets. Changes to the business model are 
expected to be infrequent. The Company's senior 
management determines change in the business 
model as a result of external or internal changes which 
are significant to its operations. Such changes are 
evident to external parties. A change in the business 
model occurs when the Company either begins or 
ceases to perform an activity that is significant to 
its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial 
assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively 
from the reclassification date which is the first day 
of the immediately next reporting period following 
the change in business model. The Company does 
not restate any previously recognized gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
(ii)	
Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss, loans and borrowings, and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. The Company 
financial liabilities include loans and borrowings 
including bank overdraft, trade payable, trade 
deposits, retention money and other payables.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on 
their classification, as described below:
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading 
and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading 
if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing 
in the near term. Gains or losses on liabilities held 
for trading are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss. Financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss are 
designated as such at the initial date of recognition, 
and only if the criteria in IND AS 109 are satisfied. 
For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ 
losses attributable to changes in own credit risk 
are recognised in OCI. These gains/ losses are not 
subsequently transferred to profit and loss. However, 
the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or 
loss within equity. All other changes in fair value 
of such liability are recognised in the statement 
of profit or loss. The Company has not designated 
any financial liability as at fair value through profit 
and loss.
	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (Loans and 
borrowings)
	
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, 
net of transaction cost incurred. After initial 
recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised 
as well as through the EIR amortization process. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortization is included as finance costs in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are those contracts that require a payment 
to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it 
incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a 
payment when due in accordance with the terms of 
a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are 
recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted 
for transaction costs that are directly attributable to 
the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the 
liability is measured at the higher of the amount 
of loss allowance determined as per impairment 
requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount 
recognised less cumulative amortisation.
	
Derecognition
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognized amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realize the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
i.	
Investment in subsidiaries
	
The investment in subsidiaries are carried at cost as 
per IND AS 27. Investment carried at cost is tested for 
impairment as per IND AS 36. An investor, regardless 
of the nature of its involvement with an entity (the 
investee), shall determine whether it is a parent by 
assessing whether it controls the investee.
	
On disposal of investment, the difference between 
it carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is 
charged or credited to the statement of profit 
and loss.
j.	
Revenue recognition
	
Revenue comprises the consideration received or 
receivable for providing buildings on operating 
lease, rendering of maintenance service, sale 
of constructed properties, income from shared 
services, income from asset and development 
management fees and other operating income in 
the ordinary course of the Company’s activities.
	
Revenue from contracts with customers is 
recognised when control of the goods or services 
are transferred to the customer at an amount that 
reflects the consideration to which the Company 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods 
or services. The Company has generally concluded 
that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements 
because it typically controls the goods or services 
before transferring them to the customer. Revenue 
is presented, net of taxes, rebates and discounts (if 
any).
	
Revenue from shared services, maintenance 
services and development and asset management 
fees
	
Revenue is recognised over period of time in respect 
of services on an accrual basis, in accordance with 
the terms of the respective contract as and when 
the Company satisfies performance obligations 
by delivering the services as per contractually 
agreed terms.
	
Revenue from sale of constructed properties
	
Revenue is recognised at the point in time w.r.t. sale 
of real estate units, including land, plots, commercial 
units, as and when the control passes on to the 
customer which coincides with handing over of the 
possession to the customer.
	
Revenue from rental income from leased asset
	
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease, except for contingent 
rental income which is recognised when it arises. 
Refer note 2.2 (k) for policy relating to recognition 
of rental income. Parking income and fit out rental 
income is recognised in statement of profit and loss 
on accrual basis.
	
Interest income on loans to subsidiary companies
	
Income from interest on loans is recognized using 
the effective interest method.
	
Gain on sale of investments
	
On disposal of an investment, the difference between 
the carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is 
recognised to the profit and loss statement.
	
All other incomes and expenditures are accounted 
for on accrual basis.
k.	
Taxes
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured 
at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid 
to the taxation authorities in accordance with the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 and the income computation 
and disclosure standards (ICDS) enacted in India 
by using tax rates and tax laws that are enacted or 
substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognized 
outside profit or loss is recognized outside profit 
or loss (either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Current tax items are recognized in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and 
establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method 
on temporary differences between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for 
financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
291
290
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
-	
When the deferred tax liability arises from the 
initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss and does not give rise to equal 
taxable and deductible temporary differences;
	
-	
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
when the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary differences will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
can be utilized except:
	
-	
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from 
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination 
and, at the time of the transaction, affects 
neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit 
or loss and does not give rise to equal taxable 
and deductible temporary differences;
	
-	
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the 
extent that it is probable that the temporary 
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future 
and taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of 
the deferred tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognized to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will 
allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside 
profit or loss is recognized outside the statement of 
profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Deferred tax items are recognized in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off 
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
l.	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing cost includes interest expense as 
per effective interest rate [EIR]. Borrowing costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes 
a substantial period of time to get ready for its 
intended use or sale are capitalized as part of the 
cost of the asset until such time that the asset is 
substantially ready for their intended use. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which 
they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and 
other costs that an entity incurs in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes 
exchange differences to the extent regarded as an 
adjustment to the borrowing costs.
m.	 Leases
	
The Company assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if 
the contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration.
	
Company as a lessee
	
The Company applies a single recognition and 
measurement approach for all leases, except for 
short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The 
Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease 
payments and right-of-use assets representing the 
right to use the underlying assets.
	
i)	
Right-of-use assets
	
	
The Company recognises right-of-use assets at 
the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the 
date the underlying asset is available for use). 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less 
any accumulated depreciation and impairment 
losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement 
of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use 
assets includes the amount of lease liabilities 
recognised, initial direct costs incurred, 
and lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives 
received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated 
on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the 
lease term and the estimated useful lives of 
the assets.
	
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the 
Company at the end of the lease term or the 
cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, 
depreciation is calculated using the estimated 
useful life of the asset.
	
	
The right-of-use assets are also subject to 
impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in 
section (d) Impairment of non-financial assets.
	
ii)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the 
Company recognises lease liabilities measured 
at the present value of lease payments to be 
made over the lease term. The lease payments 
include fixed payments (including in substance 
fixed payments) less any lease incentives 
receivable, variable lease payments that depend 
on an index or a rate, and amounts expected 
to be paid under residual value guarantees. 
The lease payments also include the exercise 
price of a purchase option reasonably certain 
to be exercised by the Company and payments 
of penalties for terminating the lease, if the 
lease term reflects the Company exercising the 
option to terminate. Variable lease payments 
that do not depend on an index or a rate 
are recognised as expenses (unless they are 
incurred to produce inventories) in the period 
in which the event or condition that triggers the 
payment occurs.
	
In calculating the present value of lease payments, 
the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at 
the lease commencement date because the interest 
rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. 
After the commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. 
In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, a change 
in the lease term, a change in the lease payments 
(e.g., changes to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to determine such 
lease payments) or a change in the assessment of 
an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	
The Company’s lease liabilities are included in 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
	
iii)	
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
	
	
The Company applies the short-term lease 
recognition exemption to its short-term leases 
of equipment (i.e., those leases that have a 
lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-
value assets recognition exemption to leases of 
office equipment that are considered to be low 
value. Lease payments on short-term leases 
and leases of low-value assets are recognised 
as expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
	
Company as a lessor
	
Leases in which the Company does not transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of an asset are classified as operating leases. The 
respective leased assets are included in the balance 
sheet based on their nature. Rental income is 
recognized on straight line basis over the lease term 
and is included in revenue in the Statement of profit 
or loss due to its operating nature. Initial direct costs 
incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating 
lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased 
asset and recognised over the lease term on the 
same basis as rental income.
	
Leases which effectively transfer to the lessee 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental 
to ownership of the leased item are classified and 
accounted for as finance lease. Lease rental receipts 
are apportioned between the finance income 
and capital repayment based on the implicit rate 
of return.
	
Company as a sub lessor
	
The Company is intermediate lessor as it subleases 
an asset leased from another lessor (the ‘head 
lessor’). The Company classifies the sublease as a 
finance lease or as an operating lease with reference 
to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. 
That is, the Company treats the right-of-use asset 
as the underlying asset in the sublease, not the 
underlying asset that it leases from the head lessor. 
At the commencement date of the sublease, if the 
Company cannot readily determine the interest rate 
implicit in the sublease, then it uses the discount 
rate that it uses for the head lease to account for 
the sublease, adjusted for any initial direct costs 
associated with the sublease. However, if the head 
lease is a short-term lease for which the company, as 
a lessee, has elected the short-term lease exemption, 
then the company classifies the sublease as an 
operating lease.
293
292
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
n.	
Provision and contingent liabilities
	
Provisions
	
A provision is recognized when the Company has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of 
past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are 
not discounted to their present value (except where 
time value of money is material) and are determined 
based on the best estimate required to settle the 
obligation at the reporting date when discounting 
is used, the increase in provision due to passage of 
time is recognised as finance cost. These estimates 
are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to 
reflect the current best estimates.
	
Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Company or a present obligation that 
is not recognized because it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases, where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognized because it cannot be 
measured reliably. the Company does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in 
the financial statements unless the probability of 
outflow of resources is remote.
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date.
o.	
Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Provident fund
	
The Company contributed to employee’s provident 
fund benefits through a trust "Max Financial 
Services Limited Provident Fund Trust" managed 
by Max Financial Services Limited (erstwhile Max 
India Limited) whereby amounts determined at a 
fixed percentage of basic salaries of the employees 
are deposited to the trust every month. The benefit 
vests upon commencement of the employment. The 
interest rate payable by the trust to the beneficiaries 
every year is notified by the government and 
the Company has an obligation to make good 
the shortfall, if any, between the return from the 
investments of the trust and the notified interest 
rate. The Company has obtained actuarial valuation 
to determine the shortfall, if any, as at the Balance 
Sheet date.
	
Gratuity
	
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit obligation and 
is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation 
on projected unit credit method made at the end of 
each financial year
	
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, 
excluding amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and the return on 
plan assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability), are 
recognized immediately in the Balance Sheet with 
a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings 
through OCI in the period in which they occur. 
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods.
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount 
rate to the net defined benefit (liabilities/assets).
	
The Company recognized the following changes in 
the net defined benefit obligation under employee 
benefit expenses in statement of profit and loss
	
a)	
Service cost comprising current service cost, 
past service cost, gain & loss on curtailments 
and non-routine settlements.
	
b)	
Net interest expenses or income
	
Leave Compensation/Compensated Absences
	
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilized 
within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term 
employee benefit. The Company measures the 
expected cost of such absences as the additional 
amount that it expects to pay as a result of the 
unused entitlement that has accumulated at the 
reporting date.
	
The Company treats accumulated leave expected to 
be carried forward beyond twelve months, as long-
term employee benefit for measurement purposes. 
Such long-term compensated absences are 
provided for based on the actuarial valuation using 
the projected unit credit method at the yearend. 
Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken to the 
statement of profit and loss and are not deferred. 
The Company presents the leave as a current liability 
in the balance sheet, to the extent it does not have 
an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 12 
months after the reporting date. Where Company 
has the unconditional legal and contractual right 
to defer the settlement for a period 12 months, the 
same is presented as non-current liability.
	
Short-term obligations
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognized in respect of employee 
service up to the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. the liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit obligations 
in the balance sheet.
	
Long term incentive plan
	
The Company has a long-term incentive plan for 
certain employees. The Company recognises benefit 
payable to employee as an expenditure, when an 
employee renders the related service on actual basis.
p.	
Share-based payments
	
Employees of the Company receive remuneration 
in the form of share-based payment transaction, 
whereby employees render services as a 
consideration for equity instruments (equity- settled 
transactions).
	
Equity-settled transactions
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model.
	
That cost is recognized, together with a 
corresponding increase in share-based payment 
(SBP) reserves in equity, over the period in which the 
performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled 
in employee benefits expense. The cumulative 
expense recognized for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects 
the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Company's best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
statement of profit and loss expense or credit for 
a period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognized as at the beginning and 
end of that period and is recognized in employee 
benefits expense.
	
Service and non-market performance conditions 
are not taken into account when determining the 
grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood 
of the conditions being met is assessed as part 
of the Company's best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. Market 
performance conditions are reflected within the 
grant date fair value. Any other conditions attached 
to an award, but without an associated service 
requirement, are considered to be non-vesting 
conditions. Non-vesting conditions are reflected in 
the fair value of an award and lead to an immediate 
expensing of an award unless there are also service 
and/or performance conditions.
	
No expense is recognized for awards that do not 
ultimately vest because non-market performance 
and/or service conditions have not been met. Where 
awards include a market or non-vesting condition, 
the transactions are treated as vested irrespective 
of whether the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and/
or service conditions are satisfied.
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognized is the 
expense had the terms had not been modified, if the 
original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognized for any modification that 
increases the total fair value of the share-based 
payment transaction or is otherwise beneficial to the 
employee as measured at the date of modification. 
Where an award is cancelled by the entity or by the 
counterparty, any remaining element of the fair 
value of the award is expensed immediately through 
profit or loss.
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share.
	
Cash-settled transactions
	
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured 
initially at fair value at the grant date using a 
binomial model. This fair value is expensed over the 
period until the vesting date with recognition of a 
corresponding liability. The liability is remeasured to 
fair value at each reporting date up to, and including 
the settlement date, with changes in fair value 
recognized in employee benefits expense.
q.	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
295
294
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
r.	
Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue, bonus element in 
a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split 
(consolidation of shares) that have changed the 
number of equities shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings 
per share, the net profit or loss for the year and the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year adjusted for the effects of all 
potential equity shares.
s.	
Foreign currencies
	
Items included in the standalone financial 
statements are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the 
company operates (‘the functional currency’). The 
Company’s standalone financial statements are 
presented in Indian rupee (‘₹’) which is also the 
Company’s functional and presentation currency.
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial 
recognition in the functional currency, using the 
exchange rate prevailing at the date of transaction. 
However, for practical reasons, the Company uses an 
average rate if the average approximates the actual 
rate at the date of the transaction.
	
Measurement of foreign currency items at the 
balance sheet date
	
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at 
the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the 
reporting date.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial 
transactions. Non-monetary items measured at 
fair value in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the date when the fair value 
is determined.
	
Exchange differences arising on settlement or 
translation of monetary items are recognized as 
income or expense in the period in which they arise 
with the exception of exchange differences on gain 
or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items 
measured at fair value which is treated in line with 
the recognition of the gain or loss on the change 
in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences 
on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized 
in OCI or profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss, respectively).
t.	
Fair value
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
a)	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
b)	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant's ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient date are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the restated financial 
statements are categorized within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
a)	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
b)	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
	
c)	
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the 
restated financial statements on a recurring basis, 
the Company determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorization (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
The Company’s management determines the 
policies and procedures for both recurring and 
non-recurring fair value measurement measured at 
fair value.
	
At each reporting date, the management analyses 
the movements in the values of assets and liabilities 
which are required to be remeasured or re-assessed 
as per the Company’s accounting policies.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the 
Company has determined classes of assets and 
liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics 
and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the 
fair value hierarchy as explained above.
	
This note summarises accounting policy for fair 
value. Other fair value related disclosures are given 
in the relevant notes.
	
-	
Disclosures for valuation methods, significant 
estimates and assumptions (note 36)
	
-	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value 
measurement hierarchy (note 36)
	
-	
Financial instruments (including those carried 
at amortised cost) (note 36)
2C	 Accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions
	
The preparation of the Company's standalone Ind 
AS financial statements requires management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and 
estimates could result in outcomes that require a 
material adjustment to the carrying amount of the 
asset or liability affected in future periods.
	
Other disclosures relating to the Company’s 
exposure to risks and uncertainties includes:
	
-	
Capital management Note 43
	
-	
Financial risk management objectives and 
policies Note 37
	
Judgements
	
In the process of applying the Company's accounting 
policies, management has made the following 
judgements, which have the most significant effect 
on the amounts recognized in the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements.
(a)	 Determining the lease term of contracts 
with renewal and termination options - 
Company as lessee
	
The Company determines the lease term as the 
non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any 
periods covered by an option to extend the lease if it 
is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods 
covered by an option to terminate the lease, if it is 
reasonably certain not to be exercised.
	
The Company applies judgement in evaluating 
whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to 
exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. 
That is, it considers all relevant factors that create 
an economic incentive for it to exercise either the 
renewal or termination. After the commencement 
date, the Company reassesses the lease term if there 
is a significant event or change in circumstances 
that is within its control and affects its ability to 
exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to 
terminate (e.g., construction of significant leasehold 
improvements or significant customisation to the 
leased asset)
	
Property lease classification - Company as 
lessor
	
The Company has entered into commercial property 
leases on its investment property portfolio. The 
Company has determined, based on an evaluation 
of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, 
such as the lease term not constituting a major part 
of the economic life of the commercial property and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments 
not amounting to substantially all of the fair value of 
the commercial property, that it retains substantially 
all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of 
these properties and accounts for the contracts as 
operating leases.
297
296
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Determining the lease term of contracts 
with renewal and termination options- 
Company as lessor
	
As a lessor, the Company determines the lease term 
as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together 
with any periods covered by an option to extend the 
lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any 
periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, 
if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised, the 
Company has several lease contracts that include 
extension and termination options. The Company 
applies judgement in evaluating whether it is 
reasonably certain whether or not the lessee shall 
exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease.
	
That is. it considers all relevant factors that create an 
economic incentive for the lessee to exercise either 
the renewal or termination.
	
The Company has neither included the renewal 
period nor the period covered by an option to 
terminate the lease as part of the lease term for 
buildings given to leases to tenants considering 
the following:
	
-	
Option of renewal of lease term is solely at 
the option of lessee and the Company is not 
reasonably certain that the lessee may exercise 
the option of renewal, as this is outside the 
control of the Company.
	
-	
Considering the current market dynamics of 
rental market, the Company has estimated 
that lease term for the leases will be non-
cancellable period.
	
Estimates and assumptions
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and 
other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing 
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are described below. The Company based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available 
when the financial statements were prepared. 
Existing circumstances and assumptions about 
future developments, however, may change due to 
market changes or circumstances arising beyond 
the control of the Company. Such changes are 
reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
	
(a)	
Defined benefit plans
	
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. Gratuity 
benefit) is determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions which may differ 
from actual developments in the future. These 
include the determination of the discount rate, 
future salary increases, mortality rates and 
future pension increases. Due to the complexity 
of the valuation, the underlying assumptions 
and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes 
in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date. In determining 
the appropriate discount rate, management 
considers the interest rates of long-term 
government bonds with extrapolated maturity 
corresponding to the expected duration of the 
defined benefit obligation. The mortality rate is 
based on publicly available mortality tables for 
the specific countries. Future salary increases 
and pension increases are based on expected 
future inflation rates. Further details about 
the assumptions used, including a sensitivity 
analysis, are given in Note 32(i).
	
(b)	 Fair value measurement of financial 
instruments
	
	
When the fair value of financial assets and 
financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 
cannot be measured based on quoted prices in 
active markets, their fair value is measured using 
valuation techniques including the Discounted 
Cash Flow (DCF) model. The inputs to these 
models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing 
fair values. Judgements include considerations 
of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and 
volatility. Changes in assumptions about these 
factors could affect the reported fair value 
of financial instruments. The Company use 
Net asset value for valuation of investment 
in mutual fund. Refer note 36 related to fair 
valuation disclosures.
	
(c)	
Impairment of Financial assets
	
	
The impairment provisions of financial assets 
are based on assumptions about risk of default 
and expected loss rates. the Company uses 
judgement in making these assumptions 
and selecting the inputs to the impairment 
calculation, based on Company's past 
history, existing market conditions as well as 
forward looking estimates at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
(d)	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses at each reporting 
date whether there is an indication that an 
asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, 
or when annual impairment testing for an 
asset is required, the Company estimates 
the asset's recoverable amount. An assets 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's 
CGU'S fair value less cost of disposal and its 
value in use. It is determined for an individual 
asset, unless the asset does not generate 
cash inflows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets or Company's assets. 
Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-
tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent market 
transactions are taken into account. If no such 
transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, or other 
fair value indicators.
	
(e)	
Share based payments
	
	
The Company initially measures the cost of cash 
settled transactions with employees using a 
binomial model to determine the fair value of 
the liability incurred. Estimating fair value for 
share based payment transactions requires 
determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which is dependent on the terms and 
conditions of the grant. This estimate also 
requires determination of the most appropriate 
inputs to the valuation model including the 
expected life of the share option, volatility 
and dividend yield and making assumptions 
about them. For cash settled share-based 
payment transactions, the liability needs to be 
remeasured at the end of each reporting period 
up to the date of settlement, with any changes 
in fair value recognized in the profit or loss. 
This requires a reassessment of the estimates 
used at the end of each reporting period. The 
assumptions and models used for estimating 
fair value for share based payment transactions 
are disclosed in note 35.
2.4	A. New and Amended Standards
	
The Company applied for the first-time certain 
standards and amendments, which are effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after April 01, 2024. 
The Company has not early adopted any standard, 
interpretation or amendment that has been issued 
but is not yet effective.
	
a.	
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts
	
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notified 
the Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, vide 
notification dated August 12, 2024, under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024, which is effective 
from annual reporting periods beginning on or 
after April 01, 2024.
	
	
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts is a 
comprehensive new accounting standard for 
insurance contracts covering recognition and 
measurement, presentation and disclosure. 
Ind AS 117 replaces Ind AS 104 Insurance 
Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies to all types of 
insurance contracts, regardless of the type of 
entities that issue them as well as to certain 
guarantees and financial instruments with 
discretionary participation features; a few scope 
exceptions will apply. Ind AS 117 is based on a 
general model, supplemented by:
	
	
-	
A specific adaptation for contracts with 
direct participation features (the variable 
fee approach)
	
-	
A simplified approach (the premium allocation 
approach) mainly for short-duration contracts
	
The application of Ind AS 117 does not have material 
impact on the Company’s financial statements as 
the Company has not entered any contracts in the 
nature of insurance contracts covered under Ind 
AS 117.
299
298
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
b.	
Amendments to Ind AS 116 Leases – 
Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Second Amendment 
Rules, 2024, which amend Ind AS 116, 
Leases, with respect to Lease Liability in a Sale 
and Leaseback.
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements 
that a seller-lessee uses in measuring the 
lease liability arising in a sale and leaseback 
transaction, to ensure the seller-lessee does not 
recognise any amount of the gain or loss that 
relates to the right of use it retains.
	
	
The amendment is effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after April 
01, 2024 and must be applied retrospectively 
to sale and leaseback transactions entered 
into after the date of initial application of Ind 
AS 116.
	
	
The amendments do not have a material impact 
on the Company’s financial statements.
B.	 Standard Notified but not yet effective
	
There are no standards that are notified and not yet 
effective as on the date.
3.	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
(₹ in lakhs)
Office 
equipment
Furniture 
and fixture
Motor 
vehicles
Computers 
and data 
processing 
units
Leasehold 
Improvement
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
29.10
69.83
348.20
109.63
209.26
766.02
Additions
0.70
-
63.35
48.09
-
112.14
Disposals
39.59
63.54
26.47
1.08
195.27
325.95
Adjustment
16.23
-
(2.05)
(15.24)
(4.87)
(5.93)
As at March 31, 2024
6.44
6.29
383.03
141.40
9.12
546.28
Additions
1.97
-
71.61
70.49
-
144.07
Disposals
8.41
6.29
54.12
-
9.12
77.94
As at March 31, 2025
-
-
400.52
211.89
-
612.41
Depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
8.10
6.00
116.90
52.76
15.86
199.62
Additions
5.87
5.14
47.63
22.55
11.76
92.95
Disposals
8.84
7.64
16.68
0.36
19.57
53.09
As at March 31, 2024
5.13
3.50
147.85
74.95
8.05
239.48
Depreciation for the year
0.50
2.79
45.93
37.03
-
86.24
Disposals for the year
5.63
6.29
30.76
-
8.05
50.73
As at March 31, 2025
-
-
163.02
111.98
-
275.00
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2025
-
-
237.50
99.91
-
337.41
As at March 31, 2024
1.31
2.79
235.18
66.45
1.07
306.80
Note: Refer note 13 for charge created against property, plant and equipment.
3.1.	Investment property
(₹ in lakhs)
Gross carrying amount
Amount
As at April 01, 2023
7,332.70
Additions
-
Disposals
-
As at March 31, 2024
7,332.70
Additions
-
Disposals (refer note 33)
(7,332.70)
As at March 31, 2025
-
Accumulated Depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
290.76
Depreciation charge for the year
111.14
Disposals
-
As at March 31, 2024
401.90
Depreciation charge for the year
52.03
Disposals (refer note 33)
(453.93)
As at March 31, 2025
-
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2025
-
As at March 31, 2024
6,930.80
301
300
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes:
(i)	 No Borrowing cost is capitalised during cureent or previous year
(ii)	 Amount recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Rental income derived from investment properties
307.24
703.23
Less: Direct operating expenses generating rental income
104.48
154.04
Profit from leasing of investment properties
202.76
549.19
Less: Depreciation expense
52.03
111.14
Profit from leasing of investment properties after depreciation before 
indirect expense
150.72
438.05
(iii)	 Fair value
	
Fair value hierarchy and valuation technique
	
The fair value of investment property was determined by the company internally, having appropriate recognised 
professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued. The 
fair value has been arrived using discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash 
flows considering growth in rental of 15% on every 3 years, vacancy rate of 3% and discount rate of 10.49%.
Reconciliation of fair value:
(J in lakhs)
Opening balance as at April 01, 2023
₹8500 to 
10000 lakhs
Increase of Fair value
₹2550 lakhs
Decline in fair value
-
Closing balance as at March 31, 2024
₹11050 to 
12550 lakhs
Increase of Fair value
-
Decline in fair value
-
Closing balance as at March 31, 2025
-
	
Valuation models applied for valuation:
Discounted cash flow method - net present value is determined based on projected cash flows discounted at 
an appropriate rate.
4	 Right of use assets
The Company has lease contracts for buildings from related parties. The Company’s obligations under its leases 
are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. The Company is restricted from assigning or sub leasing the 
leased assets.
The carrying amounts of right-of-use assets recognised and the movements during the year 
ended:
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
As at April 01, 2023
1,317.55
1,317.55
Additions
1,419.19
1,419.19
Deletion*
(1,035.87)
(1,035.87)
Depreciation expense
(263.54)
(263.54)
As at March 31, 2024
1,437.33
1,437.33
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
Additions
-
-
Deletion*
-
-
Depreciation expense
(496.09)
(496.09)
Adjustment
1.96
1.96
As at March 31, 2025
943.20
943.20
*During the previous year, the Company sub-leased the premises taken on lease and assessed that this sub-lease fulfilled the 
criteria of a finance lease as per Ind AS 116. Consequently, the Company recognised lease receivables from sub-lease in its books 
and de-recognised the leasehold improvements as well as right of use asset related to the original lease. Consequently, an amount 
of ₹15.82 lakhs was recognised as profit on de-recognition of right of use assets under the head ‘Other income’ (Refer Note No.22).
The carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movement during the year:
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
As at April 01, 2023
3,725.17
3,725.17
Additions
1,337.48
1,337.48
Accretion of interest
438.76
438.76
Payments
(745.07)
(745.07)
As at March 31, 2024
4,756.34
4,756.34
Additions
-
-
Accretion of interest
486.17
486.17
Payments
(1,098.56)
(1,098.56)
As at March 31, 2025
4,143.95
4,143.95
Classification of lease liabilities into Current and Non-Current:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current lease liabilities
713.05
613.81
Non-current lease liabilities
3,430.90
4,142.53
Total
4,143.95
4,756.34
The details regarding the maturity analysis of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 on an 
undiscounted basis:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Within one year
1,127.21
1,098.56
After one year but not more than five years
3,216.33
3,570.75
More than five years
1,360.95
2,133.74
Total
5,704.49
6,803.05
Considering the lease term of the leases, the effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 11% (March 31, 2024 - 11%). The 
Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient 
to meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
303
302
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
496.09
263.54
Interest expense on lease liabilities
486.17
438.76
Rent expenses
9.05
23.90
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
991.31
726.20
Company as a lessor
The Company has entered into sub-lease arrangement for some of its right to use aseets. These leases have terms 
of nine years. All leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge on three year basis according 
to prevailing market conditions. Income recognised by the Company during the year is ₹383.13 lakhs (March 31, 
2024: ₹297.90 lakhs). Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at year end are 
as follows:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Within one year
 642.29 
 597.59 
After one year but not more than five years
 2,854.96 
 2,826.70 
More than five years
 1,390.06 
 2,060.61 
Total
 4,887.31 
 5,484.90 
4.1.	Intangible assets
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Computer software
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at Apirl 01, 2023
354.91
354.91
Additions
29.13
29.13
Disposals
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
384.04
384.04
Additions
40.82
40.82
Disposals
-
-
As at March 31, 2025
424.86
424.86
Amortization
As at Apirl 01, 2023
21.89
21.89
Additions
58.33
58.33
Disposals
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
80.22
80.22
Additions
61.56
61.56
Disposals
-
-
As at March 31, 2025
141.78
141.78
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2025
283.09
283.09
As at March 31, 2024
303.82
303.82
4.2.	Intangible assets under development
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Total
As at April 01, 2023
-
Additions
26.60
Disposals
-
As at March 31, 2024
26.60
Additions
14.22
Capitalised
40.82
As at March 31, 2025
-
Ageing of Intangible assets under development (IAUD):
As at March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
more than 
3 years
Total
Projects in progress
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
more than 
3 years
Total
Projects in progress
26.60
-
-
-
26.60
Total
26.60
-
-
-
26.60
Note: There are no borrowing cost capitalised during the year (March 31, 2024 - Nil). There is no project whose 
completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan during the current or previous year.
5.	 Non Current financial assets-Investment
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i)	 Investment in equity instrument (value at cost) (Unquoted) (in 
subsidiaries)
(a)	Max Towers Pvt Limited*#

	
3,86,83,129 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 6,50,60,000 Equity Shares)
4,753.01
6,506.00
(b)	Max Square Limited
	
11,09,30,000 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 11,09,30,000 Equity shares)
11,093.00
11,093.00
(c)	Pharmax Corporation Limited*
	
4,30,58,047 Equity shares of ₹1 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 4,71,22,747 Equity shares)
5,568.03
6,073.05
(d)	Max Estates 128 Private Limited
29,251.50
29,251.50
	
96,52,000 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 96,52,000 Equity shares)
305
304
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(e)	Acreage Builders Private Limited
15,002.75
15,002.75
	
2,77,865 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 2,77,865 Equity shares)
(f)	 Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
10.00
10.00
	
1,00,000 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 1,00,000 Equity Shares)
(g)	Max I Limited
5.00
5.00
	
50,000 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 50,000 Equity Shares)
(h)	Max Asset Services Limited
205.00
205.00
	
20,50,000 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 20,50,000 Equity Shares)
(i)	 Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty Private Limited)
4,220.28
0.10
	
4,22,03,793 Equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 1,000 Equity shares)
(j)	 Max Estate Gurgaon Two Limited
10.00
10.00
	
1,00,000 Equity Shares of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024 - 1,00,000 Equity Shares)
(ii)	Investment in Cumulative Convertible Preference Shares in 
subsidiaries (unquoted) (at amortised cost)
(a)	Pharmax Corporation Limited*
	
(Nil 10% Cumulative Convertible Preference shares of ₹100 each fully 
paid up (March 31, 2024- 3,00,000)
-
3,900.00
(iii) Investment in Non Convertible Debentures (NCD) in subsidiaries 
(unquoted) (at amortised cost)
(a)	Max Towers Private Limited*
	
Nil Debentures of ₹1,00,000 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2023- 7,759 Debentures)
-
7,617.07
(b)	Investment in NCD Equity portion of Max Towers Private Limited
-
1,370.18
(iv)	Investment in Compulsory Convertible Debentures(CCD) in 
subsidiaries (unquoted) (at amortised cost)
(a)	Max Square Limited
	
11,09,30,000 Debentures of ₹10 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024- 11,09,30,000 Debentures)
10,678.29
10,678.29
(b)	Investment in CCD Equity portion of Max Square Limited
414.71
414.71
(c)	Equity component of Deferred tax liability on Max Square Limited
2,545.75
2,545.75
(d)	Acreage Builders Pvt Ltd
	
1,90,860 Debentures of ₹5,427.84 each fully paid up 
(March 31, 2024- 1,49,988)
10,141.85
7,923.39
(e)	Investment in CCD Equity portion of Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
217.71
217.71
(f)	 Equity component of Deferred tax liability on Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
2,523.11
1,994.17
(g)	Max Asset Services Limited
	
2,214 Zero Coupon Compulsory Convertible Debentures of ₹100,000 
each fully paid up (March 31, 2024 - 2,214)
2,214.00
2,214.00
(h)	Max I. Limited
	
Equity portion of Zero Coupon Non Convertible Debentures of 
₹100,000 each fully paid up
2,106.96
2,106.96
(i)	 Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
3,550.00
-
	
3,55,00,000 Zero Coupon CCD of face value ₹10 each 
(March 31,2024 - Nil)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(v)	Equity component of guarantee/loan given to subsidiaries
	
(a)	 Max Towers Private Limited
307.07
388.70
	
(b)	Max Square Limited
339.61
339.61
	
(c)	 Pharmax Corporation Limited (equity portion of Interest free loan)
17.31
17.31
	
(d)	Max Asset Services Limited
13.02
13.02
	
(e)	Max Estates 128 Private Limited
188.66
57.82
	
(f)	 Pharmax Corporation Limited
238.66
427.46
	
(f)	 Acreage Builders Private Limited
122.81
-
(vi)	Investment in Subsidiaries (Employee stock option granted to 
subsidiary employees)
	
(a)	 Acreage Builders Private Limited
48.61
30.72
	
(b)	Max Square Limited
57.94
36.09
	
(c)	 Max Estate 128 Private Limited
36.68
11.40
	
(d)	Max Asset Services Limited
23.39
9.55
	
(e)	Max Estate Gurgaon Limited
35.51
15.54
(vii) Interest accrued on CCD's {refer note 38(b)}
7,524.07
4,195.63
1,13,464.29
1,14,681.48
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
1,13,464.29
1,10,485.85
Aggregate book value of at cost
1,13,464.29
1,10,485.85
*refer note 33 for stake sale in Pharmax corporation Limited and Max towers private limited
#includes NCD Equity portion of Max Towers Private Limited amounting to ₹884.69 lakhs.
6.	 Other bank balances
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits with remaining maturity for more than 12 months*
 624.38 
 611.06 
 624.38 
 611.06 
* Deposits are made against security deposit received from customers
7	 Non Current financial assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposits given
 312.74 
 316.32 
Lease receivable (refer note 4)
 3,095.85 
 3,381.51 
Rent receivable (Equalisation)
 -   
 10.70 
 3,408.59 
 3,708.53 
8	 Other non current assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred guarantee fee
-
14.62
-
14.62
307
306
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
8.1 	Non-current tax asset
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Tax deducted at source recoverable (net)
452.52
941.67
452.52
941.67
9	 Inventories (at cost or Net realisable value whichever is less)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Construction Materials
 -   
7.74
Plot of Land
 -   
186.75
 -   
 194.49 
10	Current financial assets
(i)	 Other investment
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current financial assets
(i)	 Investment (Quoted) (measured at fair value through profit and loss)
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
-
307.37
	
Units - Nil,(March 31, 2024 - Units - 78,877.88)
	
Tata Ultra short Term Fund- Direct - Growth
4,157.00
-
	
Units - 2,84,60,620 Units (March 31, 2024 -Nil)
	
DSP Savings Fund - Direct - Growth
5,288.00
-
	
Units - 99,31,759 Units (March 31, 2024 -Nil)
	
UTI Money Market - Direct - Growth
5,295.67
-
	
Units - 1,73,025 Units (March 31, 2024 -Nil)
	
SBI Magnum Low Duartion - Direct - Growth
3,306.50
-
	
Units - 92,939 (March 31, 2024: Units - Nil)
	
SBI Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
-
104.66
	
Units - Nil (March 31, 2024: Units - 2,756.39)
	
Axis Money Market - Direct - Growth
4,492.00
-
	
Units - 3,17,256 (March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
HDFC Low Duration Fund - Direct Growth
5,261.00
-
	
Units - 85,86,057 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
	
Nippon India Ultra Short Duration Fund- Direct Growth
5,260.00
-
	
Units - 1,20,774 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
	
Invesco India Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
2,518.00
-
	
Units - 81,490 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
35,578.17
412.03
Aggregate amount of quoted investment
35,578.17
412.03
Aggregate market value of quoted investment
35,578.17
412.03
(ii)	Trade receivables
(a)	 Considered good - Secured;
-
-
(b)	Considered good - Unsecured;
2,107.43
1,102.15
2,107.43
1,102.15
*refer note 38(b) for due from related parties
Trade Receivable Ageing
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(I)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables-considered 
good
1,463.52
193.64
436.77
4.06
0.28
9.16
2,107.43
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables-Which have 
significant in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables-Credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Trade 
receivables-which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Disputed Trade 
receivables-credit Impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,463.52
193.64
436.77
4.06
0.28
9.16
2,107.43
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(I)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables-considered 
good
20.89
817.50
251.05
0.28
3.30
9.12
1,102.15
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables-Which have 
significant in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables-Credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Trade 
receivables-which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Disputed Trade 
receivables-credit Impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
20.89
817.50
251.05
0.28
3.30
9.12
1,102.15
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
 95.18 
 146.20 
Cash in hand
 0.51 
 4.09 
 95.69 
 150.29 
309
308
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(iv)	 Bank balances other than (iii) above
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits with remaining maturity for more than 3 months but less 
than 12 months
 32,617.63 
 1,710.99 
 32,617.63 
 1,710.99 
(v)	 Loans (unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Loans to related parties {refer note 38(b)}
 57,029.25 
 17,748.02 
Interest accrued on loans {refer note 38(b)}
 166.29 
 490.97 
 57,195.54 
 18,238.99 
(vi)	 Other financial assets (unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security Deposit
 -   
 1,000.00 
Lease receivable
 285.65 
 214.47 
 285.65 
 1,214.47 
11.	Other current assets (unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advances :-
- from related party {refer note 38(b)}
105.44
96.99
- from others
83.76
18.81
Other recoverables
1,269.76
322.37
Prepaid expenses
190.66
159.26
Balance with statutory authorities
-
357.19
1,649.62
954.62
12	(i) Equity share capital
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a) Authorized share capital
228,000,000 (March 31, 2024 - 228,000,000) equity shares of ₹10/- 
each
22,800.00
22,800.00
22,800.00
22,800.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up
Add: Shares issued during the year (1,38,65,540 equity shares of ₹10 
each fully paid-up)
16,100.01
14,713.45
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital
16,100.01
14,713.45
b)	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Equity shares
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
(₹ in lakhs)
No. of shares
(₹ in lakhs)
At the beginning of the year
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
-
-
Add: Shares issued during the year*
1,38,65,540
1,386.56
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
At the end of the year
16,10,00,084
16,100.01
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
	
*Includes 4,76,419 equity shares allotted due to exercise of options by the employees in accordance with the Max Estates 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2023 and 1,33,89,121 equity shares allotted under Qualified Institutional Placement 
(refer note 40).
	
During the FY2023-24, pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement, 1 (one) equity shares of the 
face value of ₹10 each fully paid-up of the Company was issued against every 1 (one) equity share of ₹10 each 
fully paid-up held by the shareholders of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. Consequent to this, the Company 
issued 14,71,34,544 equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up for 14,71,34,544 equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid-
up of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. As an integral part of the Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement 
(“Scheme”), and, upon its coming into effect, the authorized share capital of the Company automatically stand 
increased, without any further act, instrument or deed on the part of the Company, to ₹228,00,00,000/- divided 
into 22,80,00,000 equity shares of ₹10 each. Consequently, Clause V of the Memorandum of Association of the 
Company, upon the coming into effect of the Scheme and without any further act or deed, stand altered, modified 
and substituted pursuant to section 13, 61 and 230 and 232 and other applicable provisions of the Act, as the 
case may be. 
c)	
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹10 per share. Each holder of equity 
shares is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend 
if any, proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to 
receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be 
in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
d)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Name of the Shareholder
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
% held
No. of shares
% held
Max Ventures Investment Holding Private 
Limited
3,46,69,346
21.53%
3,46,69,346
23.56%
Siva Enterprises Private Limited
3,39,91,966
21.11%
3,39,84,573
23.10%
New York Life International Holdings Limited
3,12,82,950
19.43%
3,12,82,950
21.26%
e)	
Shareholding pattern of the Promoter
	
As at March 31,2025
S. 
no
Name of Promoter
No. of shares at 
the beginning 
of the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of total 
shares
% change 
during the 
year
1
Ravi Vachani
73,477
-
73,477
0.05%
0.00%
2
Neelu Analjit Singh
47,501
35,29,280
35,76,781
2.22%
7429.91%
3
Analjit Singh
39,71,481
(35,29,080)
4,42,401
0.27%
-88.86%
4
Piya Singh
52,407
-
52,407
0.03%
0.00%
5
Tara Singh Vachani
47,501
-
47,501
0.03%
0.00%
6
Max Ventures Investment Holding 
Private Limited
3,46,69,346
-
3,46,69,346
21.53%
0.00%
7
Siva Enterprises Private Limited
3,39,84,573
7,393
3,39,91,966
21.11%
0.02%
311
310
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
As at March 31,2024
S. 
no
Name of Promoter
No. of shares at 
the beginning 
of the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of total 
shares
% change 
during the 
year
1
Ravi Vachani
-
73,477
73,477
0.05%
100.00%
2
Neelu Analjit Singh
-
47,501
47,501
0.03%
100.00%
3
Analjit Singh
-
39,71,481
39,71,481
2.70%
100.00%
4
Piya Singh
-
52,407
52,407
0.04%
100.00%
5
Tara Singh Vachani
-
47,501
47,501
0.03%
100.00%
6
Max Ventures Investment 
Holding Private Limited
-
3,46,69,346
3,46,69,346
23.56%
100.00%
7
Siva Enterprises Private Limited
-
3,39,84,573
3,39,84,573
23.10%
100.00%
f)	
Share application money pending allotement
Particulars
(₹ In lakhs)
As at April 01, 2023
14,710.36
Premium on issue of share capital
(14,671.67)
As at March 31, 2024
38.69
Premium on issue of share capital
(128.29)
Proceeds from exercise of Employee stock option plan during the year
94.26
As at March 31, 2025
4.65
g)	
Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately 
preceding the reporting date- Nil
h)	
For Stock Option Scheme (refer note-35)
i)	
For shares issued under Qualified Institutional Placement (refer note- 40)
(j)	
For Money received against warrants (refer note- 41)
(ii)	 Other equity
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital reserve (refer note a below)
13,042.52
13,042.52
Securities premium (refer note b below)
1,27,070.18
50,119.24
Employee stock options outstanding (refer note c below)
426.47
393.96
Remeasurement loss on defined benefit plan (refer note d below)
(11.42)
(15.50)
Retained earnings (refer note e below)
75,711.32
47,621.17
2,16,239.07
1,11,161.39
a)	 Capital reserve
	
Balance as at beginning of the year
13,042.52
13,042.52
	
At the end of the year
13,042.52
13,042.52
b)	 Securities premium
	
Balance as at beginning of the year
50,119.24
50,095.91
	
Less Expenses pertaining to Qualified Institutional Placement
(1,976.87)
-
	
Add: Premium on issue of share capital
78,741.74
15.76
	
Add: Transfer of ESOP reserve on allotment of shares
186.07
7.57
	
At the end of the year
1,27,070.18
50,119.24
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
c)	 Employee stock options outstanding
	
At the beginning of the year
393.96
229.11
	
Add: Cost of stock option granted to employees of company 
(refer note 24)
119.75
69.12
	
Add: Cost of stock option granted to employees of subsidiaries
98.83
103.30
	
Less: Transfer of ESOP reserve on allotment of shares
(186.07)
(7.57)
	
At the end of the year
426.47
393.96
d)	 Remeasurement loss on defined benefit plan
	
At the beginning of the year
(15.50)
(5.85)
	
Re-measurement of post employment benefit obligation (net of tax)
4.08
(9.65)
	
At the end of the year
(11.42)
(15.50)
e)	 Retained earnings
	
At the beginning of the year
47,621.17
45,289.14
	
Profit/(Loss) for the year
28,090.15
2,332.03
	
At the end of the year
75,711.32
47,621.17
Nature and purpose of reserves
a)	
Capital reserve
	
The Company recognises profit or loss on purchase, sale issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity 
instruments to Capital Reserve.
b) 	
Securities premium
	
Securities Premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited 
purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
c) 	
Employee stock options outstanding
	
The employee stock options based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options 
issued to employees under Employee Stock Option plan.
d) 	
Other Comprehensive Income
	
Loss from remeasurement on defined benefit plans.
e) 	
Retained earnings
	
The profits of the Company available for distribution as dividend.
13.	Borrowings
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Term loans (secured)
From banks*
-
9,797.32
Vehicle loans from Bank (secured)
24.20
40.49
24.20
9,837.81
Less: Amount disclosed under ""Other current financial liabilities - 
Short term borrowing"" [refer note 18(i)] 
13.97
676.29
10.23
9,161.52
Aggregate Secured loans
24.20
9,837.81
*Including interest accrued on borrowings
313
312
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Terms of Term loan/Vehicle Loan
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest 
rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
1
Term Loan 
from Banks
ICICI Bank
1.	 Pari-passu charge over 
project developed 
on Max House Okhla 
Project;
2.	 All present and future 
tangible moveable 
assets, including 
movable plant and 
machinery, machinery 
spares, tools and 
accessories, furniture, 
fixture and all other 
moveable fixed assets 
in relation to the 
property.
3.	 All present and future 
scheduled receivables 
to the extent received 
by the borrower in 
relation to the project.
4.	 The escrow account 
along with all monies 
credited / deposited 
therein.
5.	 The Debt Service 
Reserve Account 
(DSRA).
6.	 Corporate guarantee 
from Pharmax 
Corporation Limited.
7.	 The security as 
required by the lender 
shall be created and 
perfected in form and 
manner satisfactory 
to the lenders and 
shared on pari passu 
basis between the 
lenders.
8.	 Post creation of 
security, the Project 
shall provide a security 
cover of 1.50 times 
during the entire 
tenure of the Facility 
on the outstanding 
loan amount of 
Facility.
₹ Nil (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹9,797.32 
lakhs - 
including 
interest 
accrued)
Nil. (March 
31,2024 - 
7.90% p.a. 
to 10.00% 
p.a.)
₹ Nil (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹ Nil)
₹ Nil (March 
31, 2024: 
₹1,13,000.00 
lakhs)
2
Vehicle Loan ICICI Bank 
Limited
Charge on Vehicle
₹24.20 
lakhs 
(March 
31,2024 
- ₹40.49 
lakhs)
7.60% to 
9.00% 
(March 
31, 2024 
- 7.60% to 
9.00%)
₹ Nil (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹ Nil)
₹ 46.52 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹36.52 lakhs)
13 A Disclosure pursuant to amendment to Ind AS 7 (Statement of Cash flows)
For the year ended March 31,2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
Balance 
April 01, 
2024
Cash flows
Non-cash transactions
Closing 
Balance 
March 31, 
2025
Proceeds
Repayment
Processing 
cost/Interest 
accretion
New 
leases
Reclassification
Other
Term loans from 
banks
9,797.32
-
(9,797.32)
-
-
-
-
-
Vehicle loans
40.49
11.00
(27.29)
-
-
-
-
24.20
Short term 
borrowings*
6,893.29 7,913.00 (13,439.35)
358.63
-
(661.60)
- 1,063.97
Lease liabilities
4,756.34
-
(1,098.56)
486.17
-
-
- 4,143.95
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
21,487.44 7,924.00 (24,362.52)
844.80
-
(661.60)
- 5,232.12
*Including interest accrued on borrowings
For the year ended March 31,2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
Balance 
April 01, 
2023
Cash flows
Non-cash transactions
Closing 
Balance 
March 31, 
2024
Proceeds Repayment
Processing 
cost/Interest 
accretion
New 
leases Reclassification Other
Term loans from 
banks
10,218.54
-
(515.63)
6.91
-
87.50
-
9,797.32
Vehicle loans
47.80
19.92
(27.23)
-
-
-
-
40.49
Short term 
borrowings*
7,071.22
- (1,204.06)
913.65
-
112.48
-
6,893.29
Lease liabilities
3,725.17
-
(745.07)
438.76 1,337.48
-
-
4,756.34
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
21,062.73
19.92 (2,491.99)
1,359.32 1,337.48
199.98
- 21,487.44
*Including interest accrued on borrowings
14.	Lease liabilities-Non Current
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease liability (refer note 4)
 3,430.90 
 4,142.53 
 3,430.90 
 4,142.53 
15.	 Other non current financial liabilities 
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security Deposit received
 920.52 
 1,107.54 
Deferred Guarantee Income
 345.08 
 79.65 
Deferred Finance Income (Security deposit)
 58.16 
 101.97 
 1,323.76 
 1,289.16 
315
314
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
16.	Long term provision
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (refer note 32(i))
 147.55 
 116.33 
 147.55 
 116.33 
17.	Deferred tax liabilities (net)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (refer note 30)
 4,538.15 
 3,423.23 
 4,538.15 
 3,423.23 
18.	Current financial liabilities
(i)	 Borrowings
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Loan from related party* {refer note 38(b)}
 1,050.00 
 6,217.00 
Current maturity of long term borrowings (refer note 13 )
 13.97 
 676.29 
 1,063.97 
 6,893.29 
	
* interest free, repyabale on demand and unsecured
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease liability (refer note 4)
713.05
613.81
713.05
613.81
(iii)	Trade payables
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
(MSME) (refer note 44)
 21.72 
 18.66 
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 664.53 
 369.07 
 686.25 
 387.73 
	
Trade Payables ageing schedule
	
As on March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not Due
<1 year
1-2 years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i)	 MSME
-
21.72
-
-
-
21.72
(ii)	 Others
184.61
448.68
31.24
-
-
664.53
(iii)	Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues -others
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
As on March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not Due
<1 year
1-2 years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i)	 MSME
-
18.66
-
-
-
18.66
(ii)	 Others
194.28
172.69
0.85
1.25
-
369.07
(iii)	Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues -others
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
Refer note 38(b) for related party payable
(iv)	Other current financial liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Employees payable
 555.81 
 390.12 
Deferred Guarantee Income (refer note 38(b))
 173.64 
 408.02 
 729.45 
 798.14 
19.	Other current liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Statutory dues payable
 130.35 
 70.28 
 130.35 
 70.28 
20.	Short term provision
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for compensated absences
 173.02 
 128.81 
Provision for gratuity (refer note 32(i))
 2.80 
 2.38 
 175.82 
 131.19 
317
316
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
21.	Revenue from operations
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Sale of Constructed properties
650.81
-
Rental income from leased assets
307.24
703.23
Revenue from Common Area Maintenance and others
95.35
69.06
Income from shared services (refer note 38(a))
2,243.89
1,746.92
Income from Asset Management Fees (refer note 38(a))
151.45
-
Development Management fees (refer note 38(a))
452.88
220.54
3,901.62
2,739.75
Other operating revenues
Income on loans to subsidiary companies (refer note 38(a))
208.24
197.61
208.24
197.61
Total Revenue from Operations
4,109.86
2,937.36
Performance obligation
Information about the Company’s performance obligation for material contracts are summarised 
below:
Sale of constructed properties
The performance obligation of the Company in case of sale of residential plot and apartment is satisfied once the 
project is completed and control is transferred to the customers. The customer makes the payment for contracted 
price as per the installment stipulated in the respective Buyer’s Agreement.
Shared Services, Rental Income, Revenue from Common area maintenance and others, Development and asset 
management fees
Revenue is recognised over time as the Company satisfies its performance obligations by providing services or access 
to assets in accordance with contractual terms. For service-based revenue, the obligation is satisfied as services are 
rendered. For rental income, the obligation is satisfied through the passage of time over the lease term.
Refer note 10 (ii) for contract balances (trade receivables)
Total revenue from contracts with customers
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
India
3,901.62
2,739.75
Outside India
-
-
Total
3,901.62
2,739.75
Timing of revenue recognition
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue recognition at a point of time
650.81
-
Revenue recognition over period of time
3,250.81
2,739.75
3,901.62
2,739.75
22.	Other Income
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest Received
- on security deposits*
58.21
58.12
- on fixed deposits
2,774.70
116.62
- on Compulsory convertible debentures (CCD's) (refer note 38(a))
3,824.09
2,501.10
- on Non convertible debentures (NCD) (refer note 38(a))
259.27
644.49
- on Lease receivable
383.13
297.90
- on unwinding of loan (refer note 38(a))
-
96.91
- on Income tax refund
24.74
17.99
Profit on sale of Investment (refer note 33)
21,889.39
-
Profit on sale of investment property and property plant and equipment 
(net) (refer note 33)
5,621.71
-
Profit on sale of mutual fund
1,023.66
596.85
Brokerage Income (refer note 38(a))
20.89
169.37
Guarantee Fee Income (refer note 38(a))
318.62
112.73
Liability written back
-
67.84
Profit on derecognition of Right-of-use assets
-
15.82
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
396.88
2.83
Miscellaneous Income
-
1.19
36,595.28
4,699.76
*on financial assets at amortised cost
23	Change in inventories of constructed properties
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Inventories at end of year
Work-in-process (Plot of land)
-
186.75
-
186.75
Inventories at beginning of the year
Work-in-process (Plot of land)
186.75
186.75
186.75
186.75
Decrease in work-in-progress
186.75
-
24.	Employee benefits expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
1,823.59
1,390.63
Contribution to provident and other funds
78.41
61.80
Employee stock option expense (refer note 35)
119.75
69.12
Gratuity expense (refer note 32(i))
39.45
29.61
Leave compensation/Compensated absence
45.68
34.88
Staff welfare expenses
105.12
58.17
2,212.00
1,644.21
319
318
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
25.	Finance costs
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest on borrowings
 358.63 
 913.65 
Interest on lease
 486.17 
 438.76 
Amortization of security deposit
 39.08 
 43.80 
Others
 0.72 
 14.86 
 884.60 
 1,411.07 
26.	Depreciation and amortization expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment (refer note 3)
86.24
92.95
Depreciation on Investment property (refer note 3.1)
52.03
111.14
Amortization of intangible assets (refer note 4(i))
61.56
58.33
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 4 (ii))
496.09
263.54
695.92
525.96
27.	Other expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rent
9.05
23.90
Insurance
52.83
62.25
Rates and taxes
195.10
94.53
Repairs and maintenance:
	
-Building
550.75
457.92
	
-Others
360.02
165.25
Travelling and conveyance
171.31
130.43
Legal and professional
1,071.02
848.37
Auction fee
-
23.60
Directors' sitting fee
90.00
75.00
Donation
-
1.25
Provision for doubtful debts
-
12.99
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
100.00
43.00
Net loss on sale/disposal of Property, plant and equipment
-
4.37
Membership & Subscription
49.72
61.31
Marketing Expenses
67.77
144.43
Business Promotion
35.94
45.86
Audit fee*
39.13
50.71
Miscellaneous expenses
32.15
46.46
2,824.79
2,291.63
(a)	 *Payment to auditor
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
As auditor:
Audit fee (including limited review)
 33.00 
 48.00 
Reimbursement of expenses
 4.63 
 2.71 
Certification
 1.50 
 -   
 39.13 
 50.71 
(b)	 Details of CSR expenditure
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
41.00
17.29
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
100.00
43.00
Amount spent during the year
-
-
i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
-
-
ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above
100.00
43.00
Details related to spent / unspent obligations:
i)	
Contribution to public trust
-
-
ii)	 Contribution to charitable trust
-
-
iii)	 Unspent amount in relation to:
-
-
	
- Ongoing project
-
-
	
- Other than ongoing project
-
-
Note for other than ongoing project:
In case of Section 135(5) 
(Other than ongoing project)
Opening balance
	
With Company
-
-
	
In separate CSR unspent account
-
-
	
Amount deposited in specified fund of Schedule VII within 6 
months
-
-
	
Amount required to be spent during the year
-
-
	
Amount spent during the year
	
From Company’s bank A/c
-
-
	
From separate CSR unspent a/c
-
-
Closing balance
	
With Company
-
-
	
In separate CSR unspent account
-
-
	
Details of related party transactions (refer note 38(a))
	
Company has made contributions to Max India foundation to fulfil its corporate social responsibilities. Max India 
Foundation supports programs in the areas of education, rural development, healthcare, arts and culture, and 
destitute care.
	
There are no ongoing projects for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
28.	Other comprehensive income
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans (refer note 32(i))
 5.45 
 (12.90)
Income tax effect
 (1.37)
 3.25 
 4.08 
 (9.65)
321
320
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
29	Earning Per Share
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Basic EPS
Profit after tax (₹ in lakhs) (a)
28,090.14
2,332.03
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year 
(Nos.)# (b)
15,51,86,044
14,70,91,330
Basic earnings per share (₹) (a/b)
18.10
1.59
Dilutive EPS
Profit after tax (₹ in lakhs) (a)
28,179.75
2,383.75
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year 
for dilutive earnings per share (Nos) (b)
15,60,01,886
-
Diluted earnings per share (₹)* (a/b)
18.06
1.59
*since there is losses during the previous year, there is anti dilution- hence diluted earning per share is not separately reported.
#The weighted average number of shares takes into account the weighted average effect of changes in share transactions during 
the year.
30.	Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are :
(a)	 Statement of profit and loss :
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current income tax :
Current tax
5,081.35
184.51
Adjustment of current tax related to earlier years
144.98
156.09
Sub total (a)
5,226.33
340.60
Deferred tax :
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
584.61
(908.38)
Sub total (b)
584.61
(908.38)
Income tax expense charged in the statement of profit and loss 
(a+b)
5,810.94
(567.78)
(b)	 OCI section :
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Tax on items recognised in OCI On remeasurement of defined 
benefit plans
(1.37)
3.25
(c)	 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's domestic tax 
rate for March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Accounting profit before tax
33,901.08
1,764.25
Accounting profit before income tax
33,901.08
1,764.25
At India's statutory income tax rate of 25.17 % 
(March 31, 2024: 25.17 %)
8,532.22
444.03
Non-Taxable Income for tax purposes:
Guarantee fees
(80.19)
(28.37)
Non-Taxable Income for tax purposes
(65.25)
(186.60)
Non-deductible expense for tax purposes:
Non deductible tax expense
69.86
31.80
Impact of items taxed at different rate
(2,804.92)
-
Deferred tax created on brought forward losses and unabsorbed 
depreciation and others
-
(979.24)
Adjustment of current tax related to earlier years
144.98
156.09
Others
14.24
(5.49)
At the effective income tax rate
5,810.94
(567.78)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
5,810.94
(567.78)
Total tax expense
5,810.94
(567.78)
a.	
Deferred tax relates to the following:
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
41.26
33.78
Effect of right of use asset and fair valuation of financial instrument
1,189.06
1,270.07
Deferred tax on Compulsorily convertible debentures
4,606.69
4,363.75
Gross deferred tax liabilities (a)
5,837.02
5,667.60
Effect of expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss 
in the current year/earlier years but allowed for tax purposes in 
following years
9.10
12.02
Effect of lease liabilities and discounting of security deposits
1,075.83
1,232.44
Effect of expenditure debited to the statement of profit and loss 
in the current year/earlier years but allowed for tax purposes on 
payment basis
81.39
62.30
Effect of business losses (refer b below)
132.54
937.62
Gross deferred tax assets (b)
1,298.86
2,244.37
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (a-b)
(4,538.15)
(3,423.23)
b.	
Year on year break up of business losses
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount
Expiry A.Y.
As at March 31, 2025
 526.62 
 2029-30 
Assessment Year
2021-22
Amount
Expiry A.Y.
As at March 31, 2024
Assessment Year
2021-22
 1,159.45 
 2029-30 
2020-21
 1,223.84 
 2028-29 
2019-20
 1,342.13 
 2027-28 
323
322
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
c.	
Reconciliation of deferred tax (liabilities )/assets :
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 (3,423.23)
 205.07 
Tax expense during the year recognised in statement of profit and 
loss
 (584.61)
 908.38 
Tax expense during the year recognised in OCI
 (1.37)
 3.25 
Recognition of deferred tax liability on CCD
 (528.94)
 (4,539.93)
Closing balance
 (4,538.15)
 (3,423.23)
	
The company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax 
assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes 
levied by the same tax authority.
31	Commitments and contingencies
i)	
Capital commitments
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account and not accounted for
 33.72 
 23.87 
Less: Capital Advances
 -   
 -   
Net Commitment
 33.72 
 23.87 
Note:
a.	
During the current financial year, the Company obtained approval from the Hon’ble National Company Law 
Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on October 25, 2024 under the approved resolution plan, for the acquisition of 
Boulevard Projects Private Limited (BPPL) and development of BPPL’s mixed-use plot located in NOIDA. 
The acquisition was completed subsequent to the year-end, on April 23, 2025, consequently BPPL became 
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As at March 31, 2025, the Company has capital commitments 
of ₹1,33,486 lakhs, including ₹60,290.40 lakhs payable through allotment of flats to allottees. The balance 
₹73,196.09 lakhs is to be settled in cash towards banks, authorities, and other creditors.
ii)	 Contingent liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Bank Guarantee
 5,000.00 
 5,000.00 
Uttarakhand VAT
 21.24 
 21.24 
Note:
a.	
The Company has given a bank guarantee of ₹5,000.00 lakhs issued by IDFC First Bank Limited (March 31, 
2024 - ₹5,000.00 lakhs IDFC First Bank Limited) in favor of Acre 133 Trust, Asset Care and Reconstruction 
Enterprise Limited (March 31, 2024 - Acre 133 Trust, Asset Care and Reconstruction Enterprise Limited ) for 
bid submitted for Delhi One project.
b.	
The Company has received a notice under Section 25(7) of the Value Added Tax Act, 2005 for the assessment 
year (AY) 2016-17. The Company declared a taxable turnover of ₹3,261.22 lakhs after accounting for ₹4,024.49 
lakhs in expenses. The notice indicates that the deduction of expenses is allowed on the percentage of 
advance received of the total consideration. The expenses above such proportionate amount were disallowed 
and a revised taxable income is ₹325.55 lakhs was calculated, leading to a demand of ₹21.24 lakhs for the 
shortfall in tax payment. The Company has replied to the above order and has assessed that it is only possible, 
but not probable, that outflow of economic resources will be required. Hence, no impact thereof has been 
taken in these Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
iii)	 Financial guarantee
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Guarantees to banks against credit facilities extended to group 
companies
 81,998.13 
 63,754.11 
	
Guarantee given by the Company on behalf of its subsidiaries are as follows:
	
a)	
Max Square Limited - loan of ₹21,998.13 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹25,925.66) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 
31, 2025 - ₹40,000.00 lakhs from Axis Bank).
	
b)	
Max 128 Limited loan of ₹45,000.00 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Nil) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2025 
₹45,000.00 lakhs) from Standard Chartered Bank and Standard Chartered Capital Limited and on Aditya 
Birla Finance Bank - guarantee Nil (March 31, 2024: 7,397.09 lakhs) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2025 
Nil).
	
c)	
Acreage Builders Private Limited 15,000.00 (March 31, 2024: ₹Nil ) (Sanctioned limit as at March 31, 2025 
₹80,000.00 lakhs) from SBI, ICICI and Axis Bank respectively.
	
d)	
Max Towers Private Limited loan ₹ Nil guarantee (March 31, 2024: ₹23,969.12 lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at 
March 31, 2025 Nil) from HDFC Bank Limited and Bajaj Housing Finance Limited.
	
e)	
Pharmax Corporation Limited loan Nil guarantee (March 31, 2024: ₹6,462.24 lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at 
March 31, 2025 Nil) from IDFC First Bank Limited.
32	Investment in subsidiaries
(a)	
These financial statement are separate financial statements prepared in accordance with Ind AS-27” Separate 
Financial Statements”.
(b)	 The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are as under:
Name of the Subsidiary
Country of 
incorporation
Portion of 
ownership interest 
as at March 31, 2025
Portion of 
ownership interest 
as at March 31, 2024
Method used to 
account for the 
investment
Max Towers Private Limited
India
51%
100%
At Cost
Max Square Limited
India
51%
51%
Pharmax Corporation Limited
India
51%
100%
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
India
100%
100%
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
India
100%
100%
Acreage Builders Private Limited
India
51%
51%
Max I Limited
India
100%
100%
Max Asset Services Limited
India
100%
100%
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly know as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
India
60%
100%
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
India
100%
100%
325
324
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
32
(i)	 Gratuity
	
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Under Gratuity Plan, every employee who has completed five 
years or more of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 days of last drawn salary for each completed year 
of service.
	
The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the act, employee who has completed 
five years of service is entitled to specific benefit. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length 
of service and salary at retirement age.
	
Description of Risk exposures
	
Valuations are based on certain assumptions, which are dynamic in nature and vary over time. As such company 
is exposed to various risks as follow:
	
i)	
Salary Increases- Actual salary increases will increase the Plan’s liability. Increase in salary increase rate 
assumption in future valuations will also increase the liability.
	
ii)	
Discount Rate : Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can increase the plan’s liability.
	
iii)	 Mortality & disability – Actual deaths & disability cases proving lower or higher than assumed in the valuation 
can impact the liabilities.
	
iv)	 Investment Risk – If Plan is funded then assets liabilities mismatch & actual investment return on assets 
lower than the discount rate assumed at the last valuation date can impact the liability.
	
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit 
or loss and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
a)	
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of defined benefit obligation
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of the year
118.71
120.50
Interest expense
8.42
6.09
Current service cost
31.03
23.53
Benefit paid
(2.35)
(3.69)
Acquisition adjustment
-
(40.62)
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss in other comprehensive income
(5.45)
12.90
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
-
-
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
2.74
-
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
(8.20)
12.90
Defined benefit obligation at year end
150.35
118.71
b)	 Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of plan assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
 -   
 -   
Fair value of plan assets at year end
 -   
 -   
c)	
Net defined benefit asset/ (liability) recognized in the balance sheet
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets
Present value of defined benefit obligation
150.35
118.71
Amount recognized in balance sheet- liability
150.35
118.71
d)	 Net defined benefit expense (recognized in the statement of profit and loss for the year )
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current service cost
 31.03 
 23.53 
Interest cost on benefit obligation
 8.42 
 6.09 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of profit 
and loss 
 39.45 
 29.61 
e)	
Remeasurement (gain)/loss recognised in other comprehensive income
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 2.74 
 -   
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience adjustments
 (8.20)
 12.90 
Recognised in other comprehensive income
 (5.45)
 12.90 
f)	
Broad categories of plan assets as a percentage of total assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Insurer managed funds
0%
0%
g)	 Principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.87%
7.09%
Salary escalation rate
10.00%
10.00%
Mortality Rate (% of IALM 12-14)
100.00%
100.00%
Attrition at Ages
Up to 30 years
5.00%
5.00%
From 31 to 44 years
3.00%
3.00%
Above 44 years
2.00%
2.00%
h)	 Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions is as below:
	
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligations at the end of the year
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
Increase by 0.50%
(6.49)
(4.28)
Decrease by 0.50%
7.14
4.72
Salary growth rate
Increase by 0.50%
6.90
4.56
Decrease by 0.50%
(6.34)
(4.19)
327
326
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
i)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 15.74 Years 
(March 31, 2024 : 15.71 years)
j)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, 
seniority, promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market. The 
above information is as certified by the Actuary.
k)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet 
date for the estimated term of the obligations.
l)	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined 
benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting year.
m)	 Risk Exposure: Valuations are performed on certain basic set of pre-determined assumptions and other 
regulatory framework which may vary over time. Thus, the Company is exposed to various risks in providing the 
above gratuity benefit which are as follows:
	
Interest Rate risk: The plan exposes the Company to the risk of fall in interest rates. A fall in interest rates will 
result in an increase in the ultimate cost of providing the above benefit and will thus result in an increase in the 
value of the liability (as shown in financial statements).
	
Liquidity Risk: This is the risk that the Company is not able to meet the short-term gratuity payouts. This may 
arise due to non availability of enough cash / cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid assets 
not being sold in time.
	
Salary Escalation Risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan is calculated with the assumption of salary 
increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan participants 
from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the present value of obligation will have a bearing on the 
plan’s liability.
	
Demographic Risk: The Company has used certain mortality and attrition assumptions in valuation of the liability. 
The Company is exposed to the risk of actual experience turning out to be worse compared to the assumption.
n)	
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
(₹ in lakhs)
Year
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
0 to 1 Year 
2,80,587
2,37,777
1 to 2 Year 
3,61,710
2,89,921
2 to 3 Year 
3,76,055
2,97,245
3 to 4 Year 
3,71,370
3,01,987
4 to 5 Year 
3,76,135
2,85,896
5 to 6 Year 
3,62,990
2,81,888
6 Year onwards
1,29,06,599
1,01,76,315
33	Pursuant to the binding MoU signed with New York Life Insurance Company (NYL) for investment in Max 
Towers Private Limited (MTPL) and Pharmax Corporation Limited (PCL), subsidiaries of the Company, NYL has 
subscribed to and acquired shares in both MTPL and PCL by entering in Securities Purchase and Subscription 
agreement and Shareholding agreement in the current year are as follows:
(₹ in lakhs)
MTPL
PCL
Consideration paid by NYL for fresh issue of shares
5,674.11
3,515.84
Consideration paid by NYL to purchase existing shares from MEL
13,871.58
16,078.54
19,545.69
19,594.38
34	Segment reporting
The Company’s business activities which are primarily real estate development through its subsidiaries and related 
activities falls within a single reportable segment as the management of the Company views the entire business 
activities as real estate development. Accordingly, there are no additional disclosures to be furnished in accordance 
with the requirement of Ind AS 108 – Operating Segments with respect to single reportable segment. Further, the 
operations of the Company are domiciled in India and therefore there are no reportable geographical segment.
35	Employee Stock Option Plan
Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023 (ESOP Plan 2023):
The Company has constituted an “Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023” (‘ESOP Plan 2023’) which have 
been approved by the Board in the meeting held on July 31, 2023 and by shareholders of the Company in its annual 
general meeting held on December 22, 2023 generally based on similar terms and conditions to the relevant ESOP 
plan of erstwhile Holding Company, Max Ventures and Industries Limited, which was merged into the Company 
pursuant to the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement. The ESOP Plan 2023 provides for grant of 
stock options aggregating not more than 5% of number of issued equity shares of the Company to eligible employees 
of the Company and to the eligible employees of the group company(ies), including subsidiary company(ies) and/or 
associate company(ies) (present or future) of the Company. The ESOP Plan 2023 is administered by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee constituted by the Board of Directors. The ESOP Plan 2023 gives an option to the 
employee to purchase the share at a price determined by Nomination and Remuneration committee (NRC) subject 
to minimum par value of shares (₹10/-).
The details of activity under the scheme are summarized below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of options
Weighted Average
Number of options
Weighted Average
exercise price (₹)
exercise price (₹)
Outstanding at the start of the 
year
8,33,074
36.63
7,68,254
30.59
Options granted during the year
1,98,320
171.60
96,279
95.33
Forfeited during the year
22,994
97.70
1,26,263
44.43
Exercised during the year
4,85,559
27.38
30,918
12.90
Outstanding at the end
5,22,841
93.73
8,33,074
36.63
Exercisable at the end
1,24,590
22.41
2,87,672
22.47
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was 26.93 per share. 
(March 31, 2024 : ₹12.90)
Prior to consummation to of above transaction, the Company converted its investment in compulsory convertible 
preference shares of PCL in equity shares and post consummation Company now holds 51% and NYL holds 49% 
of the share capital of MTPL and PCL. Consequently, During the current year, the Company has accounted a gain 
of ₹21,889.39 lakhs on its direct sale of shares to NYL and corresponding capital gain tax of ₹3,268.04 lakhs 
under the head other income and current tax, respectively.
Further as a precondition to the aforesaid transaction, the Company has also sold its ownership in Max House 
A to Pharmax Corporation Limited (a subsidiary Company) for a consideration of ₹12,500 lakhs in the quarter 
ended September 30, 2024. Accordingly in current year, the Company has recognised a gain of ₹5,621.06 lakhs 
and corresponding capital gain tax of ₹851.03 lakhs under the head other income and current tax, respectively 
for this transaction.
329
328
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
The following tables list the inputs to the models used for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024, respectively
For March 31,2025
Particulars
Grant 
Type III
Grant 
Type IV
Grant 
Type VI
Grant 
Type VII
Grant 
Type VIII
Grant 
Type IX
Weighted average fair values at the 
measurement date
12.90
37.01
68.00
140.51
137.88
355.02
Dividend yield (%)
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility (%)
46.58%
47.04%
49.22%
54.11%
51.55%
40.53%
Risk–free interest rate (%)
5.39%
5.65%
6.99%
7.22%
6.77%
6.92%
Model used
Black-Scholes Pricing Model
For March 31,2024
Particulars
Grant 
Type III
Grant 
Type IV
Grant 
Type VI
Grant 
Type VII
Grant 
Type VIII
Weighted average fair values at the measurement date
12.90
37.01
68.00
140.51
137.88
Dividend yield (%)
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility (%)
46.58%
45.50%
51.92%
57.93%
53.19%
Risk–free interest rate (%)
5.39%
5.32%
6.80%
7.08%
6.75%
Model used
Black-Scholes Pricing Model
36	A. Fair Value of Financial instruments
	
The comparison of carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories that are not measured at 
fair value are as follows:
(₹ In lakhs)
Category
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
1)	 Financial asset at amortized cost
	
Non Current
	
Other financial assets
3,408.59
3,708.53
3,408.59
3,708.53
	
Other bank balances
624.38
611.06
624.38
611.06
	
Current
	
Loans
57,195.54
18,238.99
57,195.54
18,238.99
	
Other financial assets
285.65
1,214.47
285.65
1,214.47
	
Trade receivables
2,107.43
1,102.15
2,107.43
1,102.15
	
Cash and cash equivalents
95.69
150.29
95.69
150.29
	
Bank balances
32,617.63
1,710.99
32,617.63
1,710.99
2)	 Financial asset measured at fair value
	
Investment (current)
35,578.17
412.03
35,578.17
412.03
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024 are as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of options
Weighted average
Number of options
Weighted average
remaining life in 
years
remaining life in 
years
04-06-2020 (Grant Type II)
96,728
-
4,05,129
0.17
04-06-2020 (Grant Type III)
25,637
0.25
78,733
1.17
25-07-2022 (Grant Type V)
1,41,667
1.32
2,43,692
2.32
08-11-2022 (Grant Type VI)
6,121
1.61
12,239
2.61
19-05-2023 (Grant Type VII)
57,564
2.13
93,281
3.13
22-05-2024 (Grant Type VIII)
1,95,124
3.14
-
-
	
The management has assessed fair valuation of above balances by considering nature, maturity, reset terms, 
interest rate movement over period, and any other relevant factor to that financial instrument. Basis this and 
in view of the fact, majority of above mentioned financial instrument have short term maturity or reset period, 
their carrying value is assessed to be not materially different to respective fair value.
B.	 Fair value hierarchy
	
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments 
by valuation technique:
	
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, 
either directly or indirectly.
	
Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on 
observable market data.
(i)	 Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on March 
31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2025
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Other financial assets
3,408.59
-
-
3,408.59
Other bank balances
624.38
624.38
Current
Loans
57,195.54
-
- 57,195.54
Investment
35,578.17
35,578.17
-
-
Other financial assets
285.65
-
-
285.65
Trade receivables
2,107.43
-
-
2,107.43
Cash and cash equivalents
95.69
Bank balances
32,617.63
-
- 32,617.63
(₹ In lakhs)
Category
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
3)	 Financial liabilities at amortized cost
	
Non Current
	
Borrowings
10.23
9,161.52
10.23
9,161.52
	
Lease liabilities
3,430.90
4,142.53
3,430.90
4,142.53
	
Other non current financial liabilities
1,323.76
1,289.16
1,323.76
1,289.16
	
Current
	
Borrowings
1,063.97
6,893.29
1,063.97
6,893.29
	
Lease liabilities
713.05
613.81
713.05
613.81
	
Other financial liabilities
729.45
798.14
729.45
798.14
	
Trade payables
686.25
387.73
686.25
387.73
331
330
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(ii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on March 31, 
2024
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2024
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Other financial assets 
 3,708.53 
 - 
 - 
 3,708.53 
Other bank balances
 611.06 
 - 
 - 
 611.06 
Current
Loans
 18,238.99 
 - 
 -  18,238.99 
Investment 
 412.03 
 412.03 
 - 
 - 
Other financial assets 
 1,214.47 
 - 
 - 
 1,214.47 
Trade receivables
 1,102.15 
 - 
 - 
 1,102.15 
Cash and cash equivalents
 150.29 
 - 
 - 
 150.29 
Bank balances 
 1,710.99 
 - 
 - 
 1,710.99 
(iii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on 
March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2025
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Borrowings
 10.23 
 - 
 - 
 10.23 
Lease liabilities
 3,430.90 
 - 
 - 
 3,430.90 
Other non current financial liabilities
 1,323.76 
 - 
 - 
 1,323.76 
Current
Borrowings
 1,063.97 
 - 
 - 
 1,063.97 
Lease liabilities
 713.05 
 - 
 - 
 713.05 
Other financial liabilities
 729.45 
 - 
 - 
 729.45 
Trade payables
 686.25 
 - 
 - 
 686.25 
(iv) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on 
March 31, 2024
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2024
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Borrowings
 9,161.52 
 - 
 - 
 9,161.52 
Lease liabilities
 4,142.53 
 - 
 - 
 4,142.53 
Other non current financial liabilities
 1,289.16 
 - 
 - 
 1,289.16 
Current
Borrowings
 6,893.29 
 - 
 - 
 6,893.29 
Lease liabilities
 613.81 
 - 
 - 
 613.81 
Other financial liabilities
 798.14 
 - 
 - 
 798.14 
Trade payables
 387.73 
 - 
 - 
 387.73 
37	Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company’s has instituted an overall risk management programme which also focuses on the unpredictability 
of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Company's financial performance. The 
Corporate Finance department, evaluates financial risks in close co-operation with the various stakeholders.
The Company is exposed to capital risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are managed pro-actively 
by the Senior Management of the Company, duly supported by various Groups and Committees.
a)	 Capital risk
	
The Company's objective when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns to its shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to provide for sufficient capital 
expansion. The capital structure of the Company consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in 
notes 13 and 18(i), cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 10(iii) and equity as disclosed in the statement 
of financial position.
b)	 Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The 
Company employees prudent liquidity risk management practices which inter alia means maintaining sufficient 
cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit 
facilities. Given the nature of the underlying businesses, the corporate finance maintains flexibility in funding by 
maintaining availability under committed credit lines and this way liquidity risk is mitigated by the availability of 
funds to cover future commitments. Cash flow forecasts are prepared not only for the entities but the Group as 
a whole and the utilized borrowing facilities are monitored on a daily basis and there is adequate focus on good 
management practices whereby the collections are managed efficiently. The Company while borrowing funds for 
large capital project, negotiates the repayment schedule in such a manner that these match with the generation 
of cash on such investment. Longer term cash flow forecasts are updated from time to time and reviewed by the 
Investment and Performance Review Committee of the Board.
	
The table below represents the maturity profile of Company's financial liabilities at the end of March 31, 2024 
and March 31, 2025 based on contractual undiscounted payments :-
	
March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
0-1 Years
1-5 Years
More than 
5 Years
Total
Interest bearing borrowings
13.97
10.23
-
24.20
Interest free loan
1,050.00
1,050.00
Trade payable
686.25
-
-
686.25
Other financial liabilities
729.45
1,323.76
-
2,053.21
	
March 31, 2024
(₹ In lakhs)
0-1 Years
1-5 Years
More than 
5 Years
Total
Interest bearing borrowings
676.29
3,084.20
6,077.32
9,837.81
Interest free loan
6,217.00
-
-
6,217.00
Trade payable
387.73
-
-
387.73
Other financial liabilities
798.14
1,289.16
-
2,087.30
	
*Lease liability maturity profile has been disclosed under note 4
333
332
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
c)	 Credit risk
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or customer 
contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily 
trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions 
and other financial instruments.
(i)	 Trade receivables
	
Customer credit risk is managed subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control relating to 
customer credit risk management. Management evaluate credit risk relating to customers on an ongoing basis. 
Receivable control management team assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial 
position, past experience and other factors. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any 
shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance. An 
impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on Company category basis. The calculation is based 
on exchange losses historical data and available facts as on date of evaluation. Trade receivables comprise a 
widespread customer base. The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as 
low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
(ii)	 Financial instruments and cash deposit
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department 
in accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other 
risk free securities. The limits are set to minimize the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss 
through counter party’s potential failure to make payments. Credit limits of all authorities are reviewed by the 
management on regular basis. All balances with banks and financial institutions is subject to low credit risk due 
to good credit ratings assigned to the Company.
d)	 Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market prices. Market risks comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk and 
other price risks, such as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market 
risks include loans and borrowings, deposits, investments and foreign currency receivables and payables. The 
sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025. 
The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on; the carrying values of gratuity and other 
post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The sensitivity of the relevant 
Profit and Loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective market risks. This is based on the 
financial assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2025.
(i)	 Interest rate risk
	
Interest rate is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates 
primarily to the Company’s long term debt obligation at fixed interest rate.
(₹ in lakhs)
Period
Increase/decrease 
in interest rate
Impact on profit 
before tax
March 31,2025
0.50%
0.12
March 31,2024
0.50%
49.19
(ii)	 Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange 
rates relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when revenue, expense or capital expenditure is 
denominated in foreign currency). Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing 
of goods in foreign currency. The Company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency 
transactions and follows established risk management policies. The Company does not have any material foreign 
currency risk as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
(iii)	 Price risk
	
The Company’s exposure to price risk arises from investments held and classified as FVTPL and FVOCI. To manage 
the price risk arising from investments in mutual funds, the Company diversifies its portfolio of assets.
38	Related party disclosures
A.
Names of related parties where control exists irrespective of whether transactions have 
taken place or not
(i)
Subsidiary companies
a
Pharmax Corporation Limited
b
Max Square Limited
c
Max I. Limited
d
Max Asset Services Limited
e
Max Towers Private Limited
f
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
g
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
h
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
i
Max Estates Noida Private Limited (Formerly known as Astiki Realty Private Limited)
j
Acreage Builders Private Limited
B.
Names of other related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year
(i)
Key management personnel
a
Mr. Sahil Vachani
b
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal (Chief Financial Officer)
c
Mr. Abhishek Mishra (Company Secretary)
(ii) Other Non-Executive/Independent Directors
a
Mr. Analjit Singh (Director)
b
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
c
Mr. Niten Malhan
d
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
e
Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy
f
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo – Young (Alternate Director to Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy)
g
Mr. Atul Behari Lall (w.e.f. 27-Mar-24)
h
Ms. Malini Thadani (w.e.f.22-May 2024)
i
Ms. Ira Gupta (w.e.f 27-Mar-25)
335
334
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(iii) Entities controlled or jointly controlled by person or entities where person has significantly 
influence
a
Max Ventures Private Limited
b
Piveta Estates Private Limited
c
New Delhi House Services Limited
d
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
e
Max India Limited
f
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
g
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
h
New York Life Insurance Company
i
Riga Foods LLP
j
Max Financial Services Limited
k
Vanaveda Lifestyle Private Limited
l
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
m
Analjit Singh HUF
n
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
o
Mr. Arjunjit Singh
p
Trophy Estates Private Limited
q
Vstar Ventures LLP
r
Max India Foundation
38	Related party disclosures
(a)	 Details of transactions and balance outstandings with related parties
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
Reimbursement of 
expenses (Received from)
Max Asset Services Limited
7.94
4.36
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
12.56
-
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
15.44
-
Acreage Builders Private Limited
2.21
-
Max Square Limited
2.41
-
Max Towers Private Limited
0.05
-
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
64.84
-
Pharmax Corporation Limited
34.73
-
Total
140.17
4.36
2
Reimbursement of 
expenses (Paid to)
Max Asset Services Limited
29.47
25.09
Max Financial Services Ltd
35.60
42.72
New Delhi House Services Limited
2.68
7.89
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
-
22.00
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
42.69
Riga Foods LLP
10.13
1.79
Nitin Kumar
3.94
6.65
Rishiraj
-
8.95
Antara Purukul Senior Living 
Limited
19.40
0.69
Total
101.24
158.47
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
3
Business Promotion
Antara Assisted Care Services 
Limited
1.76
1.74
Vanaveda Lifestyle Private Limited
1.69
0.69
Total
3.45
2.43
4
Income from 
shared services
Max Asset Services Limited
55.00
-
Max I. Limited
-
1.60
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
66.75
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
1,471.44
793.96
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
544.45
882.88
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
173.00
-
Total
2,243.89
1,745.18
5
Other Income
Acreage Builders Private Limited
-
0.09
Max Asset Services Limited
-
0.22
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
-
0.16
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
-
0.40
Max I. Limited
-
0.12
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
0.07
Total
-
1.06
6
Asset Management Fees
Max Square Limited
37.92
-
Pharmax Corporation Limited
51.84
-
Max Towers Private Limited
61.70
-
Total
151.45
-
7
Shared services expenses Max India Limited
55.00
50.00
Total
55.00
50.00
8
Interest income 
from loans to 
subsidiary companies
Max I. Limited
26.81
48.19
Max Asset Services Limited
99.05
149.42
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
82.38
Total
208.24
197.61
9
Repair & Maintenance
New Delhi House Services Limited
140.09
98.26
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
19.74
-
Max Asset Services Limited
83.92
45.69
Vstar Ventures LLP
1.70
-
Total
243.75
143.95
10
Lease payments
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
538.97
531.67
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
49.06
60.00
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
37.50
37.50
Vstar Ventures LLP
9.46
-
Max India Limited
463.57
115.89
Total
1,098.56
745.06
11
Directors’ sitting fees*
Analjit Singh
12.00
11.00
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
22.00
24.00
Gauri Padmanabhan
17.00
16.00
Niten Malhan
21.00
22.00
Avani Vishal Davda
1.00
2.00
337
336
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Atul Behari Lall
12.00
-
Manali Thakur
9.00
-
Ira Gupta
1.00
-
Total
95.00
75.00
12
Security deposit received
Max Asset Services Limited
-
10.61
Total
-
10.61
13
Security deposit paid
Max India Limited
-
115.89
Total
-
115.89
14
Rent received
Max Asset Services Limited
56.29
94.63
Total
56.29
94.63
15
Insurance
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
8.06
12.01
Total
8.06
12.01
16
Usage of Brand
Max India Limited
0
9.00
Total
0
9.00
17
Key managerial 
remuneration - short 
term#
Sahil Vachani
428.93
360.87
Nitin Kumar Kansal
400.50
113.52
Abhishek Mishra
39.04
27.03
Total
868.47
501.42
18
Loan taken
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
7,913.00
4,669.82
Total
7,913.00
4,669.82
19
Loan repayment
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
13,080.00
4,796.75
Total
13,080.00
4,796.75
20
Brokerage income
Max Square Limited
20.89
-
Total
20.89
-
21
Interest Income 
on compulsory 
convertible debentures
Max Square Limited
2,367.80
-
Acreage Builders Private Limited
1,456.29
765.01
Total
3,824.09
765.01
22
Interest Income on non-
convertible debentures
Max Towers Private Limited
259.27
644.49
Total
259.27
644.49
23
Guarantee fees
Pharmax Corporation Limited
15.45
7.56
Max Square Limited
27.39
69.47
Max Towers Private Limited
180.62
15.20
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
89.03
20.50
Acreage Builders Private Limited
6.13
-
Total
318.62
112.73
24
Loan repayment received
Max Towers Private Limited
399.59
902.00
Pharmax Corporation Limited
7,435.91
1,344.95
Max Asset Services Limited
851.34
1,014.57
Max I. Limited
65.00
276.27
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
3,283.70
2,700.00
Acreage Builders Private Limited
-
4,730.54
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
2,000.00
-
Total
14,035.55
10,968.34
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
25
Developer Manager 
fee Income
Max Square Limited
205.80
143.36
Acreage Builders Private Limited
247.08
77.18
Total
452.88
220.54
26
Management fee 
(included in Legal & 
Professional expenses)
Analjit Singh
300.00
300.00
Total
300.00
300.00
27
Corporate social 
responsibility 
expenditure
Max India Foundation
100.00
43.00
Total
100.00
43.00
28
Rent paid
Max Asset Services Limited
3.39
3.20
Pharmax Corporation Limited
84.50
-
Total
87.89
3.20
29
Investment in equity
Max Towers Private Limited
-
5,482.50
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
-
10.00
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
4,220.18
0.10
Total
4,220.18
5,492.60
30
Investment in 
Compulsory 
Convertible debentures
Max Square Limited
-
5,482.50
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
3,550.00
-
Acreage Builders Private Limited
2,218.46
8,141.10
Total
5,768.46
13,623.60
31
Sale of Investment/Asset
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited
29,950.12
-
Pharmax Corporation Limited
12,500.00
-
Total
42,450.12
-
32
Unwinding of loan
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
96.91
Total
-
96.91
33
Redemption of Non- 
Convertible Debentures
Max Towers Private Limited
 7,471.81 
 -   
Total
 7,471.81 
 -   
34
Loan given
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
7,590.00
8,884.00
Max Asset Services Limited
230.00
300.00
Max I. Limited
40.00
29.00
Pharmax Corporation Limited
2,980.60
1,706.00
Max Towers Private Limited
20.00
421.59
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
13,366.00
-
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
29,090.17
-
Total
53,316.77
11,534.41
	
#Expenses towards gratuity provisions are determined by actuary on an overall Company basis at the end of each year and, 
accordingly have not been considered in the above information.
	
*Including sitting fees of ₹5 lakhs which were related to expense incurred for Qualified Instituational Placement
339
338
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(b)	 Balances outstanding at year end	
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Trade Receivables
Max Asset Services Limited
57.62
9.99
Piveta Estates Private Limited
3.46
9.12
Max I. Limited
3.45
2.57
Antara Purukul Senior Living 
Limited
-
0.28
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
1,132.36
237.60
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
89.77
253.80
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
186.84
-
Max Square Limited
198.83
-
Acreage Builders Private Limited
290.04
386.96
Pharmax Corporation Limited
58.56
49.13
Max Towers Private Limited
74.38
70.54
Trophy Estate Private Limited
-
18.33
Analjit Singh HUF
9.17
9.17
Mr. Analjit Singh
-
52.80
Total
2,104.47
1,100.28
2
Advance to party
Vana Enterprise Limited
4.18
-
Total
4.18
-
3
Interest Accrued on 
Loan Receivable
Max Asset Services Limited
63.46
490.89
Max I. Limited
20.45
0.08
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
82.38
-
Total
166.29
490.97
4
Trade payables and 
Capital Creditors
Analjit Singh
1.22
-
Malini Thadani
0.90
-
IRA GUPTA
0.90
-
Mr. Niten Malhan
1.83
-
Mr. D.K. Mittal
3.60
-
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
3.60
-
Abhishek Mishra
3.65
-
Vstar Ventures LLP
3.34
-
Riga Foods LLP
6.18
-
Max Venture Investment Holding 
Private Limited
-
5.39
New Delhi House Services Limited
35.07
10.44
Max India Limited
59.28
19.44
Max Financial Services Limited
11.63
1.69
Total
131.20
36.95
5
Advance from 
related party
Max Ventures Private Limited
7.94
8.65
Max Towers Private Limited
0.05
-
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
-
1.24
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
64.83
0.10
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
12.56
3.83
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
43.63
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
15.43
5.17
Max Square Limited
2.41
8.04
Acreage Builders Private Limited
2.22
-
Max I. Limited
-
26.33
Total
105.44
96.99
6
Loan
Max Towers Private Limited
-
379.59
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
4,455.31
Max Asset Services Limited
656.35
1,277.69
Max I. Limited
250.43
275.44
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
15,666.30
11,360.00
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
13,366.00
-
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
27,090.17
-
Total
57,029.25
17,748.02
7
Investment 
in Debentures
Max Asset Services Limited
2,214.00
2,214.00
Max I. Limited
2,106.96
2,106.96
Max Square Limited - deemed 
equity
339.61
339.61
Max Asset Services Limited - 
deemed equity
13.02
13.02
Max Estates 128 Private Limited - 
deemed equity
188.66
57.82
Max Towers Private Limited - 
deemed equity
307.07
388.70
Pharmax Corporation Limited - 
deemed equity
255.97
444.77
Acreage Builders Private Limited - 
deemed equity
122.81
-
Total
5,548.10
5,564.88
8
Security deposit made
Max Asset Services Limited
-
21.90
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
244.30
244.30
Delhi Guest House Limited
15.00
15.00
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
9.37
9.37
Max India Limited
115.89
115.89
Total
384.56
406.46
9
Investment outstanding
Max Towers Private Limited
4,753.01
6,506.00
Max Square Limited
11,093.00
11,093.00
Pharmax Corporation Limited
5,568.03
6,073.05
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
29,251.50
29,251.50
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
10.00
10.00
Max I Limited
5.00
5.00
Max Asset Services Limited
205.00
205.00
Acreage Builders Private Limited
15,002.75
15,002.75
Max Estates Noida Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Astiki Realty 
Private Limited)
4,220.28
0.10
Max Estate Gurgaon Two Limited
10.00
10.00
Total
70,118.57
68,156.40
341
340
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
10
Compulsorily 
convertible debentures
Max Square Limited
11,093.00
11,093.00
Acreage Builders Private Limited
10,359.56
8,141.10
Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited
3,550.00
-
Total
25,002.56
19,234.10
11
Non 
Convertible debentures
Max Towers Private Limited
-
8,987.25
Total
-
8,987.25
12
Compulsorily convertible 
preference shares
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
3,900.00
Total
-
3,900.00
13
Investment in 
Subsidiaries (Employee 
stock option to 
employees of 
subsidiaries)
Acreage Builders Private Limited
48.61
30.72
Max Square Limited
57.94
36.09
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
36.68
11.40
Max Asset Services Limited
23.39
9.55
Max Estate Gurgaon Two Limited
35.51
15.54
Total
202.13
103.30
14
Guarantee fees
Pharmax Corporation Limited
-
15.45
Max Square Limited
232.65
206.69
Max Towers Private Limited
105.34
234.83
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
64.05
30.69
Acreage Builders Private Limited
116.68
-
Total
518.72
487.66
15
Interest accrued on CCD
Max Square Limited
5,576.82
3,523.46
Acreage Builders Private Limited
1,947.25
672.17
Total
7,524.07
4,195.63
16
Loan Outstanding
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
1,050.00
6,217.00
Total
1,050.00
6,217.00
	
*Accounted in according with guidance on convertible instruement accounting under Ind AS
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
The Company has entered into above transactions with its related parties in the ordinary course of business and 
on an arm’s length basis. These transactions are all governed by commercially agreed terms and periodically 
reviewed to ensure compliance with arm’s length principles. Loans and advances to or from related parties are 
unsecured, provided based on business needs, and are repayable on demand, with interest, where applicable, 
charged or paid at market-comparable rates. Investments in related parties are made in the form of equity 
shares, debentures, compulsorily convertible debentures (CCDs), or preference shares and corporate guarantees, 
aligned with the Company’s strategic objectives and governed by the respective investment agreements or 
resolutions. Instruments such as CCDs and CCPS carry specific terms of conversion, coupon rates, and maturity, 
consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. Employee benefit expenses include costs of share-based 
payments under ESOP schemes extended to employees of subsidiaries, as accounted for under Ind AS 102. The 
remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) includes only short-term employee benefits as per Ind AS 19, 
and actuarially determined long-term benefits are not included in this disclosure.
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
39	Disclosure required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
(a)	 Particulars of Loans given:
(₹ In lakhs)
Sr. 
No
As on 
March 31, 2024
Loan given
Loan repaid
As on 
March 31, 2025
Purpose
1
Max Towers 
Private limited
379.59
20.00
399.59
-
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
2
Max Asset 
Services Limited
1,277.69
230.00
851.34
656.35
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
3
Max I. Limited
275.43
40.00
65.00
250.43
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
4
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
4,455.31
2,980.60
7,435.91
-
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
5
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Limited
11,360.00
7,590.00
3,283.70
15,666.30
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
6
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Two 
Limited
-
13,366.00
-
13,366.00
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
7
Max Estates 
Noida Private 
Limited
-
29,090.17
2,000.00
27,090.17
Operational Cash Flow 
requirement
17,748.02
53,316.77
14,035.55
57,029.25
(b)	 Particulars of Guarantee given (maximum possible exposure):
(₹ In lakhs)
Sr. 
No
Name of the 
financial 
institutions / 
banks/NBFC
As on 
March 31, 2024
Guarantee 
given
Guarantee 
discharged
As on 
March 31, 2025
Purpose
1
IDFC First 
Bank
6,462.24
-
6,462.24
-
Corporate guarantee has 
been given for loan taken 
by Pharmax Corporation 
Limited for construction of 
Max House Okhla.
2
Axis Bank
25,925.66
-
3,927.53
21,998.13
Corporate guarantee has 
been given for loan taken 
for business purpose by Max 
Square Limited, subsidiary.
3
HDFC Bank / 
Bajaj Housing 
Finance
23,969.12
-
23,969.12
-
Corporate guarantee has 
been given for loan taken 
for business purpose by 
Max Towers Private Limited, 
subsidiary.
4
Aditya Birla 
Finance 
Limited
7,397.09
-
7,397.09
-
Corporate guarantee has 
been given for loan taken 
for business purpose by Max 
Estates 128 Private Limited, 
subsidiary.
5
Standard 
Chartered 
Bank and 
Standard 
Chartered 
Capital 
Limited
45,000.00
45,000.00
Corporate guarantee has 
been given for loan taken 
for business purpose by Max 
Estates 128 Private Limited, 
subsidiary
6
SBI / ICICI 
Bank / Axis 
Bank
-
15,000.00
15,000.00
Corporate guarantee has 
been given for loan taken 
by Acreage Builders Private 
Limited for construction of 
Max 65
63,754.11
60,000.00
41,755.98
81,998.13
343
342
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(c )	Particulars of Investments made in equity:
(₹ In lakhs)
Sr. 
No
Name of the 
Investee
As on 
March 31, 2024
Investment 
made
Investment 
redeemed/
sold
As on 
March 31, 2025
Purpose
Investment 
in subsidiaries
1
Max Towers Private 
Limited
6,506.00
-
1,752.99
4,753.01
Strategic investment
2
Max Square Limited
11,093.00
-
-
11,093.00
Strategic investment
3
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
6,073.05
-
505.02
5,568.03
Strategic investment
4
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
15,002.75
-
-
15,002.75
Strategic investment
5
Max Asset Services 
Limited
205.00
-
-
205.00
Strategic investment
6
Max I. Limited
5.00
-
-
5.00
Strategic investment
7
Max Estates 128 
Private Limited
29,251.50
-
-
29,251.50
Strategic investment
8
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Limited
10.00
-
-
10.00
Strategic investment
9
Astiki Realty Private 
Limited
0.10
4,220.18
-
4,220.28
Strategic investment
10
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Two 
Limited
10.00
-
-
10.00
Strategic investment
68,156.40
4,220.18
2,258.01
70,118.57
(d)	 Particulars of Investments made in compulsorily convertible debentures and other:
(₹ In lakhs)
Sr. 
No
Name of the 
Investee
As on 
March 31, 2024
Investment 
made
Investment 
redeemed
As on 
March 31, 2025
Purpose
Investment 
in subsidiaries
1
Max Towers Private 
Limited
8,987.25
-
8,987.25
-
Strategic investment
2
Max Square Limited
11,093.00
-
-
11,093.00
Strategic investment
3
Max I. Limited
2,106.96
-
-
2,106.96
Strategic investment
4
Max Asset Services 
Limited
2,214.00
-
-
2,214.00
Strategic investment
5
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
8,141.10
2,218.46
-
10,359.56
Strategic investment
6
Max Estates 
Gurgoan Two 
Limited
-
3,550.00
-
3,550.00
Strategic investment
32,542.31
5,768.46
8,987.25
25,773.52
(e)	 Particulars of Investments made in Preference Shares
(₹ In lakhs)
Sr. 
No
Name of the Loanee
As on 
March 31, 2024
As on 
March 31, 2025
Purpose
1
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 3,900.00 
 - 
 Strategic investment 
40	As per the Investment and Finance Committee meeting held on September 03, 2024, the committee has 
approved the issue and allotment of 1,33,89,121 equity shares to 25 eligible qualified institutional buyers at the 
issue price of ₹597.50 per Equity Share, i.e. at a premium of ₹587.50 per Equity Share, which included a discount 
of 4.97% to the floor price aggregating to approximate ₹80,000 lakhs (Indian Rupees Eighty Thousand lakhs 
Only), pursuant to the Issue. Pursuant to the allotment of Equity Shares in the Issue, the paid-up equity share 
capital of the Company stands increased to ₹16,095.11 lakhs consisting of 1,609.51 lakhs Equity Shares.
	
The utilisation of QIP proceeds from fresh issue of ₹77,957.55 (net of expenses of ₹2,042.45 lakhs) is 
summarized below:
₹ In lakhs
Funds received
Utilized
Unutilized
Acquisition of land, interest in land and/or land development 
rights directly by the Company or indirectly through 
subsidiaries
65,000.00
32,843.64*
 32,156.36 
General corporate purpose
12,957.55
12,617.37
 340.63 
77,957.55
45,461.01
 32,496.99 
	
*includes amount unutilized of ₹5,638.41 lakhs which have been temporarily invested in mutual funds by the subsidiary and 
kept in it current account as at March 31, 2025.
	
Net Proceeds available for utilization of funds as on date have been temporarily invested in fixed deposits with 
scheduled bank and mutual funds and kept in current account with monitoring agency bank account.
	
Of the total QIP related expenses, ₹1,976.87 lakhs have been adjusted against Securities Premium as per Section 
52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
41	During the year, Investment and Finance Committee in its meeting held on October 29, 2024, approved 
the allotment of 22,83,104 Warrants to the below mentioned allottees at the issue price of ₹657/-under the 
provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018, as amended (the “ICDR Regulations”), and Sections 42 and 62 of the Companies Act, 2013 (including the 
rules made thereunder), as amended (the “Issue”).
Name of allottee
Category
No of 
convertible 
warrants
Price at which 
warrants are 
issued (₹)
Total amount 
for which 
securities 
issued 
(₹ In lakhs)
Consideration 
received 
(₹ In lakhs)
Max Ventures Investment 
Holding Private Limited
Promoter
11,41,552
657/-
7,500
1,875
Mr. Sunil Vachani
Public
11,41,552
657/-
7,500
1,875
22,83,104
15,000
3,750
	
Each Warrant is convertible into one fully paid-up Equity Share of ₹10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each on payment of 
the balance 75% of the total consideration. Further, the securities allotted on a preferential basis shall be subject 
to such lock-in restriction as prescribed under the ICDR Regulations. The amount received till date against the 
warrants has been recorded as “Shares Pending for allotment” as on March 31, 2025.
345
344
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
42	Ratio Analysis and its elements
(i)
Current Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
1273%
During the year, company has raised 
funds via Qualified Institutional 
Placement(QIP) and stake sale in 
subsidiary Company to New York Life 
resulting in substantial increase in 
ratio.
Current Asset
1,29,529.73
23,978.03
Current Liability
3,498.89
8,894.44
37.02
2.70
(ii)
Debt-Equity Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
-96%
During the year, company has 
repaid outstanding loans resulting in 
change in ratio.
Debt
1,074.20
16,054.81
Shareholder 
Equity
2,36,093.73
1,25,913.53
0.00
0.13
(iii)
Debt Services 
Coverage Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
Earnings available 
for debt services
35,481.60
3,701.28
-8%
During the year, company has sold 
stake in subsidiary company and also 
investment property resulting higher 
ratio.
Interest
884.60
1,411.07
Principal
22,817.11
862.58
1.50
1.63
(iv)
Return on Equity 
Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
542%
Net Income
28,090.14
2,332.03
Shareholder 
Equity
2,36,093.73
1,25,913.53
11.90%
1.85%
(v)
Cost of Goods sold/
sale
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
NA
NA
Average inventory
NA
NA
Inventory Turnover 
Ratio
NA
NA
(vi)
Trade Receivables 
Turnover Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
-26%
Better collection from receivables
Net Credit Sale
3,901.62
2,739.75
Closing Trade 
Receivable
2,107.43
1,102.15
1.85
2.49
(vii)
Trade Payable 
Turnover Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
NA
NA
Net Credit 
Purchase
NA
NA
Average Trade 
payable
NA
NA
NA
NA
(viii) Net Capital 
Turnover Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
-83%
During the year, company has raised 
funds via Qualified Institutional 
Placement (QIP) resulting in higher 
capital. Pending deployment of such 
capital has resulted in lower ratio for 
current year.
Net annual sale/
Revenue from 
Operation
4,109.86
2,937.36
Working Capital
1,26,030.84
15,083.59
0.03
0.19
(ix)
Net Profit Ratio
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
761%
During the year, company has sold 
stake in subsidiary company and also 
investment property resulting higher 
ratio.
Net Profit
28,090.14
2,332.03
Net annual sale/
Revenue from 
Operation
4,109.86
2,937.36
6.83
0.79
(x)
Return on Capital 
employed
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
Earning before 
interest and tax 
(EBIT)
34,785.68
3,175.32
543%
Capital Employed
2,45,544.32
1,44,046.30
14.17%
2.20%
(xi)
Return on 
Investment
As on 
March 31, 2025
As on 
March 31, 2024
Profit (PAT)
28,090.14
2,332.03
607%
Investment
2,45,544.32
1,44,046.30
11.44%
1.62%
43	Capital Management
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital attributable to the 
equity shareholders of the Group, securities premium and all other equity reserves. The primary objective of the 
Company’s capital management is that it maintain an efficient capital structure and maximize the shareholder value. 
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and 
the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, The Company may adjust the 
dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital 
using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Company’s policy is to keep the 
gearing ratio between 30% to 60%. The Company includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, 
trade and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances.
Gearing ratio
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Borrowings
1,074.20
16,054.81
Trade payables
686.25
387.73
Less: Cash and Cash equivalents
32,713.32
1,861.28
Net Debt
(30,952.87)
14,581.26
Equity
2,36,093.73
1,25,913.53
Total Equity
2,36,093.73
1,25,913.53
Total Capital and net debt
2,05,140.86
1,40,494.79
NA
11.58%
347
346
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
44	Details of Dues to Micro And Small Enterprises as defined under the Micro 
and Small Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006
The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises have been identified by the Company from the available information, which 
has been relied upon by the auditors. According to such identification, the disclosures as per Section 22 of ‘The Micro 
and Small Enterprise Development (MSMED) Act, 2006’ are as follows:
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining 
unpaid to any supplier
- Principal amount
21.72
18.66
- Interest thereon
Nil
 Nil 
ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 18, 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier 
beyond the appointed day.
Nil
 Nil 
iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the year of delay in 
making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed 
day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under 
this act.
Nil
 Nil 
iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid.
Nil
 Nil 
v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in 
the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues above 
are actually paid to the small investor.
Nil
 Nil 
The above information has been determined to the extent such parties could be identified on the basis of the 
information available with the Company regarding the status of suppliers under the MSMED.
45	Audit Trail
	
The Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software, except that audit trail feature is not enabled for certain changes made directly to the database 
using privileged/ administrative access rights to the application. Further, no instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with was noted in respect of accounting software wherever audit log was enabled. Additionally, the 
audit trail in respect of the prior years has not been preserved by the company as per the statutory requirements 
for record retention to the extend it was enabled from the prior years.
46	During the year, company has entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with New York 
Life Insurance Company (“NYL”), for a proposed investment of ₹33,340.00 lakhs and ₹29,300.00 lakhs by MEL 
and NYL respectively in Max Estates Noida Private Limited (“MENPL”), a subsidiary of the Company. The MoU 
sets out the key terms and conditions under which NYL and MEL propose to invest in MENPL, by subscribing 
to compulsorily convertible debentures (“CCDs”). This investment will fund development of the leasehold land 
secured by MENPL.
47	During the year, Company has entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with New York 
Life Insurance Company (“NYL”), for a proposed investment of ₹26,750.00 lakhs and ₹25,700.00 lakhs by MEL 
and NYL respectively in Boulevard Projects Private Limited (“BPPL”). The MoU sets forth the key terms under 
which NYL and MEL propose to invest in BPPL by subscribing to compulsorily convertible debentures (“CCDs”). 
Proceeds will be utilized for the development of bearing the leasehold land held by BPPL.
48	During the year, the Company along with its consortium partners, acquired a mixed-use land parcel located in 
Sector 105 on Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, for a total consideration of ₹71,112.99 lakhs. The acquisition 
has been structured under a deferred payment arrangement, comprising an Earnest money deposit (EMD) of 
10% and an upfront payment of 30% of the total consideration. The remaining 60% is payable in eight equal 
half-yearly instalments.
49	Re-Grouping/Re-classification:
	
In accordance with recent expert advisory committee, the Company has reclassified accrued interest which has 
been included in the respective balances of assets and liabilities. Previously, accrued interest was presented as a 
separate line item in respective notes. Further, amounts payable to employees, which were previously classified 
under Trade Payables, have been reclassified under Other Current Financial Liabilities and Leave encashment, 
which was earlier grouped under Salaries, Wages and Bonus within Employee Benefit Expenses, has now been 
presented separately as Compensated Absences under Employee Benefit Expenses. Except mentioned, there 
are no other re-grouping/ reclassification done during the current year.
49A Except for events mentioned in relevant notes, there are no events occurred after the reporting year which 
may impact the financial position as on March 31, 2025.
50	The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post 
employment benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in 
the Gazette of India. Certain sections of the Code came into effect on May 3, 2023. However, the final rules/ 
interpretation have not yet been issued. Based on a preliminary assessment, the Company believes the impact 
of the change will not be significant.
51	Other disclosure requirement of Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013:
(i)	
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against 
the Company for holding any Benami property.
(ii)	
The Company does not have any transactions with companies that are struck off.
(iii)	 The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the 
statutory period.
(iv)	 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vi)	 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that Company shall :
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries)
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
349
348
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(vii)	 The Company has not made any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such 
as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(viii)	The borrowings obtained by the Company from banks and financial institutions have been applied for the 
purposes for which such loans were was taken.
(ix)	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the 
lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements, 
are held in the name of the Company.
(x)	
The Company does not have borrowings from banks and financial institutions on the basis of security of current 
assets. Hence, company is not required to file the quarterly returns or statements of current assets with banks 
and financial institutions.
(xi)	 None of the entities in the group have been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
(xii)	 The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(xiii)	The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or 
previous financial year.
(xiv)	The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible 
assets or both during the current or previous year.
(xv)	 The Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 
1999) and the Companies Act, 2013 for the above transactions and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention 
of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003)
(xvi)	The figures have been rounded off to the nearest lakhs of rupees up to two decimal places. The figure 0.00 
wherever stated represents value less than ₹50,000/-.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
MAX HOUSE 
Actual Image
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements
350
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Max Estates Limited
Report on the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements 
of Max Estates Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Holding Company”), its subsidiaries (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the 
Group”) comprising of the consolidated Balance sheet as 
at March 31, 2025, the consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss, including other comprehensive income, the 
consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, 
and notes to the consolidated financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies 
and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred 
to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based 
on the consideration of reports of other auditors on 
separate financial statements and on the other financial 
information of the subsidiaries, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by 
the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group, as at March 31, 2025, their consolidated 
profit including other comprehensive income, their 
consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on 
Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are 
further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for 
the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements’ 
section of our report. We are independent of the Group, 
in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the financial statements under the provisions of the 
Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our 
audit of the consolidated financial statements for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our 
description of how our audit addressed the matter is 
provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be 
the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. 
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the 
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements section of our report, including in 
relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included 
the performance of procedures designed to respond to 
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements. The results of 
audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors 
of components not audited by us, as reported by them in 
their audit reports furnished to us by the management, 
including those procedures performed to address the 
matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion 
on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment of investment properties including under development (as described in note 3A 
of the consolidated financial statements)
As 
at 
March 
31, 
2025, 
the 
Group 
has 
investment properties, which includes under 
development properties.
The audit procedures related to this key audit matter 
included the following:
	»
We assessed the compliance of Company’s accounting 
policies for impairment of investment properties with 
Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’.
	»
We understood, evaluated and tested the operating 
effectiveness of internal controls implemented by 
the Company.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The amount of cost incurred on development is 
significant and identification thereof is an area of 
judgment to a certain extent. The management 
reviews annually whether there are any indicators of 
impairment of the investments and loans by reference 
to the requirements under Ind AS 36 “Impairment 
of assets”. The assessment is driven by evaluating 
various internal and external factors including but not 
limited to business performance, financial condition, 
external environment/ development impacting 
respective business.
In view of the significance of amount involved and 
judgment/ complexity, the same has been considered 
as a key audit matter
	»
We assessed and performed procedures for cost 
incurred on investment properties and impairment 
indicator testing performed by the Company.
	»
We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements.
Capital Expenditure in respect of Investment property, Investment property under development and 
Inventory (as described in note 3A and note 8 of the consolidated financial statements)
The Company has incurred significant expenditure on 
capital projects in Investment property, Investment 
property under development and Inventory. These 
projects take a substantial period of time to get ready 
for intended use.
Judgement and estimate are required by management 
in assessing assets meeting the capitalisation criteria 
set out in Ind AS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Judgement is involved in determining the eligibility 
of costs including borrowing cost and other directly 
attributable costs for capitalisation as per the criteria 
set out in Ind AS 23, Borrowing Costs.
In view of the significance of amount involved and 
judgment/ complexity, the same has been considered 
as a key audit matter.
The audit procedures related to this key audit matter 
included the following: 
	»
We obtained an understanding of the Company’s 
capitalisation policy and assessed for compliance with 
Ind AS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
	»
We obtained understanding, evaluated the design and 
tested the operating effectiveness of controls related to 
capital expenditure and capitalisation of assets.
	»
We performed substantive testing on a sample basis for 
each element of capitalised costs including inventory 
for the purpose of these projects, physical verification 
performed by management along with reconciliation 
and directly attributable cost, including verification of 
underlying supporting evidence and understanding 
nature of the costs capitalised.
	»
In relation to borrowing costs, we obtained the supporting 
calculations, verified the inputs to the calculation and 
tested the arithmetical accuracy of the model.
	»
We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.
353
352
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Board 
report, but does not include the consolidated financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board 
report is expected to be made available to us after the 
date of this auditor's report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we will not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes available 
and, in doing so, consider whether such other information 
is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When 
we read the Board report, if we conclude that there 
is a material misstatement therein, we are required 
to communicate the matter to those charged with 
governance. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management for the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
financial statements in terms of the requirements of the 
Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
financial position, consolidated financial performance 
including other comprehensive income, consolidated 
cash flows and consolidated statement of changes in 
equity of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. The 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included 
in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act for safeguarding of the assets of their respective 
company(ies) and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which 
have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for assessing 
the ability of their respective company(ies) to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless management either intends 
to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are also responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of their respective 
company(ies).
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	»
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
	»
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Holding Company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
	»
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.
	»
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
	»
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
	»
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group of which we are the 
independent auditors and whose financial information 
we have audited, to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audit of the financial statements of such entities 
included in the consolidated financial statements 
of which we are the independent auditors. For the 
other entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for 
our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025 and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless 
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
1.	
We did not audit the financial statements and other 
financial information, in respect of eight subsidiaries, 
whose financial statements include total assets of 
₹4,87,194.05 lakhs as at March 31, 2025, and total 
revenues of ₹8,484.77 lakhs and net cash outflows of 
₹640.90 lakhs for the year ended on that date. These 
financial statement and other financial information 
have been audited by other auditors, which 
financial statements, other financial information 
and auditor’s reports have been furnished to us by 
the management. Our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as if relates to the 
amounts and disclosures included in respect of 
these subsidiaries and our report in terms of sub-
sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely 
on the reports of such other auditors.
2.	
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial 
statements, and our report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified 
in respect of the above matters with respect to our 
reliance on the work done and the reports of the 
other auditors and the financial statements and other 
financial information certified by the Management.
355
354
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
3.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) 
of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit and 
on the consideration of report of the other auditors 
on separate financial statements and the other 
financial information of the subsidiary companies, 
incorporated in India and to the extent applicable, as 
noted in the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph we give in the 
“Annexure 1” a statement on the matters specified 
in paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order.
4.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on 
our audit and on the consideration of report of the 
other auditors on separate financial statements and 
the other financial information of subsidiaries, as 
noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
	
(a)	
We/the other auditors whose report we have 
relied upon have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to the best 
of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements;
	
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of 
the aforesaid consolidation of the financial 
statements have been kept so far as it appears 
from our examination of those books and 
reports of the other auditors except for the 
matters stated in the paragraph (i)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) and reports of the 
other auditors;
	
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss including the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report 
are in agreement with the books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements;
	
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with the 
Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended;
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2025 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors who are appointed under Section 139 
of the Act, of its subsidiary companies, none 
of the directors of the Group’s companies, 
incorporated in India, is disqualified as on March 
31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
	
(f)	
The modification relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in paragraph (b) above 
on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and 
paragraph (i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g)
	
(g)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary companies, and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of report of the 
other auditors on separate financial statements 
and the other financial information of such 
subsidiary companies, incorporated in India 
and to the extent applicable, as noted in the 
‘Other Matter’ paragraph, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
	
(h)	 In our opinion and based on the consideration 
of reports of other statutory auditors of 
the subsidiaries incorporated in India, the 
managerial remuneration for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided by the 
Holding Company, its subsidiaries, incorporated 
in India to their directors in accordance with the 
provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V 
to the Act;
	
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us :
	
	
i.	
The Group does not have any pending 
litigations which would impact its 
consolidated financial position;
	
	
ii.	
The Group did not have any material 
foreseeable losses in long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts during the 
year ended March 31, 2025;
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by 
the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, 
incorporated in India during the year 
ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
iv.	
a)	
The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act 
have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries, 
respectively that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Holding Company or 
any of such subsidiaries to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the respective Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries, 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b)	
The 
respective 
managements 
of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to 
us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries respectively that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, no 
funds have been received by the 
respective Holding Company or 
any of such subsidiaries from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c)	
Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiaries, 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, 
nothing has come to our or other 
auditor’s notice that has caused us or 
the other auditors to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause 
(a) and (b) contain any material mis-
statement.
	
	
v)	
No dividend has been declared or paid 
during the year by the Holding Company 
and subsidiary companies, incorporated 
in India.
357
356
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
	
	
vi)	
Based on our examination which included 
test checks and that performed by the 
respective auditors of the subsidiaries 
which are companies incorporated in 
India whose financial statements have 
been audited under the Act, the Holding 
Company and subsidiaries have used 
accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account which has a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software except that, audit trail 
feature is not enabled for certain changes 
made directly to the database using 
privileged/ administrative access rights, as 
described in Note 57 to the Consolidated 
financial statements. We and respective 
auditors of the above referred subsidiaries 
did not come across any instance of the 
audit trail feature being tampered with 
in respect of this accounting software 
wherever audit log was enabled. 
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year(s) 
has not been preserved by the company as 
per the statutory requirements for record 
retention to the extend it was enabled 
from the prior years, as stated in Note 57 
to the financial statements.
For S.R. BATLIBOI & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
_____________________________
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 25108044BMIBGD7708
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: May 22, 2025
ANNEXURE 1 referred to in paragraph 1 of  “Report on other legal & regulatory 
requirements” of our report of even date 
Re: Max Estates Limited (the “Holding Company”)
According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, there are no qualifications 
or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the Companies (Auditors Report) Order (CARO) reports of the 
companies included in the consolidated financial statements except for following where the respective auditors 
have reported qualifications or adverse remarks in their audit report:
S. 
No
Name
CIN
Holding company/ 
subsidiary
Clause number of the 
CARO report which is 
qualified or is adverse
1
Max Square Limited
U70200UP2019PLC118369
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
2
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
U70109UP2022PLC170197
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
3
Max Estates Gurgaon Two 
Limited
U68100DL2024PLC424818
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
4
Max Estates Noida Private 
Limited
U68200DL2023PTC416407
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
5
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
U70101HR2010PTC047012
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
For S.R. BATLIBOI & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
_____________________________
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 25108044BMIBGD7708
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: May 22, 2025
359
358
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE 2 TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON 
THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MAX ESTATES LIMITED 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of Max Estates Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) as of and for 
the year ended March 31, 2025, we have audited the 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
together referred to as “the Group”), which are companies 
incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group, which are companies incorporated 
in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Holding Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on 
Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the Act, 
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls, both, issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. The 
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, 
including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms 
of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph 
below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
With Reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control with reference to consolidated 
financial statements includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls With Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements to future periods are subject to the 
risk that the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Group , its subsidiaries, which are 
companies incorporated in India, have, maintained in all 
material respects, adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Holding Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by 
the ICAI.
Other Matters
Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates 
to the subsidiary companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding 
reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries incorporated 
in India.
For S.R. BATLIBOI & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
_____________________________
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 25108044BMIBGD7708
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: May 22, 2025
361
360
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2025
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particular
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
612.08
463.08
Investment properties
3a
2,02,842.88
1,80,379.75
Intangible assets
4
283.10
303.84
Right-of-use assets
4a
943.20
1,437.33
Intangible assets under development
4
-
26.60
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
5 (i)
511.73
269.41
(ii)	 Trade receivables
5 (ii)
372.51
659.83
(iii)	 Other financial assets
5 (iii)
24,904.49
12,262.91
Deferred tax assets (net)
16
8,818.64
6,487.46
Non-current tax assets (net)
6
3,464.91
1,723.45
Other non current assets
7
60,037.05
6,736.35
3,02,790.59
2,10,750.01
Current assets
Inventories
8
2,28,500.37
53,287.43
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
9 (i)
58,201.14
8,996.41
(ii)	 Trade receivables
9 (ii)
1,450.25
801.44
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
9 (iii)
22,901.99
23,073.62
(iv)	 Bank Balances other than (iii) above
9 (iv)
85,433.77
3,278.35
(v)	 Other financial assets
9 (v)
16,371.26
4,911.87
Other current assets
10
8,956.05
5,040.75
4,21,814.83
99,389.87
TOTAL ASSETS
7,24,605.42
3,10,139.88
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
11
16,100.01
14,713.45
Share capital pending issuance
11
4.65
38.69
Money received against warrants
11
3,750.00
-
Other equity
12
2,07,992.00
1,02,337.70
Equity attributable to equity holders of parent company
2,27,846.66
1,17,089.84
Non-controlling interest
46
38,247.48
27,963.48
Total equity
2,66,094.14
1,45,053.32
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
13
1,46,966.34
86,267.59
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
4b
3,430.90
4,142.53
(iii)	 Trade payables
14a
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
84,375.64
-
(iv)	 Other non current financial liabilities
14b
10,981.45
9,400.54
Non-current provisions
15
383.63
280.04
Deferred tax liabilities
16
1,657.25
742.99
2,47,795.21
1,00,833.69
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings
17(i)
14,506.29
8,919.64
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
4b
713.05
613.81
(iii)	 Trade payables
17(ii)
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
330.32
78.85
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises 
44,981.20
3,260.20
(iv)	 Other current financial liabilities
17(iii)
3,152.41
4,230.01
Other current liabilities
18
1,46,522.84
46,753.29
Current provisions
19
497.59
371.07
Current Tax Liabilities (net)
20
12.37
26.00
2,10,716.07
64,252.87
TOTAL LIABILITIES
4,58,511.28
1,65,086.56
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
7,24,605.42
3,10,139.88
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
INCOME
Revenue from operations
21
16,048.76
9,294.37
Other income
22
8,918.50
2,732.64
Total income
24,967.26
12,027.01
EXPENSES
Cost of land, plots, development rights, constructed properties and 
others
23
267.75
-
Change in inventories of constructed properties
24
186.75
-
Employee benefits expense
25
1,763.18
1,227.96
Finance costs
26
6,186.76
4,298.60
Depreciation and amortization expense
27
3,409.66
2,540.23
Advertisement and Sales promotion expense
29
3,839.35
2,258.98
Facility and management services
30
2,648.98
1,825.87
Other expenses
28
2,902.91
2,204.33
Total expenses
21,205.34
14,355.97
Profit/ (Loss) before exceptional items and tax
3,761.92
(2,328.96)
Exceptional item
5(i)
-
(4,445.06)
Profit/ (Loss) before tax
3,761.92
(6,774.02)
Tax expense
- Current tax
32
2,054.79
323.51
- Income tax for earlier years
32
150.47
154.96
- Deferred tax
32
(1,086.35)
(1,740.05)
Total tax expense
1,118.91
(1,261.58)
Profit/(loss) for the year
2,643.01
(5,512.44)
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent period:
Re-measurement loss/(gain) of defined benefit plans
33
3.85
(15.81)
Income tax effect
(0.97)
3.98
Net comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent period
2.88
(11.83)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
2.88
(11.83)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
2,645.89
(5,524.27)
Net profit/(loss) attributable to:
	
Equity holders of the parent
4,081.00
(4,216.30)
	
Non-controlling interests
(1,437.99)
(1,296.14)
2,643.01
(5,512.44)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:
	
Equity holders of the parent
2.88
(11.83)
	
Non-controlling interests
-
-
Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:
	
Equity holders of the parent
4,083.88
(4,228.13)
	
Non-controlling interests
(1,437.99)
(1,296.14)
Earnings per equity share (Nominal value of share ₹10/-)
34
Basic (₹)
1.70
(3.75)
Diluted (₹)
1.70
(3.75)
363
362
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax
3,761.92
(6,774.02)
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
Exceptional item
-
4,445.06
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
3,409.66
2,540.23
Expense recognised on employee stock option scheme
133.59
76.13
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
(833.88)
(7.10)
Gain on sale of mutual funds
(1,362.09)
(911.41)
Profit on derecognition of right to use asset
-
(15.82)
Liabilities/provisions no longer required written back
-
(74.76)
Interest income
(6,556.82)
(1,649.70)
Interest expense on lease liability
486.17
438.76
Finance costs other than lease liability
5,700.59
3,859.84
Provision for doubtful debts
69.93
-
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
(0.65)
-
Operating profit before working capital changes
4,808.42
1,927.21
Working capital adjustments:
Increase/ (decrease) in trade payables and other payables
1,29,016.46
7,652.60
Increase/ (decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities
99,769.55
45,985.88
Decrease / (increase) in trade receivables
(431.42)
85.40
Decrease / (increase) in inventories
(1,71,415.31)
(13,307.81)
Decrease / (increase) in other current and non current assets
(32,053.79)
(14,644.39)
Cash generated from operations
29,693.91
27,698.89
Income tax paid (net of refund)
(7,193.41)
(628.84)
Net cash flows from operating activities
22,500.50
27,070.05
Investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
26.68
-
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including investment 
property, intangible assets, CWIP and capital advances)
(67,720.19)
(32,051.31)
Interest received
5,154.03
1,437.58
Net movement in deposits
(89,517.17)
(1,999.67)
Sale of non current investments
88.99
307.95
Purchase of current investments
(1,81,278.73)
(34.60)
Sale of current investments (net)
1,33,938.66
3,174.04
Net cash flows used in investing activities
(1,99,307.73)
(29,166.01)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of equity share capital including security 
premium
79,999.99
18.86
Proceeds from exercise of employee stock option plan
94.26
38.69
Money received from issue of warrants
3,750.00
-
Share issue expenses
(1,976.87)
-
Repayment of lease liability
(1,098.56)
(744.66)
Sale of Non-controlling interest (net of expense)
28,326.17
14,490.64
Proceeds from issue of securities to Non controlling interest
10,708.18
16,096.44
Repayments of long term borrowings
(43,060.83)
(6,216.80)
Proceeds from long term borrowings
1,06,230.86
6,397.51
Interest paid
(6,337.60)
(6,673.80)
Net cash flows from financing activities
1,76,635.60
23,406.88
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
(171.63)
21,310.92
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
23,073.62
1,762.70
Cash and cash equivalents at the year end
22,901.99
23,073.62
Components of cash and cash equivalents :
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks: (refer note 9(iii))
On current accounts
 10,466.56 
 1,267.56 
Deposits with original maturity for less than 3 months
 12,428.81 
 21,628.96 
Cash on hand
 6.62 
 177.10 
 22,901.99 
 23,073.62 
Note:
(i)	
The Cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in the Ind AS 7 “Statement of 
Cash Flows”
(ii)	
There are no non-cash transaction in investing activities.
(iii)	 Figures in brackets indicates cash outflow.
(iv)	 Refer note 43 for reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flow from financing activities.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
365
364
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2025
a) Equity share capital (refer note 11)
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Nos.
(₹ in lakhs)
Shares of ₹10/- each, issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2024
 14,71,34,544 
 14,713.45 
Add: Shares issued during the year
 1,38,65,540 
 1,387 
As at March 31, 2025
 16,10,00,084 
 16,100.01 
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Particulars
Nos.
(₹ in lakhs)
Shares of ₹10/- each, issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2023
 -   
 -   
Add: Shares issued during the year
 14,71,34,544 
 14,713.45 
As at March 31, 2024
 14,71,34,544 
 14,713.45 
b) Other equity (refer note 12)
For the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Reserve & Surplus
Money 
received 
against 
warrants
Shares 
pending 
issuance
Non-
controlling 
interest 
(refer note 46)
Total Equity
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding
Retained 
earnings
Total other 
equity
As at April 01, 2024
13,042.52
49,974.47
349.25
38,971.46
1,02,337.70
-
38.69
27,963.48
1,30,339.87
Profit for the year
-
-
-
4,081.00
4,081.00
-
-
(1,437.99)
2,643.01
Other comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
2.88
2.88
-
-
-
2.88
Expenses pertaining to Qualified Institutional 
Placement
-
(1,976.87)
-
-
(1,976.87)
-
-
-
(1,976.87)
Proceeds from exercise of ESOP during the 
year
-
-
-
-
94.26
-
94.26
Premium on issue of share capital
-
78,741.74
-
-
78,741.74
-
(128.30)
-
78,613.44
Money received against warrants
-
-
-
-
-
3,750.00
-
-
3,750.00
Net movement/adjustment for Non-
controlling interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11,721.99
11,721.99
Transfer of ESOP reserve on allotment of 
shares
-
186.07
(186.07)
24,586.97
24,586.97
-
-
-
24,586.97
Cost of stock option granted to employees
-
-
218.58
-
218.58
-
-
-
218.58
As at March 31, 2025
13,042.52 1,26,925.41
381.76
67,642.31
2,07,992.00
3,750.00
4.65
38,247.48
2,49,994.13
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Reserve & Surplus
Money 
received 
against 
warrants
Shares 
pending 
issuance
Non-
controlling 
interest 
(refer note 46)
Total Equity
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding
Retained 
earnings
Total other 
equity
As at April 01, 2023
13,042.52
49,951.14
216.90
43,199.59
1,06,410.15
-
14,710.36
4,266.94
1,25,387.45
Profit for the year
-
-
-
(4,216.30)
(4,216.30)
-
-
(1,296.14)
(5,512.44)
Other comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
(11.83)
(11.83)
-
-
-
(11.83)
Premium on issue of share capital
-
-
-
-
-
-
(14,671.67)
-
(14,671.67)
Net movement/adjustment for Non-
controlling interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
24,992.68
24,992.68
Expiry of share option under ESOP scheme
-
15.76
-
-
15.76
-
-
-
15.76
Transfer of ESOP reserve on allotment of 
shares
7.57
(7.57)
-
-
-
-
Cost of stock option granted to employees
-
-
139.92
-
139.92
-
-
-
139.92
As at March 31, 2024
13,042.52
49,974.47
349.25
38,971.46
1,02,337.70
-
38.69
27,963.48
1,30,339.87
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
367
366
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
1	 Corporate Information
The Consolidated Ind AS financial statements comprise 
financial statements of Max Estates Limited (the 
Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Group) 
for the year ended March 31, 2025. The Company is 
registered in India under Companies Act, 2013 and was 
incorporated on March 22, 2016.
Registered office of the Group is located at Max House 
1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3, Opposite Okhla Railway 
Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, South Delhi, New Delhi, 
India, 110020.
The Group is principally engaged in the business of:
-	
Construction and development of residential and 
commercial properties;
-	
Making investments in various companies and 
primarily engaged in growing and nurturing these 
business investments;
-	
Providing facility management services and 
managed office services
-	
Providing 
shared 
services 
to 
its 
other 
group companies
During the previous year, the Group has completed 
the merger of Max Ventures and Industries Limited 
(‘Transferor Company’) (appointed date April 01, 2022) 
pursuant to the scheme of merger filed under the 
provisions of Section 230 to 232 read with Section 66 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Rules made thereunder. The Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench (“Hon’ble 
NCLT”) vide its order dated July 03, 2024, approved the 
aforesaid Scheme. 
Pursuant to merger of Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited (‘Transferor Company’) and Max Estates 
Limited (‘Company’ or ‘Transferee Company’), as per 
the Scheme, the merger of Transferor Company into 
Company has been accounted with effect from April 01, 
2022 (‘Appointed Date’) to comply with the accounting 
treatment prescribed in the Scheme. The share capital 
of Transferor Company and Transferee Company was 
cancelled and the Company issued 147,134,544 equity 
shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up to the shareholders of the 
Transferor Company in the previous quarter. On October 
30, 2023, the equity shares of the Company were listed 
on National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock 
Exchange (BSE). (Refer Note 11)
The consolidated financial statements were approved 
for issue in accordance with a resolution passed by the 
Board of Directors of the Group on May 22, 2025.
The financial statements once approved by the Board 
of directors needs to be adopted by the shareholders 
at the annual general meeting of the Group. The Board 
of directors can withdraw and re-issue the financial 
statements so adopted only in specific cases such 
as non-compliance with the applicable accounting 
standards, with the approval of Tribunal, after following 
the appropriate procedure as per Companies Act, 2013.
2	 Material Accounting Policies
2.1	a) Basis of preparation
	
These consolidated financial statements of the 
Group have been prepared in accordance with 
Indian Accounting Standards (IND AS) notified 
under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time) and 
presentation requirements of division II of Schedule 
III to the Companies Act 2013 (Ind AS Compliant 
Schedule III).
	
Further, the consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared on historical cost basis except for 
certain financial assets and financial liabilities and 
share based payments which are measured at fair 
values as explained in relevant accounting policies. 
	
The Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements are 
presented in INR and all values are rounded to nearest 
lakhs (INR 00,000) except when otherwise stated.
	
The accounting policies have been consistently 
applied by the Group.
b)	 Basis of Consolidation
	
The Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements (CFS) 
comprises the financial statements of the Group and 
its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Group 
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee 
if and only if the Group has:
	»
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that 
give it the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities of the investee)
	»
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee, and
	»
The ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority 
of voting rights result in control. To support this 
presumption and when the Group has less than 
a majority of the voting or similar rights of an 
investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power 
over an investee, including:
	»
The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee
	»
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
	»
The Group’s voting rights and potential 
voting rights
	»
The size of the group’s holding of voting rights 
relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings 
of the other voting rights holders
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls 
an investee if facts and circumstances indicate 
that there are changes to one or more of the three 
elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary 
begins when the Group obtains control over the 
subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control 
of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of 
during the year are included in the consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements from the date the Group 
gains control until the date the Group ceases to 
control the subsidiary.
	
Consolidated Ind AS financial statements are 
prepared using uniform accounting policies 
for like transactions and other events in similar 
circumstances. If a member of the group uses 
accounting policies other than those adopted in 
the consolidated Ind AS financial statements for like 
transactions and events in similar circumstances, 
appropriate adjustments are made to that group 
member’s financial statements in preparing the 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements to ensure 
conformity with the group’s accounting policies.
	
The financial statements of all entities used for the 
purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same 
reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., 
For year ended March 31, 2025. When the end 
of the reporting period of the parent is different 
from that of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, 
for consolidation purposes, additional financial 
information as of the same date as the financial 
statements of the parent to enable the parent 
to consolidate the financial information of the 
subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
	
Consolidation procedure:
	
(i)	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows of the parent 
with those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, 
income and expenses of the subsidiary are 
based on the amounts of the assets and 
liabilities recognised in the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements at the acquisition date.
	
(ii)	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the 
parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary.
	
(iii)	 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
relating to transactions between entities of 
the Group (profits or losses resulting from 
intragroup transactions that are recognised 
in assets, such as inventory and fixed assets, 
are eliminated in full). Intragroup losses 
may indicate an impairment that requires 
recognition in the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements. IND AS12 Income Taxes applies 
to temporary differences that arise from the 
elimination of profits and losses resulting from 
intragroup transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of other 
comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the 
equity holders of the parent of the Group and to 
the non-controlling interests, even if this results 
in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 
balance. When necessary, adjustments are made 
to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring 
their accounting policies into line with the Group’s 
accounting policies. All intra-group assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
relating to transactions between members of the 
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
	
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, 
without a loss of control, is accounted for as an 
equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a 
subsidiary, it:
	»
Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) 
and liabilities of the subsidiary at their carrying 
amounts at the date when control is lost
	»
Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-
controlling interests
	»
Derecognises the cumulative translation 
differences recorded in equity
	»
Recognises 
the 
fair 
value 
of 
the 
consideration received
369
368
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	»
Recognises the fair value of any investment retained
	»
Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss
	
Reclassifies the parent’s share of components 
previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or 
retained earnings, as appropriate, as would be 
required if the Group had directly disposed of the 
related assets or liabilities.
	
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in 
the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s 
net identiﬁable assets. Subsequent to acquisition, the 
carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the 
amount of those interests at initial recognition plus 
the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent 
changes in equity. Total comprehensive income 
is attributed to non-controlling interests even if 
it results in the non-controlling interest having a 
deﬁcit balance.
2.2	Summary of material accounting policies
a.	
Current versus non-current classification
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet based on current/ non-current 
classification. An asset is treated as current when 
it is:
	
(i)	
Expected to be realized or intended to be sold 
or consumed in normal operating cycle
	
(ii)	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
(iii)	 Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
(iv)	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
A liability is current when:
	
(i)	
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle
	
(ii)	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
(iii)	 It is due to settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
	
(iv)	 There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
	
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-
current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as 
non-current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. The Group 
has identified twelve months as its operating cycle.
b.	
Property, Plant and Equipment and 
Investment Property
(i)	
Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Property, Plant and equipment are stated at cost, 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. The cost comprises of 
purchase price, taxes, duties, freight and other 
incidental expenses directly attributable and related 
to acquisition and installation of the concerned 
assets and are further adjusted by the amount of 
GST credit availed wherever applicable. Cost includes 
borrowing cost for long term construction projects 
if recognition criteria are met. When significant 
parts of plant and equipment are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates them 
separately based on their respective useful lives. 
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, 
its cost is recognized in the carrying amount of the 
plant, property and equipment as a replacement if 
the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognized in profit or 
loss as incurred.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognized is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or 
loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is 
included in the income statement when the asset 
is derecognized.
	
The Group identifies and determines cost of each 
component/ part of the asset separately, if the 
component/ part has a cost which is significant to 
the total cost of the asset and has useful life that is 
materially different from that of the remaining asset.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
	
In respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired 
under the business transfer agreement, the Group 
has calculated depreciation/amortization on 
straight-line basis using the rates arrived at based 
on a technical estimate of the residual useful 
lives estimated by an independent engineering 
consultancy professional firm.
	
In respect of other assets, depreciation is calculated 
on pro rata basis on straight-line basis over estimated 
useful lives estimated by the management and in the 
manner prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies 
Act 2013. The useful life is as follows:
Assets
Useful lives 
estimated by the 
management 
(years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
Schedule II to 
the Companies 
Act,2013 (in 
years)
Factory building
30
30
Other building
60
60
Plant and 
Equipment
15-25
15
Office 
Equipment
3 - 5
5
Computers & 
Data Processing 
Units
3 – 6
3
Furniture and 
Fixtures
10
10
Motor Vehicles
3 - 8
8
	
The Group based on technical assessment made 
by technical expert and management estimate, 
depreciates plant and equipment over estimated 
useful lives which are different from the useful 
life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013. The management believes that these 
estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect fair 
approximation of the period over which the assets 
are likely to be use.
	
Leasehold improvements are amortised over the 
period of lease.
(ii)	
Investment Property
	
Recognition and initial measurement:
	
Investment properties are properties held to 
earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. 
Investment properties are measured initially at 
their cost of acquisition including transaction costs 
The cost comprises purchase price, borrowing 
cost, if capitalization criteria are met and directly 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working 
condition for the intended use. Any trade discount 
and rebates are deducted in arriving at the purchase 
price When significant parts of the investment 
property are required to be replaced at intervals, the 
Group depreciates them separately based on their 
specific useful lives.
	
Property held under lease is classified as investment 
property when it is held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or for both, rather than for sale in the 
ordinary course of business or for use in production 
or administrative functions. Subsequent costs are 
included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised 
as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is 
probable that future economic benefits associated 
with the item will flow to the Group All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in statement 
of profit and loss as incurred The cost includes the 
cost of replacing parts and borrowing costs for long-
term construction projects if the recognition criteria 
are met When significant parts of the investment 
property are required to be replaced at intervals, the 
Group depreciates them separately based on their 
specific useful lives All other repair and maintenance 
costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
	
Depreciation on investment properties is provided 
on the straight-line method, over the useful lives of 
the assets are as follows:
Asset category’
Useful lives 
estimated by the 
management 
(years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
Schedule II to 
the Companies 
Act, 2013 (in 
years)
Buildings
60
60
Plant & 
Machinery & 
other equipment
6 to 10
15
	
Estimated useful life of Leasehold land is over the 
period of lease
	
Though the Group measures investment property 
using cost-based measurement, the fair value 
of investment properly is disclosed in the notes 
Fair values are determined based on an annual 
evaluation performed by the Group applying a 
valuation model acceptable.
	
De-recognition
	
Investment properties are de-recognised either 
when they have been disposed of or when they are 
permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from their disposal. 
The difference between the net disposal proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised 
371
370
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
in statement of profit and loss in the period of de-
recognition.
c. 	 Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Internally generated 
intangibles, excluding capitalized development 
cost, are not capitalized and the related expenditure 
is reflected in statement of Profit and Loss in the 
period in which the expenditure is incurred. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and any attributable 
cost of bringing the asset to its working condition 
for its intended use.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with 
finite lives are amortized over their useful economic 
lives and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and the 
amortization method for an intangible asset with 
a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end of 
each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption 
of future economic benefits embodied in the asset 
is accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate and are treated as 
changes in accounting estimates. The amortization 
expense on intangible assets with finite lives is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss in the 
expense category consistent with the function of the 
intangible assets.
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not 
amortized, but are tested for impairment annually, 
either individually or at the cash-generating unit 
level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a 
prospective basis.
	
Gains or losses arising from disposal of the intangible 
assets are measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset and are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss when the assets are disposed off.
	
The useful live of intangible assets are as follows:
Asset category’
Useful lives 
estimated by the 
management 
(years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
Schedule II to 
the Companies 
Act, 2013 (in 
years)
Computer 
Software
3-6 years
3
d. 	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether 
there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. 
If any indication exists, or when annual impairment 
testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates 
the asset’s, recoverable amount. An asset’s 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or 
cash-generating unit’s (CGU) net fair value less cost 
of disposal and its value in use. The recoverable 
amount is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or 
groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of 
asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
In determining net fair value less cost of disposal, 
recent market transactions are taken into account, 
if available. If no such transactions can be identified, 
an appropriate valuation model is used. These 
calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, 
quoted share prices for publicly traded companies 
or other available fair value indicators.
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations which 
are prepared separately for each of the Group’s 
cash-generating units to which the individual 
assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast 
calculations are generally covering a period of five 
years. For the remaining economic life of the asset 
or cash-generating unit (CGU), a long-term growth 
rate is calculated and applied to project future cash 
flows after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow 
projections beyond periods covered by the most 
recent budgets/forecasts, the Group extrapolates 
cash flow projections in the budget using a steady or 
declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless 
an increasing rate can be justified. In this case, the 
growth rate does not exceed the long-term average 
growth rate for the products, industries, country in 
which the entity operates, or for the market in which 
the asset is used.
	
Impairment losses including impairment on 
inventories, are recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
After impairment, depreciation is provided on 
the revised carrying amount of the asset over its 
remaining economic life.
	
An assessment is made at each reporting date as 
to whether there is any indication that previously 
recognized impairment losses no longer exist or 
may have decreased. If such indication exists, the 
Group estimates the asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s recoverable amount. A previously recognized 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been 
a change in the assumptions used to determine 
the asset’s recoverable amount since the last 
impairment loss was recognized. The reversal is 
limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does 
not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined, 
net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss unless 
the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which 
case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
e.	
Financial Instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
(i) 	
Financial assets
	
The Group classified its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
	
- 	
Those to be measured subsequently at fair value 
(either through other comprehensive income or 
through profit & loss)
	
- 	
Those measured at amortized cost
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial assets are recognized initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
delivery of assets within a time frame established by 
regulation or convention in the market place (regular 
way trades) are recognized on the trade date, i.e., 
the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell 
the asset. The difference between the transaction 
amount and amortised cost in case of interest free 
loan to subsidiaries based on expected repayment 
period is considered as deemed investment.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets are classified in following categories:
	
(i) 	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
(ii) 	 Debt instruments and equity instruments at fair 
value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortized 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
(i) 	
Business model test: The asset is held within 
a business model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual cash flows 
(rather than to sell the instrument prior to its 
contractual maturity to realise its fair value 
change), and
	
(ii) 	 Cash flow characteristics test: Contractual 
terms of the asset give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal 
amount outstanding.
	
This category is the most relevant to the Group. 
After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. EIR is the rate that 
exactly discount the estimated future cash receipts 
over the expected life of the financial instrument 
or a shorter period, where appropriate to the 
gross carrying amount of financial assets. When 
calculating the effective interest rate the Group 
estimate the expected cash flow by considering all 
contractual terms of the financial instruments. The 
EIR amortization is included in finance income in 
the profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment 
are recognized in the profit or loss. This category 
generally applies to trade and other receivables.
373
372
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Debt instruments at FVTPL
	
FVTPL is a residual category for financial instruments. 
Any financial instrument, which does not meet the 
criteria for amortized cost or FVTOCI, is classified as 
at FVTPL. A gain or loss on a Debt instrument that is 
subsequently measured at FVTPL and is not a part 
of a hedging relationship is recognized in statement 
of profit or loss and presented net in the statement 
of profit and loss within other gains or losses in the 
period in which it arises. Interest income from these 
Debt instruments is included in other income.
	
Equity investments of other entities
	
All equity investments in scope of IND AS 109 are 
measured at fair value. Equity instruments which 
are held for trading and contingent consideration 
recognized by an acquirer in a business combination 
to which IND AS103 applies are classified as at 
FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Group 
may make an irrevocable election to present in other 
comprehensive income all subsequent changes in 
the fair value. The Group makes such election on an 
instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification 
is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
	
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument 
as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the 
instrument, excluding dividends, are recognized in 
the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from 
OCI to profit and loss, even on sale of investment. 
However, the Group may transfer the cumulative 
gain or loss within equity. Equity instruments 
included within the FVTPL category are measured 
at fair value with all changes recognized in the Profit 
and loss.
	
Derecognition
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial 
assets) is primarily derecognized (i.e., removed from 
the Group’s statement of financial position) when:
	
-	
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or
	
-	
the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
“pass through” arrangement and either;
	
(a) 	 the Group has transferred the rights to receive 
cash flows from the financial assets or
	
(b) 	 the Group has retained the contractual right 
to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, 
but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the 
cash flows to one or more recipients.
	
Where the Group has transferred an asset, the Group 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the 
financial assets. In such cases, the financial asset is 
derecognized. Where the entity has not transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
ownership of the financial assets, the financial asset 
is not derecognized.
	
Where the Group has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset is 
derecognized if the Group has not retained control of 
the financial asset. Where the Group retains control 
of the financial asset, the asset is continued to be 
recognized to the extent of continuing involvement 
in the financial asset.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Group applies 
expected credit losses (ECL) model for measurement 
and recognition of impairment loss on the following 
financial asset and credit risk exposure
	
- 	
Financial assets measured at amortised cost; 
e.g. Loans, security deposits, trade receivable, 
bank balance.
	
- 	
Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI);
	
The Group follows “simplified approach” for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade 
receivables. Under the simplified approach, the 
Group does not track changes in credit risk. Rather, 
it recognizes impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from 
its initial recognition. the Group uses a provision 
matrix to determine impairment loss allowance 
on the portfolio of trade receivables. The provision 
matrix is based on its historically observed default 
rates over the expected life of trade receivable and 
is adjusted for forward looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed default rates 
are updated and changes in the forward looking 
estimates are analysed.
	
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial 
assets and risk exposure, the Group determines 
whether there has been a significant increase in the 
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has 
not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to 
provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in 
subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument 
improves such that there is no longer a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then 
the Group reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12- months ECL.
	
Reclassification of financial assets
	
The Group determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial 
recognition, no reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are debt 
instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is 
a change in the business model for managing those 
assets. Changes to the business model are expected 
to be infrequent. The Group’s senior management 
determines change in the business model as a result 
of external or internal changes which are significant 
to the Group’s operations. Such changes are evident 
to external parties. A change in the business 
model occurs when the Group either begins or 
ceases to perform an activity that is significant to 
its operations. If the Group reclassifies financial 
assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively 
from the reclassification date which is the first day 
of the immediately next reporting period following 
the change in business model. The Group does 
not restate any previously recognized gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) or interest.
(ii)	
Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss, loans and borrowings, and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. The Group 
financial liabilities include loans and borrowings 
including bank overdraft, trade payable, trade 
deposits, retention money and other payables.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on 
their classification, as described below:
	
Trade Payables
	
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Group prior to the end of 
financial year which are unpaid. Trade and other 
payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within 12 months after the 
reporting period. They are recognised initially at fair 
value and subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using EIR method.
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading 
and financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading 
if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing 
in the near term. Gains or losses on liabilities held 
for trading are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss. Financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss are 
designated as such at the initial date of recognition, 
and only if the criteria in IND AS 109 are satisfied. 
For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ 
losses attributable to changes in own credit risk 
are recognised in OCI. These gains/ losses are not 
subsequently transferred to profit and loss. However, 
the Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss 
within equity. All other changes in fair value of such 
liability are recognised in the statement of profit or 
loss. The Group has not designated any financial 
liability as at fair value through profit and loss.
	
Loans and borrowings
	
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, 
net of transaction cost incurred. After initial 
recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised 
as well as through the EIR amortization process. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or 
costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortization is included as finance costs in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group 
are those contracts that require a payment to be 
made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs 
because the specified debtor fails to make a 
payment when due in accordance with the terms of 
a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are 
recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted 
for transaction costs that are directly attributable to 
the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the 
liability is measured at the higher of the amount 
of loss allowance determined as per impairment 
requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount 
recognised less cumulative amortisation.
375
374
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Derecognition
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or medication is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the consolidated 
balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal 
right to offset the recognized amounts and there is 
an intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
Compound financial instruments
	
Compound financial convertible instruments are 
separated into liability and equity components 
based on the terms of the contract. On issuance 
of the convertible instruments, the fair value of the 
liability component is determined using a market 
rate for an equivalent non-convertible instrument. 
This amount is classified as a financial liability 
measured at amortised cost (net of transaction costs) 
until it is extinguished on conversion or redemption. 
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the 
conversion option that is recognised and included 
in equity since conversion option meets Ind AS 32 
criteria for fixed to fixed classification. Transaction 
costs are deducted from equity, net of associated 
income tax. The carrying amount of the conversion 
option is not remeasured in subsequent years. 
Transaction costs are apportioned between the 
liability and equity components of the convertible 
instruments based on the allocation of proceeds 
to the liability and equity components when the 
instruments are initially recognised.
f. 	
Revenue from contracts with customers 
and other streams of revenue
	
Revenue comprises the consideration received or 
receivable for providing buildings on operating lease, 
rendering of maintenance service and other income 
in the ordinary course of the Group’s activities.
	
Revenue from contracts with customers is 
recognised when control of the goods or services 
are transferred to the customer at an amount 
that reflects the consideration to which the Group 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods 
or services. The Group has generally concluded 
that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements 
because it typically controls the goods or services 
before transferring them to the customer. Revenue 
is presented, net of taxes, rebates and discounts (if 
any).
	
Revenue is recognized as follows:
	
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis 
over the term of the lease, except for contingent 
rental income which is recognised when it arises. 
Refer note 2.2 (k) for policy relating to recognition 
of rental income. Parking income and fit out rental 
income is recognised in statement of profit and loss 
on accrual basis.
	
Revenue from sale of constructed properties
	
Revenue is recognised at the point in time w.r.t. sale 
of real estate units, including land, plots, commercial 
units, as and when the control passes on to the 
customer which coincides with handing over of the 
possession to the customer.
	
Gain on sale of investments
	
On disposal of an investment, the difference between 
the carrying amount and net disposal proceeds is 
recognised to the profit and loss statement.
	
Facility Management
	
Revenue from facility management is recognised 
as per the terms of the agreement on the basis of 
services rendered.
	
Contract balances
	
Contract assets
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services transferred to the 
customer. If the Group performs by transferring 
goods or services to a customer before the 
customer pays consideration or before payment is 
due, a contract asset is recognised for the earned 
consideration that is conditional. The same has been 
included under the head “unbilled receivables” in 
the consolidated financial statements.
	
Trade receivables
	
A receivable represents the Group’s right to an 
amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e. 
only the passage of time is required before payment 
of the consideration is due).
	
Contract liabilities
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer 
goods or services to a customer for which the 
Group has received consideration (or an amount 
of consideration is due) from the customer. If a 
customer pays consideration before the Group 
transfers goods or services to the customer, a 
contract liability is recognised when the payment 
is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when 
the Group performs under the contract. The same 
has been included under the head “advance from 
customers” in the consolidated financial statements.
g. 	 Inventories
	
Inventories in real estate business
	
Inventories comprise completed units for sale and 
property under construction (Work in progress):
	
(A) 	 Completed Unsold inventory is valued at 
lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is 
determined by including cost of land, materials, 
services and related overheads.
	
(B) 	 Work in progress is valued at cost. Cost 
comprises value of land (including development 
rights), materials, services and other overheads 
related to projects under construction.
h. 	 Taxes
	
Tax expense comprises current tax expense and 
deferred tax.
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from or paid to the taxation authorities in accordance 
with the Income Tax Act, 1961 enacted in India by 
using tax rates and tax laws that are enacted or 
substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
	
Current income tax relating to items recognized 
outside profit or loss is recognized outside profit 
or loss (either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Current tax items are recognized in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and 
establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet 
approach on temporary differences between the 
tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts for financial reporting purposes at the 
reporting date.
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
	»
When the deferred tax liability arises from the 
initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability 
in a transaction that is not a business combination 
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss and 
does not give rise to equal taxable and deductible 
temporary differences;
	»
In respect of taxable temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, when 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary differences will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future
	
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible 
temporary differences, the carry forward of unused 
tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax 
assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
can be utilized except:
	»
When the deferred tax asset relating to the 
deductible temporary difference arises from 
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination 
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss and 
does not give rise to equal taxable and deductible 
temporary differences;
	»
In respect of deductible temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred 
tax assets are recognised only to the extent that 
it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit 
will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of 
the deferred tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognized to the extent that it has 
377
376
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
become probable that future taxable profits will 
allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside 
profit or loss is recognized outside the statement of 
profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Deferred tax items are recognized in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off 
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
	
GST (Goods and Service tax)/ Sales tax/ value 
added taxes paid on acquisition of assets or on 
incurring expenses
	
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the 
amount of GST (Goods and Service tax)/ Sales tax/ 
value added taxes paid, except:
	»
When the tax incurred on a purchase of assets 
or services is not recoverable from the taxation 
authority, in which case, the tax paid is recognised 
as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item, as applicable
	»
When receivables and payables are stated with 
the amount of tax included
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or payable 
to, the taxation authority is included as part of Other 
current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet.
i. 	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing cost includes interest expense as 
per effective interest rate [EIR]. Borrowing costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes 
a substantial period of time to get ready for its 
intended use or sale are capitalized as part of the 
cost of the asset until such time that the asset are 
substantially ready for their intended use. Where 
fund are borrowed specifically to finance a project, 
the amount capitalized represents the actual 
borrowing incurred.
	
Where surplus funds are available out of money 
borrowed specifically to finance project, the 
income generated from such current investments 
is deducted from the total capitalized borrowing 
cost. Where funds used to finance a project form 
part of general borrowings, the amount capitalized 
is calculated using a weighted average of rate 
applicable to relevant general borrowing of the Group 
during the year. Capitalisation of borrowing cost is 
suspended and charged to profit and loss during 
the extended periods when the active development 
on the qualifying project is interrupted. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which 
they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and 
other costs that an entity incurs in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes 
exchange differences to the extent regarded as an 
adjustment to the borrowing costs.
j. 	
Leases
	
The Group assesses at contract inception whether 
a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration.
	
Group as a lessee
	
The Group applies a single recognition and 
measurement approach for all leases, except for 
short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. 
The Group recognises lease liabilities to make lease 
payments and right-of-use assets representing the 
right to use the underlying assets.
k) 	 Right-of-use assets
	
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the 
commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the 
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use 
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The 
cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount 
of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs 
incurred, and lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date less any lease incentives 
received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term 
and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the 
Group at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects 
the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation 
is calculated using the estimated useful life of 
the asset.
	
The right-of-use assets are also subject to 
impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in 
section (d) Impairment of non-financial assets.
	
ii)	
Lease Liabilities
	
	
At the commencement date of the lease, the 
Group recognises lease liabilities measured at 
the present value of lease payments to be made 
over the lease term. The lease payments include 
fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, 
variable lease payments that depend on an 
index or a rate, and amounts expected to be 
paid under residual value guarantees. The 
lease payments also include the exercise price 
of a purchase option reasonably certain to 
be exercised by the Group and payments of 
penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease 
term reflects the Group exercising the option 
to terminate.
	
	
In calculating the present value of lease 
payments, the Group uses its incremental 
borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the 
lease is not readily determinable. After the 
commencement date, the amount of lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion 
of interest and reduced for the lease payments 
made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease 
liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, 
a change in the lease term, a change in the 
lease payments or a change in the assessment 
of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
	
iii) 	 Short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets
	
	
The Group applies the short-term lease 
recognition exemption to its short-term leases 
of equipment (i.e., those leases that have a 
lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-
value assets recognition exemption to leases of 
office equipment that are considered to be low 
value. Lease payments on short-term leases 
and leases of low-value assets are recognised 
as expense on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
	
Group as a lessor
	
Leases in which the Group does not transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of an asset are classified as operating leases. The 
respective leased assets are included in the balance 
sheet based on their nature. Rental income is 
recognized on straight line basis over the lease term 
and is included in revenue in the Statement of profit 
or loss due to its operating nature. Initial direct costs 
incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating 
lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased 
asset and recognised over the lease term on the 
same basis as rental income.
	
Leases which effectively transfer to the lessee 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental 
to ownership of the leased item are classified and 
accounted for as finance lease. Lease rental receipts 
are apportioned between the finance income 
and capital repayment based on the implicit rate 
of return.
l. 	
Provision and Contingent liabilities
	
Provisions
	
A provision is recognized when the Group has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of 
past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions 
are not discounted to their present value and are 
determined based on the best estimate required 
to settle the obligation at the reporting date. These 
estimates are reviewed at each reporting date and 
adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
	
Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Group or a present obligation that 
is not recognized because it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases, where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognized because it cannot be 
measured reliably. the Group does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in 
the financial statements unless the probability of 
outflow of resources is remote.
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent assets 
and commitments are reviewed at each balance 
sheet date.
379
378
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
m. 	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Provident fund
	
The Group has contributed to employees provident 
fund benefits through a trust “Max Financial 
Services Limited Provident Fund Trust” managed 
by Max Financial Services Limited (erstwhile Max 
India Limited) whereby amounts determined at a 
fixed percentage of basic salaries of the employees 
are deposited to the trust every month. The benefit 
vests upon commencement of the employment. The 
interest rate payable by the trust to the beneficiaries 
every year is notified by the government and the 
Group has an obligation to make good the shortfall, 
if any, between the return from the investments of 
the trust and the notified interest rate. The Group 
has obtained actuarial valuation to determine the 
shortfall, if any, as at the Balance Sheet date. The 
Group recognizes contribution payable to the 
provident fund as an expense, when the employee 
renders the related service.
	
Gratuity
	
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit obligation and 
is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation 
on projected unit credit method made at the end 
of each financial year. Max Speciality Films Limited, 
subsidiary of the Group has also made contribution 
to Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) towards a policy 
to cover the gratuity liability of the employees to 
an extent. The difference between the actuarial 
valuation of the gratuity of employees at the year-
end and the balance of funds with LIC is provided 
for as liability in the books.
	
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, 
excluding amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and the return on 
plan assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability), are 
recognized immediately in the Balance Sheet with 
a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings 
through OCI in the period in which they occur. 
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods.
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount 
rate to the net defined benefit (liabilities/assets). The 
Group recognized the following changes in the net 
defined benefit obligation under employee benefit 
expenses in statement of profit and loss
	
(i) 	
Service cost comprising current service cost, 
past service cost, gain & loss on curtailments 
and non-routine settlements.
	
(ii) 	 Net interest expenses or income
	
Leave obligations/Compensated absences
	
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilized 
within the next 12 months, is treated as short-
term employee benefit .The Group measures the 
expected cost of such absences as the additional 
amount that it expects to pay as a result of the 
unused entitlement that has accumulated at the 
reporting date.
	
The Group treats accumulated leave expected to be 
carried forward beyond twelve months, as long-term 
employee benefit for measurement purposes. Such 
long-term compensated absences are provided for 
based on the actuarial valuation using the projected 
unit credit method at the year end. Actuarial gains/
losses are immediately taken to the statement 
of profit and loss and are not deferred. The Group 
presents the leave as a current liability in the balance 
sheet as the Group does not have an unconditional 
right to defer its settlement for 12 months after the 
reporting date.
	
Short-term obligations
	
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within twelve months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related 
service are recognized in respect of employee 
service upto the end of the reporting period and 
are measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. the liabilities are 
presented as current employee benefit obligations 
in the balance sheet.
	
Long term incentive plan
	
Employees of the Group receives defined incentive, 
whereby employees render services for a specified 
period. Long term incentive is measured on accrual 
basis over the period as per the terms of contract.
n. 	 Share-based payments
	
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the 
form of share based payment transaction, whereby 
employees render services as a consideration for 
equity instruments (equity- settled transactions).
	
Equity-settled transactions
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model.
	
That cost is recognized, together with a 
corresponding increase in share-based payment 
(SBP) reserves in equity, over the period in which the 
performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled 
in employee benefits expense. The cumulative 
expense recognized for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects 
the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
statement of profit and loss expense or credit for 
a period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognized as at the beginning and 
end of that period and is recognized in employee 
benefits expense.
	
Service and non-market performance conditions 
are not taken into account when determining the 
grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood 
of the conditions being met is assessed as part 
of the Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. Market 
performance conditions are reflected within the 
grant date fair value. Any other conditions attached 
to an award, but without an associated service 
requirement, are considered to be non-vesting 
conditions. Non-vesting conditions are reflected in 
the fair value of an award and lead to an immediate 
expensing of an award unless there are also service 
and/or performance conditions.
	
No expense is recognized for awards that do not 
ultimately vest because non-market performance 
and/or service conditions have not been met. Where 
awards include a market or non-vesting condition, 
the transactions are treated as vested irrespective 
of whether the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and/
or service conditions are satisfied.
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognized is the 
expense had the terms had not been modified, if the 
original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognized for any modification that 
increases the total fair value of the share-based 
payment transaction or is otherwise beneficial to the 
employee as measured at the date of modification. 
Where an award is cancelled by the entity or by the 
counterparty, any remaining element of the fair 
value of the award is expensed immediately through 
profit or loss.
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share.
o. 	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
p. 	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue, bonus element in 
a rights issue, share split, and reverse share split 
(consolidation of shares) that have changed the 
number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources. For the purpose 
of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net 
profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders of the parent company and weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the 
period are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive 
potential equity shares.
q. 	 Foreign currencies
	
The functional currency of all entities included in 
these consolidated financial statements is Indian 
Rupees (₹) which is also the Company’s presentation 
currency and therefore, Groups.
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial 
recognition in the functional currency, using the 
exchange rate prevailing at the date of transaction. 
However, for practical reasons, the Group uses an 
average rate if the average approximates the actual 
rate at the time of the transaction.
	
Measurement of foreign currency items at the 
balance sheet date
	
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at 
the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the 
reporting date.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial 
transactions. Non-monetary items measured at 
381
380
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
fair value in a foreign currency are translated using 
the exchange rates at the date when the fair value 
is determined.
r. 	
Fair value measurement
	
The Group measures financial instruments, such as, 
derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
(i)	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
(ii) 	 In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient date are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement as 
a whole:
	
(i)	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
(ii)	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
	
(iii)	 Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Group determines whether transfers have occurred 
between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
The Group’s management determines the policies 
and procedures for both recurring and non-
recurring fair value measurement, such as derivative 
instruments measured at fair value.
	
External valuers are involved for valuation of 
significant assets, such as properties and financial 
assets and significant liabilities. Involvement of 
external valuers is decided upon annually by the 
management. The management decides, after 
discussions with the Group’s external valuers which 
valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.
	
At each reporting date, the management analyses 
the movements in the values of assets and liabilities 
which are required to be remeasured or re-assessed 
as per the Group’s accounting policies.
	
The management in conjunction with the Group’s 
external valuers, also compares the change in the 
fair value of each asset and liability with relevant 
external sources to determine whether the change 
is reasonable.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on 
the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 
the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above
	
This note summarises accounting policy for fair 
value. Other fair value related disclosures are given 
in the relevant notes.
	
Disclosures for valuation methods, significant 
estimates and assumptions (note 40)
	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement 
hierarchy (note 40)
	
Financial instruments (including those carried at 
amortised cost) (note 40)
2.3	Accounting judgements, estimates and 
assumptions
	
The preparation of the Group’s Consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets 
and liabilities, and the grouping disclosures, and 
the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty 
about these assumptions and estimates could result 
in outcomes that require a material adjustment to 
the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected 
in future periods.
	
Judgements
	
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, management has made the following 
judgements, which have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognized in the 
financial statements.
	
(a) 	 Operating lease commitments - Group as 
lessee
	
	
The Group has taken various commercial 
properties on leases. the Group has determined, 
based on an evaluation of the terms and 
conditions of the arrangements, such as the 
lease term not constituting a substantial 
portion of the economic life of the commercial 
property, and that it does not retain all the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of 
these properties and accounts for the contracts 
as operating leases. Refer Note 4b.
	
(b) 	 Impairment of financial assets
	
	
At each balance sheet date, based on historical 
default rates observed over expected life, the 
management assesses the expected credit loss 
on outstanding financial assets.
	
(c) 	 Provisions
	
	
At each balance sheet date basis the 
management judgment, changes in facts 
and legal aspects, the Group assesses 
the requirement of provisions against the 
outstanding contingent liabilities. However, the 
actual future outcome may be different from 
this judgement.
	
(d) 	 Recognition of deferred tax assets
	
	
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be 
recognized is based on an assessment of the 
probability of the future taxable income against 
which the deferred tax assets can be utilized.
	
Estimates and assumptions
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and 
other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing 
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are described below. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters available 
when the financial statements were prepared. 
Existing circumstances and assumptions about 
future developments, however, may change due to 
market changes or circumstances arising that are 
beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are 
reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
	
(a) 	 Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the 
interpretation of complex tax regulations, 
changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing 
of future taxable income. Given the wide range 
of business relationships and the long-term 
nature and complexity of existing contractual 
agreements, differences arising between the 
actual results and the assumptions made, or 
future changes to such assumptions, could 
necessitate future adjustments to tax income 
and expense already recorded. The Group 
establishes provisions, based on reasonable 
estimates. The amount of such provisions is 
based on various factors, such as experience of 
previous tax audits and differing interpretations 
of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the 
responsible tax authority. Such differences of 
interpretation may arise on a wide variety of 
issues depending on the conditions prevailing 
in the respective domicile of the companies.
	
(b) 	 Defined benefit plans
	
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. Gratuity 
benefit) is determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions which may differ 
from actual developments in the future. These 
include the determination of the discount rate, 
future salary increases, mortality rates. Due to 
the complexity of the valuation, the underlying 
assumptions and its long-term nature, a defined 
benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes 
in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date. In determining 
the appropriate discount rate, management 
considers the interest rates of long-term 
government bonds where remaining maturity 
if such bond corresponding to the expected 
duration of the defined benefit obligation. The 
383
382
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
mortality rate is based on publicly available 
mortality tables for the specific countries. 
Future salary increases and pension increases 
are based on expected future inflation rates. 
Further details about the assumptions used, 
including a sensitivity analysis, are given in 
Note 37.
	
(c) 	 Fair value measurement of financial instrument
	
	
When the fair value of financial assets and 
financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet 
cannot be measured based on quoted prices 
in active markets, their fair value is measured 
using valuation techniques including the 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. The inputs 
to these models are taken from observable 
markets where possible, but where this is not 
feasible, a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. Judgements include 
considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, 
credit risk and volatility. Changes in assumptions 
about these factors could affect the reported 
fair value of financial instruments. The Group 
uses Net asset value for valuation of investment 
in mutual funds. Refer Note 40 related to Fair 
value disclosures.
	
(d) 	 Share based payments
	
	
The Group initially measures the cost of cash 
settled transactions with employees using a 
binomial model to determine the fair value of 
the liability incurred. Estimating fair value for 
share based payment transactions requires 
determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which is dependent on the terms and 
conditions of the grant. This estimate also 
requires determination of the most appropriate 
inputs to the valuation model including the 
expected life of the share option, volatility 
and dividend yield and making assumptions 
about them. For cash settled share-based 
payment transactions, the liability needs to be 
remeasured at the end of each reporting period 
up to the date of settlement, with any changes 
in fair value recognized in the profit or loss. 
This requires a reassessment of the estimates 
used at the end of each reporting period. The 
assumptions and models used for estimating 
fair value for share based payment transactions 
are disclosed in note 39.
	
(e) 	 Valuation of Investment Property
	
	
Investment property is stated at cost. However, 
as per Ind AS 40 ‘Investment Property’ there 
is a requirement to disclose fair value as 
at the balance sheet date. The fair value of 
investment property has been determined 
by the Group internally for few properties and 
with the help of an expert for few properties, 
having appropriate recognised professional 
qualification and recent experience in the 
location and category of the property being 
valued as at reporting date. The determination 
of fair value of investment properties requires 
the use of reliable estimates of future cash flows 
considering growth in rental, liquidity discount 
and discount rate applicable to those assets.
	
(f) 	 Useful lives of depreciable/ amortisable assets
	
	
Management reviews its estimate of the useful 
lives of depreciable/ amortisable assets at each 
reporting date, based on the expected utility 
of the assets. Uncertainties in these estimates 
relate to technical and economic obsolescence 
that may change the utility of assets.
2.4	A. New and Amended Standards
	
The Group applied for the first-time certain 
standards and amendments, which are effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after April 01, 
2024. The Group has not early adopted any standard, 
interpretation or amendment that has been issued 
but is not yet effective.
	
a.	
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts
	
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notified 
the Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, vide 
notification dated August 12, 2024, under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024, which is effective 
from annual reporting periods beginning on or 
after April 01, 2024.
	
	
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts is a 
comprehensive new accounting standard for 
insurance contracts covering recognition and 
measurement, presentation and disclosure. 
Ind AS 117 replaces Ind AS 104 Insurance 
Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies to all types of 
insurance contracts, regardless of the type of 
entities that issue them as well as to certain 
guarantees and financial instruments with 
discretionary participation features; a few scope 
exceptions will apply. Ind AS 117 is based on a 
general model, supplemented by:
	
	
- 	
A specific adaptation for contracts with 
direct participation features (the variable 
fee approach)
	
	
- 	
A simplified approach (the premium 
allocation approach) mainly for short-
duration contracts
	
	
The application of Ind AS 117 does not have 
material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements as the Group has not entered any 
contracts in the nature of insurance contracts 
covered under Ind AS 117.
	
b.	
Amendments to Ind AS 116 Leases – 
Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
	
	
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Second Amendment 
Rules, 2024, which amend Ind AS 116, 
Leases, with respect to Lease Liability in a Sale 
and Leaseback.
	
	
The amendment specifies the requirements 
that a seller-lessee uses in measuring the 
lease liability arising in a sale and leaseback 
transaction, to ensure the seller-lessee does not 
recognise any amount of the gain or loss that 
relates to the right of use it retains.
	
	
The amendment is effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after April 
01, 2024 and must be applied retrospectively 
to sale and leaseback transactions entered into 
after the date of initial application of Ind AS 116.
	
	
The amendments do not have a material impact 
on the Group’s financial statements.
B. 	 Standard notified but not yet effective
	
There are no standards that are notified and not yet 
effective as on the date.
385
384
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
3.	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
(₹ in lakhs)
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and 
fixture
Office 
equipment
Computers 
and data 
processing 
units
Motor 
vehicles
Total
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
209.26
69.43
65.25
35.20
151.46
344.94
875.54
Additions
-
-
-
0.70
53.32
216.86
270.88
Disposals
(195.27)
-
(63.54)
(39.59)
(1.08)
(26.47)
(325.95)
Add: adjustments
(4.87)
(3.94)
4.16
13.82
(15.24)
(2.05)
(8.12)
As at March 31, 2024
9.12
65.49
5.87
10.13
188.46
533.28
812.35
Additions
-
-
-
4.70
81.77
211.94
298.41
Disposals
(9.12)
-
(5.87)
(8.83)
-
(54.12)
(77.94)
As at March 31, 2025
-
65.49
-
6.00
270.23
691.10
1,032.82
Depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
15.86
57.97
8.09
11.57
84.40
114.98
292.87
Depreciation
11.76
0.23
5.42
6.40
27.56
58.12
109.50
Disposals
(19.57)
-
(7.64)
(8.84)
(0.36)
(16.68)
(53.09)
As at March 31, 2024
8.05
58.20
5.87
9.13
111.60
156.42
349.28
Depreciation
-
0.10
3.19
1.58
42.91
74.44
122.22
Disposals
(8.05)
-
(9.06)
(5.63)
-
(28.02)
(50.76)
As at March 31, 2025
-
58.30
-
5.08
154.51
202.84
420.74
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2025
(0.00)
7.19
-
0.92
115.72
488.26
612.08
As at March 31, 2024
1.07
7.29
-
1.00
76.86
376.86
463.08
Note: Refer note no 13 for charge created on property, plant and equipment as security against borrowings.
3a	 Investment property
(₹ in lakhs)
Gross carrying amount
Investment 
property
Land
Investment 
property (under 
development)
Total
As at April 01, 2023
57,284.97
8,874.50
78,252.26
1,44,411.73
Additions
58,605.02
-
41,466.73
1,00,071.75
Disposals
(91.15)
-
-
(91.15)
Capitalisation
-
-
(58,010.05)
(58,010.05)
As at March 31, 2024
1,15,798.84
8,874.50
61,708.94
1,86,382.28
Additions
1,261.38
-
23,950.58
25,211.96
Disposals
(20.93)
-
-
(20.93)
As at March 31, 2025
1,17,039.29
8,874.50
85,659.52
2,11,573.31
Depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
3,902.80
-
-
3,902.80
Depreciation
2,108.86
-
-
2,108.86
Disposals
(9.13)
-
-
(9.13)
As at March 31, 2024
6,002.53
-
-
6,002.53
Depreciation
2,731.22
-
-
2,731.22
Disposals
(3.32)
-
-
(3.32)
As at March 31, 2025
8,730.43
-
-
8,730.43
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2025
1,08,308.86
8,874.50
85,659.52
2,02,842.88
As at March 31, 2024
1,09,796.31
8,874.50
61,708.94
1,80,379.75
Notes:
i)	
Investment property under construction as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 includes property at Sector 
65 Gurugram under Acreage Builders Private Limited, a subsidiary company and property under construction 
at Sector 129 Noida under Max Square Limited, a subsidiary company. During the previous year investment 
property at Okhla Delhi under Pharmax Corporatioin Limited and Max Square Project 1 is capitalised.
ii)	
For investment property under development, ageing as at March 31, 2025:
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount in investment property under development for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
more than 
3 years
Max Square Limited
8,702.62
23,183.10
164.45
-
32,050.17
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
15,247.96
4,403.93
33,957.46
-
53,609.35
Total
23,950.58
27,587.03
34,121.91
-
85,659.52
iii)	 For investment property under development, ageing as at March 31, 2024:
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount in investment property under development for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
more than 
3 years
Max Square Limited
23,183.10
164.45
-
-
23,347.55
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
4,403.93
33,957.46
-
-
38,361.39
Total
27,587.03
34,121.91
-
-
61,708.94
(iv)	 Contractual obligations
Refer note 36B for disclosure of contractual commitments
(v)	 Capitalised borrowing cost
During the year, the Group has capitalised ₹5,844.55 lakhs (March 31, 2024- 4,780.76 lakhs) under investment 
property under devlopment.
(vi)	 Amount recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Rental income 
 10,905.64 
 6,198.77 
Less: Direct operating expenses generating rental income
 2,899.45 
 1,033.23 
Profit from leasing of investment properties 
 8,006.19 
 5,165.54 
Less: depreciation expense
 2,731.22 
 2,108.86 
Profit from leasing of investment properties after depreciation 
 5,274.97 
 3,056.68 
(vii)	Fair value
	
Fair value hierarchy and valuation technique
The fair value of investment property has been determined by the Group internally for few properties and with 
the help of an expert for few properties, having appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent 
experience in the location and category of the property being valued. The fair value has been arrived using 
discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows considering growth in rental 
of 15% ( March 31, 2024: 15%) on every 3 years, liquidity discount of 15% ( March 31, 2024: 15%) and discount 
rate of 10-12% ( March 31, 2024: 10-12%).	
387
386
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Reconciliation of fair value:*
(₹ in lakhs)
Opening balance as at April 01, 2023
₹71,200 to 
77,500 lakhs
Increase of Fair value
₹1,12,350 to 
1,17,350 lakhs
Decline in fair value
-
Closing balance as at March 31, 2024
₹1,83,550 to 
1,94,850 lakhs
Increase of Fair value
₹4,000 lakhs
Decline in fair value
-
Closing balance as at March 31, 2025
₹1,87,550 - 
1,98,850 lakhs
	
* Other than Investment property (under development).
	
Valuation models applied for valuation:
	
Discounted cash flow method - net present value is determined based on projected cash flows discounted at an 
appropriate rate.
(viii) Capitalised Employee stock option expense
	
During the year, the Group has capitalised ₹39.74 lakhs (March 31, 2024- ₹40.73 lakhs) under investment property 
under devlopment.
(ix)	 There are no projects in progress under capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has 
exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
(x)	 Refer note no 13 for charge created on Investment property as security against borrowings.
4.	 Intangible assets
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Computer software
Total
Intangible assets 
under development
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
355.18
355.18
-
Additions
29.13
29.13
26.60
Disposals
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
384.31
384.31
26.60
Additions
41.35
41.35
14.75
Disposals
-
-
(41.35)
As at March 31, 2025
425.66
425.66
-
Amortisation
As at April 01, 2023
22.14
22.14
-
Amortisation charge
58.33
58.33
-
Disposals
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
80.47
80.47
-
Amortisation charge
62.09
62.09
-
Disposals
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2025
142.56
142.56
-
Net carrying amount
March 31, 2025
283.10
283.10
-
March 31, 2024
303.84
303.84
26.60
Ageing of Intangible assets under development (IAUD):
As at March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Less than 
1 year
2-3 years
more than 
3 years
Total
Projects in progress
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Less than 
1 year
2-3 years
more than 
3 years
Total
Projects in progress
26.60
-
-
26.60
Total
26.60
-
-
26.60
Note: There are no borrowing cost capitalised during the year (March 31, 2024 - Nil). There is no project whose 
completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan during the current or previous year.
4a	 Right of use assets
The Group has lease contracts for buidlings from related parties. The Group’s obligations under its leases are secured 
by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. The Group is restricted from assigning or sub leasing the leased assets.
The carrying amounts of right-of-use assets recognised and the movements during the year:
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
As at April 01, 2023
1,317.55
1,317.55
Additions
1,419.19
1,419.19
Deletion
(1,035.87)
(1,035.87)
Depreciation expense
(263.54)
(263.54)
As at March 31, 2024
1,437.33
1,437.33
Additions
-
-
Deletion
-
-
Depreciation expense
(494.13)
(494.13)
As at March 31, 2025
943.20
943.20
During the previous year, the Group has sub-leased its premises and has assessed that this sub-lease fulfills the criteria 
of a finance lease as per Ind AS 116. Consequently, the Group has recognised lease receivables from sub-lease in its 
books and has de-recognised the leasehold improvements as well as right of use asset related to the original lease. 
Consequently, an amount of ₹15.82 lakhs was recognised as profit on de-recognition of right of use assets under the 
head ‘Other income’ (refer note 22).
389
388
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
4b	 The carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movement during the year:
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
As at April 01, 2023
3,724.77
2,838.51
Additions
1,337.87
1,337.87
Accretion of interest
438.76
377.56
Payments
(745.07)
(745.07)
As at March 31, 2024
4,756.33
4,756.33
Additions
-
-
Accretion of interest
486.17
486.17
Payments
(1,098.55)
(1,098.55)
As at March 31, 2025
4,143.95
4,143.95
Disclosed as under
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
31-Mar-25
31-Mar-24
Current lease liabilities
713.05
613.81
Non-current lease liabilities
3,430.90
4,142.53
Total
4,143.95
4,756.34
The details regarding the maturity analysis of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025 on an 
undiscounted basis:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Within one year
1,127.21
1,099.56
After one year but not more than five years
3,216.33
3,570.75
More than five years
1,360.95
2,133.74
Total
5,704.49
6,804.05
Considering the lease term of the leases, the effective interest rate for lease liabilities for all the period presented is 
11% ( (March 31, 2024-11%).
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets are sufficient 
to meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 494.13 
 263.54 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 486.17 
 438.76 
Rent expenses
 9.05 
 23.90 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
 989.35 
 726.20 
Group as a lessor
The Group has entered into sub-lease arrangement for some of its right to use aseets. These leases have terms of 
nine years. All leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge on three year basis according 
to prevailing market conditions. Rental income recognised by the group during the year is ₹383.13 lakhs (March 31, 
2024: ₹297.90 lakhs). Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at year end are 
as follows:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Within one year
 642.29 
 597.59 
After one year but not more than five years
 2,854.96 
 2,826.70 
More than five years
 1,390.06 
 2,060.61 
Total
 4,887.31 
 5,484.90 
5.	 Non Current financial assets-Investment
(i)	 Investments
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unquoted, valued at fair value through profit and loss
a)	 Investment in preference shares 
	
Azure Hospitality Private Limited#
 -   
 -   
	
1,62,34,829 (March 31, 2024 - 162,34,829 ) Series-C preference 
shares of nominal value ₹20 each fully paid up
b)	 Investment in Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares 
	
Aliferous Technologies Private Limited 
	
461 (March 31, 2024 - 461) Compulsorily Convertible Preference 
Shares (Seed Series A1 CCPS) of Nominal Value ₹100 each fully paid 
up*
 49.90 
 49.90 
b)	 Investment in IAN Fund 
	
1,97,290.21 (March 31, 2024 - 2,26,589.69) units of nominal value 
₹100 each fully paid up
 461.83 
 219.51 
 511.73 
 269.41 
Note:
*0.001% Non cumulative Compulsory convertible preference shares will be convertible into one equity share per preference share, 
maximum after nineteen years from the date of issue. The Group has committed to invest further ₹49.90 lakhs towards these 
preference shares.
#During the financial year 2023-24, consequent to reassessment of fair value of investment in Azure Hospitality Private Limited, 
the Group (through its subsidiary, Max Assets Services Limited) had recorded a fair value loss through statement of profit and loss 
of ₹4,445.06 lakhs and presented as exceptional item.
(ii)	 Trade receivables
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Considered good - Secured;
 372.51 
 659.83 
(b)	Considered good - Unsecured;
 372.51 
 659.83 
- 	
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Group either severally or jointly with 
any other person. 
- 	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 0 to 60 days. 
- 	
For dues from related parties and terms & conditions relating to receivables from related parties, refer note 42(b).
391
390
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Trade Receivable Ageing
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
More than 
2 years
Total
(I)	 Undisputed Trade receivables- 
considered good "
372.51
-
-
-
-
372.51
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables- 
Which have significant in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	Undisputed Trade receivables- 
Credit impaired 
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables-which have 
significant increase in credit risk 
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables-credit 
Impaired 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
372.51
-
-
-
-
372.51
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
More than 
2 years
Total
(I)	 Undisputed Trade receivables- 
considered good 
659.83
-
-
-
-
659.83
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables- 
Which have significant in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	Undisputed Trade receivables- 
Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables-which have 
significant increase in credit risk 
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables-credit 
Impaired 
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
659.83
-
-
-
-
659.83
(iii)	Other non current financial assets (unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposits {also refer note 42(b) for deposits made with related 
parties}
10,332.09
6,372.69
Deposits with remaining maturity for more than 12 months
9,799.74
2,451.02
Rent receivable (Equalisation)
1,676.81
57.69
Lease Receivable for sub-leased assets
3,095.85
3,381.51
24,904.49
12,262.91
6.	 Non-current tax assets (net)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance income tax and tax deducted at source (net of provisions)
3,464.91
1,723.45
3,464.91
1,723.45
7.	 Other non current assets (Unsecured considered good unless otherwise 
stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital advances (refer note 42b)
41,454.30
956.45
Prepaid expenses
18,582.75
5,717.44
Balance with statutory authorities
-
62.46
60,037.05
6,736.35
8	 Inventories (at cost or Net realisable value whichever is less)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Construction materials
 21.83 
 19.91 
Plot of land
 -   
 186.75 
Land and construction work in progress
 2,28,478.54 
 53,080.77 
 2,28,500.37 
 53,287.43 
Notes:
i) 	
Capitalised borrowing cost
	
During the year, the Group has capitalised ₹3,752.38 lakhs (March 31, 2024- ₹1,568.70 lakhs) under inventories.
ii) 	
Capitalised Employee stock option expense
	
During the year, the Group has capitalised ₹45.25 lakhs (March 31, 2024- ₹20.33 lakhs) under inventories.
(iii) 	 Refer note no 13 for charge created on Inventories as security against borrowings.
9.	 Current financial assets
(i)	 Other investment
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(i) Investments
Quoted mutual funds (valued at fair value through profit and loss)
	
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,103.78
281.95
	
Units - 38,277.95 (March 31, 2024: 2,683.71 units)
	
Axis Money Market - Direct - Growth
4,492.00
-
	
Units - 3,17,256 (March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,748.88
307.37
	
Units- 1,50,055.76 units (March 31, 2024: 78,877.88 units)
	
SBI Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
5,432.74
1,890.91
	
Units- 1,33,944.91 units (March 31, 2024: 50,020.66 units)
	
SBI Magnum Low Duartion - Direct - Growth
3,306.50
-
	
Units - 92,939 (March 31, 2024: Nil)
	
UTI Liquid Cash Plan - Direct - Growth
203.62
2,586.05
	
Units - 4,789.71 units (March 31, 2024 : 65,337.75 units)
	
UTI Money Market - Direct - Growth
5,295.67
-
	
Units - 1,73,025 Units (March 31, 2024 -Nil)
	
DSP Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
49.32
585.13
	
Units- 1,330.01 (March 31, 2024 : 16,953.53 units)
393
392
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
	
DSP Savings Fund - Direct - Growth
5,288.00
-
	
Units - 99,31,759 Units (March 31, 2024 -Nil)
	
Tata Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
6,169.57
2,863.16
	
Units- 1,50,740.96 (March 31, 2024 : 75,143.55 units)
	
Tata Ultra Short Term Fund- Direct - Growth
4,157.00
-
	
Units - 2,84,60,620 Units (March 31, 2024 -Nil)
	
Birla Sun Life Cash Plus - Direct Plan *
-
481.84
	
Nil (March 31, 2024- 1,23,648 units)
	
HDFC Liquid fund - Direct- Growth
1,409.66
-
	
Units 27,675.701 (March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
HDFC Money Market Fund-Direct-Growth
1,120.54
-
	
Units 19,600.79 (March 31, 2024 - Nil)
	
HDFC Low Duration Fund - Direct- Growth
5,261.00
-
	
Units - 85,86,057 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
	
Nippon India Ultra Short Duration Fund- Direct Growth
5,260.00
-
	
Units - 1,20,774 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
	
ICICI Liquid Fund Direct Plan- Growth
4,263.09
-
	
11,10,483.80 Units (March 31, 2024: Nil)
	
Invesco India Liquid Fund - Direct Plan Growth
1,121.77
-
	
Units - 31,511.37 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
	
Invesco India Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
2,518.00
-
	
Units - 81,490 (March 31, 2024- Nil)
58,201.14
8,996.41
* Pledged as security for Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA) for borrowings
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 58,201.14 
 8,996.41 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 58,201.14 
 8,996.41 
(ii)	 Trade receivables
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Trade Receivables considered good - Secured;
-
-
(b)	Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured;
1,450.25
801.44
(c)	 Trade Receivables which have significant increase in credit risk; 
and
70.00
-
(d)	Trade Receivables - credit impaired
-
-
Less: Impairment allowance for trade receivables
(70.00)
-
1,450.25
801.44
	
-	
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly 
with any other person.
	
-	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 0 to 60 days.
	
-	
For dues from related parties and terms & conditions relating to receivables from related parties, refer note 
42(b).
Trade Receivable Ageing
As at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables- considered 
good
757.20
397.07
266.10
29.89
-
-
1,450.25
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables- which have 
significant in credit risk
-
-
-
31.75
29.13
9.12
70.00
(iii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables - Credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Trade 
receivables-which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 	
Disputed Trade 
receivables-credit Impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
757.20
397.07
266.10
61.64
29.13
9.12
1,520.25
As at March 31, 2024
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables- considered 
good
334.59
365.56
55.46
33.41
3.30
9.12
801.44
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables- which have 
significant in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables - Credit 
impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed Trade 
receivables-which have 
significant increase in 
credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Disputed Trade 
receivables-credit Impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
334.59
365.56
55.46
33.41
3.30
9.12
801.44
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
 10,466.56 
 1,267.56 
Deposits with original maturity less than 3 months
 12,428.81 
 21,628.96 
Cash on hand
 6.62 
 177.10 
 22,901.99 
 23,073.62 
395
394
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(iv)	 Bank balances other than (iii) above
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deposits with remaining maturity for more than 3 months but less 
than 12 months
 85,433.77 
 3,278.35 
 85,433.77 
 3,278.35 
(v)	 Other current financial assets (unsecured considered good unless otherwise stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposits
14,266.55
3,453.63
Deposits with remaining maturity less than 12 months
1,630.29
-
Other recoverable
-
55.15
Rent equalisation
188.76
1,188.62
Lease Receivable for sub-leased assets
285.66
214.47
16,371.26
4,911.87
Break up of financial assets at amortised cost
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non-current financial assets 
Trade receivables {refer note 5(ii)}
 372.51 
 659.83 
Other non-current financial assets {refer 5(iii)}
 24,904.49 
 12,262.91 
Current financial assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables {refer 9(ii)}
 1,450.25 
 801.44 
Cash and cash equivalents {refer 9(iii)}
 22,901.99 
 23,073.62 
Other bank balances {refer note 9(iv)}
 85,433.77 
 3,278.35 
Other current financial assets {refer 9(v)}
 16,371.26 
 4,911.87 
 1,51,434.27 
 44,988.02 
10.	Other current assets (unsecured considered good unless otherwise stated)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Other advances*
 5,827.91 
 1,763.36 
Prepaid expenses
 2,081.74 
 973.81 
Balance with statutory authorities
 1,046.40 
 2,303.58 
 8,956.05 
 5,040.75 
*refer note 42(b) for advances to related parties
11.	 Equity share capital
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a) Authorized share capital
228,000,000 (March 31, 2024 - 228,000,000) equity shares of ₹10/- 
each
 22,800.00 
 22,800.00 
 22,800.00 
 22,800.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up
 16,100.01 
 14,713.45 
 16,100.01 
 14,713.45 
b)	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Equity shares
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
(₹ in lakhs)
No. of shares
(₹ in lakhs)
At the beginning of the year*
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
-
-
Add: Shares issued during the year**
1,38,65,540
1,386.56
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
At the end of the year
16,10,00,084
16,100.01
14,71,34,544
14,713.45
	
* Includes 4,76,419 equity shares were allotted due to exercise of options by the employees in accordance with the Max Estates 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2023 and 1,33,89,121 equity shares were allotted under Qualified Institutional Placement (refer 
note 55).
	
During the FY2023-24, pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement, 1 (one) equity shares of the 
face value of ₹10 each fully paid-up of the Company was issued against every 1 (one) equity share of ₹10 each 
fully paid-up held by the shareholders of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. Consequent to this, the Company 
issued 14,71,34,544 equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up for 14,71,34,544 equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid-
up of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. As an integral part of the Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement 
(“Scheme”), and, upon its coming into effect, the authorized share capital of the Company automatically stand 
increased, without any further act, instrument or deed on the part of the Company, to ₹228,00,00,000/- divided 
into 22,80,00,000 equity shares of ₹10 each. Consequently, Clause V of the Memorandum of Association of 
the Company, upon the coming into effect of the Scheme and without any further act or deed, stand altered, 
modified and substituted pursuant to section 13, 61 and 230 and 232 and other applicable provisions of the 
Act, as the case may be.
c)	
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
	
The Group has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹10 per share. Each holder of equity shares 
is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend if 
any, proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to 
receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be 
in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
d)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Name of the Shareholder
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
% held
No. of shares
% held
Max Ventures Investment Holding Private 
Limited
3,46,69,346
21.53%
3,46,69,346
23.56%
Siva Finvest Private Limited (formerly 
knowne as Siva Enterprises Private Limited)
3,39,91,966
21.11%
3,39,84,573
23.10%
New York Life International Holdings Limited
3,12,82,950
19.43%
3,12,82,950
21.26%
397
396
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
As at March 31,2024
S. 
no
Name of Promoter
No. of shares at 
the beginning 
of the year*
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of total 
shares
% change 
during the 
year
1
Ravi Vachani
 - 
73,477
 73,477 
0.05%
100.00%
2
Neelu Analjit Singh
 - 
47,501
 47,501 
0.03%
100.00%
3
Analjit Singh
 - 
39,71,481
 39,71,481 
2.70%
100.00%
4
Piya Singh
 - 
52,407
 52,407 
0.04%
100.00%
5
Tara Singh Vachani
 - 
47,501
 47,501 
0.03%
100.00%
6
Max Ventures Investment 
Holding Private Limited
 - 
3,46,69,346
 3,46,69,346 
23.56%
100.00%
7
Siva Finvest Private Limited 
(formerly knowne as Siva 
Enterprises Private Limited)
 - 
3,39,84,573
 3,39,84,573 
23.10%
100.00%
f)	
Share application money pending allotement
Particulars
(₹ In lakhs)
As at April 01, 2023
14,710.36
Premium on issue of share capital
(14,671.67)
As at March 31, 2024
 38.69 
Premium on issue of share capital
 (128.29)
Proceeds from exercise of Employee stock option plan during the year
 94.26 
As at March 31, 2025
 4.65 
g)	
Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately 
preceding the reporting date- Nil
h)	
For Stock Option Scheme (refer note-39)
i)	
For shares issued under Qualified Institutional Placement (refer note- 55)
(j)	
For Money received against warrants
	
During the year, Investment and Finance Committee in its meeting held on October 29, 2024, approved the 
allotment of 22,83,104 Warrants to the below mentioned allottees at the issue price of ₹657/-under the provisions 
of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, as 
amended (the “ICDR Regulations”), and Sections 42 and 62 of the Companies Act, 2013 (including the rules 
made thereunder), as amended (the “Issue”).
e)	
Shareholding pattern of the Promoter
	
As at March 31,2025
S. 
no
Name of Promoter
No. of shares at 
the beginning 
of the year
Change 
during the 
year
No. of shares 
at the end of 
the year
% of total 
shares
% change 
during the 
year
1
Ravi Vachani
73,477
-
73,477
0.05%
0.00%
2
Neelu Analjit Singh
47,501
35,29,280
35,76,781
2.22%
7429.91%
3
Analjit Singh
39,71,481
(35,29,080)
4,42,401
0.27%
-88.86%
4
Piya Singh
52,407
-
52,407
0.03%
0.00%
5
Tara Singh Vachani
47,501
-
47,501
0.03%
0.00%
6
Max Ventures Investment 
Holding Private Limited
3,46,69,346
-
3,46,69,346
21.53%
0.00%
7
Siva Finvest Private Limited 
(formerly knowne as Siva 
Enterprises Private Limited)
3,39,84,573
7,393
3,39,91,966
21.11%
0.02%
Name of allottee
Category
No of 
convertible 
warrants
Price at which 
warrants are 
issued (₹)
Total amount 
for which 
securities 
issued 
(₹ In lakhs)
Consideration 
received 
(₹ In lakhs)
Max Ventures Investment 
Holding Private Limited
Promoter
11,41,552
657/-
 7,500.00 
 1,875.00 
Mr. Sunil Vachani
Public
11,41,552
657/-
 7,500.00 
 1,875.00 
22,83,104
 15,000.00 
 3,750.00 
	
Each Warrant is convertible into one fully paid-up Equity Share of ₹10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each on payment of 
the balance 75% of the total consideration. Further, the securities allotted on a preferential basis shall be subject 
to such lock-in restriction as prescribed under the ICDR Regulations. The amount received till date against the 
warrants has been recorded as “Money received against warrants” as on March 31, 2025.
12.	 Other equity
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital reserve (refer note a below)
 13,042.52 
 13,042.52 
Securities premium account (refer note b below)
 1,26,925.41 
 49,974.47 
Employee stock options outstanding (refer note c below)
 381.76 
 349.25 
Retained earnings (refer note d below)
 67,642.31 
 38,971.46 
 2,07,992.00 
 1,02,337.70 
a)	 Capital reserve
	
Balance as at beginning of the year
 13,042.52 
 13,042.52 
	
At the end of the year
 13,042.52 
 13,042.52 
b)	 Securities premium
	
Balance as at beginning of the year
 49,974.47 
 49,951.14 
	
Less Expenses pertaining to Qualified Institutional Placement
 78,741.74 
 15.76 
	
Add: Premium on issue of share capital
 (1,976.87)
 -   
	
Add: Transfer of ESOP reserve on allotment of shares
 186.07 
 7.57 
	
At the end of the year
 1,26,925.41 
 49,974.47 
c)	 Employee stock options outstanding
	
At the beginning of the year
 349.25 
 216.90 
	
Add: Cost of stock option granted to employees
 218.58 
 139.92 
	
Less: Transfer of ESOP reserve on allotment of shares
 (186.07)
 (7.57)
	
At the end of the year
 381.76 
 349.25 
d)	 Retained earnings (attributable to equity holders of the parent)
	
At the beginning of the year
 38,971.46 
 43,199.59 
	
Add: Profit for the year
 4,081.00 
 (4,216.30)
	
Add: Reserve created on sale of subsidiary without tranfer of control 
(refer note 56)
 24,586.97 
 -   
	
Add: Re-measurement of post employment benefit obligation (net of 
tax) (item of OCI)
 2.88 
 (11.83)
 67,642.31 
 38,971.46 
399
398
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Nature and purpose of reserves
a)	
Capital reserve
	
The Group recognizes profit or loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the entity’s own equity instruments 
to capital reserve
b) 	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited 
purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
c) 	
Employee stock options outstanding
	
The employee stock options based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options 
issued to employees under Employee stock option plan.
d) 	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the proﬁts that the Group entities has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, 
dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
13.	Borrowings
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
From banks and financial institutions
	
Term loans (secured) [refer note (i) to (v)) below]
1,23,793.75
64,667.31
	
Vehicle loans (secured) [refer note (vi) below]
124.17
84.78
Others
	
Debt portion of compulsory convertible debentures [refer note (vii) 
below]*
19,848.29
17,835.03
	
Interest accrued on Compulsorily Convertible Debentures*
3,200.13
3,680.47
Current maturity of long term borrowings :
	
Term loans (secured) [refer note (i) to (v) below]
10,999.86
8,798.71
	
Interest accrued on Compulsorily Convertible Debentures
3,381.18
-
	
Interest accrued on borowings
 84.10 
 87.50 
	
Vehicle loans (secured) [refer note (vi) below]
41.15
33.43
Total
 1,61,472.63 
 95,187.23 
Less: amount disclosed under "current financial liabilities" 
[refer note 17(i)]
 14,506.29 
 8,919.64 
 1,46,966.34 
 86,267.59 
Aggregate Secured loans
 1,35,043.03 
 73,671.73 
Aggregate Unsecured loans
 26,429.60 
 21,515.50 
*refer note 42(b) for borrowings and interest accrued from related parties
(i) Term and Vehicle loan from banks :
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
1
Term 
Loan from 
Banks
ICICI Bank 
Limited+
1.	 Pari-passu charge over 
project developed on Max 
House Okhla Project;
2.	 All present and future 
tangible moveable 
assets, including movable 
plant and machinery, 
machinery spares, tools 
and accessories, furniture, 
fixture and all other 
moveable fixed assets in 
relation to the property.
3.	 All present and future 
scheduled receivables to 
the extent received by the 
borrower in relation to the 
project.
4.	 The escrow account along 
with all monies credited / 
deposited therein.
5.	 The Debt Service Reserve 
Account (DSRA).
6.	 Corporate guarantee from 
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited.
 ₹Nil (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹9,797.32 
lakhs - 
including 
interest 
accrued) 
 Nil. (March 
31,2024 - 
7.90% p.a. 
to 10.00% 
p.a.) 
 ₹ Nil 
(March 31, 
2024 : 
₹ Nil) 
 Nil (March 
31, 2024: 
₹1,13,000.00 
lakhs) 
7.	 The security as required by 
the lender shall be created 
and perfected in form and 
manner satisfactory to the 
lenders and shared on pari 
passu basis between the 
lenders.
8.	 Post creation of security, 
the Project shall provide 
a security cover of 1.50 
times during the entire 
tenure of the Facility on 
the outstanding loan 
amount of Facility.
401
400
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
2
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 ICICI Bank 
Limited  
1.	 Exclusive charge by way 
of equitable mortgage on 
the Max House-1, building 
and structures built 
thereon.
2.	 Exclusive charge by 
way of hypothecation 
on the future schedule 
Receivables of the project 
and all insurance proceeds 
both present and future.
3.	 Exclusive charge by 
way of hypothecation 
on the escrow account 
of the project and the 
DSR Account (3 months’ 
equivalent) and all monies 
credited therein and all 
investment in respect 
thereof.
4.	 Non disposable 
undertaking from Max 
Estates Limited holding 
51% if the holding in the 
borrower.
5.	 Security to be maintained 
1.50 times during the 
entire tenure.
 ₹9,227.98 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil) 
 8.00%-
9.50% 
(March 31, 
2024: Nil) 
 ₹ Nil 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil ) 
 ₹ 9,700.00 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024: Nil) 
3
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 IDFC Bank 1.	 First charge by the way of 
equitable mortgage on 
the land and building of 
the lease property i.e. Max 
House-2, both present 
and future.
2.	 Exclusive charge on 
the lease rental, escrow 
account for Project, 
movable assets, current 
asset and receivables of 
the lease property both 
present and future. 
3.Pledge of shares held 
by Max Estates Limited in 
Pharmax Corporation Ltd.
(26 % of the total equity 
share of the Pharmax 
Corporation Limited. )
4.	 Non Disposal Undertaking 
from Max Estates Limited 
for its shareholding in 
company not to fall below 
51 %.
5.	 Debt service reserve 
account to be maintained 
in the form of fixed 
deposit of ₹5 crore in 
favour of IDFC First Bank 
Limited.
₹13,330.03 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil) 
 8.50%-
9.75% 
(March 
31,2024: 
Nil) 
 ₹1,685.00 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil ) 
 ₹15,200.00 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 : Nil) 
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
4
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 IDFC Bank (i)	 Exclusive charge by way 
of equitable mortgage 
on the land and building 
situated at Khasra Nos. 
335/2, Khasra Nos. 
335/18 and Khasra Nos. 
337 and 1511/339 at 
village bahapur, New Delhi 
(Project) both present and 
future. 
(ii)	 Exclusive charge on 
the current assets and 
receivables of the project 
(including insurance 
claim) both present and 
future.
(iii)	Exclusive charge on the 
movable assets of the 
Project, both present and 
future.
(iv)	Pledge of 30% shares of 
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited held by Max 
Estate Limited
(v)	 Corporate guarantee of 
Max Estate Ltd.
(vi)	Tenure - for principal 
repayment Bullet 
payment on or before 
31.12.2025 and interest 
to be serviced on a 
monthly basis.
(vii)	DSRA - 3 months interest 
to be created
 Nil (March 
31, 2024- 
₹6,462.24 
lakhs) 
 Nil (March 
31,2024 - 
7.90%-10%) 
 Nil (March 
31, 2024- 
Nil) 
 Nil (March 
31, 2024- 
₹6,500.00 
lakhs) 
5
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 State Bank 
of India, 
ICICI Bank 
and Axis 
Bank 
1.	 First Pari Passu  charge 
on by way of equitable 
mortgage on Project 
Land of 6.24 Acres (with 
a license to develop 
commerical project 
over an area measuring 
7.15 Acres) and building 
with complete available 
leaseable area of 15.89 
lakhs Sq.Ft. in Max 65, 
being developed in 
Sector-65, Gurugram 
(Project).
2.	 First Pari Passu charge 
by way of assignment/
hypothecation over 
all present and future 
current assets inculding 
lease rental receivables, 
parking rentals, CAM 
income, security deposit, 
sales receivables, any 
other income generated 
pertaining the project.
 
₹11,968.46 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil) 
 9.50% 
-9.60% 
(March 
31,2024: 
Nil) 
 
₹68,031.54 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil) 
 ₹80,000 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 : Nil) 
403
402
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
3.	 First Pari Passu charge 
on DSR Account, Escrow 
Account of the project 
to be maintained with 
Escrow Bank pertaining 
to rental receivables of 
the project, present and 
future.
6
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 Standard 
Chartered 
Capital 
Limited & 
Standard 
Chartered 
Bank  
1.	 First pari passu charge 
by way of equitable 
mortgage over Project 
land and unsold inventory 
with a minimum-security 
cover of 1.5x (to be 
maintained at all times 
during the tenor of the 
Facilities). 
2.	 First pari passu charge by 
way of hypothecation over 
moveable fixed assets, 
receivables from sold units 
and future cash flows of 
the unsold/cancelled units.
3.	 Corporate Guarantee of 
Max Estates Limited.
4	 First charge on DSRA 
in FD's with Standard 
Chartered Bank.
5.	 Debt service reserve 
account (DSRA) - 3 
months interest to be 
created
 
₹27,717.03 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024: ₹ Nil) 
 10.90% 
- 11.40% 
(March 31, 
2024 - Nil) 
 
₹17,000.00 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024: ₹ Nil) 
 ₹45,000.00 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024: 
₹ Nil) 
7
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 Aditya Birla 
Finance 
Limited  
a)	 Exclusive charge on 
by way of equitable 
mortgage on project land 
admeasuring 10 acres 
owned by the borrower 
situated al Sector 128, 
Noida for total debt facility 
amount of wp to ₹150 
cr (1st Pari- passu to be 
shared with incoming 
lender.
b)	 Corporate Guarantee of 
Max Estates Limited.
c)	 First charge on DSRA 
with Aditya Birla Sun Life 
Mutual Fund.
d)	 Debt service reserve 
account (DSRA) - 3 
months interest to be 
created
 Nil (March 
31, 2024- 
₹7,399.18 
lakhs) 
 Nil (March 
31, 2024 - 
12.50%) 
 Nil (March 
31.2024 
 Nil (March 
31, 2024: 
₹15,000.00 
lakhs) 
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
8
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 HDFC Bank - First Pari Pasu charge by 
way of mortgage of land 
& building of Max Tower 
leasable area of 3,01,859 sft
- Pari passu charge on current 
and future receivables from 
Project
- Assignment of current 
assets and receivables 
pertaining to Property, both 
present and future
- 28% share pledge of 
Company by Max Estate 
Limited (Holding Company)
- Escrow Account and 3 
months' EMI equivalent 
DSRA
 
₹12,568.02 
lakhs 
(March 
31, 2024 : 
₹12,896.45 
lakhs) 
 8.60% 
(March 
31, 2024: 
8.60%) 
 ₹ Nil 
(March 31, 
2024 : ₹ 
Nil) 
 ₹13,490.25 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹13,490.25 
lakhs) 
9
 Term 
Loan from 
Financial 
Institution 
 Bajaj 
Housing 
Finance 
Limited 
NA
 ₹ Nil 
(March 
31, 2024 : 
₹11,072.67 
lakhs) 
 N.A. (March 
31, 2024 : 
8.39%) 
 ₹ Nil 
(March 31, 
2024 : 
₹ Nil) 
 NA (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹11,409.75 
lakhs) 
10
 Term 
Loan from 
Financial 
Institution 
 Bank of 
Baroda 
- First Pari Pasu charge 
by way of mortgage 
of floor No. G1, G2, G3, 
L1,L2,L3,L4,L5,L6,L9, 
l16,L17,L18,L19,L20 
and L20M along with 
proportionate UDS in land 
underneath admeasuring 
3,352 sq. mtr.
- First Pari passu charge 
by way of assignment 
on current and future 
receivables from Project
- First pari passu charge by 
way of Hypothecation of 
current assets, both present 
and future 
- 28% share pledge of 
Company by Max Estate 
Limited (Holding Company)
 
₹15,462.85 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : 
₹ Nil) 
 8.40% 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil) 
 ₹3,875.15 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : 
₹ Nil) 
 ₹19,350 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹ Nil) 
11
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 HDFC Bank - First Pari Pasu charge by 
way of mortgage of land 
& building of Max Tower 
leasable area of 3,59,765 sft
- Pari passu charge on 
current and future rentals/
receivables from Project
- Assignment of current 
assets and receivables 
pertaining to Property, both 
present and future
- 28% share pledge of 
Company by Max Estate 
Limited (Holding Company)
 ₹6,540.01 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : ₹ 
Nil) 
 8.40% 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil) 
 ₹ Nil 
(March 31, 
2024 : ₹ 
Nil) 
 ₹6,550 lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : ₹ Nil) 
405
404
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
12
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 Axis Bank 
i)	
Primary and collateral 
security: 
a)	 Exclusive charge on 
by way of equitable 
mortgage on project 
land of 2.6 acre land and 
building with complete 
available leasable area 
of approx 7 lakhs sqft in 
Max square project, being 
developed in Sector 129, 
Noida 
b)	 First charge by way 
of assignment/
hypothecation over 
all present and future 
current assets including 
lease rental receivables, 
parking rentals, CAM 
income, security deposit, 
sales receivables, any 
other income generated 
pertaining to the project  
c) First charge on 
DSRA, Escrow account 
maintained with IBL 
pertaining to rental 
receivables of the project, 
wherever maintained, 
present & future.
d)	 Minimum security cover 
to be 1.5 times based 
on market values of the 
property to be maintained 
throughout tenure of the 
facility.
ii)	 Corporate guarantee of 
Max Estates Limited
₹25,267.94 
lakhs 
(March 
31, 2024: 
₹25,925.66 
lakhs) 
₹38,732.06 
lakhs 
(March 
31, 2024: 
₹38,074.34 
lakhs) 
8.00% - 
9.50% 
(March 
31, 2024: 
8.00% - 
9.50%)
 ₹64,000 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 
- ₹24,000 
lakhs) 
13
 Bank 
Overdraft 
 Axis Bank 
₹2,796.00 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil)
₹204.00 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil)
8.00% - 
9.50% 
(March 
31, 2024: 
8.00% - 
9.50%)
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
14
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 ICICI Bank i)	
Primary and collateral 
security:  
a)	 Second Pari Passu (with 
first charge with YEIDA) 
charge on by way of 
equitable mortgage 
on project land of 3.92 
acre land and building 
with complete available 
leasable area of approx 
10.15 lakhs sqft in Max 
square Two project, being 
developed in Sector 129, 
Noida 
b)	 First Pari Passu charge 
by way of hypothecation 
over all present and future 
current assets including 
lease rental receivables, 
parking rentals, CAM 
income, security deposit, 
sales receivables, any 
other income generated 
pertaining to the project 
c)	 First Pari Passu charge 
on DSRA, Escrow account 
maintained with ICICI 
pertaining to rental 
receivables of the project, 
wherever maintained, 
present & future.
d)	 Minimum security cover 
to be 1.5 times based 
on market values of the 
property to be maintained 
throughout tenure of the 
facility.
ii)	 Corporate guarantee of 
Max Estates Limited
 ₹4,951.71 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil)
₹24,248.29 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil)
8.00% - 
9.50% 
(March 
31, 2024: 
8.00% - 
9.50%)
 ₹29,200 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 - Nil) 
15
 Term 
Loan from 
Banks 
 Yes Bank 
i)	
Primary and collateral 
security: 
a)	 Second Pari Passu (with 
first charge with YEIDA) 
charge on by way of 
equitable mortgage 
on project land of 3.92 
acre land and building 
with complete available 
leasable area of approx 
10.15 lakhs sqft in Max 
square Two project, being 
developed in Sector 129, 
Noida 
₹4,963.58 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil)
₹24,236.42 
lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : Nil)
8.00% - 
9.50% 
(March 
31, 2024: 
8.00% - 
9.50%)
 ₹29,200 
lakhs (March 
31, 2024 - Nil) 
407
406
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
S. 
no
Nature
Bank Name
Security Details
Balance 
outstanding 
as at March 
31, 2025
Average 
Interest rate
Un-utilized 
Amount as 
at March 
31, 2025
Sanctioned 
Amount as at 
March 
31, 2025
b)	 First charge by way 
of assignment/
hypothecation over 
all present and future 
current assets including 
lease rental receivables, 
parking rentals, CAM 
income, security deposit, 
sales receivables, any 
other income generated 
pertaining to the project.
c)	 First charge on DSRA, 
Escrow account 
maintained with IBL 
pertaining to rental 
receivables of the project, 
wherever maintained, 
present & future.
d)	 Minimum security cover 
to be 1.5 times based 
on market values of the 
property to be maintained 
throughout tenure of the 
facility.
ii)	 Corporate guarantee of 
Max Estates Limited

16
 Vehicle 
Loan 
 ICICI Bank 
Limited  
Secured by charge on 
vehicles 
  ₹24.20 
lakhs 
(March 
31,2024 
- ₹40.49 
lakhs) 
  7.60% 
to 9.00% 
(March 
31, 2024 
- 7.60% to 
9.00%) 
 ₹Nil (March 
31, 2024 : 
₹ Nil) 
₹46.52 lakhs 
(March 31, 
2024 : ₹36.52 
lakhs)
ii)	 Compulsorily Convertible Debentures
	
i)	
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (Unsecured) (Max Square CCD)
	
	
Terms of series A-CCD
	
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of ₹10 each.
	
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows -
	
a	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, calculated from the 
Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
	
b	
Balance surplus cash flow shall be utilised to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on the Series A CCDs
	
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
	
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) the date when Series B CCDs are being converted; or (b) the date on which 
the Series A CCDs are required by Law to be mandatorily converted
	
Terms of Series B - CCD
	
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of ₹10 each.
	
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows -
	
a	
No interest shall be payable unless the Company has surplus cash flows in the financial year
	
b	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, calculated from the 
Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
	
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
	
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) at any time after three years from the Closing Date; or (b) date of full exit by 
New York Life Insurance Corporation from the Company; or (c) the date on which the Series B CCDs are 
required by Law to be mandatorily converted
	
Terms of Series C - CCD
	
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of ₹10 each.
	
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows -
	
a	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series C CCD, calculated from the 
Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
	
b	
Balance surplus cash flow shall be utilised to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on the Series A CCDs
	
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
	
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) the date when Series D CCDs are being converted; or (b) the date on which 
the Series C CCDs are required by Law to be mandatorily converted
	
Terms of Series D - CCD
	
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of ₹10 each.
	
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually.
	
a	
No interest shall be payable unless the Company has surplus cash flows in the financial year
	
b	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, calculated from the 
Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
	
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
	
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) at any time after six years from the November 7, 2022; or (b) date of full exit 
by New York Life Insurance Corporation from the Company; or (c) the date on which the Series D CCDs are 
required by Law to be mandatorily converted
	
ii)	
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (Unsecured) (Acreage CCD)
	
	
Terms of Series A - CCD
	
	
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of ₹5427.84 each.
	
	
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows -
	
	
a	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, calculated from 
the Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
	
	
b	
Balance surplus cash flow shall be utilised to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on the Series A CCDs
	
	
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
409
408
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
	
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) the date when Series B CCDs are being converted; or (b) the date on 
which the Series A CCDs are required by Law to be mandatorily converted
	
	
Terms of Series B - CCD
	
	
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of ₹5427.84 each.
	
	
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows -
	
	
a	
No interest shall be payable unless the Company has surplus cash flows in the financial year
	
	
b	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, calculated from 
the Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
	
	
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
	
	
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) at any time after three years from the Closing Date; or (b) date of full exit 
by New York Life Insurance Corporation from the Company; or (c) the date on which the Series B CCDs 
are required by Law to be mandatorily converted
14a Trade payables
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)
 -   
 -   
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 84,375.64 
 -   
 84,375.64 
 -   
*Trade payables include due to related parties. Refer note 42 (b) for amount due to related parties.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 0 - 180 day terms
Ageing of Trade Payables
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others
84,375.64
-
-
-
- 84,375.64
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
84,375.64
-
-
-
- 84,375.64
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
-
-
-
14b Other non current financial liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposits*
 9,419.54 
 7,833.39 
Deferred finance income (Security deposits)
 1,561.91 
 1,567.15 
 10,981.45 
 9,400.54 
*refer note 42(b) for deposited from related parties
15.	 Non-current provisions
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (refer note 37)
 383.63 
 280.04 
 383.63 
 280.04 
16.	 Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
(3,508.02)
(2,128.32)
Other items giving rise to temporary differences
(6,490.82)
(3,482.89)
Gross deferred tax liabilities (a)
(9,998.84)
(5,611.21)
Deferred tax assets
Expenses allowable on payment basis
314.70
1,303.48
Allowance for doubtful debts
17.62
3.27
Other items giving rise to temporary differences
6,579.32
4,358.73
Unabosorbed depreciation/losses
10,248.59
5,690.17
Gross deferred tax assets (b)
17,160.23
11,355.65
Deferred tax (liabilities)/asset (net)
7,161.39
5,744.44
Disclosed as
Deferred tax liabilities
(1,657.25)
(742.99)
Deferred tax asset
8,818.64
6,487.46
7,161.39
5,744.47
17.	Current financial liabilities
(i)	 Borrowings
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current maturity of long term borrowings (refer note 13)
 14,422.19 
 8,832.14 
Interest accrued on borowings
 84.10 
 87.50 
 14,506.29 
 8,919.64 
411
410
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(ii)	 Trade payables
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 
(MSME)
 330.32 
 78.85 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises*
 44,981.20 
 3,260.20 
 45,311.52 
 3,339.05 
	
Details of dues to micro and small enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
The principal amount due and remaining unpaid to any supplier as 
at the end of each accounting year.
330.32
78.85
The interest due on unpaid principal amount remaining as at the end 
of each accounting year
Nil
Nil
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, of 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier 
beyond the appointed day during each accounting year
Nil
Nil
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in 
making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed 
day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006
Nil
Nil
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of 
each accounting year; and
Nil
Nil
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even 
in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as 
above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of 
disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006
Nil
Nil
	
*Trade payables include due to related parties. Refer note 42 (b) for amount due to related parties.
	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 0 - 180 day terms
	
Trade Payables ageing schedule
	
As on March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
MSME
242.53
87.79
-
-
-
330.32
Others
43,025.01
1,839.62
-
116.57
- 44,981.20
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
43,267.54
1,927.41
-
116.57
- 45,311.52
	
As on March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Total
MSME
8.40
70.45
-
-
-
78.85
Others
1,396.85
1,349.40
161.11
173.93
178.91
3,260.20
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,405.25
1,419.85
161.11
173.93
178.91
3,339.05
(iii)	Other current financial liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Security deposits
 825.38 
 -   
Capital creditors
 1,292.70 
 3,223.59 
Employee payables
 579.71 
 390.12 
Deferred finance income (Security deposits)
 454.62 
 616.30 
 3,152.41 
 4,230.01 
18.	Other current liabilities
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Advance from customers
 1,42,788.75 
 45,341.10 
Statutory dues payables
 3,585.56 
 1,269.43 
Other current liabilities
 148.53 
 142.76 
 1,46,522.84 
 46,753.29 
19.	Current provisions
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
- Provision for compensated absences
 491.58 
 366.42 
- Provision for gratuity (refer note 37)
 6.01 
 4.65 
 497.59 
 371.07 
413
412
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
21.	Revenue from operations
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from rental from lease premises
 10,905.64 
 6,198.77 
Revenue from sale of constructed properties
 650.81 
 -   
Revenue from facility management
 4,492.31 
 3,095.60 
Total
 16,048.76 
 9,294.37 
Performance obligation
Information about the Group’s performance obligation for material contracts are summarised below:
Sale of constructed properties
The performance obligation of the Group in case of sale of residential plot and apartment is satisfied once the project 
is completed and control is transferred to the customers. The customer makes the payment for contracted price as 
per the installment stipulated in the respective Buyer’s Agreement.
Rental Income and Revenue from facility management
Revenue is recognised over time as the Group satisfies its performance obligations by providing services or access 
to assets in accordance with contractual terms. For revenue from facility management, the obligation is satisfied as 
services are rendered. For rental income, the obligation is satisfied through the passage of time over the lease term.
Total revenue from contracts with customers
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
India
 16,048.76 
 9,294.37 
Outside India
 -   
 -   
Total
 16,048.76 
 9,294.37 
Timing of revenue recognition
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue recognition at a point of time
 650.81 
 -   
Revenue recognition over period of time
 15,397.95 
 9,294.37 
 16,048.76 
 9,294.37 
Refer note 10 (ii) for contract balances (trade receivables) and note 18 for contract liabilities (advances from customers)
Contract liabilities include amount received from customers as per the installments stipulated in the buyer agreement 
to deliver properties once the properties are completed and control is transferred to customers.
20.	Current tax liabilities (net)
(₹ in lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for income tax
 12.37 
 26.00 
 12.37 
 26.00 
22.	Other Income
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income on
- on fixed deposits
 5,473.87 
 893.34 
- on security deposit*
 542.25 
 287.61 
- on lease receivable
 383.13 
 297.90 
- on others
 157.57 
 170.85 
Gain on sale of investments
 1,362.09 
 911.41 
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
 833.88 
 7.10 
Liabilities/provisions no longer required written back
 -   
 74.76 
Profit on Derecognize Right of use asset
 -   
 15.82 
Gain on sale of Property, plant and equipment (net)
 0.65 
 -   
Miscellaneous income
 165.06 
 73.85 
 8,918.50 
 2,732.64 
* on financial assets at amortised cost
23.  Cost of land, plots, development rights, constructed properties and others
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Cost of fitout sold
 267.75 
 -   
 267.75 
 -   
24.	 Change in inventories of constructed properties
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)	 Inventories at the end of the year
	
Plot of land
-
186.75
-
186.75
b)	 Inventories at the beginning of the year
	
Plot of land
186.75
186.75
186.75
186.75
Net decrease in inventories of constructed properties (b-a)
186.75
-
25.	Employee benefits expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
 1,266.29 
 925.39 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 108.65 
 80.92 
Employee stock option scheme (refer note 39)*
 133.59 
 76.13 
Gratuity expense (refer note 37)
 53.25 
 37.22 
Compensated absence
 64.37 
 46.76 
Staff welfare expenses
 137.02 
 61.54 
 1,763.18 
 1,227.96 
*net of amount capitalised in Investment Property under development and inventory ₹63.14 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹63.76 lakhs).
415
414
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
26.	Finance costs
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest on borrowings
 14,646.00 
 8,464.22 
Interest on lease liabilities (refer note 4)
 486.17 
 438.76 
Interest on others
 427.39 
 135.43 
Bank charges
 224.13 
 40.95 
 15,783.69 
 9,079.36 
Less: Finance cost capitalised in investment property and inventory 
 (9,596.93)
 (4,780.76)
 6,186.76 
 4,298.60 
27.	Depreciation and amortization expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of tangible assets (refer note 3)
 122.22 
 109.50 
Depreciation on investment property (refer note 3a)
 2,731.22 
 2,108.86 
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 4b)
 494.13 
 263.54 
Amortization of intangible assets (refer note 4)
 62.09 
 58.33 
 3,409.66 
 2,540.23 
28.	Other expenses
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rent
9.05
23.90
Insurance expenses
104.60
98.50
Rates and taxes
373.23
306.74
Repairs and maintenance:
	
Building
452.73
498.84
	
Others
360.07
165.91
Printing and stationery
7.72
6.94
Travelling and conveyance
221.66
146.92
Communication costs
10.90
2.20
Legal and professional*
212.40
151.02
Directors' sitting fees (refer note no 42(a))
113.98
85.81
Auditorium Running
65.40
44.93
Provision for doubtful debt
69.93
-
Charity and donation
75.00
-
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure (refer note no 44 and 
42(a))
100.00
50.00
Electricity expense
576.50
340.31
Miscellaneous expenses
149.74
282.31
2,902.91
2,204.33
*Payment to auditor (included in legal and professional fee)
As auditor:
Audit fee
66.27
66.76
Other services
8.32
15.00
Reimbursement of expenses
6.66
3.88
81.25
85.64
29.	Advertisement and Sales promotion expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Advertisement and Sales promotion expense
 3,839.35 
 2,258.98 
 3,839.35 
 2,258.98 
30.	Facility and management services
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Facility and management expenses
 2,648.98 
 1,825.87 
 2,648.98 
 1,825.87 
31.	The subsidiaries follow financial year as accounting year. The below is the summary of principal activities of 
these entities and proportion of ownership of the Holding Company:
Name of the subsidiary
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion of ownership as at
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2023
Max Estates 128 Limited
Construction and development of 
residential properties
India
100%
100%
Max Estate Gurgaon Limited Construction and development of 
residential properties
India
100%
100%
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
Construction and development of 
commercial properties
India
51%
100%
Max I. Limited
Making investments in various 
companies and primarily engaged 
in growing and nurturing these 
business investments
India
100%
100%
Max Asset Services Limited
Facility management services for 
commerical real estate
India
100%
100%
Max Square Limited
Construction and development of 
commerical properties
India
51%
51%
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
Construction and development of 
commerical properties
India
51%
100%
Max Estate Gurgaon Two 
Limited
Construction and development of 
residential properties
India
100%
100%
Max Estates Noida Private 
Limited (Formerly known as 
Astiki Realty Private Limited)
Construction and development 
of residential and commercial 
properties
India
70.2
100%
Max Towers Private Limited
Construction and development of 
commerical properties
India
51%
100%
*Includes a direct holding of 60% by Max Estates Limited and an indirect holding of 10% each through its subsidiaries, Max Square 
Limited and Max Tower Private Limited.
#During the year, Group has sold 49% of its investment in its wholly owned subsidiaries (Max Tower Private Limited) and (Pharmax 
Corporation Limited) to New York Life Insurance Company (refer note 56).
417
416
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
32	Tax expense
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current Income Tax:
Current tax
2,054.79
323.51
Income tax for earlier years
150.47
154.96
Sub total (a)
2,205.26
478.47
Deferred tax :
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
(1,086.35)
(1,740.05)
Sub total (b)
(1,086.35)
(1,740.05)
Income tax expense charged in the statement of profit and loss (a+b)
1,118.91
(1,261.58)
33	Other comprehensive income
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Re-measurement loss/(gain) of defined benefit plans
 3.85 
 (15.81)
Income tax effect
 (0.97)
 3.98 
 2.88 
 (11.83)
34	Earnings per share (EPS)
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Profit after tax (₹ in lakhs) (a)
2,643.01
(5,512.44)
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year 
(Nos.)$ (b)
15,51,86,044
14,70,60,581
Basic earnings per share (₹) (a/b)
1.70
(3.75)
Profit after tax (₹ in lakhs) (a)
2,643.01
*
Effect of dilution:
Employee stock option scheme net of tax (refer note 39)
99.97
*
Profit after tax adjusted for the effect of dilution (₹ in lakhs) (a)
2,742.98
*
Weighted average number of Equity shares for basic EPS*
15,51,86,044
*
Effect of dilution:
Share options
8,15,842
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for dilutive 
earnings per share (Nos)$ (b)
15,60,01,886
*
Diluted earnings per share (₹) (a/b)
1.70
(3.75)
*since there is losses during the previous year, there is anti dilution- hence diluted earning per share is not separately reported.
$The weighted average number of shares takes into account the weighted average effect of changes in share transactions during 
the year.
35.	Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the year are:
Statement of profit and loss :
(₹ in lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current income tax :
Current tax 
 2,054.79 
 323.51 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
 150.47 
 154.96 
Deferred tax :
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (1,086.35)
 (1,740.05)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 1,118.91 
 (1,261.58)
Total
 1,118.91 
 (1,261.58)
OCI section :
Re-measurement loss/(gain) of defined benefit plans
 3.85 
 (15.81)
Income tax effect
 (0.97)
 3.98 
Tax related to items recognized in OCI during the year
 2.88 
 (11.83)
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations
3,761.92
(6,774.02)
Accounting profit before income tax
3,761.92
(6,774.02)
At India's statutory income tax rate of 25.17% ( March 31, 2024: 25.17%)
946.88
(1,705.02)
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes:
Tax effect on impairment loss on investment not provided
-
1,118.84
Tax effect of recognized/unrecognized on entities with carry forward 
losses
14.78
(708.77)
Others - Non taxable expenditure
157.25
33.37
At the effective income tax rate
1,118.91
(1,261.58)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
1,118.91
(1,261.58)
Total tax expense
1,118.91
(1,261.58)
Deferred tax relates to the following:
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
(3,508.02)
(2,128.32)
Other items giving rise to temporary differences
(6,490.82)
(3,482.89)
Gross deferred tax liabilities (a)
(9,998.84)
(5,611.21)
Deferred tax assets
Expenses allowable on payment basis
314.70
1,303.48
Allowance for doubtful debts
17.62
-
419
418
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Other items giving rise to temporary differences*
6,579.32
4,358.73
Unabosorbed depreciation/losses
10,248.59
5,690.47
Gross deferred tax assets (b)
17,160.23
11,352.68
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
7,161.39
5,741.47
*primarily includes tax impact on convertible instrument
Disclosed as:
Deferred tax liabilities
(1,657.25)
(742.99)
Deferred tax asset
8,818.64
6,487.46
7,161.39
5,744.47
Year on year break up of business losses
As on March 31, 2025
Assessment Year
Amount
Expiry A.Y.
2025-26
 16,927.73 
2032-33
2024-25
 10,877.70 
2031-32
2023-24
 149.93 
2030-31
2021-22
 526.62 
2028-29
Unabsorbed depreciation
 12,238.74 
As on March 31, 2024
Assessment Year
Amount
Expiry A.Y.
2024-25
 11,125.05 
2032-33
2023-24
 149.93 
2031-32
2021-22
 1,159.45 
2029-30
2020-21
 1,223.84 
2028-29
2019-20
 1,342.13 
2027-28
Unabsorbed depreciation
 7,609.55 
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net):
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance at the beginning of year
 5,744.47 
 915.04 
Tax on equity component of CCD
 506.69 
 3,204.85 
Capitalised during the year
 (175.15)
 (119.45)
Tax expense during the year recognised in statement of profit and loss
 1,086.35 
 1,740.05 
Tax expense/(income) during the year recognised in OCI
 (0.97)
 3.98 
Net balance
 7,161.39 
 5,744.47 
Closing balance at the end of year
 7,161.39 
 5,744.47 
The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same tax authority.
36	a. Commitments and contingencies
A.	 Contingent liabilities not provided for
(₹ in lakhs)
S. No.
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
i.
Uttarakhand VAT case {Refer note (a)}
 21.24 
 21.24 
ii
Bank guarantee {Refer note (b)}
 5,000.00 
 5,000.00 
iii
Income tax demand {Refer note (c)}
 50.21 
 50.21 
Note:
a.	
The Group has received a notice under Section 25(7) of the Value Added Tax Act, 2005 for the assessment 
year (AY) 2016-17. The Company declared a taxable turnover of ₹3,261.22 lakhs after accounting for ₹4,024.49 
lakhs in expenses. The notice indicates that the deduction of expenses is allowed on the percentage of 
advance received of the total consideration. The expenses above such proportionate amount were disallowed 
and a revised taxable income is ₹325.55 lakhs was calculated, leading to a demand of ₹21.24 lakhs for the 
shortfall in tax payment. The Holding Company has replied to the above order and has assessed that it is only 
possible, but not probable, that outflow of economic resources will be required. Hence, no impact thereof 
has been taken in these Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
b.	
The Group has given a bank guarantee of ₹5,000 lakhs (March 31, 2024- ₹5,000 lakhs) issued by IDFC First 
Bank Limited in favor of Acre 133 Trust, Asset Care and Reconstruction Enterprise Limited for bid submitted 
for Delhi One project. Max Estates Limited, had submitted its resolution plan for resolution of Boulevard 
Projects Private Limited.
c.	
During the previous year, the Subsidiary Company (Max Towers Private Limited) received an assessment 
order under Income Tax for AY 2020-21 wherein the assessing authority has disallowed an amount of ₹336 
lakhs, being amortisation of leasehold land premium. The Subsidiary Company has replied to the above 
order and has assessed that it is only possible, but not probable, that outflow of economic resources will be 
required. Hence, no impact thereof has been taken in these Ind AS financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024- ₹336 lakhs). The demand amount of ₹50.21 lakhs against the above-
mentioned disallowance has been adjusted against a refund amount due from the Income tax department.
B	
Capital commitments
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account and not provided for
 1,68,672.04 
 17,515.72 
Less: Capital advances (refer note 7)
 (41,454.30)
 (956.45)
Net capital commitment
 1,27,217.74 
 16,559.27 
421
420
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
37	Gratuity
The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Under Gratuity Plan, every employee who has completed five years 
or more of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 days of last drawn salary for each completed year of service.
The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.
Description of risk exposures
Valuations are based on certain assumptions, which are dynamic in nature and vary over time. As such the Company 
is exposed to various risks as follows:
i)	
Salary Increases – Actual salary increases will increase the Plan’s liability. Increase in salary increase rate 
assumption in future valuations will also increase the liability.
ii)	
Discount Rate – Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can increase the plan’s liability.
iii)	
Mortality & disability – Actual deaths & disability cases proving lower or higher than assumed in the valuation 
can impact the liabilities.
iv)	
Investment Risk – If Plan is funded then assets liabilities mismatch & actual investment return on assets lower 
than the discount rate assumed at the last valuation date can impact the liability
The following table summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss 
and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans :
a)	
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of defined benefit obligation
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
284.69
171.23
Interest costs
18.65
11.60
Current service cost
117.43
79.65
Benefit paid
(24.45)
(14.30)
Acquisition adjustments
(20.67)
0.52
Remeasurement of (gain)/loss in other comprehensive income
13.99
35.98
	
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions
-
-
	
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
8.32
4.36
	
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience 
adjustments
5.67
31.62
Defined benefit obligation at year end
389.64
284.69
 b)	 Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair value of plan assets
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
 -   
 -   
Fair value of plan assets at year end
 -   
 -   
c)	
Net defined benefit (liability)/ asset recognized in the balance sheet
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Fair value of plan assets
-
-
Present value of defined benefit obligation
(389.64)
(284.69)
Amount recognized in balance sheet - liability
(389.64)
(284.69)
Disclosed as
Current
6.01
4.65
Non current
383.63
280.04
Total
389.64
284.69
(₹ in lakhs)
d)
Other comprehensive income (net of capitalized)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(3.85) 
15.81
e)	
Net defined benefit expense (recognized in the statement of profit and loss for the year)
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current service cost
117.43
79.65
Interest cost on benefit obligation
18.65
11.60
Expected return on plan assets
-
-
Capitalised as investment property / cost of goods sold
(82.83)
(54.04)
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of profit and 
loss
53.25
37.22
f)	
Principal assumptions used in determining defined benefit obligation
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.87%
7.09%
Future Salary Increases
10.00%
10.00%
Mortality Rate (% of IALM 12-14)
100.00%
100.00%
Attrition at Ages
Up to 30 years
5.00%
5.00%
From 31 to 44 years
3.00%
3.00%
Above 44 years
2.00%
2.00%
g)	 Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions is as below:
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligations 
at the end of the year
Discount rate
Increase by 0.50%
 (24.70)
 (15.00)
Decrease by 0.50%
 27.23 
 16.51 
Salary growth rate
Increase by 0.50%
 22.88 
 14.19 
Decrease by 0.50%
 (21.12)
 (13.11)
423
422
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
h)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 7- 21 years 
(March 31, 2024: 7 - 21 years)
i)	
The Group expects to contribute ₹Nil (March 31, 2024: Nil) to the planned assets during the next financial year.
j)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, 
seniority, promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment market. The 
above information is as certified by the actuary.
k)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet 
date for the estimated term of the obligations.
l)	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on 
defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period.
n)	 Risk Exposure
	
Valuations are performed on certain basic set of pre-determined assumptions and other regulatory framework 
which may vary over time. Thus, the Group is exposed to various risks in providing the above gratuity benefit 
which are as follows:
	
Interest Rate risk: The plan exposes the Group to the risk of fall in interest rates. A fall in interest rates will result 
in an increase in the ultimate cost of providing the above benefit and will thus result in an increase in the value 
of the liability (as shown in financial statements).
	
Liquidity Risk: This is the risk that the Group is not able to meet the short-term gratuity payouts. This may arise 
due to non availability of enough cash / cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid assets not 
being sold in time.
	
Salary Escalation Risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan is calculated with the assumption of salary 
increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan participants 
from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the present value of obligation will have a bearing on the 
plan’s liability.
	
Demographic Risk: The Group has used certain mortality and attrition assumptions in valuation of the liability. 
The Group is exposed to the risk of actual experience turning out to be worse compared to the assumption.
	
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
(₹ in lakhs)
Year
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
0 to 1 Year 
6,00,478
4,71,368
1 to 2 Year 
8,06,570
11,28,244
2 to 3 Year 
8,48,348
6,76,167
3 to 4 Year 
19,94,838
7,00,371
4 to 5 Year 
10,53,884
14,97,968
5 to 6 Year 
12,57,098
6,72,434
6 Year onwards
3,24,02,784
2,33,22,448
38	During the year, the Group, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Max Estates Gurgaon Two Limited, signed a 
binding agreement for a Residential development in Gurugram with over 18.23 acres of land.
39	Employee Stock Option Plan
Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023 (ESOP Plan 2023):
The Company has constituted an “Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023” (‘ESOP Plan 2023’) which have 
been approved by the Board in the meeting held on July 31, 2023 and by shareholders of the Company in its annual 
general meeting held on December 22, 2023 generally based on similar terms and conditions to the relevant ESOP 
plan of erstwhile Holding Company, Max Ventures and Industries Limited, which was merged into the Company 
pursuant to the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement. The ESOP Plan 2023 provides for grant of 
stock options aggregating not more than 5% of number of issued equity shares of the Company to eligible employees 
of the Company and to the eligible employees of the group company(ies), including subsidiary company(ies) and/or 
associate company(ies) (present or future) of the Company. The ESOP Plan 2023 is administered by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee constituted by the Board of Directors. The ESOP Plan 2023 gives an option to the 
employee to purchase the share at a price determined by Nomination and Remuneration committee (NRC) subject 
to minimum par value of shares (₹10/-).
The details of activity under the scheme are summarized below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of options
Weighted Average
exercise price (₹)
Number of options
Weighted Average
exercise price (₹)
Outstanding at the start of the 
year
8,33,074
36.63
7,68,254
30.59
Options granted during the year
1,98,320
171.60
96,279
95.33
Forfeited/Lapsed during the year
22,994
97.70
1,26,263
44.43
Exercised during the year
4,85,559
27.38
30,918
12.90
Outstanding at the year end
5,22,841
93.73
8,33,074
36.63
Exercisable at the year end
1,24,590
22.41
2,87,672
22.47
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was 26.93 per share. 
(March 31, 2024 : ₹12.90)
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2024 and March 
31, 2023 are as follows:
Date of grant	
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of options
Weighted average
remaining life in 
years
Number of options
Weighted average
remaining life in 
years
04-06-2020 (Grant Type II)
 96,728 
 - 
 4,05,129 
 0.17 
04-06-2020 (Grant Type III)
 25,637 
 0.25 
 78,733 
 1.17 
25-07-2022 (Grant Type V)
 1,41,667 
 1.32 
 2,43,692 
 2.32 
08-11-2022 (Grant Type VI)
 6,121 
 1.61 
 12,239 
 2.61 
19-05-2023 (Grant Type VII)
 57,564 
 2.13 
 93,281 
 3.13 
22-05-2024 (Grant Type VIII)
 1,95,124 
 3.14 
 - 
 - 
425
424
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
The following tables list the inputs to the models used for the year ended 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2024, respectively:
For March 31,2025
Particulars
Grant 
Type III
Grant 
Type IV
Grant 
Type VI
Grant 
Type VII
Grant 
Type VIII
Grant 
Type IX
Weighted average fair values at the 
measurement date
 12.90 
37.01
 68.00 
140.51
137.88
355.02
Dividend yield (%)
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility (%)
46.58%
47.04%
49.22%
54.11%
51.55%
40.53%
Risk–free interest rate (%)
5.39%
5.65%
6.99%
7.22%
6.77%
6.92%
Model used
Black-Scholes Pricing Model
For March 31,2024
Particulars
Grant 
Type III
Grant 
Type IV
Grant 
Type VI
Grant 
Type VII
Grant 
Type VIII
Weighted average fair values at the measurement 
date
12.90
37.01
68.00
140.51
137.88
Dividend yield (%)
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility (%)
46.58%
45.50%
51.92%
57.93%
53.19%
Risk–free interest rate (%)
5.39%
5.32%
6.80%
7.08%
6.75%
Model used
Black-Scholes Pricing Model
40	Fair value of financial instruments
	
The comparison of carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories that are not measured at 
fair value:
(₹ In lakhs)
Category
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Financial asset at amortized cost
Non-Current
	
Financial assets (refer note no 5(iv))
24,904.49
12,262.91
24,904.49
12,262.91
	
Trade Receivable (refer not no 5(ii))
372.51
659.83
372.51
659.83
Current
	
Other-current financial assets (refer 
note no 9(v))
16,371.26
4,911.87
16,371.26
4,911.87
	
Bank balances (refer not no 9(iv))
85,433.77
3,278.35
85,433.77
3,278.35
	
Trade receivables (refer not no 9(ii))
1,450.25
801.44
1,450.25
801.44
	
Cash & cash equivalents (refer not no 
9(iii))
22,901.99
23,073.62
22,901.99
23,073.62
Financial asset measured at fair value
Non current
	
Investments (refer note no 5 (i))
511.73
269.41
511.73
269.41
Current
	
Investments (refer note no 9 (i))
58,201.14
8,996.41
58,201.14
8,996.41
Financial liabilities at amortized cost
Non-Current
	
Non-Current borrowings (refer note 13)
1,46,966.34
86,267.59
1,46,966.34
86,267.59
	
Lease liabilities (refer note 4a)
3,430.90
4,142.53
3,430.90
4,142.53
	
The Group management has assessed fair valuation of above balances by considering nature, maturity, reset 
terms, interest rate movement over period, and any other relevant factor to that financial instrument. Basis this 
and in view of the fact, majority of above mentioned financial instrument have short term maturity or reset period, 
their carrying value is assessed to be not materially different to fair Values.
	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by 
valuation technique:
	
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, 
either directly or indirectly
	
Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on 
observable market data
(i)	 Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on 
March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2025
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Financial assets (refer note no 5(iv))
24,904.49
-
- 24,904.49
Trade Receivable (refer not no 5(ii))
372.51
-
-
372.51
Investments (refer note no 5 (i))
511.73
-
-
511.73
Current
Other-current financial assets (refer note no 9(v))
 16,371.26 
-
- 16,371.26
Bank balances (refer not no 9(iv))
 85,433.77 
-
- 85,433.77
Trade receivables (refer not no 9(ii))
 1,450.25 
-
-
1,450.25
Cash & cash equivalents (refer not no 9(iii))
 22,901.99 
-
- 22,901.99
Investments (refer note no 9 (i))
 58,201.14 58,201.14
-
-
(₹ In lakhs)
Category
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
	
Other non-current financial liabilities 
(refer note 14(b))
10,981.45
9,400.54
10,981.45
9,400.54
	
Trade payables (refer note 14(a))
84,375.64
-
84,375.64
-
Current
	
Current borrowings (refer note 17(i))
14,506.29
8,919.64
14,506.29
8,919.64
	
Other current financial liabilities (refer 
note 17(iii))
3,152.41
4,230.01
3,152.41
4,230.01
	
Trade payables (refer note 17(ii))
45,311.52
3,339.05
45,311.52
3,339.05
	
Lease liabilities (refer note 4a)
713.05
613.81
713.05
613.81
427
426
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(ii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on 
March 31, 2024
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2025
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Financial assets (refer note no 5(iv))
 12,262.91 
-
- 12,262.91
Trade Receivable (refer not no 5(ii))
 659.83 
-
-
659.83
Investments (refer note no 5 (i))
 269.41 
-
-
269.41
Current
Other-current financial assets (refer note no 9(v))
 4,911.87 
-
-
4,911.87
Other bank balance (refer not no 5(iii))
 3,278.35 
-
-
3,278.35
Trade receivables (refer not no 9(ii))
 801.44 
-
- 23,073.62
Cash & cash equivalents (refer not no 9(iii))
 23,073.62 
Investments (refer note no 9 (i))
 8,996.41 
8,996.41
-
-
(iii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on 
March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2025
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current borrowings (refer note 13)
1,46,966.34
-
- 1,46,966.34
Lease liabilities (refer note 4a)
3,430.90
-
-
3,430.90
Other non-current financial liabilities (refer note 
14(b))
10,981.45
-
-
10,981.45
Trade payables (refer note 14(a))
84,375.64
-
-
84,375.64
Current borrowings (refer note 17(i))
14,506.29
-
-
14,506.29
Other current financial liabilities (refer note 17(iii))
3,152.41
-
-
3,152.41
Trade payables (refer note 17(ii))
45,311.52
-
-
45,311.52
Lease liabilities (refer note 4a)
713.05
-
-
713.05
(iv) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on 
March 31, 2024
(₹ In lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2025
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current borrowings (refer note 13)
86,267.59
-
- 86,267.59
Lease liabilities (refer note 4b)
4,142.53
-
-
4,142.53
Other non-current financial liabilities (refer note 14)
9,400.54
-
-
9,400.54
Current borrowings (refer note 18)
8,919.64
-
-
8,919.64
Other current financial liabilities (refer note 18)
4,230.01
-
-
4,230.01
Trade payables (refer note 18)
3,339.05
-
-
3,339.05
Lease liabilities (refer note 4b)
613.81
-
-
613.81
41	 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group has instituted an overall risk management programme which also focuses  on the unpredictability of 
financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group 
uses forward covers to hedge foreign currency risk exposures. Financial risk management is carried out by Banking 
and Forex department under policies approved by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Banking and Forex 
department, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the various stakeholders. The Board of 
Directors approves written principles for overall financial risk management, as well as written policies covering specific 
areas, such as foreign exchange risk, credit risk.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are managed pro-actively by the Senior 
Management of the Group, duly supported by various Groups and Committees.
a)	 Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The 
Group employees prudent liquidity risk management practices which inter alia means maintaining sufficient 
cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Given the nature 
of the underlying businesses, the corporate finance maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability 
under committed credit lines and this way liquidity risk is mitigated by the availability of funds to cover future 
commitments. Cash flow forecasts are prepared and the utilized borrowing facilities are monitored on a daily basis 
and there is adequate focus on good management practices whereby the collections are managed efficiently. 
The Group while borrowing funds for large capital project, negotiates the repayment schedule in such a manner 
that these match with the generation of cash on such investment. Longer term cash flow forecasts are updated 
from time to time and reviewed by the Senior management of the Group.
	
The table below represents the maturity profile of Group’s financial liabilities at the end of March 31, 2024 and 
March 31, 2025 based on contractual undiscounted payments:
	
March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
0-1 Years
1-5 Years
More than 
5 Years
Total
Interest bearing borrowings
 14,506.29 
 46,874.26 
 1,00,092.08 
 1,61,472.63 
Trade payable
 45,311.52 
 84,375.64 
 - 
 1,29,687.16 
Other financial liabilities
 3,152.41 
 10,981.45 
 - 
 14,133.86 
	
March 31, 2024
(₹ In lakhs)
0-1 Years
1-5 Years
More than 
5 Years
Total
Interest bearing borrowings
 8,919.64 
 86,267.59 
 - 
 95,187.23 
Trade payable
 3,339.05 
 - 
 3,339.05 
Other financial liabilities
 4,230.01 
 9,400.54 
 13,630.55 
	
*Lease liability maturity profile has been disclosed under note 4a
429
428
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
b)	 Credit risk
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or customer 
contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily 
trade receivables) , including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions and other financial assets.
	
(i)	 Trade receivables
	
	
Customer credit risk is managed subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating 
to customer credit risk management. Management evaluate credit risk relating to customers on an ongoing 
basis. Receivable control management team assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account 
its financial position, past experience and other factors. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly 
monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms 
of credit insurance. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on group\category basis 
and basis that provision for impairment of ₹75 lakhs was made. The calculation is based on exchange 
losses historical data and available facts as on date of evaluation. Trade receivables comprise a widespread 
customer base. The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its 
customers are located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
	
(ii)	 Financial instruments and cash deposit
	
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department 
in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk 
free securities. The limits are set to minimize the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss 
through counter party’s potential failure to make payments. Credit limits of all authorities are reviewed by 
the management on regular basis. All balances with banks and financial institutions is subject to low credit 
risk due to good credit ratings assigned to the Group.
c)	 Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market prices. Market risks comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk and 
other price risks, such as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market 
risks include loans and borrowings, deposits, investments and foreign currency receivables and payables. The 
sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025. 
The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on; the carrying values of gratuity and other 
post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The sensitivity of the relevant 
Profit and Loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective market risks. This is based on the 
financial assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2024, and March 31, 2025.
42	Related party disclosures
Names of related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year
A
Key management personnel 
1
Mr. Sahil Vachani
2
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal (Chief Financial Officer)
3
Mr. Abhishek Mishra (Company Secretary w.e.f 19-May-23)
4
Mr. Rishi Raj (upto 31-Jul-2023)
5
Mr. Kishansingh Ramsinghaney (upto 31-Jul-2023)
6
Mr. Bishawjit Das (upto 31-Jul-2023)
B
Other Non- executive/Independent Directors
1
Mr. Analjit Singh
2
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
3
Mr. Niten Malhan
4
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
5
Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy (w.e.f. 27-Mar-24)
6
Ms. Jillian Leigh Moo – Young (Alternate Director to Mr. Anthony Ramsey Malloy)
7
Mr. Atul Behari Lall (w.e.f. 27-Mar-24)
8
Ms. Malini Thadani (w.e.f.22-May 2024)
9
Ms. Avani Vishal Davda (upto 2 May 2024)
10
Ms. Ira Gupta (w.e.f 27-Mar-25)
11
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai (upto 27-Mar-24)
C
Entities controlled or jointly controlled by person or entities where person has significantly 
influence
1
Max Ventures Private Limited
2
Piveta Estates Private Limited
3
Siva Realty Ventures Private Limited
4
New Delhi House Services Limited
5
Vana Enterprises Limited
6
Vanaveda Lifestyle Private Limited
7
Four Season Foundation
8
Lake View Enterprises
9
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
10
New York Life Insurance Company Limited
11
Pharmax Corporation Limited
12
Max India Limited
13
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
14
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
15
Riga Foods LLP
16
Max Financial Services Limited
17
Max Learning ventures Limited
18
Routes 2 Roots
19
Antara Care Homes Limited
20
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
21
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Ltd.
22
Leeu Dassenberg Estates (Pty) Ltd
23
Topline Electronics Private Limited
24
RV Legal
25
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
26
Antara Senior Living Limited
27
Trophy Estates Private Limited
28
Analjit Singh HUF
431
430
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
42	(a) Details of transactions with related parties
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
1
Other expenses
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
 8.06 
 12.01 
Max Financial Services Ltd
 35.60 
 42.72 
Max India Limited
 1.03 
 -   
Nitin Kumar
 3.94 
 6.65 
Rishiraj
 -   
 8.95 
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
 19.96 
 0.69 
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Ltd.
 48.61 
 -   
R V Legal
 8.00 
 -   
Antara Senior Living Limited
 0.08 
 -   
Riga Foods LLP
 69.72 
 4.07 
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
 11.22 
 -   
Vana Enterprises Limited
 -   
 2.39 
Total
 206.23 
 77.47 
2
Revenue 
from rentals 
and other services
Max Learning Ventures Private Limited
 63.41 
 69.26 
Routes 2 Roots
 44.18 
 45.01 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 1.17 
 42.00 
Riga Foods LLP
 19.32 
 22.25 
Max Ventures Investment Holding Pvt 
Ltd
 -   
 6.75 
Max Financial Services Limited
 8.09 
 25.65 
Max India Limited
 0.05 
 36.00 
Topline Electronics Private Limited
 -   
 8.77 
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
 -   
 2.25 
Max India Foundation
 -   
 0.38 
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
 -   
 0.55 
Antara Care Homes Limited
 -   
 0.48 
Max Ateev Limited
 -   
 0.16 
Max Skill First Limited
 -   
 0.54 
Dixon Technologies (India) Limited
 69.58 
 4.87 
Total
 205.81 
 264.92 
3
Advance for sale 
of flat
Nitin Kumar
 78.79 
 -   
Total
 78.79 
 -   
4
Shared 
services expenses
Max India Limited
 55.00 
 50.00 
Total
 55.00 
 50.00 
5
Repair 
& Maintenance
New Delhi House Services Limited
 181.84 
 131.21 
Vstar Ventures LLP
 1.70 
 -   
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 19.74 
 22.00 
Total
 203.29 
 98.26 
6
Lease payments
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 50.54 
 60.00 
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
 37.50 
 37.50 
Vstar Ventures LLP
 9.46 
 -   
Max India Limited
 463.57 
 115.89 
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
 538.97 
 531.67 
Total
 1,100.04 
 745.06 
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
7
Directors' sitting 
fees#
Analjit Singh
 12.00 
 11.00 
Manali Thakur
 9.00 
 -   
D.K Mittal
 22.00 
 24.00 
Gauri Padmanabhan
 30.00 
 16.00 
Niten Malhan
 21.00 
 22.00 
Atul Behari Lall 
 12.00 
 -   
Ira Gupta 
 1.00 
 -   
Avani Vishal Davda
 1.00 
 2.00 
Total
 108.00 
 75.00 
8
Management 
Services Fee for 
Estate 360
Antara Senior Living Limited
 953.56 
 -   
Total
 953.56 
 -   
9
Security 
deposit received
Antara Senior Living Limted
 -   
 3,300.00 
Routes 2 Roots
 -   
 3.35 
Total
 -   
 3,303.35 
10
Security 
deposit paid
Max India Limited
 -   
 115.89 
Total
 -   
 115.89 
11
Key managerial 
remuneration 
- short term 
employment 
benefits**
Sahil Vachani
 428.93 
 360.87 
Nitin Kumar Kansal
 400.50 
 113.52 
Abhishek Mishra
 39.04 
 27.03 
Total
 868.47 
 501.42 
12
Investment made 
in Equity shares 
of Susbdiary
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 -   
 5,267.49 
Max Ventures Investment Holdings 
Private Limited (MENPL)
 703.38 
 -   
Antara Senior Living Limited 
(Investment in Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited)
 703.38 
 -   
Total
 1,406.76 
 5,267.49 
13
Sale of 
Investment in 
subsidiary company
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 29,508.74 
 -   
Total
 29,508.74 
 -   
14
Compulsorily 
convertible 
debentures (CCD) 
issued*
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 2,131.46 
 13,362.89 
Total
 2,131.46 
 13,362.89 
15
Interest paid 
on CCD 
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited 
 4,700.52 
 3,057.75 
Total
 4,700.52 
 3,057.75 
16
Corporate 
Social Responsibility
Max India Foundation
 100.00 
 50.00 
Total
 100.00 
 100.01 
17
Management fee 
(included in legal 
and professional 
expenses)
Analjit Singh
 300.00 
 300.00 
Total
 300.00 
 300.00 
18
Business Promotion
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
 1.76 
 1.74 
Vanaveda Lifestyle Private Limited
 1.69 
 0.69 
Total
 3.45 
 2.43 
433
432
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
19
Purchase of Lights
The Unstuffy Hotels Co Ltd
 36.84 
 -   
Total
 36.84 
20
Sale of used 
furniture/equipment
Leeu Dassenberg Estates (Pty) Ltd
 83.75 
 -   
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Ltd
 7.38 
 -   
Analjit Singh
 2.39 
 -   
Total
 93.52 
 -   
21
Equity shares 
issued in 
Subsidiary Company
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Max Towers)
 1,078.93 
 -   
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Pharmax Corporation Limited)
 374.49 
 -   
Total
 1,453.42 
 -   
22
GST liability on 
Usage of Brand
Max India Limited
-
 9.00 
Total
-
 9.00 
	
*Accounted in according with guidance on convertible instruement accounting under Ind AS
	
#Including sitting fees of ₹5 lakhs which were related to expense incurred for Qualified Instituational Placement
	
**Expenses towards gratuity provisions are determined by actuary on an overall Company basis at the end of each year and, 
accordingly have not been considered in the above information.
(b)	 Balances outstanding at year end	
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
1
Trade Receivables
Max Ventures Investment Holding 
Private Limited
-
4.21
Piveta Estates Private Limited
9.12
9.12
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
-
0.28
Max India Limited
0.01
7.83
Trophy Estate Private Limited
-
18.32
Analjit Singh HUF
9.16
9.16
Mr. Analjit Singh
-
52.80
Max Skill First Limited
-
0.04
Max One Distribution and Services 
Limited
-
0.03
Max Ventures Private Limited
8.65
8.65
Antara Senior Living Limted
0.25
8.29
Max Financial services Limited
6.03
15.88
Routes 2 Roots
4.59
7.08
Max Learning Ventures Private 
Limited
12.16
7.69
Riga Foods LLP
4.03
3.41
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Ltd.
2.01
-
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
0.14
1.64
Total
56.15
154.43
2
Advance to party
Max India Limited
7,141.56
-
Vana Enterprise Limited
4.18
-
Total
7,145.74
-
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
3
Interest Accrued 
on Corporate 
Deposit Receivable
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
-
1.24
Max Ventures Private Limited
-
8.65
Leeu Dassenberg Estates (Pty)Ltd
1.55
-
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Ltd
7.38
-
Total
8.94
9.89
4
Trade payables and 
capital creditors
Max Financial Services Limited
11.63
1.69
Max India Limited
59.28
19.44
Antara Senior Living Limited
1,150.02
-
New Delhi House Services Limited
35.55
11.47
Riga Foods LLP
27.31
-
Nitin Kumar
0.43
-
Max Ateev Limited
-
0.03
Antara Assisted Care Services Limited
0.34
0.13
Analjit Singh
1.22
-
Malini Thadani
0.90
-
IRA GUPTA
0.90
-
Mr. Niten Malhan
1.83
-
Mr. D.K. Mittal
3.60
-
Mrs Gauri Padmnabhan
3.75
0.90
Abhishek Mishra
3.65
-
Vstar Ventures LLP
3.34
-
Max Venture Investment Holding 
Private Limited
-
5.39
Total
1,303.75
39.04
5
Security deposit made
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
244.30
244.30
Delhi Guest House Limited
15.00
15.00
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
9.37
9.37
Max India Limited
115.89
115.89
Total
384.56
384.56
6
Security 
deposit received
Topline Electronics Private Limited
3.00
3.00
Antara Senior Living Limited
3,300.00
3,300.00
Routes 2 Roots
1.65
9.38
Max Learning Ventures Private 
Limited
23.87
23.87
Vana Retreats Private Limited
-
1.91
Max Financial Services Limited
5.03
5.03
Max India Limited
-
7.87
Max Ventures Investment Holding 
Private Limited
1.58
1.58
Max Skill First Limited
0.18
0.18
Total
3,335.31
3,352.82
435
434
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ In lakhs)
S. 
No
Nature of transaction
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
7
Compulsorily 
convertible 
debentures (CCD)*
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Max Square Limited)
 10,657.95 
 10,657.96 
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Acreage Builders Private 
Limited)
 9,953.36 
 7,821.90 
Total
 20,611.31 
 18,479.86 
8
Interest Accrued on 
CCD*
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Max Square Limited)
4,835.26
4,126.09
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Acreage Builders Private 
Limited)
1,746.06
758.16
Total
6,581.31
4,884.25
9
Equity Share Capital 
Issued
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Max Square Limited)
10,657.95
10,657.95
Max Ventures Investment Holdings 
Private Limited (Investment in Max 
Estates Noida Private Limited)
703.38
-
Antara Senior Living Limited 
(Investment in Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited)
703.38
-
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Max Towers Private Limited)
3,716.62
-
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Pharmax Corporation 
Limited)
415.14
-
New York Life Insurance Company 
Limited (Acreage Builders Private 
Limited)
26.70
26.70
Total
16,223.16
10,684.65
	
* Accounted in according with guidance on convertible instruement accounting under Ind AS
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
The Group has entered into above transactions with its related parties in the ordinary course of business and on an 
arm’s length basis. These transactions are all governed by commercially agreed terms and periodically reviewed 
to ensure compliance with arm’s length principles. Investments by related parties are made in the form of equity 
shares, debentures, compulsorily convertible debentures (CCDs), aligned with the Group’s strategic objectives and 
governed by the respective investment agreements or resolutions. Instrument such as CCDs carry specific terms 
of conversion, coupon rates, and maturity, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. Employee benefit 
expenses include costs of share-based payments under ESOP schemes extended to employees of subsidiaries, 
as accounted for under Ind AS 102. The remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) includes only short-
term employee benefits as per Ind AS 19, and actuarially determined long-term benefits are not included in 
this disclosure.
43	Changes in liabilities from financing activities
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
balance 
April 01, 2024
Cash flows
Non-cash transactions
Closing 
balance 
March 31, 2025
Proceeds
Repayment
Processing 
cost/ Interest 
accretion
New 
leases
Regrouping
Other
Loan from Banks 
(including current 
maturities)*
73,553.52
1,04,102.81
(49,330.75)
5,784.69
-
-
767.44
1,34,877.71
Compulsory convertible 
debentures*
21,515.50
2,013.26
-
2,900.84
-
-
-
26,429.60
Vehicle loans
118.21
114.79
(67.68)
-
-
-
-
165.32
Lease liabilities
4,756.34
-
(1,098.56)
486.17
-
-
-
4,143.95
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
99,943.57
1,06,230.86
(50,496.99)
9,171.70
-
-
767.44
1,65,616.58
*including interest accrued on borrowings and compulsory convertible debentures.
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
balance 
April 01, 2023
Cash flows
Non-cash transactions
Closing 
balance 
March 31, 
2024
Proceeds
Repayment
Processing 
cost/ Interest 
accretion
New 
leases
Regrouping
Other
Loan from Banks 
(including current 
maturities)*
74,642.18
6,266.90
(6,156.60)
-
-
- (1,198.96)
73,553.52
Compulsory 
convertible 
debentures*
7,749.32
10,085.71
-
-
-
3,680.47
-
21,515.50
Vehicle loans
47.80
130.61
(60.20)
-
-
-
-
118.21
Lease liabilities
3,724.77
-
(744.66)
438.76
1,337.47
-
-
4,756.34
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
86,164.07
16,483.22
(6,961.46)
438.76
1,337.47
3,680.47 (1,198.96)
99,943.57
*including interest accrued on borrowings and compulsory convertible debentures.
44	Expenditure on corporate social responsibility activities :
As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee has been framed 
by the Group. The areas for CSR activities are promoting preventive health care, promoting education, promoting 
gender equality and empowering women, ensuring environment sustainability and protection of flora and fauna, 
training to promote rural sports and rural development projects.
Amount required to be spent during the year ₹41 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹17.29 lakhs)
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)
Details of CSR expenditure
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
41.00
17.29
Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
 100.00 
 50.00 
Amount spent during the year
i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
-
-
ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above
100.00
50.00
437
436
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(b)
Details related to spent / unspent obligations:
i)	
Contribution to public trust
-
-
ii)	 Contribution to charitable trust
-
-
iii)	 Unspent amount in relation to:
-
	
- Ongoing project
-
	
- Other than ongoing project
-
-
(c)
Note for other than ongoing project:
In case of Section 135(5) 
(Other than ongoing project)
Opening balance
With Company
-
-
In separate CSR unspent account
-
-
Amount deposited in specified fund of Schedule VII within 6 months
-
-
Amount required to be spent during the year
-
-
Amount spent during the year
From Company’s bank A/c
-
-
From separate CSR unspent a/c
-
-
Closing balance
With Company
-
-
In separate CSR unspent account
-
-
Details of related party transactions (refer note 38(a))     
Group has made contributions to Max India foundation to fulfil its corporate social responsibilities. Max India Foundation 
supports programs in the areas of education, rural development, healthcare, arts and culture, and destitute care.
45	Segment reporting
The Group is a one segment company in the business of real estate’s development. All its operations are located in India 
, accordingly, the management views these activities as one business segment, there are no additional disclosures 
to be provided in terms of Ind AS 108 on ‘Segment Reporting’. All assets located and revenue is generated in India 
for all period presented. There are no customer from whom revenue is moere than 10% of the total external revenue 
of the group.
46. Material partly owned subsidiaries
All the subsidiaries are incorporated in India. The financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests as at March 31, 2025 is provided below:
a)	
Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests:
Particulars
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited*
Max Towers 
Private Limited*
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited*
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
Max Square Limited
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
Proportion of equity interest 
held by non-controlling 
interests
70.00%
-
49.00%
-
49.00%
-
49.00%
49.00%
49.00%
49.00%
b)	 Information regarding non-controlling interest
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited*
Max Towers Private 
Limited*
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited*
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
Max Square Limited
Total
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
Total Comprehensive 
income allocated to non-
controlling interest
1,407.46
-
6,904.95
-
2,893.38
-
17,229.06 16,616.82
9,812.64 11,346.66
38,247.48 27,963.48
Total Comprehensive 
income allocated to non-
controlling interest
0.60
-
(164.26)
-
272.38
-
(12.68)
(9.10)
(1,534.02) (1,287.04)
(1,437.99) (1,296.14)
The summarised financial information of the subsidiaries is provided below. This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.
	
Summarised statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31,2024:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited*
Max Towers 
Private Limited*
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited*
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
Max Square Limited
Total
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
Revenue (including other incomes)
6.42
-
4324.05
-
4,110.01
-
-
-
3,625.00
1,116.58
12,065.48
1,116.58
Other expenses
27.03
-
912.88
-
549.91
-
24.12
17.29
1,599.94
511.13
3,113.88
528.42
Depreciation and amortization 
expense
-
-
898.66
-
440.83
-
1.76
1.28
1,237.23
891.74
2,578.47
893.02
Finance costs
0.37
-
2765.61
-
1,950.76
-
-
-
4,948.49
3,209.32
9,665.23
3,209.32
Profit before tax
(20.98)
-
(253.10)
-
1,168.51
-
(25.88)
(18.57)
(4,160.66) (3,495.61)
(3,292.10) (3,514.18)
Less: Tax expense
-
-
372.81
-
309.62
-
-
-
(1,030.00)
(869.00)
(347.57)
(869.00)
439
438
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited*
Max Towers 
Private Limited*
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited*
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
Max Square Limited
Total
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
Profit for the year
(20.98)
-
(625.91)
-
858.89
-
(25.88)
(18.57)
(3,130.66) (2,626.61)
(2,944.53) (2,645.18)
Add/(Less): Other Comprehensive 
Income/loss
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total comprehensive income
(20.98)
-
(625.91)
-
858.89
-
(25.88)
(18.57)
(3,130.66) (2,626.61)
(2,944.53) (2,645.18)
Attributable to non-controlling 
interests 
0.60
-
(164.26)
-
272.38
-
(12.68)
(9.10)
(1,534.02) (1,287.04)
(1,437.99) (1,296.14)
Dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
Summarised balance sheet as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited*
Max Towers 
Private Limited*
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited*
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
Max Square Limited
Total
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
Current assets, including cash and 
cash equivalents 
5,741.22
-
1,468.15
-
2,894.41
-
3,150.74
6,656.61
6,232.18
3,425.00
19,486.70
10,081.61
Non-current assets
28,794.48
-
50,996.72
-
28,938.88
-
59,798.31 35,285.57
92,175.00 79,865.54
2,60,703.40 1,15,151.11
Current liabilities, including tax 
payable 
27,523.08
-
1,760.53
-
2,172.68
-
1,526.04
459.79
19,189.08
2,731.04
52,171.41
3,190.83
Non-current liabilities, including 
deferred tax liabilities 
-
-
35,560.11
-
23,254.67
-
35,396.78 16,841.65
56,869.71 55,157.09
1,51,081.27
71,998.74
Total equity
7,012.62
-
15,144.22
-
6,405.94
-
26,026.23 24,640.74
22,348.39 25,402.41
76,937.42
50,043.15
Attributable to:
Equity holders of parent
5,605.16
-
8,239.27
-
3,512.56
-
8,797.17
8,023.92
12,535.76 14,054.85
38,689.92
22,078.77
Non-controlling interest
1,407.46
-
6,904.95
-
2,893.38
-
17,229.06 16,616.82
9,812.64 11,346.66
38,247.48
27,963.48
	
Summarised cash flow information as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Max Estates Noida 
Private Limited*
Max Towers 
Private Limited*
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited*
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
Max Square Limited
Total
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
March 
31, 2025
March 
31, 2024
Operating
248.96
-
3,253.94
-
2,014.34
-
158.22
(39.96)
3,122.74
5,281.70
8,798.20
5,241.74
Investing
(34,394.48)
-
(8,775.10)
-
(15,162.21)
-
(14,266.71)
(11,148.86)
(13,974.72)
(28,543.17)
(86,573.23)
(39,692.03)
Financing
34,197.84
-
5,681.42
-
13,319.22
-
14,061.62
11,232.47
11,215.05
22,596.26
78,475.15
33,828.73
Net increase in cash and 
cash equivalents
52.32
-
160.26
-
171.35
-
(46.87)
43.65
363.07
(665.21)
700.13
(621.56)
	
*previous year figures are not presented since in previous year, it was wholly owned subsidiary
47. Capital Management	 	
	
For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital attributable to the equity 
shareholders of the Group, securities premium and all other equity reserves. The primary objective of the Group’s 
capital management is that it maintain an efficient capital structure and maximize the shareholder value. The Group 
manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements 
of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, The Group may adjust the dividend payment 
to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, 
which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans 
and borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances.
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Borrowings
1,61,472.63
95,187.23
Other financial liabilities
14,133.86
13,630.55
Trade payables
1,29,687.16
3,339.05
Less: Cash and Cash equivalents
22,901.99
23,073.62
	
Other bank balances
85,433.77
3,278.35
Net debt
1,96,957.89
85,804.86
Equity share capital
16,100.01
14,713.45
Share capital pending issuance
4.65
38.69
Money received against warrants
3,750.00
-
Other equity
2,07,992.00
1,02,337.70
Non-controlling interest
38,247.48
27,963.48
Total equity
2,66,094.14
1,45,053.32
Total capital and net debt
4,63,052.03
2,30,858.18
Gearing ratio
42.53%
37.17%
441
440
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
48	Additional information pursuant to paragraph 2 of Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act 2013 - ‘General instructions for the preparation of 
consolidated Ind AS Financial statements’:
As at and for the year ended March 31, 2025:
Name of the entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. total 
assets minus total liabilities
Share in profit/(loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit/(loss)
(₹ in lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
(₹ in lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
(₹ in lakhs)
Parent
Max Estates Limited
88.73%
2,36,093.73
1,062.81%
28,090.14
141.67%
4.08
1,061.80%
28,094.22
Subsidiary
Max I. Limited
0.90%
2,398.39
8.35%
220.72
0.00%
-
8.34%
220.72
Max Square Limited
8.40%
22,348.39
(118.45%)
(3,130.66)
0.00%
-
(118.32%)
(3,130.66)
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
2.41%
6,405.94
32.50%
858.89
0.00%
-
32.46%
858.89
Max Asset Services Limited
(0.66%)
(1,746.86)
5.45%
143.99
(41.67%)
(1.20)
5.40%
142.79
Max Towers Private Limited
5.69%
15,144.23
(23.68%)
(625.91)
0.00%
-
(23.66%)
(625.91)
Max Estates 128 Private 
Limited
0.59%
1,575.33
36.08%
953.66
0.00%
-
36.04%
953.66
Mas Estates Gurgaon 
Limited
(0.55%)
(1,464.72)
(44.66%)
(1,180.33)
0.00%
-
(44.61%)
(1,180.33)
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
9.78%
26,026.23
(0.98%)
(25.88)
0.00%
-
(0.98%)
(25.88)
Max Estate Gurgaon Two 
Limited
1.34%
3,554.30
(0.22%)
(5.70)
0.00%
-
(0.22%)
(5.70)
Max Estates Noida Private 
Limited (Formerly known as 
Astiki Realty Private Limited)
2.64%
7,012.62
(0.79%)
(20.98)
0.00%
-
(0.79%)
(20.98)
Non controlling interests
14.37%
38,247.48
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
Eliminations
(33.64%)
(89,500.93)
(856.41%)
(22,634.92)
0.00%
-
(855.47%)
(22,634.92)
100%
2,66,094.14
100%
2,643.01
100%
2.88
100%
2,645.89
* Refer note 56 for accouting of gain on sale on Non-controlling interests in other equity during the year.
As at and for the year ended March 31, 2024:
Name of the entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. total 
assets minus total liabilities
Share in profit/(loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
(₹ in lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit/(loss)
(₹ in lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
(₹ in lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
(₹ in lakhs)
Parent
Max Estates Limited
86.80%
1,25,913.53
(42.30%)
2,332.03
81.62%
(9.65)
(42.04%)
2,322.38
Subsidiary
Max I. Limited
1.50%
2,177.67
(0.78%)
43.22
0.00%
-
(0.78%)
43.22
Max Square Limited
17.51%
25,402.41
47.65%
(2,626.61)
0.00%
-
47.55%
(2,626.61)
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
1.19%
1,729.57
(2.25%)
123.93
0.00%
-
(2.24%)
123.93
Max Asset Services Limited
(1.32%)
(1,903.49)
81.63%
(4,495.89)
18.38%
(2.18)
81.49%
(4,498.07)
Max Towers Private Limited 
6.95%
10,233.55
1.13%
(62.44)
0.00%
-
1.13%
(62.44)
Max Estates 128 Private 
Limited
0.30%
440.88
7.32%
(403.33)
0.00%
-
7.30%
(403.33)
Mas Estates Gurgaon 
Limited 
(0.21%)
(304.37)
5.94%
(327.32)
0.00%
-
5.93%
(327.32)
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
16.99%
24,640.74
0.34%
(18.57)
0.00%
-
0.34%
(18.57)
Max Estate Gurgaon Two 
Limited
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
 Max Estates Noida Private 
Limited (Formerly known as 
Astiki Realty Private Limited) 
0.01%
9.80
0.00%
(0.20)
0.00%
0.00%
(0.20)
Non controlling interests
19.28%
27,963.48
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
-
Eliminations
(49.02%)
(71,250.45)
1.33%
(77.26)
0.00%
-
1.33%
(77.26)
100.00%
1,45,053.32
100.00%
(5,512.44)
100.00%
(11.83)
100.00%
(5,524.27)
443
442
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
49	During the current financial year, the Group obtained approval from the Hon'ble National Company Law 
Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on October 25, 2024 under the approved resolution plan, for the acquisition of 
Boulevard Projects Private Limited (BPPL) and development of BPPL's mixed-use plot located in NOIDA. The 
acquisition was completed subsequent to the year-end, on April 23, 2025, consequently BPPL became a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company.
50	Subsequent to year end, the Group has purchased the floor L-19, L-20, L-20M in Max Towers from Max India 
limited on May 3, 2025. The said has been approved by Audit committee in its meeting held on February 4, 
2025. The Group has given an advance of ₹7,141.56 lakhs which is disclosed as capital advance under note 36B.
51	During the year, Holding Company has entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with 
New York Life Insurance Company (“NYL”), for a proposed investment of ₹333.40 crores and ₹293 crores by MEL 
and NYL respectively in Max Estates Noida Private Limited (“MENPL”), a subsidiary of the Holding Company. The 
MoU sets out the key terms and conditions under which NYL and MEL propose to invest in MENPL (the “SPV”), 
by subscribing to compulsorily convertible debentures (“CCDs”). This investment will fund development of the 
leasehold land in the name of MENPL.
52	During the year, Holding Company has entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with 
New York Life Insurance Company (“NYL”), for a proposed investment of ₹267.50 crores and ₹257 crores by MEL 
and NYL respectively in Boulevard Projects Private Limited (“BPPL”). The MoU sets forth the key terms under 
which NYL and MEL propose to invest in BPPL by subscribing to compulsorily convertible debentures (“CCDs”). 
Proceeds will be utilized for the development of bearing the leasehold land located in Sector 16-B, Noida, in the 
Delhi One Project, held by BPPL.
53	During the current financial year, the Holding Company, along with its consortium partners, acquired a mixed-
use land parcel located in Sector 105 on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway for a total consideration of 
71,112.99 lakhs. The acquisition has been structured under a deferred payment arrangement, comprising an 
Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) of 10% and an upfront payment of 30% of the total consideration. The remaining 
60% is payable in eight equal half-yearly instalments. The amount paid till March 31, 2025 of ₹28,445.19 lakhs 
has been treated as capital advance.
54	Max Estates Gurgaon Limited (MEGL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Holding Company had entered into a 
registered Joint Development Agreement (JDA) with a land owner to develop a residential project (“the Project”). 
During the September quarter, MEGL launched its first intergenerational residential project, Estate 360, located 
at Sector 36A, Gurugram.
	
Under the said JDA, MEGL acquired development rights over 11.8 acres of land from Land Owner and in exchange 
MEGL is required to share the revenue basis agreed terms as mentioned in the JDA. Accordingly, The Company 
has recognized development rights at the present value of expected share to be paid to Land-Owner Company 
in accordance with Ind AS principles.
55	As per the Investment and Finance Committee meeting held on September 03, 2024, the committee has 
approved the issue and allotment of 1,33,89,121 equity shares to 25 eligible qualified institutional buyers at the 
issue price of ₹597.50 per Equity Share, i.e. at a premium of ₹587.50 per Equity Share, which included a discount 
of 4.97% to the floor price aggregating to approximate ₹80,000 lakhs (Indian Rupees Eighty Thousand lakhs 
Only), pursuant to the Issue.
	
The utilisation of QIP proceeds from fresh issue of ₹77,957.55 (net of expenses of ₹2,042.45 lakhs) is 
summarized below:
₹ In lakhs
Funds received
Utilized
Unutilized
Acquisition of land, interest in land and/or land 
development rights directly by the Company or 
indirectly through subsidiaries
65,000.00
32843.64*
32,156.36
General corporate purpose
12,957.55
12,617.37
340.63
77,957.55
45,461.01
32,496.99
	
*includes amount unutilized of ₹5,638.41 lakhs which has been have been temporarily invested in mutual funds by the subsidiary 
and kept in its current account.
	
Net Proceeds available for utilization of funds with the Holding Company as on date have been temporarily 
invested in fixed deposits with scheduled bank and mutual funds and kept in current account with monitoring 
agency bank account.
	
Of the total QIP related expenses, ₹1,976.87 lakhs have been adjusted against Securities Premium as per Section 
52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
56	Pursuant to the binding MoU signed with New York Life Insurance Company (NYL) for investment in Max Towers 
Private Limited (MTPL) and Pharmax Corporation Limited (PCL), subsidiaries of the Holding Company, NYL has 
subscribed to and acquired shares in both MTPL and PCL by entering in Securities Purchase and Subscription 
agreement and Shareholding agreement in the September quarter are as follows:
₹ In lakhs
MTPL
PCL
Consideration paid by NYL for fresh issue of shares 
5,674.11
3,515.84
Consideration paid by NYL to purchase existing shares from MEL
13,871.58
16,078.54
19,545.69
19,594.38
	
Prior to consummation to of above transaction, the Holding Company converted its investment in compulsory 
convertible preference shares of PCL in equity shares and post consummation Holding Company now holds 51% 
and NYL holds 49% of the share capital of MTPL and PCL. Consequently, The Holding Company has accounted for 
Non-controlling interests of ₹10,445.24 lakhs and gain of ₹25,372.83 lakhs (net of taxes) in other equity during 
the year.
57	Audit Trail
	
The Group has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software, except that audit trail feature is not enabled for certain changes made directly to the database 
using privileged/ administrative access rights to the application. Further, no instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with was noted in respect of accounting software wherever audit log was enabled. Additionally, the 
audit trail in respect of the prior years has not been preserved by the company as per the statutory requirements 
for record retention to the extend it was enabled from the prior years.
445
444
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
NOTES 
forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
58	The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post 
employment benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in 
the Gazette of India. Certain sections of the Code came into effect on May 3, 2023. However, the final rules/ 
interpretation have not yet been issued. Based on a preliminary assessment, the Company believes the impact 
of the change will not be significant.
59	Re-Grouping/Re-classification:
	
In accordance with recent expert advisory committee, the Company has reclassified accrued interest which has 
been included in the respective balances of assets and liabilities. Previously, accrued interest was presented as a 
separate line item in respective notes. Further, amounts payable to employees, which were previously classified 
under Trade Payables, have been reclassified under Other Current Financial Liabilities. Except mentioned, There 
are no other re-grouping/ reclassification done during the current year.
60	Other statutory information
(i)	
The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the 
Group for holding any Benami property.
(ii) 	 The Group does not have any transactions with companies that are struck off.
(iii) 	 The Group does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the 
statutory period.
(iv) 	 The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v)	
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vi)	 The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries)
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vii) 	The Group has not made any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such 
as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(viii) 	The borrowings obtained by the Group from banks and financial institutions have been applied for the purposes 
for which such loans were taken.
(ix) 	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Group is the lessee and the 
lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements, 
are held in the name of the Group.
(x) 	 None of the entities in the group have been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
(xi) 	 The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(xii)	 The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or 
previous financial year.
(xiii) 	The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible assets 
or both during the current or previous year.
As per our report of even date attached
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Max Estates Limited
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Sahil Vachani
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Partner
(Vice-Chairman & Managing Director)
(Director)
Membership Number: 108044
DIN: 00761695
DIN: 00040000
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Abhishek Mishra
(Chief Financial Officer)
(Company Secretary)
Membership No. - 098640
Membership No. - F9566
Place: Gurugram
Place : Noida
Date: May 22, 2025
Date: May 22, 2025
447
446
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Statements
Financial Statements
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
(CIN: L70200DL2016PLC438718)
Registered Office: Max House 1, Dr. Jha Marg, Okhla Phase 3,
Opposite Okhla Railway Station, Okhla Industrial Estate, New Delhi-110020, India
Corporate Office: Max Towers, L-20, C-001/A/1, Sector – 16B,
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Noida – 201301, Uttar Pradesh, India
Tel: +91 120 474 3222; Website: www.maxestates.in
Email: secretarial@maxestates.in
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the 9th (Ninth) Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the members of Max Estates 
Limited (‘the Company’) will be held on Thursday, 
September 18, 2025, at 17:00 hours (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (‘VC’) / Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’) 
to transact the following businesses:
Ordinary Business:
1.	
To receive, consider, and adopt the audited 
standalone financial statements of the Company for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, together 
with the Reports of the Board of Directors and 
Auditors thereon.
2.	
To receive, consider, and adopt the audited 
consolidated financial statements of the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, together 
with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
3.	
To appoint Mr. Atul B. Lall (DIN: 00781436), who 
retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself 
for re-appointment as a Director.
Special Business:
4.	
Appointment of Secretarial Auditors
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 204 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), read with Rule 
9 of the Companies (Appointment & Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 [including 
any statutory amendment(s), modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in 
force], and Regulation 24A of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as 
amended), and other applicable laws/statutory 
provisions, if any, from time to time, and based 
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee 
and the approval of the Board of Directors of the 
Company, consent of the members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded for the appointment of 
M/s Sanjay Grover & Associates, Company Secretaries 
(Firm Registration No. P2001DE052900), as the 
Secretarial Auditor of the Company for a term of 
five (5) consecutive financial years commencing 
from FY2025–26 to FY2029–30, to conduct the 
Secretarial Audit of the Company and furnish the 
Secretarial Audit Report.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company (which term shall be deemed to 
include any committee thereof, whether already 
constituted or to be constituted, and such officer(s), 
director(s), and employee(s) of the Company as 
may be authorised by the Board from time to time), 
be and are hereby authorized to fix the annual 
remuneration plus applicable taxes and out-of-
pocket expenses payable to them during their 
tenure as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company, 
as may be determined mutually between the Board 
of Directors and the Secretarial Auditors.”
By Order of the Board
For Max Estates Limited
August 8, 2025
Noida
Sd/-
Abhishek Mishra
(Company Secretary and Compliance Officer)
Membership No. FCS- F9566
NOTES:
1.	
An Explanatory Statement pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
“Act”), read with the relevant Rules made thereunder 
setting out the material facts and reasons, in respect 
of item no. 4, is annexed hereto and forms part of 
this Notice.
	
Information pursuant to the provisions of Secretarial 
Standard-2 and Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred as the 
‘Listing Regulations’) for item no. 3, is attached as 
Annexure to this notice.
2.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide its 
General Circular Nos. 14/ 2020, 17/ 2020, 20/ 2020, 
02/ 2021, 21/ 2021, 10/2022, 09/2023 and 09, 2024 
dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, May 5, 2020, 
January 13, 2021, December 14, 2021, December 
28, 2022, September 25, 2023, and September 19, 
2024 respectively (“MCA Circulars”), permitted the 
holding of AGM through Video Conferencing/ Other 
Audio Visual Means (“VC/ OAVM”) facility without the 
physical presence of the Members at a common 
venue. In compliance with the provisions of the 
Act, Listing Regulations, and MCA Circulars, the 9th 
AGM of the Company is being conducted through 
VC or OAVM without the physical presence of the 
Members at a venue. The deemed venue for the 9th 
AGM shall be the Registered Office of the Company.
3.	
The Company has appointed National Securities 
Depository Ltd (“NSDL”) to provide the VC facility for 
conducting the AGM and for voting through remote 
e-voting and e-voting at the AGM. The procedure for 
participating in the meeting through VC/ OAVM is 
explained in these notes.
4.	
In terms of the MCA Circulars, since the physical 
attendance of Members has been dispensed with, 
there is no requirement for the appointment of 
proxies. Accordingly, the facility of appointment of 
proxies by Members under Section 105 of the Act 
will not be available for this AGM and Attendance 
Slip, including Route Map are not annexed to 
this Notice.
5.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 112 and 113 
of the Act, Body Corporates are entitled to appoint 
authorised representatives to attend the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM and participate thereat and cast 
their votes through e-voting and are requested to 
send to the Company scanned (PDF/JPEG format) 
certified copy of the Board Resolution, authorising 
their representative.
6.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/ OAVM 
mode 30 minutes before the scheduled time of 
the commencement of the Meeting by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/ OAVM 
will be made available for 1000 members on a 
first come first served basis. This will not include 
large Shareholders (Shareholders holding 2% 
or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional 
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the 
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee Auditors, etc. who are 
allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on 
account of a first come first served basis.
7.	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose 
of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
8.	
The recorded transcript of this meeting, shall as soon 
as possible, be made available on the website of the 
Company viz. https://www.maxestates.in.
9.	
Pursuant to MCA Circulars and Circular No. SEBI/
HO/CFD/ CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 
2020 read with Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/
CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021, Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated May 13, 
2022, SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 
dated October 7, 2023 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated October 3, 2024 issued by 
SEBI, the Notice of the 9th AGM along with the Annual 
Report for F.Y. 2024-25 are being sent in electronic 
mode to Members having their e-mail address 
registered with the Company or the Depository 
Participant(s) and whose names will appear in the 
register of members/ list of beneficiaries received 
from the depositories as of Friday, August 22, 2025 
(i.e., the benpos date for sending the Annual Report 
and AGM Notice).
10.	 The physical copy of the Integrated Annual Report 
for FY2024-25 and this Notice will be sent to those 
Members who request for the same by writing to 
the Bank at email ID secretarial@maxestates.in A 
letter providing the web-link, including the exact 
path, for accessing this Notice and the Integrated 
Annual Report for FY2024–25 will be sent by the 
Company to those Members at the latest available 
postal address, who have not registered their 
e-mail addresses with the Depository Participant 
/ RTA of the Bank. Members may note that the 
Notice and Integrated Annual Report for FY2024-
25 is also available on the Company website www.
maxestates.in, websites of the Stock Exchanges, i.e., 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.
com respectively and on the website of NSDL at 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
449
448
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notice of AGM
11.	 The Notice of AGM along with Integrated Annual 
Report for Financial Year 2024-25, is available on the 
website of the Company at www.maxestates.in, and 
the same can also be accessed from the website of 
Stock Exchanges i.e., BSE Limited at www.bseindia.
com and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at www.Nseindia.com and the website of NSDL at 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
12.	 AGM shall be convened through VC/ OAVM in 
compliance with applicable provisions of the Act, 
read with MCA Circulars.
13.	 Members are requested to send all their 
correspondence directly to MAS Services Limited, 
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent of the Company at 
T-34, 2nd Floor, Okhla Industrial Area Phase II, New 
Delhi – 110020. Tel–011–41320335 / 26387281-83, 
E-mail: investor@masserv.com.
14.	 As you are aware, Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited merged with Max Estates Limited as per 
the Hon’ble NCLT Order dated July 3, 2023. As per 
the MCA circular dated 10/09/2018, no shares were 
allotted in physical mode. Hence, the Company has 
transferred all physical shares in the unclaimed 
suspense account of those shareholders who were 
holding shares in the physical mode of Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited. The rightful owners of such 
shares are requested to approach the Registrar and 
Transfer Agent (RTA) of the Company to know the 
procedure of claiming such shares by forwarding a 
request letter duly signed by them along with their 
complete postal address along with PIN code, a copy 
of PAN card & proof of address.
15.	 Members are requested to intimate changes/update, 
if any, pertaining to their name, postal address, email 
address, telephone/ mobile numbers, Permanent 
Account Number (PAN), mandates, nominations, 
power of attorney, Bank Details such as name of the 
Bank, Branch details, Bank account number, MICR 
code, IFSC code, etc., to their DPs with whom they 
are maintaining their demat account.
16.	 The Company has designated an exclusive Email 
Id: secretarial@maxestates.in for redressal for 
Shareholders’/Investors’ complaints/grievances. In 
case you have any queries, complaints, or grievances, 
then please write to us at the above-mentioned 
e-mail address.
17.	 All the material documents referred in the notice 
and explanatory statement thereto are open for 
inspection at the Registered Office of the Company 
during working hours between 10.00 a.m. and 1.00 
p.m., except on holidays from the date of circulation 
of this Notice up to the date of AGM i.e., Thursday, 
September 18, 2025.
	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding, Register of 
Contracts or Arrangements in which Directors are 
interested and all the documents referred to in 
the Notice and explanatory statement including 
certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company under Regulation 13 of SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2021 will 
be available electronically for inspection by the 
members during the AGM.
18.	 Members are informed that in case of joint holders 
attending the AGM, only such joint holder who is 
higher in the order of names will be entitled to vote.
19.	 The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Kapil 
Dev Taneja, failing him, Mr. Neeraj Arora, Partners, 
M/s Sanjay Grover & Associates (Firm Registration 
No. P2001DE052900), Company Secretaries having 
office at B-88, 1st Floor, Defence Colony, New Delhi- 
110024, as a Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting 
process in a fair and transparent manner.
20.	 Dispute Resolution: SEBI has established a common 
Online Dispute Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal - 
https://smartodr.in/login”) to raise disputes arising 
in the Indian Securities Market. Post exhausting 
the option to resolve their grievances with the RTA/
Company directly and through SCORES platform, 
the investors can initiate dispute resolution through 
the ODR Portal. Link to access ODR portal is 
available on Company’s website https://maxestates.
in/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Online-Dispute-
Resolution-ODR.pdf [SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/
HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195 dated July 
31, 2023 (updated as on December 20, 2023)].
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
REMOTE 
E-VOTING 
AND 
JOINING 
THE 
GENERAL MEETING ARE AS UNDER:
The remote e-voting period begins on Monday, 
September 15, 2025, at 0900 hours (IST) and ends on 
Wednesday, September 17, 2025, at 1700 hours (IST). The 
remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for 
voting thereafter. The Members, whose names appear in 
the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as on the 
record date (cut-off date), i.e., Thursday, September 11, 
2025, may cast their vote electronically. The voting right 
of shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in the 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the 
cut-off date, being Thursday, September 11, 2025 and 
the person who are not members as on the cut-off date 
should treat this notice for information only.
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A) 	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode
	
In terms of SEBI Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account 
maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile 
number and email Id in their demat accounts to access e-Voting facility.
	
The Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of 
shareholders
Type of shareholders
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
demat mode 
with NSDL.
For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., Verification 
code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/mobile number and 
click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the 
“Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section , this will 
prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you 
will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” 
under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during 
the meeting.
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.
nsdl.com Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/
SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page 
of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen 
digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown 
on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience:
NSDL Mobile App is available on
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in 
demat mode 
with CDSL
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user 
id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further 
authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing 
my easi username & password.
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On 
clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service 
provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all 
e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website 
directly.
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration 
option.
451
450
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notice of AGM
Type of 
shareholders
Type of shareholders
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number 
and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system 
will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the 
Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option 
where the e-voting is in progress and able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding 
securities in 
demat mode) 
login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository 
site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 7000.
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 
1800 21 09 911.
B) 	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ 
with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click 
on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below :
	
	
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a) 	 For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your 
user ID is IN300***12******.
b) 	For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID is 
12**************
c) 	 For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the company.
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 127244 then user ID is 
101456001***
	
5.	
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, 
then you can use your existing password 
to login and cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system 
for the first time, you will need to 
retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was 
communicated to you. Once you retrieve 
your ‘initial password’, you need to enter 
the ‘initial password’ and the system will 
force you to change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered in 
your demat account or with the 
company, your ‘initial password’ is 
communicated to you on your email 
ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the 
email and open the attachment i.e. 
a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The 
password to open the .pdf file is your 8 
digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 
digits of client ID for CDSL account or 
folio number for shares held in physical 
form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User 
ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
(ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned below 
in process for those shareholders 
whose email ids are not registered.
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received 
the “ Initial password” or have forgotten 
your password:
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If 
you are holding shares in your demat 
account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com .
	
	
b)	
Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
c) 	
If you are still unable to get the password 
by aforesaid two options, you can send a 
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning 
your demat account number/folio number, 
your PAN, your name and your registered 
address etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the 
votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the 
check box.
	
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join Annual 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join Annual 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle and General 
Meeting is in active status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. 
For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/
OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and “Confirm” when prompted.
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for shareholders
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/
JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to 
the Scrutinizer by e-mail to sanjaygrover7@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. Institutional 
shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) 
can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of 
Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload 
Board Resolution / Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-Voting” tab in their login.
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will 
453
452
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notice of AGM
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical 
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password.
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 
7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior 
Manager, National Securities Depository Ltd., 3rd Floor, 
Naman Chamber, Plot C-32, G-Block, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400051 
at the designated email address: evoting@nsdl.com or at 
telephone no. 022- 48867000.
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are 
not registered with the depositories for procuring 
user id and password and registration of e mail ids 
for e-voting for the resolutions set out in this notice:
1.	
All shareholders are requested to update your email 
id with your DP and follow procedure for password 
generation as given in e-voting instructions.
2.	
Please provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID 
or 16-digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master 
or copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN 
(self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR 
(self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to 
secretarial@maxestates.in or investor@masserv.
com. If you are an Individual shareholder holding 
securities in demat mode, you are requested to refer 
to the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login 
method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.co.inm for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI Master Circular dated November 
11, 2024 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed 
Companies, Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through 
their demat account maintained with Depositories 
and Depository Participants. Shareholders are 
required to update their mobile number and 
email ID correctly in their demat account to access 
e-Voting facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS 
FOR E-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE 
AGM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM 
is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-voting.
2.	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and 
have not casted their vote on the Resolutions through 
remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from 
doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting 
system in the AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting 
will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will 
not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/
OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting 
system. Members may access by following the steps 
mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system. After successful login, you can see link of 
“VC/OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu 
against company name. You are requested to click 
on VC/OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. 
The link for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/
Member login where the EVEN of Company will be 
displayed. Please note that the members who do not 
have the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have 
forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the 
same by following the remote e-Voting instructions 
mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
3.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera 
and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from 
Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop 
connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience 
Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation in their 
respective network. It is therefore recommended to 
use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any 
kind of aforesaid glitches.
5.	
Shareholders who would like to express their 
views/ask questions during the AGM may register 
themselves as a speaker by sending their request 
from their registered Email Id mentioning their 
name, DP ID and Client ID / Folio No., PAN, Mobile 
No. to the Registrar and Share Transfer agent of 
the Company at investor@masserv.com and to the 
Company at secretarial@maxestates.in or any other 
email on or before 17:00 PM, Thursday, September 
11, 2025. Those Members who have registered 
themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to 
express their views / ask questions during the AGM. 
The Company reserves the right to restrict the 
number of speakers depending on the availability 
of time for the AGM. 
6.	
Shareholders who would like to express their views/
have questions may send their questions in advance 
mentioning their name demat account number/folio 
number, email id, mobile number at secretarial@
maxestates.in. The same will be replied by the 
company suitably.
OTHER INFORMATION:
1.	
The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Kapil Dev 
Taneja, failing him, Mr. Neeraj Arora, Partners, M/s 
Sanjay Grover & Associates (Firm Registration No. 
P2001DE052900), Company Secretaries having 
office at B-88, 1st Floor, Defence Colony, New 
Delhi- 110024, as a Scrutinizer to scrutinize the 
e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner 
and they have communicated their willingness to 
be appointed.
2.	
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the 
conclusion of voting at the AGM, first count the votes 
cast at the meeting and thereafter unblock the votes 
cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at 
least two (2) witnesses not in the employment of 
the Company and make a consolidated Scrutinizer’s 
Report of the total votes cast in favour or against, 
if any, and submit forthwith to the Chairman or a 
person authorized by him in writing.
	
The Results shall be declared within two working 
days of conclusion of the AGM and the Results along 
with the consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report shall be 
immediately thereafter placed on the Company’s 
website www.maxestates.in and on the website 
of NSDL and communicated to BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
455
454
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notice of AGM
ANNEXURE
Information of the Director seeking re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting pursuant to 
Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and in accordance 
with provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and SS- 2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, as on 
the date of Notice, is as follows:
Name of Director
Mr. Atul B, Lall
DIN
00781436
Date of Birth / Age
January 05, 1962 / 63 years
Qualification
Master's Degree in Management Studies from the Birla Institute of Technology and 
Science, Pilani
Experience and expertise
Mr. Atul B Lall is the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Dixon Technologies (India) 
Limited. Holding a Master’s Degree in Management Studies from the Birla Institute of 
Technology and Science, Pilani, Mr. Lall has spearheaded Dixon Technologies since its 
inception, building it into a leading force within the EMS Industry. He is responsible for 
the company’s overall strategy and business operations.
Beyond his leadership at Dixon, Mr. Lall serves as a board member for other group 
companies of Dixon Technologies (India) Limited and also holds the position of 
Independent Director on the Board of Happy Forgings Limited and Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director in Aditya Infotech Limited. With over 30 years of extensive 
experience in the EMS sector, his expertise lies in the introduction of new segment 
lines and the successful implementation of expansion strategies.
His contributions to the industry include serving as a member of the Technical 
Evaluation Committee for Electronic Manufacturing Services under M-SIPS (Electronic 
Manufacturing Services-EMS) constituted by the DeitY, and representing ELCINA on 
the Committee for Reliability of Electronic and Electrical Components and Equipment 
(LITD. 02) of the BIS. A keen reader, Mr. Lall is also the author of ‘Gita and India Inc.’. 
He has been elected as President of the Electronic Industries Association of India 
(“ELCINA”) and was conferred with the MAN OF ELECTRONICS award by CEAMA (a 
leading industry body association) in 2022.
He also serves on the governing board of Plaksha University.
Date of First Appointment on the Board
March 27, 2024
Skills and capabilities
(i)	 Corporate governance - Maintaining Board and management accountability, 
protecting shareholder interests, and observing appropriate governance practices.
(ii)	 Leadership - Leadership experience in developing talent, planning succession, 
and driving change and long-term growth. Practical understanding of managing 
organisations, processes, strategic planning, and risk management.
(iii)	Strategic thinking - Forming strategies to analyze the marketplace and identify 
opportunities to stimulate growth, considering the impact of key decisions, offer 
contingency plans and risk mitigation, bearing in mind the stakeholders’ best 
interests.
(iv)	Diversity - Representation of gender, ethnic, geographic, cultural, or other 
perspectives that expand the Board’s understanding of the needs and viewpoints 
of our customers, partners, employees, governments, and other stakeholders 
worldwide.
(v)	 Financial acumen - Proficiency in financial management, financial reporting 
processes, or experience in actively supervising the finance function.
(vi)	Business Growth - Identifying market trends, developing strategies for growth 
of business. Building brand awareness and equity and enhancing enterprise 
reputation. Ability to assess investment or acquisition decisions, and evaluation of 
operational integration plans.
(vii)	Merger and acquisitions - Experience in acquisitions and other business 
combinations, with the ability to assess ‘build and buy’ decision, accurately valuing 
the transactions and evaluating the operational integration plans.
Terms and conditions of re - appointment
Not Applicable. 
As the director retires by rotation, and being eligible offers himself for re-appointment 
as a Director.
Directorships in other Listed Companies 
	»
Happy Forgings Limited
	»
Dixon Technologies (India) Limited
Directorships in other Companies
	»
Aditya Infotech Limited
	»
Lightanium Technologies Private Limited
	»
Dixon Display Technologies Private Limited
	»
Dixon Electro Manufacturing Private Limited
	»
Dixon Technologies Solutions Private Limited
	»
Padget Electronics Private Limited
	»
Rexxam Dixon Electronics Private Limited
	»
Dixon Electro Appliances Private Limited
Resignation from listed entities in the past 
three years
He has not resigned from any listed company in the past three years
Committee memberships / chairmanships 
in Companies
	»
Happy Forgings Limited – Audit Committee, and Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee – Member
	»
Dixon Technologies (India) Limited - Stakeholders Relationship Committee - Member, 
ESG Committee - Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member, 
Risk Management Committee – Member, Share Allotment Committee - Member, 
Research and Development Committee – Member
	»
Max Estates Limited – Audit Committee, Member and Investment and Finance 
Committee, Chairman
Shareholding (Equity shares of face value 
₹10/- each)
25,77,384 equity shares of face value ₹10/- each
Existing 
and 
Proposed 
Remuneration 
(including sitting fees, if any)
No other remuneration apart from the sitting fees shall be paid to him.
The details of sitting fees paid to him during the FY2024-25 have been mentioned in 
the Report on Corporate Governance, forming part of the Board’s Report.
Number of Meetings of the Board attended 
during the year
The said details are mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance
Relationship with other Directors / KMPs
He is not related to any director/KMP of the company
457
456
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notice of AGM
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 102 READ WITH SECTION 110 OF 
THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
In terms of Section 102(1) read with Section 110 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with rules, SS-2 and 
the applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations, the 
following Explanatory Statement sets out all the material 
facts relating to the resolutions given in this Notice.
Item No. 4
In accordance with the provisions of Section 204 and 
other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, read with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
& Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force) (‘the 
Act’), every listed company and certain other prescribed 
categories of companies are required to annex a 
Secretarial Audit Report, issued by a Practicing Company 
Secretary, to their Board’s report, prepared under Section 
134(3) of the Act.
Further, pursuant to recent amendments to Regulation 
24A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), every listed entity is required 
to appoint a peer reviewed Company Secretary or a Firm 
of Company Secretary(ies) as a Secretarial Auditor on 
the basis of recommendation of the board of directors 
to conduct Secretarial Audit, and annex the Secretarial 
Audit Report to its annual report.
Furthermore, a listed entity shall appoint a Secretarial 
Audit firm for a term of five consecutive years, with 
shareholders’ approval to be obtained at the Annual 
General Meeting. However, no Secretarial Auditor firm 
shall be appointed for more than two consecutive terms 
of five years.
Accordingly, based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held 
on May 22, 2025, had approved the appointment of 
M/s Sanjay Grover & Associates, Company Secretaries, 
(Firm Registration No. P2001DE052900) (“SGA”) as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a period of five 
(5) consecutive years, commencing from April 1, 2025, to 
March 31, 2030 subject to approval of the Members at 
the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the amended regulations, SGA has 
confirmed that it has undergone the peer review process 
of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and holds 
a valid peer review certificate. SGA has further confirmed 
that it is not disqualified from being appointed as the 
Secretarial Auditors, has no conflict of interest, and has 
provided its consent to act as Secretarial Auditor.
While recommending SGA for appointment, the Board 
and the Audit Committee evaluated various factors, 
including the firm’s capability to handle a diverse and 
complex business environment, its existing experience, 
its industry standing, the clientele it serves, and its 
technical expertise. SGA was found to be well-equipped 
to manage the scale, diversity, and complexity associated 
with the Secretarial Audit of the Company. SGA is a 
peer-reviewed and well-established firm of Practicing 
Company Secretaries, registered with the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India, New Delhi. The firm is led 
by experienced partners, all of whom are distinguished 
professionals in the field of corporate governance and 
compliance. Their collective expertise spans corporate 
advisory, transactional services, litigation, advocacy, and 
legal due diligence. The firm also has associate partners 
with strong professional credentials who align with its 
core values of character, competence, and commitment. 
SGA specializes in compliance audit and assurance 
services, advisory and representation services, and 
transactional services.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of 
SGA include a tenure of five (5) consecutive years, 
commencing from April 1, 2025, upto March 31, 2030 at 
a remuneration of ₹3,50,000/- (Indian Rupees Three Lakh 
Fifty Thousand only) for FY26 and as may be mutually 
agreed between the Board and the Secretarial Auditors 
for subsequent years.
Additional fees for statutory certifications and other 
professional services will be determined separately by 
the management, in consultation with SGA, and will be 
subject to approval by the Board of Directors and/or the 
Audit Committee. The remuneration for the subsequent 
years from 2027 to 2030 will also be approved by the 
Board and/ or the Audit Committee.
None of the directors or key managerial personnel of the 
Company, or their respective relatives, is concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set 
out at item no. 4 of this Notice.
The proposed Issue is in the interest of the Company and 
the Board recommends the resolution set out at item no. 
4 of this Notice for the approval of the members as an 
ordinary resolution.
By Order of the Board
For Max Estates Limited
August 8, 2025
Noida
Sd/-
Abhishek Mishra
(Company Secretary and Compliance Officer)
Membership No. FCS- F9566
458
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Concept, content and design by  
  |  contact@reportyak.com
MAX ESTATES LIMITED  
L-20, Max Towers, Sector- 16B, Noida, Gautam Buddha Nagar, 
Uttar Pradesh, India, 201301
Tel: +91 120 4743200 
www.maxestates.in
CIN No. L70200DL2016PLC438718
