1st September, 2025  
The Listing Department                                         The Listing Department  
BSE Limited                                                              The National Stock Exchange of India Limited  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,                                 Exchange Plaza,  
Dalal Street,                                                             Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Mumbai – 400001                                                  Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051  
Symbol: 532934                                                      Symbol: PPAP 
Subject: Regulation 34 - Notice for 30th Annual General Meeting ("AGM") and annual report for the 
financial year 2024-25 of PPAP Automotive Limited ("Company")  
Dear Sir,  
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed notice for 30th AGM scheduled to be held on 25th
September, 2025 at 11.30 a.m. (IST), through video conferencing/ other audio-visual means and annual 
report for financial year 2024-25.  
The notice for 30th AGM and annual report for financial year 2024-25 is also available on the website of the 
Company at www.ppapco.in.  
This is for your information and record.  
Thanking you,  
Yours faithfully,  
For PPAP Automotive Limited  
Pankhuri Agarwal  
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
PANKHU
RI 
AGARWA
L
Digitally signed by PANKHURI 
AGARWAL 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=9927, 
pseudonym=wjyp69bo1vn7x2dfthm8
rkqic3z045la, 
2.5.4.20=1604d297fe249f5c48b13a49f
fd67cf54200826ffaccb064656016608c
c8c030, postalCode=201017, st=Uttar 
Pradesh, 
serialNumber=3c5cb42087c3255c3ff0
7a4e4fc771f8f08c0796ee464df8b34d7
70d694aa473, cn=PANKHURI 
AGARWAL 
Date: 2025.09.01 19:40:44 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPORT 
2024-2025
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
ABOUT PPAP ANNUAL REPORT-
FY2025
We are pleased to present the Annual Report for the
FY2024-25 that provides insights into how our Company
creates value for our stakeholders in the short, medium,
and long term. It provides an overview of our financial as
well as non-financial achievements during FY2025. It offers
an understanding of our strategies, governance, operating
environment, and potential risks and opportunities. We
aspire to strengthen our disclosures on year on year and
continue to move forward in our journey of living our
purpose, delivering growth, and creating value for our
stakeholders.
Across the Pages
Corporate Overview

PPAP At Glance
002

Meet the Board 
024

From the Chairman’s Desk 
025
Statutory Report

Notice
027

Director report
040

Corporate Governance Report
054

Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 076

Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
107
Financial Statement

Standalone Financial Statement
111

Consolidated Financial Statement
172
1

100% owned subsidiary of PPAP

Focus on Storage applications 
(Solar, Telecom, ESS, Inverter & 
UPS Batteries)

Inhouse design and development 
capabilities and best in class 
Manufacturing facility 

Core competence in developing 
Automotive Body Sealing systems 
and Interior and Exterior Injection 
molded parts

All products are engine agnostic 
products

Enhancing per car contribution by 
adding more products and 
increasing the customer base  in 
all segments (PV/2W/CV/T1)

Focusing on developing dedicated 
parts for Electric vehicles

Global Level development of 
value-added products through in 
house design and technology 
development capabilities

100% owned subsidiary of PPAP

Development of Plastic Injection 
tools up to 1.5m * 1.0m

Established in 2020 as a separate 
profit center

Focus on development of injection 
mold  for Automotive, White 
Goods, Medical, Electrical and 
other related  Industries

Global Level facility with  
Excellence in Tool design  and 
Manufacturing capabilities 

100% owned subsidiary of PPAP

Extension of core competence of 
Plastic and Rubber processing to 
neighboring industries other than 
Automotive

Development Application 
Engineering products

Focus on various industries –
Packaging, White Goods, 
Household, Construction

Focus on domestic and 
international market
Automotive Parts
Commercial Tool 
Room
Industrial Products 
Business
Li-on Battery 
Business
To be our customer’s No. 1 
supplier.
Vision
To
be
a
global-level
excellence
company,
with
an inspiring work culture for
serving our customers and
our society by exceeding the
expectations
of
all
our
stakeholders.
Mission
•Trustworthiness
•Mutual Respect
•Creativity
•Cooperation
•Excellence
Core Values
Business Philosophy
Business - at a glance

100% owned subsidiary of PPAP

Development and sales of spare 
parts, accessories for after market

PAN India distribution network for 
offline sales

e-commerce network for online 
sales through own website and e-
commerce portals

Focus on domestic and 
international market
Aftermarket
3
Company Overview
Established in 1978, PPAP commenced its journey as a manufacturer of custom-
designed extrusion products. The Company forayed into the automotive sector in
1985, beginning with the supply of plastic profiles for the first generation of Maruti
vehicles. Over the years, PPAP has transformed into a leading Tier-1 automotive
supplier, specializing in plastic extrusions, injection moldings, and rubber-based
sealing systems.
Through strategic partnerships with global leaders, PPAP has consistently invested in
advanced technology, skilled talent, and robust processes to align with India’s evolving
mobility landscape.
Today, PPAP operates across diversified business verticals—including automotive OEM
components, aftermarket solutions, tooling, industrial products, and energy storage
systems—with a strong emphasis on risk mitigation and sustainable growth.
45+
Years Of Legacy
5
Varied 
Technologies
50+
Diversified 
Customers
5
Business 
Segments
3,000+
No. of SKUs
5+
Electric Vehicles
10
Pan-India 
Operating 
Facilities
225k
Parts Shipped Per 
Day
300+
SKUs Under 
Development
PPAP AT GLANCE
2
Passenger Vehicle
Two-Wheeler
Commercial Vehicle
Tractor
Major Clients
5
Business Streams – Automotive Products

Targeting execution of the ₹3439 Crores lifetime orders over the next 3-5
years.

EV order book of ₹524 crore reflects the Company’s increasing focus and
leadership in the future of sustainable mobility.

Enhancing product offerings through value-added components.

Increased content per vehicle with OEMs
Introduction
Automotive Parts segment is the cornerstone of PPAP’s operations. The Company
is a leading supplier of automotive body sealing systems, interior trims, and
exterior plastic components using polymer extrusion and injection molding
technology. These components are supplied to India’s top OEMs across passenger
vehicles (PV), commercial vehicles (CV), and two-wheelers (2W). The products are
engine-agnostic, making them compatible with both internal combustion engine
(ICE) and electric vehicles (EV).
Products
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR PRODUCTS
BODY SEALING SYSTEM PRODUCTS
Key Highlights
4
Introduction
Established in 2004 as a strategic backward integration initiative of PPAP, Meraki
Precision Tool Engineering Limited has emerged as a leading provider of high-
precision tooling solutions for the automotive, electrical, and home appliance
sectors. Operating from a state-of-the-art 2,500+ sqm facility and supported by a
team of 100+ skilled professionals, Meraki offers comprehensive in-house
capabilities in design, validation, and manufacturing. With an annual production
capacity of over 150 molds—up to 850 tons.
Precise Mold Perfect Products

150+ mold manufacturing capacity per annum

Molding support up to 850 tons

2500+ SQM Facility 

Meraki is driven by a zero-defect philosophy and advanced technologies. 

Develop molds for Automotive, Electrical, White Goods and Medical sector
Business Streams – Commercial Tool Room
Key Highlights
Major Clients
7
Introduction
Elpis Automotives Parts focus on offering high quality and sustainable automotive
spare parts, car accessories and car care products across India and Beyond. Elpis is
committed to expanding its product portfolio by keeping the high-quality standards
and enhancing its distribution capabilities further.
Products
Body Side 
Moulding
Fender Lining
Perfume
Jimny Drink Holder
Trash Box
Smart Phone Holder              Drink Holder             Ash 
Bottle

Focus on expanding the domestic network as well as international market

Launched 550+ more products in aftermarket in FY25

Continuous expansion of existing product portfolio & addition of new product 
lines

Total 1271 No. of SKUs with distribution management system software
Business Streams – Aftermarket 
Double Armed Hook
Glass Compound
Wiper
Mud Flaps
Door Visor
Sealant
Rain Drop
Available Across
Key Highlights
6

Equipped with advanced infrastructure for efficient and high-quality ESS
(Energy storage solutions) assembly

Specialized in developing ESS solutions fully compliant with the latest industry
standards

Expertise in designing and engineering customized ESS to meet diverse client
requirements

Actively leveraging growth opportunities in: Solar Energy Solutions, ESS
Introduction
Avniya Batteries Limited positions itself as an engineering solutions provider,
emphasizing application-specific engineering to meet the unique need of its
customers. The facility comprises complete manufacturing, testing and validation
of Battery Packs
Products
Business Streams- Li-ion Battery 
Key Highlights
Major Clients
9

Leveraging the use of existing plastic and rubber extrusion along with injection
molding.

Entry into export with successful trials, positioning it for significant scale up ahead.

70+ product developed, 10+ under development

Focus on developing the Architectural/Container/ Electrical Sealing System and
various injection molded products for industrial application
Introduction
PPAP Automotive Limited, launched its industrial product division in 2019, aiming
to utilize the advanced technologies of the parent company for industrial
applications. The company was established in 2025. The company focuses on
achieving excellence in customer satisfaction, sales growth, product performance,
financial strength, and profitability.
Products
Business Streams- Industrial Products
•PVC
•Thermoplastics
• EPDM Rubber
•
Architectural sealing
•EPDM Rubber
Container sealing
•PVC
•Thermoplastic
•EPDM Rubber
Electrical Panel sealings
Air Handing Units sealings
•PVC
•Thermoplastics
• EPDM Rubber
• PVC
• Thermoplastic
• EPDM Rubber
Custom and tailored profiles
• Range from 0.5 to 
50 Liter
Pail Containers
Custom and tailored moulded products
A/C Grills
Washing M/C Tub
Cooler Body
Key Highlights
Major Clients
8
Noida
Greater Noida 
Gujarat
Chennai
Pune
Avinya Batteries
Noida
Elpis Automotives
Greater Noida
Meraki  Precision Tools
Greater  Noida
Avinya Industrial 
Products-
Greater Noida 
Rajasthan
Sanad
11
Accelerating Our Reach
Our strategically located manufacturing facilities, coupled with a
strong and expansive distribution network, empower us to meet
the
evolving
needs
of
consumers
in
a
sustainable
and
environmentally responsible manner. Each facility is equipped with
advanced technology and operates in line with stringent global
quality benchmarks, thereby ensuring consistent excellence across
all product categories.
During the year, we augmented our manufacturing capacity by
adding new facilities, further reinforcing our ability to respond
swiftly to market dynamics and operational risks. By decentralizing
production, we have strengthened agility, optimized supply chain
efficiencies, and mitigated potential disruptions. Importantly, our
enhanced capacities have enabled us to extend our reach beyond
domestic markets, and we are now actively exporting our products
globally, thus positioning the Company as a significant player on the
international stage.
10
Overall 
Excellence 
-MSIL
Annual 
Supplier 
–TATA 
MOTORS
Best 
Performance 
Award 
- Toyota
Overall 
Gold 
Award 
- MSIL
Overall 
Performance
Vendor 
Award
- MSIL
Zero Defect 
Supplies 
Award -
Toyota
Gold 
Award
-
Toyota
Quality 
Circle 
Bronze 
Award 
- TKSA 
1st Position 
in Kaizen 
Competition 
- TATA 
13
Quality 
Sustainability 
Award 2023 
-ISQ
Overall 
Performanc
e 
Award 
- MSIL
Silver 
Award for 
Delivery
- HCIL
Manufacturing 
Excellence 
Award
- MSIL
Best 
Practice 
in Digital 
Transformation
- CII 
Quality 
Upgradation 
Initiatives
-Suzuki
Supplier 
Association 
Special 
Recognition
- Toyota
Outstanding 
performance 
in Quality
- Honda
Cerebrating Success
Regional 
Contribution 
Award-
Toyota
12
Education
Through the Vinay & Ajay Jain Foundation, PPAP supports educational programs that create
meaningful learning opportunities for underprivileged children. These initiatives are designed to ensure
access to essential education resources and foster academic excellence, thereby empowering young
minds and uplifting communities for a brighter future.
15
At PPAP, we view social responsibility and sustainability as integral to our long-term growth. While
the statutory provisions of CSR are applicable and the Company has already spent more than the
mandated requirement, our efforts go beyond compliance. For us, CSR is not limited to statutory
obligations, nor confined by boundaries - it is a philosophy that extends beyond limits and embraces
global relevance. Our initiatives focus on conserving natural resources, supporting education,
enhancing community well-being, and building a responsible value chain. By aligning our business
with these priorities, we contribute meaningfully to inclusive growth and global sustainability, while
strengthening trust with our stakeholders.
Environment
PPAP, in collaboration with the Vinay & Ajay Jain Foundation, actively undertakes tree plantation
drives to expand green cover across different regions. These initiatives not only contribute to
improving air quality but also play a vital role in conserving biodiversity and mitigating the adverse
impacts of climate change.
Corporate Social Responsibility
14
Key Achievements
Formed a dedicated 
Sustainability function
6.15% of our total energy 
generation comes from renewable 
sources
STP installed  at Plant II 
supporting our water neutrality 
target 
9% of the women workforce 
Earth Day KAP( knowledge, 
attitude & practice) survey 
conducted. 
10% reduction in emissions and 
water consumption targets has 
also been launched for FY 2025-
26.
10% increase in the renewable 
energy target for FY 2025-26 has 
been launched. 
5-year GHG report. ISO 14064: 
GHG data (2019–2024) compiled 
and assured by a third party.
ESG training modules prepared 
for internal awareness,
Sustainability Report (GRI-
aligned) & BRSR Reporting 
Department-wise mapping & 
response collection started
Materiality assessment to be 
added in the PPAP website.
Circularity training conducted 
for internal stakeholders
17
Achieve net zero by 2045
Achieve carbon-neutral operations by 2040
RE100 by 2040 across operations.
Attain water neutrality by 2040
Zero Waste to Landfill across business 
sites by 2040
Instill a zero-harm work   environment.
1. Improve gender diversity across business 
operations
Workforce for tomorrow by upskilling employees
Uphold the highest ethical and regulatory 
compliance
STRATEGIC  
GOAL 
Corporate Sustainability
16
Annual Function
The evening served as a reflection of our journey, highlighting stories of success that
exemplify the spirit of excellence at the core of PPAP. It was an opportunity to celebrate our
achievements, acknowledge our progress, and look ahead with optimism toward future
challenges and opportunities.
Blood Donation Camp
The successful execution of the blood donation camp highlighted the company’s leadership
in promoting social good, as employees embraced the opportunity to give back in a
meaningful way.
19
Environment Day
In celebration of World Environment Day, PPAP reaffirmed its commitment to sustainability
through targeted initiatives focused on natural resource conservation and the promotion of
environmental awareness across the organization.
Yoga Day
As part of our commitment to fostering holistic well-being, PPAP marked International Yoga Day
with active participation from employees, promoting a serene and supportive environment that
encouraged relaxation, mindfulness, and healthier lifestyle choices
Employee’s Engagement
18
Long Term Service Award
We had the privilege of honoring our long-serving employees, whose unwavering dedication and
passion have been instrumental in driving PPAP’s sustained success and growth over the years
Tech Show
This year’s Tech Show was a standout success, underscoring our commitment to innovation and
excellence. The event featured the launch of groundbreaking products and cutting-edge
technologies, reflecting our drive to stay at the forefront of industry advancement. By drawing the
attention of industry leaders and technology enthusiasts alike, the show reinforced PPAP’s position
as a pioneer in the field. Looking ahead, we remain focused on driving technological progress that
will shape a smarter, more sustainable future
21
Employee’s Engagement
Women Day
We came together to celebrate the dedication, resilience, and contributions of the women in our
team, reaffirming our commitment to their continued growth, empowerment, and inclusion within
the organization
Kids Engagement
Our commitment to nurturing future generations is reflected in the diverse and engaging
initiatives we offer, empowering children to explore, learn, and grow in a supportive environment
20
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
REGISTERED OFFICE
Chairman & Managing Director
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
Mr. Abhishek Jain
CORPORATE OFFICE
B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II,
Independent Directors
Noida-201305 Uttar Pradesh
Mrs. Celine George
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Mr. Rohit Rajput
Non-Executive Director
AUDITORS
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain

M/s. T R Chadha & Co. LLP
(Statutory Auditors)

M/s. Jangira & Associates
(Cost Auditors)

M/s. NKJ & Associates 
(Secretarial Auditors)
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 
AUDIT
BANKERS
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi- Chairperson

ICICI Bank Limited
Mr. Rohit Rajput

HDFC Bank Limited
Mr. Abhishek Jain

The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION

Axis Bank Limited
Mrs. Celine George- Chairperson

State Bank of India
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Mr. Rohit Rajput
REGISTRAR AND SHARE TRANSFER AGENT
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP
MUFG INTIME INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
Noble Height, 1st Floor, Plot NH2, C-1, Block LSC, 
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058
PLANT LOCATIONS

B-206A, Sctor-81, Phase-II, Noida-201305, Uttar Pradesh

B-4, Site V, UPSID, Kasna, Surajpur Industrial Area, Greater 
Noida-201306, Uttar Pradesh

SP3-802, R.I.A, Pathredi Industrial Area, Bhiwadi, Alwar-
301019, Rajasthan

G-24, SIPCOT Industrial Park, Vallam Vadagal, Talluk 
Sriperumbudur, Kancheepuram-602105, Tamil Nadu

Survey No. 866 Village Ukhlod Taluk Viramgam, Ahmedabad-
382150, Gujarat

86/1P,87/1,89/2,104/2,105/1,105/2,106,107/1,107/2,108/2-
3, Soko Mogami Indl. Complex, Survey No., Viramgam 
Highway, Near GIDC Gate No.1, Village - Khoda, Taluka -
Sanand, Sanand GIDC, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, 382110

PAP G-7 and G-8, Chakan Industrial Area, Phase II, Savardari
Road, Opp Hyundai, Tal. Khed, Savardari, Pune, 
Maharashtra, 410501
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain- Chairperson
Mrs. Celine George
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Mr. Rohit Rajput- Chairperson
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Mr. Sachin Jain
COMPANY SECRETARY
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal
WEBSITE
www.ppapco.in
Corporate Information
23
Performance Snapshot
22
27
From the Chairman's Desk
25
My Dear Stakeholders,
I am delighted to present to you the Annual Report for FY25 on 
behalf of our esteemed Board of Directors.
The global landscape remains challenging, with ongoing 
military conflicts across regions. These disruptions have slowed 
the momentum of globalization and have contributed to a more 
fragmented world order. Nations are increasingly realigning 
themselves, driven by economic priorities, strategic interests, 
and military considerations.
India, under the dynamic leadership of the Hon’ble Prime 
Minister, has continued to safeguard our national interests 
while demonstrating remarkable resilience amid the global 
uncertainties. 
Strategic 
initiatives 
undertaken 
by 
the 
Government to strengthen infrastructure and stimulate demand 
are driving domestic consumption and positioning our country 
as an emerging global economic powerhouse. With the rising 
disposable incomes and a youthful demographic profile, India’s 
long-term growth prospects remain robust, underpinned by 
sustained demand and expanding consumption.
India is steadily positioning itself as a global manufacturing 
hub, supported by the strategic government initiatives such as 
the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes that continue 
to attract significant domestic and foreign investment. With 
leading global players establishing operations in the country, 
India is fast emerging as an attractive destination for large-scale 
manufacturing and global supply chain integration. The Hon’ble Prime Minister’s campaigns—Make in India, Make for the World, 
Vocal for Local, and Zero Defect, Zero Effect—are laying a solid foundation for self-reliance (Atmanirbhar Bharat).
Automobile penetration in India remains relatively low, at around 35 vehicles per 1,000 people highlighting the significant growth 
potential ahead. Rising disposable incomes, continuous improvements in infrastructure, and the supportive policy measures 
such as GST reforms are expected to drive sustained demand over the long term. With India already established as the world’s 
third-largest automotive market, the industry is well-positioned for expansion. We remain highly confident in the sector’s ability to 
deliver strong and consistent growth in the years to come.
At PPAP Automotive Limited, we are aligning our long-term strategies with India’s growth trajectory. By diversifying into multiple 
business segments, we aim to leverage the Group’s core expertise across industries, thereby unlocking new opportunities, driving 
sustainable growth, and capitalizing on the rising wave of domestic consumption.
In the financial year, the company delivered a resilient performance and demonstrated operational agility. We continue to make 
meaningful progress toward transforming PPAP into a more agile, technology-driven, and future-ready organization. Through 
enhanced automation, lean manufacturing practices, and various growth initiatives, we are positioning ourselves as a competitive 
force in an ever-evolving global landscape.
Our automotive parts business continues to be the cornerstone of our growth. We specialize in body sealing systems and 
interior and exterior components, catering to both ICE and EV platforms. During the year, we were further able to strengthen our 
engagement with leading passenger vehicle OEMs and their Tier-1 suppliers across India. 
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman and Managing Director
Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer and
Managing Director
Deepak Kumar Sethi
Independent Director
Vinay Kumari Jain
Non-Executive Director
Celine George
Independent Director
Rohit Rajput
Independent Director
Meet the Board
24
27
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
CIN: L74899DL1995PLC073281
Registered Office: 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
Corporate Office: B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II, Noida-201305, Uttar Pradesh
Tel: +91-120-4093901
Website: www.ppapco.in; E-mail Id: investorservice@ppapco.com
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the 30thAnnual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of PPAP Automotive Limited (“Company”) will be held 
through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio-Visual Means 
(“OAVM”), on Thursday 25th September, 2025 at 11:30 A.M. to 
transact the following business. 
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
To receive, consider and adopt:
 
a) 
 The audited standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025, 
together with the reports of the Board of Directors and 
Auditors’ thereon; and 
 
b) 
 The audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025, 
together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2. 
 To declare final dividend of ` 1.50/- (15%) and confirm 
payment of interim dividend of ` 1/- (10%) per equity share 
(face value of ` 10/- each) for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2025.
3. 
 To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Abhishek Jain 
(DIN:00137651), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4. 
 Ratification of remuneration of the Cost Auditor for the 
financial year 2025-26.
 
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution: 
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provision of section 148 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, (including any amendment, modification(s) or variation 
thereto, for the time being in force) the members hereby ratify 
the remuneration of ` 1,75,000/- (Rupees One lakh seventy 
five thousand only), exclusive of applicable taxes, payable to 
M/s  Jangira & Associates, (Firm Registration No. 103597), 
Cost Accountants, New Delhi, who have been appointed by 
the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, as Cost Auditors of the Company, to conduct 
the audit of the cost records maintained by the Company, as 
prescribed under the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, for the financial 
year 2025-26.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors and/or 
key managerial personnel of the Company be and are hereby 
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as 
may be deemed necessary, desirable, proper or expedient for 
the purpose of giving effect to the above resolution.”
5. 
 To consider and approve the appointment of Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company.
 
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution: 
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the Regulation 24A of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
Section 204 the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules 
made thereunder (including any statutory modifications or 
re-enactment thereof, for the time being in force) and based 
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval 
of the Board of Directors of the Company the consent of 
members be and is hereby accorded to appoint M/s NKJ 
& Associates, Practising Company Secretary bearing Peer 
reviewed certificate no. S2006DE085400, for a term of 5 (five) 
consecutive years i.e., to hold the office from the conclusion 
of the 30th Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of the 
35th Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 
the year 2030 at such remuneration (plus applicable taxes 
and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred in 
connection with the audit) as may be mutually agreed upon 
between the Board of Directors (including its Committee 
thereof) and the Secretarial Auditors and to avail any other 
services, certificates or reports as may be permissible under 
applicable laws.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors and/or 
key managerial personnel of the Company be and are hereby 
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as 
may be deemed necessary, desirable, proper or expedient for 
the purpose of giving effect to the above resolution.”
By order of the Board
For PPAP Automotive Limited
 
Place: Noida
Pankhuri Agarwal
Date: 16th May, 2025
Company Secretary
ACS:59103
26
We are also driving value creation by increasing the content per vehicle, with an emphasis on premiumization and value-added 
components, thereby strengthening our market share.
The aftermarket vertical, operated by our wholly owned subsidiary ELPIS, sustained its robust performance. This business focuses 
on body parts, consumables, as well as accessories. We expanded our product range with over 550 new SKUs taking our total 
to 1,271. This year we were able to expand our distribution network to 133 distributors. Our enhanced digital presence through 
our website and platforms such as Amazon and Flipkart enabled us to reach a wider customer base and improve accessibility.
In line with our long-term vision, FY25 marked the beginning of our foray into international markets in the aftermarket segment. 
We are optimistic that FY26 will deliver significant breakthroughs in this space, paving the way for greater global presence and 
revenue diversity.
We have formed a new wholly owned subsidiary, Avinya Industrial Products Limited, which specializes in developing application 
engineering solutions for various industries in the Industrial Products application. This division demonstrated rapid growth 
throughout fiscal year. Notably, FY25 marked the division’s entry into exports with the successful completion of trial orders. We 
are now well-positioned to scale exports meaningfully in the coming years.
Our commercial toolroom division, now rebranded as Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited, is expanding its capacity to 
serve both automotive and non-automotive sectors. Backed by advanced mould-making expertise, Meraki is on a clear path to 
scale and become a growth driver for the group.
Our battery business, Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP Technology Limited), last year, shifted its focus from mobility 
applications to storage solutions, a move that is already yielding positive results. While the adoption rate has been slower than 
initially envisaged, this division is making progress. In FY25, we successfully reduced some of the losses incurred by the company, 
setting a solid foundation for future growth. Looking ahead to FY26, we anticipate significant expansion driven by orders from 
marquee customers in the storage segment. We are confident that this focused approach will drive considerable growth in the 
coming years.
At PPAP sustainability is central to how we create long-term value for all stakeholders. In FY25, we deepened this commitment 
by aligning our operations with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, advancing our ESG roadmap, and adhering to rigorous 
global disclosure frameworks such as GRI, BRSR, and ISO 14064. Our improved EcoVadis and SAQ ratings reflect measurable 
progress against international benchmarks.
We made significant strides in renewable energy adoption, water conservation, and waste reduction, advancing toward our 
targets of a 50% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 2030 and 100% renewable energy by 2040. Through the Vinay and Ajay 
Jain Foundation, we plant native trees and expand community initiatives in education and healthcare.
Partnering closely with customers and suppliers, we continue to drive circular economy practices, increase recycled material 
usage, and adopt cleaner technologies. Our focus remains on setting higher ESG standards, ensuring transparency in disclosures, 
and building a business that is financially strong, environmentally responsible, and socially inclusive.
Moving to the financial performance, we closed FY25 with consolidated revenues of ₹554 crores, reflecting growth over the 
previous year. EBITDA improved to ₹57.2 crores, maintaining a margin of 10.3%.
Our Board has recommended a final dividend of ₹1.50 per equity share, subject to shareholder approval at the upcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
We enter FY26 with cautious optimism. While global and domestic uncertainties persist, we are confident in our strategy, our 
people, and our purpose. We will continue to drive innovation, strengthen customer partnerships, invest in capability-building, and 
expand into new frontiers, aftermarket, exports, and industrial products.
On behalf of the Board, I extend my sincere gratitude to our customers, suppliers, employees, and shareholders. Your unwavering 
trust and support are the foundation of our journey toward a stronger and a future-ready company.
Thank you,
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
26
29
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
General Meeting (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) in respect of Director seeking 
re-appointment is separately annexed with this notice as 
‘Annexure-1’.
13.  In terms of the provisions of Regulation 40 of the Listing 
Regulations and various notifications issued in this regard, 
requests for effecting transfer of securities (except in case 
of transmission or transposition of securities) shall not be 
processed unless the securities are held in the dematerialized 
form with the depositories.
 
 Members are requested to note SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD/P/CIR/2025/97 dated July 2, 2025 on 
“Special Window for Re-lodgement of Transfer Requests of 
Physical Shares”. This facility is available for transfer deeds 
lodged prior to 1st April, 2019 but were subsequently rejected/
returned/not attended to due to deficiency in document /
process/or otherwise. The Special Window is open from 
7th July, 2025 and shall remain open till 6th January, 2026. 
The eligible shareholders will have to submit original transfer 
documents or missing details to RTA. During  this  period,  the 
securities  that  are re-lodged  for  transfer shall  be issued 
only in demat mode.
14.  Registers of Directors & Key Managerial Personnel and 
their shareholding, Register of Contracts and other relevant 
documents referred to in the accompanying notice calling 
the AGM would be available for inspection by the members 
electronically on VC / OAVM platform during the AGM.
15.  Pursuant to the amendments in the Income Tax Act 1961, 
dividend income is taxable in the hands of the members 
from 1st April 2020 and the company is required to deduct 
tax at source (“TDS”) from dividend paid to the members 
at prescribed rates. The members are requested to submit 
requisite documents on the https://web.in.mpms.mufg.com/
formsreg/submission-of-form-15g-15h.html on or before 
Friday, 19th September, 2025 to enable the Company to 
determine the appropriate TDS rate applicable. For details, 
members may refer to the Communication related to 
“Communication to members-Tax Deduction on Dividend” 
available in the “Investors” section on the website of the 
Company at www.ppapco.in.
16.  The members desirous of seeking any information on the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at the AGM, 
are requested to write to the Company on or before Friday, 
19th September, 2025  on investorservice@ppapco.com. The 
same will be replied by the Company suitably.
17.  Manner of registering/updating email address, bank 
account details, PAN etc.:
 
 Members are requested to intimate/update changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, e-mail address, 
telephone / mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, bank 
details such as, name of the bank and branch details, bank 
account number, MICR code, IFSC code etc., to their DPs if 
the shares are held by them in demat form and to Company’s 
RTA if the shares are held by them in physical form in 
prescribed Form ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI 
Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 
dated 7th May, 2024. 
 
 Further SEBI mandated that the Members (holding securities 
in physical form), whose folio(s) are not updated with the KYC 
details (any of the details viz., PAN; Choice of Nomination; 
Contact Details; Mobile Number; Bank Account Details and 
signature) shall be eligible for any payment including dividend, 
interest or redemption in respect of such folios, only through 
electronic mode with effect from 1st April, 2024, Members are 
requested to refer to and follow the process detailed in the 
said circular to update KYC details.
 
 For any other queries members of the Company are 
requested to contact MUFG Intime India Private Limited at 
delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com or call on +91 11- 49411000.
18.  Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated 
25th January, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies to 
issue securities in demat form only while processing service 
requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim 
from Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/ Exchange of 
securities certificate; Endorsement; Subdivision/ Splitting of 
securities certificate; Consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios; Transmission and Transposition. Accordingly, Members 
are requested to make service requests by submitting a 
duly filled and signed Form ISR – 4, the format of which is 
available on the Company’s website. It may be noted that any 
service request can be processed only after the folio is KYC 
compliant. 
19.  SEBI vide Master Circular no. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-
3/P/CIR/2023/195 updated as on 28th December, 2023 
(by consolidated earlier Circulars dated 31st July, 2023, 
4th August, 2023 and 30th December, 2023) has specified 
that shareholder(s) shall first take up his/her/their grievance 
with the listed entity by lodging a complaint directly with the 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
28
Notes:
1. 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India 
(‘MCA’) has vide its circular no. 9/2024 dated 19th  September, 
2024, read with general circulars no. 14/2020 dated 8th  April, 
2020, no. 17/2020 dated 13th April, 2020, no. 20/2020 dated 
5th May, 2020 (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars’) and 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) has vide 
its circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/ CIR/2024/133 
dated 3rd October, 2024 read with its circular no. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12th May, 2020 (collectively 
referred to as ‘SEBI Circulars’), permitted the holding of 
the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’ or ‘Meeting’) through 
Video Conferencing facility / Other Audio Visual Means (‘VC/
OAVM’), on or before 30th September 2025, without the 
physical presence of the shareholders at a common venue. 
Deemed venue of the AGM shall be the Registered Office of 
the Company i.e. 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New 
Delhi-110020.
2. 
 The Board of Directors have considered and decided to 
include items no. 4 & 5 given above as special business in 
the 30th AGM, as they are unavoidable in nature. Explanatory 
statement pursuant to the provisions of section 102 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in respect of item no. 4 & 5 
of the notice are annexed hereto. 
3. 
 Pursuant to the Circulars since the physical attendance of 
members has been dispensed with, there is no requirement 
of appointment of proxies. Accordingly, the facility of 
appointment of proxies by members under Section 105 of the 
Act will not be available for the 30th AGM. Hence, proxy form 
and attendance slip are not annexed to this notice.
4. 
 Corporate / Institutional members are entitled to appoint 
authorized representatives to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM on their behalf and cast their votes through 
remote e-voting or through e-voting at the AGM. Corporate 
/ Institutional members intending to authorize their 
representatives to participate and vote at the AGM are 
requested to send a certified copy of the board resolution 
/ authorization letter to the scrutinizer at e-mail ID chetan.
gupta@apacandassociates.com with a copy marked to the 
Company at investorservice@ppapco.com,  authorizing its 
representative(s) to attend and vote through VC / OAVM on 
their behalf at the AGM, pursuant to section 113 of the  Act.
5. 
 In line with the Circulars, the annual report including notice 
of the 30th AGM of the Company, inter alia, indicating 
the process and manner of e-voting is being sent only 
by email, to all the members whose email address are 
registered with the Company/ Depository Participant (DP). 
The Company shall send the physical copy of annual 
report 2024-25 to those Members who request the same 
at investorservice@ppapco.com mentioning their Folio 
No./DP ID and Client ID.
 
 Further, in terms of the applicable provisions of the Act, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 (“the Listing 
Regulations”), read with the Circulars, the annual report 
including notice of the 30th AGM of the Company will also 
be available on the website of the Company at www.ppapco.
in. The same can also be accessed from the websites of the 
stock exchange i.e. BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.nseindia.
com and on the website of MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent at http://www.
in.mpms.mufg.com/.
6. 
 The members can join the AGM through VC / OAVM mode 15 
minutes before scheduled time of the commencement of the 
Meeting by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. 
Access will be open throughout the proceeding of AGM as 
well. The facility of participation at the AGM through VC will be 
made available for 1,000 Members on first come first served 
basis. However, this number does not include the large 
members i.e. members holding 2% or more shareholding, 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM 
without restriction on account of first come first served basis.
7. 
 Since this AGM is being held through VC / OAVM, the route 
map for this AGM is not annexed with this notice.
8. 
 The Company has engaged the services of MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
(“RTA”) as the authorized agency for conducting this AGM 
through VC or OAVM and to provide e-voting facility for the 
AGM.
9. 
 Members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM shall be 
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum as per the 
provisions of section 103 of the Act.
10.  The register of members and share transfer books of the 
Company will remain closed from Friday, 19th September, 
2025 to Thursday, 25th September, 2025 (both days inclusive) 
for the purpose of the AGM and final dividend. 
11.  In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of names as per the register of 
members of the Company will be entitled to vote during the 
AGM and dividend.
12.  Relevant details of Director as required under Regulation 
36(3) of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on 
31
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
23.  Process and manner for attending the Annual General 
Meeting through InstaMeet:
 
 Login method for shareholders to attend the General Meeting 
through InstaMeet:
 
a) 
 Visit URL: https://instameet.in.mpms.mufg.com & click 
on “Login”. 
 
b) 
 Select the “Company Name” and register with your 
following details: 
 
c) 
 Select Check Box - Demat Account No. / Folio No. / PAN
 
 
• 
 Shareholders holding shares in NSDL/ CDSL demat 
account shall select check box - Demat Account No. 
and enter the 16-digit demat account number.
 
 
• 
 Shareholders holding shares in physical form shall 
select check box – Folio No. and enter the Folio 
Number registered with the company. 
 
 
• 
 Shareholders shall select check box – PAN and 
enter 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN). 
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with 
the Depository Participant (DP)/ Company shall use 
the sequence number provided by MUFG Intime, if 
applicable. 
 
 
• 
 Mobile No: Mobile No. as updated with DP is 
displayed automatically. Shareholders who have 
not updated their Mobile No with the DP shall enter 
the mobile no.
 
 
• 
 Email ID: Email Id as updated with DP is displayed 
automatically. Shareholders who have not updated 
their Email ID with the DP shall enter the Email ID.
 
d) 
Click “Go to Meeting” 
 
 
 You are now registered for InstaMeet, and your 
attendance is marked for the meeting.
 
 Instructions for shareholders to Speak during the 
General Meeting through InstaMeet:
 
a) 
 Shareholders who would like to speak during the 
meeting must register their request with the company on 
or before Friday 19th September, 2025. 
 
b) 
 Shareholders will get confirmation on first cum first basis 
depending upon the provision made by the company. 
 
c) 
 Shareholders will receive “speaking serial number” once 
they mark attendance for the meeting. Please remember 
speaking serial number and start your conversation with 
panellist by switching on video mode and audio of your 
device.
 
d) 
 Other shareholder who has not registered as “Speaker 
Shareholder” may still ask questions to the panellist via 
active chat-board during the meeting.
 
 *Shareholders are requested to speak only when moderator 
of the meeting/ management will announce the name and 
serial number for speaking. 
 
 Instructions for Shareholders to Vote during the General 
Meeting through InstaMeet:
 
 Once the electronic voting is activated during the meeting, 
shareholders who have not exercised their vote through the 
remote e-voting can cast the vote as under:
 
a) 
 On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link for 
e-Voting “Cast your vote”
 
b) 
 Enter your 16-digit Demat Account No. / Folio No. 
and OTP (received on the registered mobile number/ 
registered email Id) received during registration for 
InstaMEET 
 
c) 
Click on ‘Submit’. 
 
d) 
 After successful login, you will see “Resolution 
Description” and against the same the option “Favour/ 
Against” for voting. 
 
e) 
 Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option i.e. 
“Favour/Against” as desired. Enter the number of shares 
(which represents no. of votes) as on the cut-off date 
under ‘Favour/Against’.
 
f) 
 After selecting the appropriate option i.e. Favour/Against 
as desired and you have decided to vote, click on 
“Save”. A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish 
to confirm your vote, click on “Confirm”, else to change 
your vote, click on “Back” and accordingly modify your 
vote. Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify or change your vote 
subsequently.
Note: 
Shareholders/ Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Tablets/ Laptops connected through broadband for better 
experience.
Shareholders/ Members are required to use Internet with a 
good speed (preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
Please note that Shareholders/ Members connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptops connecting via Mobile 
Hotspot may experience Audio/Visual loss due to fluctuation in 
their network.  It is therefore recommended to use stable Wi-FI or 
LAN connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
30
concerned listed entity and if the grievance is not redressed 
satisfactorily, the shareholder may, in accordance with the 
SCORES guidelines and the process laid out therein, escalate 
the same through the SCORES portal. Only after exhausting 
all available options for resolution of the grievance, if the 
shareholder is not satisfied with the outcome, he/she/they 
can initiate dispute resolution through the Online Dispute 
Resolution (‘ODR’) portal.
20.  Final dividend for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025, 
as recommended by the Board of Directors, if approved, by 
the members at the AGM, will be paid within 30 days from the 
date of AGM, to those members whose names appear in the 
register of members as on Thursday, 18th September, 2025.
21.  Members who have not so far en-cashed their dividend 
paid by the Company upto and during the financial year 
ended 31st March, 2025, may immediately approach the 
Company / RTA for claiming dividend amount. Information 
in respect of the unclaimed dividend as on 31st March, 
2025, will be uploaded on the website of Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) of the Government (www.
iepf.gov.in) and on the website of the Company (www.
ppapco.in). Dividends, if not en-cashed for a consecutive 
period of 7 years, from the date of transfer to unpaid/ 
unclaimed dividend account of the Company, are liable to 
be transferred to IEPF. Further, the shares of a member 
who does not en-cash his dividend for a continuous period 
of 7 years, are also liable to be transferred to the Demat 
account of IEPF Authority. In view of this, members, 
who have not yet claimed their dividend, are requested 
to claim their dividends from the Company / RTA, within 
the stipulated timeline. The members, whose unclaimed 
dividends / shares have been transferred to IEPF, may 
claim the same as well as the corresponding dividend by 
making an application to the IEPF Authority, in Form IEPF-5 
available on www.iepf.gov.in. 
22. Voting through electronic means:
 
I. 
 The businesses as set out in the notice may be transacted 
through electronic voting system and the Company will 
provide a facility for voting through electronic means. 
The facility of e-voting shall be provided by the RTA.
 
II. 
 The remote e-voting period begins on Sunday, 
21st September, 2025 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on 
Wednesday, 24th September, 2025 (05:00 p.m. IST). 
During this period, members of the Company, holding 
shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, 
as on the cut-off date of Thursday, 18th September, 2025, 
may cast their vote electronically. The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled by RTA for voting thereafter.
 
III.  The members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend the AGM but 
shall not be entitled to cast their vote again at the AGM.
 
IV. 
 Members who have acquired shares of the Company 
after the dispatch of this notice and holding shares as 
on the cut-off date may approach the Company / RTA 
at enotices@in.mpms.mufg.com for issuance of User 
ID and Password for exercising their right to vote by 
electronic means.
 
V. 
 The members present in the AGM through VC / OAVM 
facility and have not cast their vote on the resolutions 
through remote e-voting, shall be eligible to vote during 
the AGM through Insta Poll.
 
VI.  A member can opt for only single mode of voting i.e. 
through remote e-voting or Insta Poll. If a member casts 
vote(s) by both modes, then voting done through remote 
e-voting shall prevail and vote(s) cast at the AGM shall 
be treated as “INVALID”.
 
VII.  In compliance with the provisions of section 108 of 
the Act, Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 as amended, Regulation 
44 of the Listing Regulations and SS-2 issued by the 
ICSI, the members are provided with the facility to cast 
their vote electronically, through the e-voting services 
provided by RTA, on the resolutions set forth in this 
notice. The Company has appointed Mr.  Chetan Gupta, 
Practicing Company Secretary (CP No. 7077) and 
Managing Partner at APAC & Associates LLP, Company 
Secretaries, as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting 
and remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent 
manner.
 
VIII.  The Scrutinizer shall after the conclusion of voting at 
the AGM, will first count the votes cast at the meeting 
and thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote 
e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not 
in the employment of the Company and shall make, 
not later than two working days of the conclusion of 
the AGM, a consolidated scrutinizer’s report of the total 
votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman 
or a person authorized by him in writing, who shall 
countersign the same and declare the result of the 
voting forthwith. 
 
IX.  The results shall be declared not later than two working 
days from conclusion of the meeting by posting the same 
on the website of the Company (www.ppapco.com), 
website of RTA (http://www.in.mpms.mufg.com/) and by 
filing with the BSE Ltd. and National Stock Exchange 
of India Ltd. It shall also be displayed on the Notice 
Board at the Registered Office & Corporate Office of the 
Company. 
 
X. 
 Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the 
resolution shall be deemed to be passed on the date of 
the AGM i.e. 25th September, 2025.
33
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
d) 
 Post successful authentication, you will be re-directed to NSDL depository website wherein you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services. 
 
e) 
 Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote website 
for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period. 
 
Individual Shareholders registered with CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility
 
METHOD 1 - CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility:
 
Shareholders registered for Easi/ Easiest facility: 
 
a) 
 Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Home/Login or www.cdslindia.com & click on New System Myeasi Tab.
 
b) 
Enter existing username, Password & click on “Login”.
 
c) 
 Post successful authentication, user will be able to see e-voting option. The evoting option will have links of e-voting service 
providers i.e., MUFG InTime. Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you will be 
redirected to InstaVote website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period.
 
Shareholders not registered for Easi/ Easiest facility: 
 
a) 
 To register, visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/EasiRegistration / https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasitoken/Registration/EasiestRegistration
 
b) 
Proceed with updating the required fields for registration. 
 
c) 
Post successful registration, user will be provided username and password. Follow steps given above in points (a-c).
 
METHOD 2 - CDSL e-voting page
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://www.cdslindia.com
 
b) 
Go to e-voting tab. 
 
c) 
Enter 16-digit Demat Account Number (BO ID) and PAN No. and click on “Submit”.
 
d) 
 System will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile and Email as recorded in Demat Account 
 
e) 
 Post successful authentication, user will be able to see e-voting option. The evoting option will have links of e-voting service 
providers i.e., MUFG InTime. Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you will be 
redirected to InstaVote website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period.
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with Depository Participant
 
 Individual shareholders can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your depository participant 
registered with NSDL / CDSL for e-voting facility. 
 
a) 
Login to DP website
 
b) 
After Successful login, user shall navigate through “e-voting” option.  
 
c) 
 Click on e-voting option, user will be redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository website after successful authentication, wherein 
user can see e-voting feature.
 
d) 
 Post successful authentication, click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you will be 
redirected to InstaVote website for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period. 
 
 Login method for shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode.
 
 Shareholders holding shares in physical mode / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode as on the cut-off date 
for e-voting may register and vote on InstaVote as under:
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
32
Helpdesk:
Shareholders facing any technical issue in login may contact INSTAMEET helpdesk by sending a request at instameet@in.mpms.mufg.
com or contact on: - Tel: 022 – 4918 6000 / 4918 6175.
24. Remote e-Voting Instructions for members:
 
 In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. 
 
 Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id correctly in their demat accounts to access remote e-Voting 
facility. 
 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL
 
METHOD 1 - NSDL IDeAS facility 
 
Shareholders registered for IDeAS facility: 
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com and click on “Beneficial Owner” icon under “IDeAS Login Section”.
 
b) 
Click on “Beneficial Owner” icon under “IDeAS Login Section”.
 
c) 
 Post successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services section. Click on “Access 
to e-Voting” under e-Voting services. 
 
d) 
 Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote website 
for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period. 
 
Shareholders not registered for IDeAS facility: 
 
a) 
 To register, visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com and select  “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click on https://eservices.nsdl.
com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
 
b) 
Enter 8-character DP ID, 8-digit Client ID, Mobile no, Verification code & click on “Submit”.
 
c) 
Enter the last 4 digits of your bank account / generate ‘OTP’
 
d) 
 Post successful registration, user will be provided 
with Login ID and password. Follow steps given 
above in points (a-d). 
 
METHOD 2 - NSDL e-voting website
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com  
 
b) 
 Click on the “Login” tab available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. 
 
c) 
 Enter User ID (i.e., your 16-digit demat account no. held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen. 
 
d) 
 Post successful authentication, you will be re-directed to NSDL depository website wherein you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services. 
 
e) 
 Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to InstaVote website 
for casting the vote during the remote e-voting period. 
 
METHOD 3 - NSDL OTP based login
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/evotinglogin.jsp 
 
b) 
Enter your 8 - character DP ID, 8 - digit Client Id, PAN, Verification code and generate OTP. 
 
c) 
Enter the OTP received on your registered email ID/ mobile number and click on login. 
35
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 Once you cast your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or change it subsequently.
 
Guidelines for Institutional shareholders (“Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund”)
 
STEP 1 – Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund Registration
 
A. 
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in   
 
B. 
Click on “Sign Up” under “Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund” 
 
C. 
Fill up your entity details and submit the form. 
 
D. 
 A declaration form and organization ID is generated and sent to the Primary contact person email ID (which is filled at the time 
of sign up). The said form is to be signed by the Authorised Signatory, Director, Company Secretary of the entity & stamped and 
sent to insta.vote@linkintime.co.in.  
 
E. 
 Thereafter, Login credentials (User ID; Organisation ID; Password) is sent to Primary contact person’s email ID. (You have now 
registered on InstaVote)
 
STEP 2 – Investor Mapping 
 
A. 
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and login with InstaVote Login credentials. 
 
B. 
Click on “Investor Mapping” tab under the Menu Section 
 
C. 
Map the Investor with the following details: 
 
 
1) 
 ‘Investor ID’ – Investor ID for NSDL demat account is 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID i.e., IN00000012345678; 
Investor ID for CDSL demat account is 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.
 
 
2) 
 ‘Investor’s Name - Enter Investor’s Name as updated with DP. 
 
 
3) 
 ‘Investor PAN’ - Enter your 10-digit PAN. 
 
 
4) 
 ‘Power of Attorney’ - Attach Board resolution or Power of Attorney. 
 
 
 
NOTE: File Name for the Board resolution/ Power of Attorney shall be – DP ID and Client ID or 16 Digit Beneficiary ID. 
 
 
Further, Custodians and Mutual Funds shall also upload specimen signatures. 
 
D. 
 Click on Submit button. (The investor is now mapped with the Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund Entity). The same can 
be viewed under the “Report Section”.  
 
STEP 3 – Steps to cast vote for Resolutions through InstaVote
 
The corporate shareholder can vote by two methods, during the remote e-voting period. 
 
METHOD 1 - VOTES ENTRY 
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and login with InstaVote Login credentials. 
 
b) 
Click on “Votes Entry” tab under the Menu section. 
 
c) 
Enter the “Event No.” for which you want to cast vote. 
 
Event No. can be viewed on the home page of InstaVote under “On-going Events”.  
 
d) 
Enter “16-digit Demat Account No.”.
 
e) 
 Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ (If you wish to view the 
entire Resolution details, click on the ‘View Resolution’ file link). After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, click on 
‘Submit’. 
 
f) 
 A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to change your vote, click on ‘No’ and 
accordingly modify your vote. 
 
 
(Once you cast your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or change it subsequently).
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
34
 
STEP 1: LOGIN / SIGNUP to InstaVote
 
Shareholders registered for INSTAVOTE facility:
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in & click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
 
b) 
Enter details as under:
 
 
1. 
User ID: Enter User ID
 
 
2. 
Password: Enter existing Password
 
 
3. 
Enter Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code
 
 
4. 
Click “Submit”. 
 
 
 
 (Home page of e-voting will open. Follow the process 
given under “Steps to cast vote for Resolutions”)
 
Shareholders not registered for INSTAVOTE facility:
 
e) 
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in & click on “Sign Up” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab & register with details as under: 
 
 
1. 
User ID: Enter User ID
 
 
2. 
 PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number 
(PAN) (Shareholders who have not updated their PAN 
with the Depository Participant (DP)/ Company shall use 
the sequence number provided to you, if applicable. 
 
 
3. 
 DOB/DOI: Enter the Date of Birth (DOB) / Date of Incorporation (DOI) (As recorded with your DP/Company - in DD/MM/
YYYY format) 
 
 
4. 
Bank Account Number: Enter your Bank Account Number (last four digits), as recorded with your DP/Company.
 
 
 
o 
Shareholders holding shares in NSDL form, shall provide ‘D’ above
 
 
 
o 
 Shareholders holding shares in physical form but have not recorded ‘C’ and ‘D’, shall provide their Folio number in 
‘D’ above
 
 
5. 
Set the password of your choice. 
 
 
 (The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least one special Character (!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one 
alphabet and at least one capital letter). 
 
 
6. 
Enter Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code.
 
 
7. 
Click “Submit” (You have now registered on InstaVote). 
 
 
 
Post successful registration, click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab & follow steps given above in points (a-b).
 
STEP 2: Steps to cast vote for Resolutions through InstaVote
 
A. 
Post successful authentication and redirection to InstaVote inbox page, you will be able to see the “Notification for e-voting”. 
 
B. 
Select ‘View’ icon. E-voting page will appear. 
 
C. 
 Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ (If you wish to view the 
entire Resolution details, click on the ‘View Resolution’ file link). 
 
D. 
After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, click on ‘Submit’. 
 
E. 
 A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to change your vote, click on ‘No’ and 
accordingly modify your vote. 
 
 NOTE: Shareholders may click on “Vote as per Proxy Advisor’s Recommendation” option and view proxy advisor recommendations 
for each resolution before casting vote. “Vote as per Proxy Advisor’s Recommendation” option provides access to expert insights 
during the e-Voting process. Shareholders may modify their vote before final submission.
37
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
etc. The password should contain a minimum of 8 characters, at least one special character (!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least 
one alphabet and at least one capital letter.
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL/ CDSL has forgotten the password: 
 
 Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode have forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both, then the 
Shareholders are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option available at above mentioned depository/ depository 
participants website.
 
General Instructions - Shareholders
 
v 
 It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. 
 
v 
 For shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for voting on the resolutions contained 
in this Notice.
 
v 
 During the voting period, shareholders/ members can login any number of time till they have voted on the resolution(s) for a 
particular “Event”.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT AS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013.
ITEM NO. 4
The Company is required to have its costs records audited by a Cost Accountant in practice. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of 
the Company on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, have approved the appointment of M/s. Jangira & Associates (Firm 
Registration No. 103597), Cost Accountants, New Delhi as Cost Auditors of the Company for conducting the audit of the cost records of 
the Company, for the financial year 2025-26 at a remuneration of ` 1,75,000 (Rupees one lac seventy-five thousand only) plus payment 
of applicable taxes and re-imbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Cost Auditors in connection with the aforesaid audit.
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, members of the Company 
are required to ratify the remuneration proposed to be paid to the Cost Auditors and pass the resolution as an ordinary resolution.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors recommends the ordinary resolution set out at item no. 4 of the accompanying notice for approval by 
the members.
None of the Directors, Key Management Personnel of the Company and their relatives, are in any way concerned or interested financially 
or otherwise at item no. 4 of the notice.
ITEM NO. 5
Pursuant Regulation 24A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, (“Listing Regulations”) w.e.f. 1st April, 2025, a listed company is required to appoint a practicing company secretary for not more 
than one term of five consecutive years or a firm of practicing company secretaries for not more than two terms of five consecutive years 
as Secretarial Auditors.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has proposed the appointment of M/s NKJ & 
Associates, Company Secretary as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a term of five (5) consecutive years from the FY 2025-26, 
for the approval of the Members. 
The fee for secretarial audit for financial year 2025-26 will be ` 1,55,000 (Rupees One Lakh Fifty-Five Thousand Only) plus applicable 
taxes and out-of- pocket expenses. There is no change in the secretarial audit fee from what was approved for FY 2024-25. The fee for 
the subsequent year(s) of their term shall be determined based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and as approved by the 
Board of Directors of the Company. Fee for statutory certifications and other professional services, if any availed, will be approved by the 
Board of Directors in consultation with the Audit Committee.
M/s NKJ & Associates has given their consent to act as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company and have confirmed that the said 
appointment, if made, will be in accordance with the conditions prescribed under Regulation 24A Listing Regulations and Section 204 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and that they are not disqualified to be appointed as secretarial auditors in terms of the provisions 
of the Act, Listing Regulations and the Company Secretaries Act, 1980 and the rules or regulations made thereunder and that they have 
no conflict of interest. As required under the Listing Regulations, M/s NKJ & Associates has confirmed that they hold a valid certificate 
issued by the Peer Review Board of Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI).
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
36
 
METHOD 2 - VOTES UPLOAD
 
a) 
Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and login with InstaVote Login credentials.
 
b) 
After successful login, you will see “Notification for e-voting”.   
 
c) 
Select “View” icon for “Company’s Name / Event number”. 
 
d) 
E-voting page will appear. 
 
e) 
Download sample vote file from “Download Sample Vote File” tab. 
 
f) 
 Cast your vote by selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ in the sample vote file and upload the same under “Upload 
Vote File” option. 
 
g) 
Click on ‘Submit’. ‘Data uploaded successfully’ message will be displayed. 
 
 
(Once you cast your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or change it subsequently).
 
Helpdesk:
 
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
 
 Shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode facing any 
technical issue in login may contact INSTAVOTE helpdesk by sending a request at enotices@in.mpms.mufg.com or contact on: - Tel: 
022 – 4918 6000.
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
 
 Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode may contact the respective helpdesk for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e., NSDL and CDSL.
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending 
request at  evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at: 022 - 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending 
request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33 
 
Forgot Password:
 
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
 
 Shareholders holding securities in physical mode / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode have forgotten the 
USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both then the shareholder can use the “Forgot Password” option available on: https://instavote.
linkintime.co.in
 
• 
Click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
 
• 
Click “forgot password?” 
 
• 
Enter User ID, select Mode and Enter Image Verification code (CAPTCHA). 
 
• 
Click on “SUBMIT”.
 
 In case Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund has forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both then the shareholder 
can use the “Forgot Password” option available on: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
 
• 
Click on ‘Login’ under “Custodian / Corporate Body/ Mutual Fund” tab 
 
• 
Click “forgot password?” 
 
• 
Enter User ID, Organization ID and Enter Image Verification code (CAPTCHA). 
 
• 
Click on “SUBMIT”.
 
 In case shareholders have a valid email address, Password will be sent to his / her registered e-mail address. Shareholders can set 
the password of his/her choice by providing information about the particulars of the Security Question and Answer, PAN, DOB/DOI 
39
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Annexure - 1
Details of Director seeking re-appointment as required under Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard- 2 issued 
by ICSI on General Meetings.
Name of the Director
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Director Identification Number (DIN)
00137651
Brief Profile
Mr. Abhishek Jain is the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director on the Board 
of PPAP Automotive Limited. He holds a degree of Bachelor of Science in Industrial 
Engineering from Purdue University, USA. After gaining work experience in USA, he 
joined the company. Since then, he has been driving the company towards achieving 
Global Level Excellence. Under his leadership PPAP group has grown multifold and 
diversified the business into various markets, industries and products.
Nationality 
Indian
Date of Birth and Age
24th September, 1981 (43 years)
Date of first appointment 
1st December, 2006
Qualification
Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering from Purdue University, West Lafayette, 
USA
Expertise in specific functional area
Having vast experience in automotive industry.
Terms 
and 
condition 
of 
appointment/re-
appointment
Refer Item No. 3 of this notice
Details of remuneration last drawn (Financial 
year 2024-25) and sought to be paid, if 
applicable
Last drawn remuneration is ` 173.74 lakhs. Remuneration would be paid within the 
shareholder approved limits. 
Number of Board meetings attended during the 
financial year 2024-25
5 (Five)
Relationships with other Directors, Manager 
and other Key Managerial Personnel
Son of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman and Managing Director & Mrs. Vinay Kumari 
Jain, Non-Executive Director
List of Directorships held in other companies 
(excluding foreign, private and section 8 
Companies) as on 31st March 2025. 
1. 
Avinya Industrial Products Limited
2. 
Avinya Sealing Systems Limited
3. 
Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited
4. 
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP Technology Limited)
Name of listed entities from which the Director 
has resigned during last 3 years.
None
Memberships/ Chairmanships of Audit and 
Stakeholders Relationship Committees across 
Public companies including PPAP Automotive 
Limited
Member of Audit Committee of PPAP Automotive Limited 
No. of shares held in the company 
(a) Own 
(b) For other persons on a beneficial basis
10,02,404 equity shares
Skills and capabilities required for the role 
and the manner in which the proposed person 
meets such requirements
Refer corporate governance report
<Please register your e-mail address and make contribution to save our planet>
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
38
M/s NKJ & Associates, Company Secretary, was established in the year 2003 with an objective to provide wide spectrum of quality 
professional services in the field of Corporate Management Consultancy. Over the years, they have been able to place themselves as one 
of the leading Corporate Consultants to provide wide range of quality professional services in the field of Corporate Laws and Taxation, 
Finance & Accounting, Legal Compliances, Corporate Governance, Corporate Social Responsibility and allied services.
Considering the vast experience and quality of audit practices in past the Board upon recommendation of Audit Committee approved 
appointment of  M/s NKJ & Associates as Secretarial Auditors of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors recommends the ordinary resolution set out at item no. 5 of the accompanying notice for approval by 
the members.
None of the Directors, Key Management Personnel of the Company and their relatives, are in any way concerned or interested financially 
or otherwise at item no. 5 of the notice.
 
By the order of the Board
 
For PPAP Automotive Limited
Place: Noida 
Pankhuri Agarwal
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Company Secretary
ACS-59103
41
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
The technology partners of your Company have extended 
their continuous support in terms of new product development, 
innovations, design, latest technology, quality, productivity, safety, 
etc. as per the needs of your Company.
Annual return
The annual return of your Company as on 31st March, 2025, in 
accordance with Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014, is available on your Company’s website at https://www.
ppapco.in/financials#annual_return
Meetings of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors met five times during FY2025, the details 
of which are given in the corporate governance report that forms 
part of this annual report. The intervening gap between every two 
meetings during the year under review were in compliance with the 
period prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing 
Regulations”). 
Directors and key managerial personnel 
In accordance with the provisions of the Act and in terms of 
Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 
00137651), Director of the Company retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment at the 30th AGM.
A brief profile and other details relating to re-appointment of 
Mr. Abhishek Jain are provided in Notice convening AGM.
Declaration by independent directors
The Company has received declarations from all the independent 
directors of the Company confirming that they meet with criteria of 
independence as prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Act and 
the Listing Regulations. Further, all the Independent Directors have 
registered their names in the data bank maintained and managed 
by Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
During the year, the Independent Directors of your Company had 
no pecuniary relationship or transactions with your Company other 
than sitting fees accrued to them for attending meetings of the 
Board and its committee(s).
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent 
Directors are placed on the website of the Company under the 
link: 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Template_for_
appointment_of_Independent_Director.pdf
Directors’ responsibility statement
In terms of and pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Act, as 
amended from time to time, in relation to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025, to the best of their knowledge 
and belief your Directors confirm the following:
i. 
 that in the preparation of annual accounts for the financial year 
ended 31st March, 2025, the applicable accounting standards 
have been followed along with proper explanations relating to 
material departures, if any; 
ii. 
 that the directors have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a “true and fair 
view” of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 
2025 and of the profit and loss of the Company for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2025;
iii. 
 that the proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing 
and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
iv. 
 that the annual accounts for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2025 have been prepared on a “going concern basis”;
v. 
 that the internal financial controls are adequate and are 
operating effectively; and
vi. 
 that proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions 
of all applicable laws are adequate and operating effectively.
Compliance with secretarial standards
Your Company has complied with the applicable secretarial 
standards issued by the Institute of Companies Secretaries of India 
(SS-1 and SS-2) respectively relating to meetings of the Board and 
its committees and general meetings.
Evaluation of the Board’s performance 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Listing Regulations, the Board of Directors has carried out annual 
evaluation of its own performance, Directors, Chairman and its 
committees. The manner in which the evaluation has been carried 
out is given in the corporate governance report that forms part of 
this annual report.
Nomination and remuneration policy 
The remuneration paid to the Directors is in accordance with the 
nomination and remuneration policy formulated in accordance with 
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations 
(including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force). 
The salient aspects covered in the nomination and remuneration 
policy have been given hereunder:
In accordance with the nomination and remuneration policy, 
the nomination and remuneration committee has, inter alia, the 
following responsibilities:
1. 
 Ensure appropriate induction and training program: The 
committee shall ensure that there is an appropriate induction 
and training program in place for new Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMPs) and Senior Management 
Personnel (SMPs) and review its effectiveness. 
2. 
 Formulating the criteria for appointment as a Director: The 
committee shall formulate criteria and review it on an ongoing 
basis, for determining qualifications, skills, experience, 
expertise, qualities, attributes, etc. required to be a Director of 
the Company.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
40
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Dear Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
Your directors have pleasure in presenting the 30th Annual Report of PPAP Automotive Limited (“Company”) along with the audited 
financial statements and the auditors’ report thereon for the year ended 31st March, 2025. 
Financial highlights and state of Company’s affairs
The financial performance of the Company for the year ended 31st March, 2025, on a standalone and consolidated basis, is summarized 
below:
(` in lacs)
Particulars
For the year ended
Standalone
Consolidated
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Revenue from Operations (net of excise)
53,764.17
50,386.22
55,400.55
52291.77
Other Income
458.45
377.44
130.58
166.24
Profit / loss before Depreciation, Finance Costs, 
Exceptional items and Tax Expense
6515.84
4761.82
5847.91
4140.59
Less: Depreciation / Amortization / Impairment
3,201.35
3,213.79
3,444.80
3414.53
Profit / loss before Finance Costs, Exceptional 
items and Tax Expense
3314.49
1548.03
2528.51
661.79
Less: Finance Costs
1,436.90
1,226.33
1,642.12
1467.21
Profit / loss before Tax Expense
1,877.59
321.70
886.39
(805.42)
Less: Tax Expense (Current & Deferred)
468.31
788.95
186.68
498.45
Profit / loss for the year 
1,409.28
(467.25)
699.71
(1,303.87)
Other Comprehensive Income / loss 
40.1
51.11
32.16
52.01
Total
1,449.38
(416.14)
731.87
(1,251.86)
Dividend
The Board of Directors of the Company are pleased to recommend 
a final dividend of ` 1.5 per equity share (15%) of face value of ` 10 
(Rupees ten) each subject to the approval of shareholders at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
In terms of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as 
amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend paid or distributed 
by a company on or after 1st April, 2020 is taxable in the hands of 
the shareholders. The tax shall be deducted at the rates prescribed 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended, which varies based 
upon the category and residential status of the shareholder. 
Shareholders are requested to update their residential status, KYC 
including PAN with their depository participants, in case of shares 
held in demat mode and with the Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company, in case the shares are held in physical 
mode for determining the applicable rate of tax deducted at source.
Transfer to Reserves
During the year under review, no amount has been transferred to 
general reserve of the Company. 
Change in the Nature of Business
During the year under review, there was no change in the nature of 
business of the Company.
Share capital
The authorized share capital of the Company is ` 20,00,00,000 
(Rupees Twenty Crores) comprising of 2,00,00,000 (Two Crores) 
equity shares of ` 10 each during FY2025. 
During the year under review there was a change in issued, 
subscribed and paid-up share capital of the Company due to the 
issuance of 86513 (Eighty Six Thousand Five Hundred Thirteen) 
equity shares pursuant to exercise of employee stock options 
under Employee Stock Option Plan 2022. 
The issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital of the Company 
as on 31st March 2025 is ` 14,11,50,700 (Rupees Fourteen Crores 
Eleven Lakhs Fifty Thousand Seven Hundred only) comprising of 
1,41,15,070 (One Crore Forty-One Lakh Fifteen Thousand Seventy 
Only) equity shares of ` 10 each.
Deposits
The Company has not accepted any deposits, within the meaning 
of provisions of Chapter V of the Act, read with the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 as amended.
Technical collaboration 
During the year under review, the Company has technical 
collaborations with Tokai Kogyo Co. Limited, Japan; Nissen Chemitec 
Corporation, Japan; and Tokai Kogyo Seiki Co. Limited, Japan.
43
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited (Formerly Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited) and Avinya Batteries Limited (Formerly 
PPAP Technology Limited) are also wholly owned subsidiary 
companies of the Company. 
The name of PPAP Technology Limited has been changed to 
Avinya Batteries Limited w.e.f. 28th March, 2025.
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited is a joint venture company 
of the Company.
A statement containing the salient features of the financial 
statements of subsidiary / associates / joint venture company, 
as per Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, is part of the 
consolidated financial statements. The audited financial statements 
of the wholly owned subsidiary companies have been placed on 
the website of the Company. 
Corporate governance report
Your Company is committed to maintain high standards of corporate 
governance and adhere to the corporate governance requirements 
set out under the Listing Regulations. The Company constantly 
strive to evolve and follow up on the corporate governance 
guidelines and its best practices.
The compliance report on corporate governance and a certificate 
from M/s NKJ & Associates, Company Secretaries, regarding 
the compliance of the conditions of corporate governance, as 
stipulated under Chapter IV of the Listing Regulations, is annexed 
to this annual report.
Management discussion and analysis report
As required under Regulation 34(2) of the Listing Regulations, a 
detailed management discussion and analysis report is annexed 
to this annual report.
Business responsibility and sustainability report
The Company has provided Business responsibility and 
sustainability report (BRSR) based on the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct describing initiatives undertaken 
from an environmental, social and governance perspective.
Material changes and commitments affecting financial 
position between end of the financial year and date of report
There has been no material change and commitment, affecting the 
financial performance of the Company which occurred between the 
end of the financial year of the Company to which the financial 
statements relate and the date of this report. 
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments. 
During the year under review, your Company has not given any loan 
or guarantee which is covered under the provisions of Section 186 
of the Act. However, details of investments made during the year, 
are given under Note no. 7 of the standalone financial statements 
of the Company.
Related party transactions
During FY2025, all contracts / transactions entered by your 
Company with related parties under Section 188(1) of the Act were 
in the ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length basis. 
During FY2025, your Company has not entered into any contracts 
/ arrangements / transactions with related parties which could be 
considered ‘material’ in accordance with its policy on materiality of 
related party transactions. Thus, there are no transactions required 
to be reported in form AOC-2.
The details of the related party transactions as per Ind AS-24 are 
set out in Note no. 40 to the standalone financial statements of the 
Company.
Auditors and Auditor’s report
• 
Statutory auditors 
M/s. TR Chadha & Co LLP (ICAI Firm Registration No. 006711N/ 
N500028), Chartered Accountants, New Delhi, has been appointed 
as the statutory auditors of the Company at the 28th AGM held on 
15th September, 2023, for the period of five years i.e. up to the 
conclusion of the 32nd AGM to be held in the year 2027. Pursuant 
to section 139 and 141 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules 2014, M/s. TR Chadha & Co 
LLP has furnished a certificate of their eligibility and consent as the 
Auditors of the Company.
Statutory auditors’ report
The Auditors’ report does not contain any qualification, 
reservation(s) or adverse remark(s). The notes on financial 
statements referred to in the auditors’ report are self-explanatory 
and do not call for further comments. 
• 
Secretarial auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and rules 
framed thereunder, M/s NKJ & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries were appointed as secretarial auditors of the Company 
for FY2025. 
The secretarial audit report for FY2025 in form MR-3 is attached as 
‘Annexure- B’ to this report.
Further, pursuant to the Listing Regulations, and based on the 
recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Company, it is 
proposed to appoint M/s NKJ & Associates, a Peer Reviewed 
Company Secretary in Whole-time Practice, (Membership No.: 
FCS 5593 and Certificate of Practice No.: 5233), as the Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company, to hold office for a term of 5 (five) 
consecutive financial years i.e. to hold office from the conclusion 
of 30th AGM till conclusion of 35th AGM to be eld in the year 2030.
Accordingly, an item for appointment of M/s NKJ & Associates 
as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company is being placed at the 
ensuing AGM for approval of the Members. Information about the 
proposed appointment is given in the Notice of AGM which forms 
part of this Annual Report.
Secretarial auditors’ report
The report of secretarial auditors, part of this annual report does not 
contain any qualification(s), reservation(s) or adverse remark(s) or 
disclaimer in the said report and do not call for further comments.  
• 
Cost auditors
The Board of Directors, on recommendation of the audit committee, 
appointed M/s Jangira & Associates, Cost Accountants, (Firm 
Registration No. 103597) as cost auditors to audit the cost 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
42
3. 
 Identify persons who are qualified to be Directors / 
Independent Directors / KMPs / SMPs: The committee shall 
identify persons who are qualified to become Directors / 
Independent Directors / KMPs / SMPs and who satisfy the 
criteria laid down under the provisions of the Act, Rules made 
thereunder, the Listing Regulations or any other enactment, 
for the time being in force.
4. 
 Nominate candidates for Directorships subject to the approval 
of the Board: The committee shall recommend to the Board 
the appointment of potential candidates as Non-Executive 
Director or Independent Director or Executive Director, as the 
case may be.
5. 
 Evaluate the performance of the Board: The committee shall 
determine a process for evaluating the performance of the 
Board, Director, Chairman and Committees of the Board, on 
an annual basis.
6. 
 Remuneration of Managing Director / Directors: The committee 
shall ensure that the tenure of Executive Directors and their 
compensation packages are in accordance with applicable 
laws and in line with the Company’s objectives, shareholders’ 
interests and benchmarked with the industry.
7. 
 Review performance and compensation of Independent 
Directors: The committee shall review the performance of 
Independent Directors of the Company. The committee 
shall ensure that the Independent Directors may receive 
remuneration by way of sitting fees for attending the meetings 
of Board or committee(s), thereof provided that the amount of 
such fees shall be subject to ceiling / limits as provided under 
the Act and Rules made thereunder or any other enactment, 
for the time being, in force. 
8. 
 Review performance and compensation of KMPs / SMPs: 
The committee shall ensure that the remuneration to be 
paid to KMPs / SMPs shall be based on their experience, 
qualifications and expertise and governed by the limits, if 
any, prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder or any other enactment, for the time being, 
in force.
9. 
 Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance: The committee shall ensure 
that the insurance is taken by the Company on behalf of its 
Directors, KMPs / SMPs either for indemnifying them against 
any liability or any other matter as may be deemed fit, the 
premium paid on such insurance, shall not be treated as part 
of the remuneration payable, to any such personnel.
10.  Succession plans: The committee shall address and review 
sufficiently in advance the succession plans in order to ensure 
smooth transition and maintain an ideal balance of skills, 
experience and expertise on the Board.
11.  Evaluation of Independent Director: For every appointment of 
an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall evaluate for the balancing the holistic 
set of skills, knowledge, wisdom, and experience on the 
Board. Based on such evaluation, prepare the role and 
responsibilities, qualifications, and capabilities required of an 
incoming independent director. The person recommended to 
the Board for appointment as an independent director shall 
have the capabilities identified in such description. To identify 
suitable candidates, the Committee may:
 
a) 
use the services of an external agencies, 
 
b) 
 consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds 
having due regard to diversity and, 
 
c) 
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
Employee Stock Option Scheme
PPAP Automotive Limited Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 
(“ESOP Scheme“) was introduced by the Company to promote 
success of the Company by rewarding and motivating the 
employees, attract and retain talents, link interests of employees 
with shareholders, foster ownership and reward for loyalty to 
employees.
The ESOP Scheme has been implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (including any statutory modification(s) and/or reenactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force) (“SEBI SBEB Regulations”). 
The Company has obtained a Certificate from the Secretarial 
Auditors stating that the ESOP Scheme has been implemented in 
accordance with the SEBI SBEB Regulations and in accordance 
with the resolution of the Company passed in the annual general 
meeting. The said Certificate will be made available for inspection 
through electronic mode by writing to the Company at investors@
ppapco.com from the date of circulation of the AGM Notice till the 
date of the AGM.
The applicable disclosures as stipulated under Regulation 14 of 
SEBI SBEB Regulations with regard to Employees Stock Option 
Plan of the Company are available on the website of the Company 
at www.ppapco.com and web link for the same is https://www.
ppapco.in/financials#shareholders_meeting.
Particulars of employees
The information required under Section 197 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force) in respect of Directors / employees of the Company, 
annexed as ‘Annexure-A’ to this report.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies
The Company has five wholly owned subsidiary companies and a 
joint venture company.
During FY2025 the Company incorporated 3 wholly owned 
subsidiary companies, namely Avinya Sealing Systems Limited, 
Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited, Avinya Industrial 
Products Limited w.e.f. 21st February, 2025, 24th March, 2025 and 
29th March, 2025 respectively.
45
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
the provisions of Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation 22 of the 
Listing Regulations.
The whistle blower policy provides a vigil mechanism for the 
Director / employee to report, without fear of victimization, any 
unethical behavior, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the 
code of conduct of the Company, etc. which are detrimental to the 
organization’s interest and reputation. The mechanism protects 
whistle blower from any kind of discrimination, harassment, 
victimization or any other unfair employment practice.
The Directors and employees in appropriate or exceptional cases 
have direct access to the Chairman of the audit committee. The 
said policy is placed on the website of the Company at www.
ppapco.in.
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo
The information as required under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read 
with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, relating 
to conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange 
earnings and outgo, annexed as ‘Annexure- D’ to this report.
Other Disclosures
i. 
 Details of application made or any proceeding pending under 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016- Not applicable 
ii. 
 Details of difference between amount of the valuation done at 
the time of one time settlement and the valuation done while 
taking loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions along with 
the reasons thereof- Not applicable
iii. 
 There is no transaction of the Company with any person or 
entity belonging to Promoter/Promoter Group which hold 10% 
or more shareholding of the Company.
Acknowledgements
The Directors place on record their appreciation for the hard work 
and valuable contribution made by every member of PPAP family.
Your Directors are thankful to your technology partners, suppliers, 
as well as vendors, our shareholders, business associates, 
banks, financial institutions for their continued support and for the 
confidence reposed in the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Noida 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Chairman & 
CEO & 
 
Managing Director 
Managing Director
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
44
accounts of the Company for FY2026 pursuant to the provisions 
of section 148 of the Act. The remuneration payable to the cost 
auditors is required to be ratified by the shareholders at the AGM. 
Accordingly, resolution ratifying the remuneration payable to M/s 
Jangira & Associates, Cost Accountants, (Firm Registration No. 
103597) shall be placed for the approval of the shareholders at 
the 30th AGM.
The Company has maintained the necessary accounts and records 
as specified by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of 
Section 148 of the Act.
The Company had filed the cost audit report for FY2024 on 4th 
September, 2024, in compliance under the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Amendment Rules, 2014. 
Reporting of frauds by auditors
During the year under review, the auditors of the Company have 
not reported to the audit committee, under Section 143(12) of the 
Act, any instances of fraud committed against the Company by its 
officers and employees.
Corporate social responsibility
Your Company has been taking initiatives under Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) for the society at large. The Company has a 
well-defined policy on CSR as per the requirement of Section 135 
of the Act. 
During the year, your Company thrives to constantly contribute 
towards the betterment of the local community in which it operates 
and the upliftment of the marginalised section of our society, 
through “Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation”, a registered trust for 
focused implementation of CSR activities of the Company majorly 
in the field of environment, education and health.
The CSR Policy is also available on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed by web link https://www.ppapco.in/assets/
pdf/policies/Corporate_Social_Responsibility_Policy.pdf 
CSR 
report, pursuant to Section 134(3)(o) of the Act and Rule 9 of 
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014, 
annexed as ‘Annexure- C’ to this report.
Internal financial control systems, its adequacy and risk 
management
Internal Financial Control and Risk Management are integral to 
the Company’s strategy and for the achievement of the long-term 
goals. Our success as an organization depends on our ability to 
identify and leverage the opportunities while managing the risks. 
Your Company has effective internal controls and risk-mitigation 
system, which is constantly assessed and strengthened with new/
revised standard operating procedures. 
The internal auditors evaluate the efficacy and adequacy of the 
internal control system, its compliance with operating systems 
and policies of the Company at all the locations of the Company. 
Based on the report of internal audit function, the process owners 
undertake corrective action in their respective areas and thereby 
strengthen the controls. Significant audit observations and 
corrective actions, thereon, are reported to the audit committee. 
The Company’s internal control system commensurate with its 
size, scale and complexities of operations. In the opinion of the 
Board, the Company has robust internal financial controls which 
are adequate and effective during the year under review.
The Company has a risk management policy for identification of 
elements of risk, if any, which in the opinion of the Board may 
threaten the existence of the company. The Company’s risk 
management processes focus on ensuring that risks are identified 
promptly, and mitigation action plan is formulated and executed 
timely.  
The Company endeavors to continually sharpen its risk 
management systems and processes in line with a rapidly changing 
business environment. During the year under review, there were no 
risks which in the opinion of the Board threaten the existence of the 
Company. However, some of the risks which may pose challenges 
are set out in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
which forms part of this Annual Report.
Policy on sexual harassment of women at workplace
The Company values the dignity of individuals and strives to provide 
a safe and respectable work environment to all its employees. The 
Company is committed to providing an environment, which is free 
of discrimination, intimidation, and abuse.
Your Company has in place a policy on prevention of sexual 
harassment at workplace. This policy is in line with the requirements 
of the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Law”).  While the POSH 
law is only intended to protect women employees, the Company is 
committed to providing a workplace free of Sexual Harassment for 
all, and so Company policy on prevention of sexual harassment at 
workplace applies uniformly in case of sexual harassment of any 
person, irrespective of the gender of the parties.
The Company has constituted Internal Complaints Committees at 
various locations as per requirement of the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) 
Act, 2013 for redressal of complaints relating to sexual harassment 
against woman at workplace. Your Company has been conducting 
awareness campaign across all its manufacturing units to 
encourage its employees to be more responsible and alert while 
discharging their duties.
During the year under review, the Company has not received any 
complaint on sexual harassment. 
Details of significant and material orders passed by the 
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern 
status and Company’s operations in future
No significant material orders have been passed during the year 
under review by the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the 
going concern status and Company’s operations in future. 
Whistle blower policy
Your Company is committed to highest standards of ethical, moral 
and legal business conduct. Accordingly, the Board of Directors 
have formulated whistle blower policy which is in compliance with 
47
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Form No. MR-3
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON 31ST MARCH 2025
To
The Members,
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase-III, Delhi-110020
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by PPAP Automotive Limited (hereinafter 
called the Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company and also the information provided by the Company, 
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby submit the report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 complied, with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company 
has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
i. 
 The Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
ii. 
 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
iii. 
 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
iv. 
 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
Annexure-B to the Directors’ Report
v. 
 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’):
 
a) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
 
b) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
c) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 (including erstwhile regulation);
 
d) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based 
Employee 
Benefits 
and 
Sweat 
Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; 
 
e) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; Not Applicable
 
f) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client to the extent of securities issued;
 
g) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; Not Applicable 
 
h) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; Not Applicable; and 
 
i) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 from the date applicable.  
vi. 
Following are the other acts applicable on the Company;
 
a) 
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981;
 
b) 
The Water (Prevention Control of Pollution) Act, 1974;
 
c) 
The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986; and 
 
d) 
The Petroleum Act, 1934. 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
i. 
 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India. 
ii. 
 The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited to 
the date applicable.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
46
Pursuant to Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
i. 
The ratio of remuneration of each Director# to the median remuneration of all the employees of your Company for the 
financial year 2024-25
Name of Directors
Designation
Ratio to median remuneration
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
33.64
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director 
33.64
ii. 
The percentage increase in remuneration each Director#, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary in the financial year 
2024-25
Name of Employee
Designation
% increase in remuneration
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
-
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
-
Mr. Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
8%
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal 
Company Secretary
15%
#The Non-Executive and Independent Directors did not receive remuneration, except sitting fees for attending Board / Committee meetings, therefore, 
the ratio of remuneration and percentage increase are not considered for the above purpose.
iii. The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2024-25 – 6.49%.
iv. 
Number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as on 31st March, 2025 – 1286 employees
v. 
Average percentiles increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the financial 
year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out 
if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration – Nil
vi. It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
 
 The statement containing names of top ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars of employees as required 
under Section 197(2) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate annexure forming part of this report. Further, the report and the accounts are being sent to 
the members excluding the aforesaid annexure. In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure is open for inspection at the 
registered office of the Company. Any shareholder interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary 
and the same will be furnished on request.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Noida 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Chairman & Managing Director 
CEO & Managing Director 
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
Annexure-A to the Directors’ Report 
49
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Annexure A
To
The Members,
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Phase-III, Delhi-110020
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter. 
1. 
 Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
 We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of 
the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3. 
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
4. 
 Wherever required, we have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc. 
5. 
 The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards are the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis. 
6. 
 The secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For NKJ & Associates
Company Secretaries
Neelesh Kumar Jain
(Proprietor)
FCS No.: 5593
Place: New Delhi 
C P No.: 5233
Date: 16th May, 2025 
PR No. : 6416/2025
UDIN: F005593G000315430
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
48
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the 
Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings were 
carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the 
meetings of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board, 
as the case may be.
We further report that 
There are adequate systems and processes in the Company 
commensurate with the size and operations of the Company 
to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
For NKJ & Associates
Company Secretaries
Neelesh Kumar Jain
(Proprietor)
Place: New Delhi 
FCS No.: 5593
Date: 16th May, 2025 
C P No.: 5233
PR No. : 6416/2025
UDIN: F005593G000315430
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report
51
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
* Excess amount spend is the sum of total amount spend for the financial year and amount carried forward from previous year after setting 
off current financial year obligation.
7. 
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub section (6) 
of section 135 
(in `)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub section (6) 
of section 135 
(in `)
Amount 
Spent in the 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per second 
proviso to sub- section (5) 
of section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in `)
Deficiency, if 
Any
Amount 
(in `)
Date of 
Transfer
l
FY-1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
FY-2
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
FY-3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8. 
 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial 
Year: No
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired: Not Applicable
 
 Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year:
SI. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of the 
property or 
asset(s)
Date of creation
Amount of 
CSR amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(l)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR Registration 
No., if Applicable 
address Number, if
Name
Registered 
address
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 (All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram 
panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9. 
 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub- section (5) of section 
135: Not applicable 
On behalf of Board of Directors
PPAP Automotive Limited
 
 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Rohit Rajput
Place: Noida 
Chairman & Managing Director 
Chairman of CSR Committee
Date: 16th May, 2025 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 07944150
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
50
Corporate Social Responsibility Activities 
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)]
1. 
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 
 We seek to deliver long-term sustainable growth while reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive social impact. The 
CSR initiatives of your Company aim towards our contribution to the society through a range of social and environmental activities. Your 
Company is devoted on the development of communities around the vicinity of our manufacturing plants in the field of education, health, 
hygiene and environment. Our focus is on the upliftment of the economically weaker sections of our society.  Your Company conducts its 
CSR programs through its foundation viz. Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation (“Foundation”). The Foundation was envisioned for focused and 
proper implementation of CSR activities undertaken by the Company. Such activities are guided and monitored by the CSR committee of the 
Company from time to time.  Our sustainability focus also extends to the communities around which we work and the society at large. Our 
CSR activities during the year were consistent with our focus areas of Environment, Education and Health.
2. 
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl.
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship 
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1
Mr. Rohit Rajput
Chairman, Independent Director
2
2
2
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Member, Independent Director
2
2
3
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Member, Executive Director
2
2
3. 
 Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the board are disclosed 
on the website of the company:
 
(a) Composition of CSR committee: https://www.ppapco.in/financials#boardmembers  
 
(b) CSR Policy: https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Corporate_Social_Responsibility_Policy.pdf 
 
(c) 
CSR projects: https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/annual_reports/CSR_Project.pdf
4. 
 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule 
(3) of rule 8, if applicable: Not applicable
5. 
 (a) Average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 595.5 Lacs
 
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 11.93 Lacs
 
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or program or activities of the previous financial years: Nil
 
(d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: ` 89.02 Lacs
 
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: Nil
6. 
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ` 55.16 Lacs
 
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ` 0.45 Lacs
 
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NA
 
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a) + (b) + (c)]: ` 55.61 Lacs
 
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year: 
(` in lacs)
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year. 
(in `)  
(In Lacs)
Amount Unspent (in `) (In Lacs)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per sub- section (6) of section 
135.
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 135.
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
55.61
-
-
-
-
-
 
(f) Excess amount for set-off, if any: 
Sl.
No.
Particular
Amount
(in `) (in Lacs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
11.93
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
55.61
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]*
132.7
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
Financial Years, if any
-
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
132.7
Annexure-C to the Directors’ Report
53
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
g. 
Interior Pillars tools for HONDA developed at inhouse toolroom
 
 
• 
Tool design
 
 
• 
Tool manufacturing
 
 
• 
Part manufacturing
 
h. 
Development of high-performance, bio-based engineering plastic DURABIO of Injection parts for ADAS based EV vehicle 
 
 
• 
Tool design
 
 
• 
Tool manufacturing
 
 
• 
Part manufacturing
 
i. 
In house Over moulding tooling technology 
ii. 
The benefits derived from technology absorption
 
a. 
Cost reduction through Localization of PVC and Steel material in Extrusion process.
 
b. 
Cost saving through Low-cost alternate injection plastic material.
 
c. 
Saving through Local Tooling and Local C/F.
 
d. 
Productivity improvement, reducing the cycle time by 30% for standardization of Gas pin Design
 
e. 
 Productivity improvement and Quality strengthening of parts through POKAYOKE, photo sensers and Camera installation in 
Assembly fixtures.
 
f. 
Productivity increases by introduction of ultrasonic robots at cowl top cell.
 
g. 
Manufacturing capability development on PIANO black high gloss parts.
 
h. 
Painting capability development on PIANO black parts.
 
i. 
Productivity increases through model wise cell  
iii. In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the financial year)
 
a) 
the details of technology imported- Over moulding technology change to Gas assist (Grip handle YWD)
 
b) 
the year of import- FY2023-2024
 
c) 
whether the technology been fully absorbed- Yes, it is in Mass production
 
d) 
if not fully absorbed, areas where absorption has not taken place, and the reasons thereof-  Not applicable
 
Expenditure on R&D
 
 
(` in lacs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Capital expenditure
43.88
17.74
Revenue expenditure
254.99
166.83
Total
298.88
184.57
Total R&D expenditure as a % turnover
55.59
36.63
 
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
 
(` in lacs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31st March, 2025
31st March, 2024
Foreign exchange earning
220.65
130.02
Foreign exchange outgo
2118.31
2346.20
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: New Delhi 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Chairman & Managing Director 
CEO & Managing Director 
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
52
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
A. 
Energy conservation
 
 Your Company is committed to sustainable business practices by contributing to environment protection and considers energy 
conservation as one of the strong pillars of preserving natural resources. This also helps the Company in reducing carbon footprint 
across all its operations and improve the bottom-line under its ‘Mission Sustainability’. Your Company works on the greenhouse 
gases reduction and always focuses on 3R concept (Reduce, Reuse and Re-cycle).
 
The Company is also ISO 50001 standard certified, which defines the energy management system. 
i. 
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy
 
a. 
Fume exhaust motor running time reduced due to interlock with extrusion line - 1,2,3. It will stop if extrusion line will not run.
 
b. 
Fume exhaust fan  of flock running time reduced after interlock with flocking oven no -3. Exhaust fan will not run in idle condition.
 
c. 
Alternate exhaust fan provided at solar invertor room.
 
d. 
Utility area exhaust fan interlocked with timer to stop it in night shift.
 
e. 
Energy efficient VRV ac installed in office area and adhesive room and in server room.
 
f. 
Energy efficient heater jacket installed in 2500 ton and 1800-ton injection moulding machine barrel.
 
g. 
Energy efficient motion sensor installed in unmanned areas like toilets, staircase etc.
 
h. 
Variable frequency drive provided on shed-1 air cooler, set speed as well as air flow as per requirements.
 
i. 
Variable frequency drive provided on cooling tower water circulation pump.
 
j. 
Oil filtration pump operation interlocked with main pump.  (for FM series Injection Molding machines).
 
k. 
Air compressor ‘higher cut off pressure’ setting reduced from 6.5 bar to 5.5 bar while cutting robot does not operates.
 
l. 
Timer provided on boundary & shop floor over headlights for timely switching on-off lights.
 
m. 
Air leakage correction measures are taken to reduce the reduction from 12.5 % to 9.0 %.
ii. 
Utilizing alternate sources of energy 
 
 The Company has done the feasibility study of mapping solar energy and estimated that 837 KW solar energy can be generated by 
using roof top of all the plants of the Company which is equivalent to 6% of the total estimated power requirement.
iii. Capital investment on energy conservation equipment 
 
 The Company continuously endeavors to discover new technologies and tools to save the energy and reduce consumption. The 
Company has spent ` 62.41 lacs as capital investment on energy conservation equipment during FY2025.
B. 
Technology absorption 
i. 
The efforts made towards technology absorption
 
a. 
New technology introduction to Waistline Harmony SUS Type and Piano Black in COUPE design vehicle, 
 
b. 
2K technology with 2 materials.
 
c. 
Introduction of Rotary table 2K technology injection machine.
 
d. 
 EPDM Sunroof Seal technology
 
 
• 
Product design
 
 
• 
Tool design
 
 
• 
Tool manufacturing
 
 
• 
Part manufacturing
 
 
• 
Testing and validation
 
e. 
Self-initiative on product benchmarking and product design of injection moulding part engage with customer without T/C and JV.
 
f. 
New product portfolio on ADAS application injection parts (Blind Spot)
 
 
• 
Product design
 
 
• 
Tool design
 
 
• 
Tool manufacturing
 
 
• 
Part manufacturing
 
 
• 
Testing and validation
Annexure-D to the Directors’ Report
55
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Leadership Team
The leadership team of the Company is responsible for the execution of the directions set by the Board. They are empowered to take 
decisions in their respective domains to discover out of the box solutions to achieve the breakthrough results. 
Key elements of PPAP corporate governance
• 
 Number of Board meetings exceed the statutory requirement, including meeting dedicated to discussing strategy, operating plans 
and risk.
• 
 The Company’s Board comprises directors from diverse backgrounds and substantial experience, who can provide appropriate 
guidance to the executive management.
• 
 Presentations by executive management team members of the Company and its joint venture, subsidiaries are regularly made to 
familiarize directors with key elements of each business.
1. 
Board of Directors
 
i) 
Composition of Board
 
 
 The Company has a balanced and diverse Board. The Board provides leadership, strategic guidance, objective, and independent 
views to the Company’s management while discharging its fiduciary responsibilities, thereby ensuring that the management 
adheres to high standards of corporate ethics, transparency, professionalism, and disclosure, which drive the Company to 
sustainable excellence in performance. They take active part in the Board and Committee meetings and are committed to drive 
the Company’s superior performance. 
 
 
 The composition of the Board is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). The 
Board comprises of an optimum combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors including an Independent Woman 
Director. 
 
 
Composition of the Board as on 31st March, 2025 is given herein below:
Category of Directors
No. of Directors
% of total no. of Directors
Executive
2
33.34
Independent
3
50
Non-Executive
1
16.66
Total
6
100
 
 
 The names and categories of the Directors on the Board and the number of directorships and committee chairmanship(s) / 
membership(s) held by them in other companies as on 31st March, 2025 are given herein below: 
Sl. 
no
Name of Directors
Category
As on 31st March, 2025
Directorship in other 
Companies(1) 
Membership and chairmanship 
of the committees of the Board 
of other Companies(2)
Public 
companies
Private 
companies
Chairman 
Member
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director 
5
2
-
-
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
5
3
-
-
3
Mrs. Celine George 
Independent Director 
1
1
-
-
4
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Independent Director
-
-
-
-
5
Mr. Rohit Rajput
Independent Director
-
-
-
-
6
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Non-Executive Director
-
1
-
-
 
 
 (1)Includes directorships held in public and private limited companies and excludes directorship in PPAP Automotive Limited.
 
 
 (2)For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board committees, chairmanship and membership of the audit and stakeholders 
relationship committees in other public limited companies have been considered. None of the Directors of your Company is a member 
of more than 10 committees or is the chairman of more than five committees across all the companies in which he / she is a director.
 
 
 All directors of the Company hold directorship in one listed company i.e. PPAP Automotive Limited. Mrs. Celine George is an 
Independent Director in Uniparts India Limited.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
PPAP Automotive Limited’s (“PPAP” or “Company”) philosophy for corporate governance is aimed at achieving the highest standards of 
corporate governance, accountability, sustainability, and compliance of all the laws, in the letter and spirit. 
We continuously follow ethical standards in all our business transactions which are guided by the Company’s culture, our principles, and 
our value system. The Company continues to implement national, as well as, international corporate governance practices, in order to 
achieve global level excellence in its functioning and to provide long-term value to its shareholders, stakeholders and to our society. 
The values of our Company are integrity, respect, innovation, openness, transparency, excellence, teamwork, responsibility and 
accountability, trust, honesty, safety and a shared and common purpose. The Company strongly believes that effective and good 
corporate governance practices build a strong foundation of trust and confidence which in turn attracts superior human capital which 
leads to sustainable and exceptional financial performance.
The Company continuously endeavors to improve all aspects of its business operations and adopts innovative approaches for leveraging 
all our resources, converting challenges into opportunities through empowerment and motivation of our human capital enabling the 
Company a higher growth trajectory.
Governance Structure
The Company’s governance practices are based upon self-performance and self-governance by all employees, depicting our culture of 
the trusteeship which is deeply ingrained in our culture, our principles and our value system. 
The Company is driven by the directions set by its Board of Directors who align the Company’s purpose of existence with the short-
medium and long-term expectations of its shareholders, as well as its stakeholders. 
The Board along with its sub committees, reviews the performance of the Company periodically and guides the management. The Board 
has established a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable the risks to be assessed timely and prudently managed. The 
Board oversees how the management and the leadership team work according to the established principles, the culture and the values 
of the Company. The Board acts as a mentor to our management and gives its wisdom and valuable insights to overcome current and 
future challenges and to constantly outperform the competition. 
The leadership team of our Company percolates the directions set by the Board throughout the organization, through policy deployment, 
responsibility and accountability matrix, daily work management, plan, check, act and reviews etc. This structure ensures that the entire 
organization is aligned to the common goal of challenging the status quo to achieve breakthrough results.
In line with the above, the Company has formed three tiers of corporate governance structure:
Board Leadership
PPAP is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board. The Board defines the Company’s purpose, its culture, its principles, its value 
systems and sets the strategies to deliver superior results. The Board articulates the business model, strategies, and the approach to 
risks and their mitigation. It takes measures for the short, medium and long-term success, future value creation and future viability of the 
Company considering the technological changes, geopolitical threats, environmental impacts, changing shareholders’ and stakeholders’ 
expectations, etc. The Company’s operational and financial performance, statutory and regulatory compliances are reviewed by the 
Board from time to time. The Board also focuses on idea generation for business growth, opportunity identification, breakthroughs, and 
innovation. It identifies good and excellent business practices that can make our work culture constantly healthy and agile. 
Board Committees
The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal with specific 
activities which concern the Company and need a closer and systematic review. The Board Committees are set up with the approval of 
the Board. There are four committees set up by Board: 
1. 
Audit Committee, 
2. 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, 
3. 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee and 
4. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
57
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 The Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the Board and its committees and is, inter alia, responsible for recording 
the minutes of the meetings of the Board and its committees. The draft minutes of the Board and its committees are sent to the 
Directors for their comments in compliance with the secretarial standards. 
 
 
 Senior management personnel are invited to the Board meetings as and when required to enable them to make requisite 
presentations on relevant issues or to provide necessary insights into the operations of the Company. Presentations are made 
by various departments to the Board on the progress of business activities and performance updates.
 
v) 
Independent Directors
 
 
 The Independent Directors of the Company are individuals of eminence & repute in their respective fields and help in bringing 
an independent judgment to bear on the Board’s deliberations especially on issues of strategy, performance, risk management, 
resources, key appointments, corporate governance and standards of conduct.
 
 
 The Independent Directors provide an annual confirmation that they meet the criteria of independence as per Regulation 16(1)
(b) of the Listing Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 along with rules framed thereunder. Further, 
in terms of Regulation 25(8) of the Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not aware of any circumstance or 
situation which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties. Based 
on the declarations received from the Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that they meet the criteria 
of independence and are independent from the management. 
 
 
 During FY2025, none of the Independent Directors of the Company have resigned from the Board of the Company, before the 
expiry of their tenure.
 
 
Independent Director’s databank registration
 
 
 Pursuant to a notification dated 22nd October, 2019 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), all the Directors 
have renewed the registration with the independent directors’ databank. Requisite disclosures have been received from the 
Independent Directors in this regard.
 
 
Separate meeting of the Independent Directors 
 
 
 The Independent Directors are fully kept informed of the Company’s business activities in all areas. The Independent Directors 
meet without the presence of non-independent Directors. This meeting enables the Independent Directors to interact and 
discuss matters including review of the performance of the non-independent Directors and the Board as a whole, review of 
the performance of the Chairman of the Company, taking into account views of executive and non-executive Directors and 
assessing the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s management and the Board that is 
necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform its duties.
 
 
The Independent Directors met on 29th March, 2025, during the FY2025. 
 
 
 Performance evaluation criteria of independent directors
 
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an annual performance evaluation 
of its own performance and that of its committees, chairman and individual directors.
 
 
The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was done by the Board is given below:
 
 
• 
 The Company sent an email which informed directors regarding the automated process to carry out annual performance 
evaluation in accordance with the criteria approved by nomination and remuneration committee.
 
 
• 
 From the individual ratings received from the directors, a report on summary of the ratings in respect of performance 
evaluation of the Board, committees, the chairman and directors for FY2025 and a consolidated report thereof were arrived 
at.
 
 
• 
This report was then discussed and noted by the Board at their meeting held on 16th May, 2025.
 
 
• 
 The nomination and remuneration committee reviewed the implementation and compliance of the performance evaluation. 
Based on the report of performance evaluation, the Board and nomination and remuneration committee, determined as 
required under law that the appointment of independent directors may continue.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
56
 
ii) 
 Skill, expertise and competencies of Directors
 
 
 The following core skills/expertise/competencies, as required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively 
and those actually available with the Board have been identified by the Board of directors. 
Skills
Mr. Ajay 
Kumar Jain
Mr. Abhishek 
Jain
Mrs. Celine 
George
Mr. Deepak 
Kumar Sethi
Mr. Rohit 
Rajput
Mrs. Vinay 
Kumari Jain
Knowledge / experience
Experience of CEO or senior 
management of similar industry 
or track record of superior 
results





-
Understanding of relevant laws, 
rules, regulation and policies






Sound understanding of human 
capital enrichment






Technical skills / experience
Administration






Financial literacy





-
Sales and Marketing


-


-
Compliances and risk mitigation





-
Behavioral competencies
High 
ethical 
standards 
of 
integrity and probity






Leadership and interpersonal 
skills






Mentoring abilities






 
iii) Change in Directors 
 
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 00137651), Director, being liable to retire by 
rotation, shall retire at the ensuing AGM and being eligible offer himself for re-appointment at the 30th Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”).
 
iv) Board procedures
 
 
 The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman & Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer & Managing 
Director, plans the agenda of the meetings well in advance and circulates the agenda and other related documents to the 
members of the Board and committees within the prescribed time limit to enable them to have sufficient time to study, to 
facilitate meaningful and focused discussions at the meetings and take informed decisions.
 
 
 The agenda along with documents are circulated 7 (seven) days before the date of the meeting(s) in compliance with the 
Companies Act, 2013 and secretarial standards issued by Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
 
 
 The members of the Board have always expressed their views & opinion and decisions are taken based on consensus arrived 
at after detailed discussions. The Board members bring up any matter for discussion at the Board meetings in consultation with 
the Chairman.
 
 
During the financial year 2024-25 the Board has accepted all the recommendations of the committees of Board.
 
 
 The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and regularly reviewed, investors’ 
queries are handled promptly and reports to the Board.
59
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
d. 
Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings. 
 
 
 
 
e. 
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
f. 
Disclosure of any related party transactions. 
 
 
 
 
g. 
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report. 
 
 
 
5. 
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission to the board for approval.
 
 
 
6. 
 Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the 
offer document / prospectus / notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue or preferential issue or qualified institutional placement, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board to take up steps in this matter. 
 
 
 
7. 
Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and performance, and effectiveness of audit process.
 
 
 
8. 
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the listed entity with related parties.
 
 
 
9. 
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments. 
 
 
 
10. Valuation of undertakings or assets of the listed entity, wherever it is necessary. 
 
 
 
11. Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems. 
 
 
 
12.  Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control 
systems. 
 
 
 
13.  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit department, 
staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal 
audit. 
 
 
 
14. Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there on.
 
 
 
15.  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected 
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board. 
 
 
 
16.  Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post 
audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern. 
 
 
 
17.  To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in 
case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors. 
 
 
 
18. To review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism. 
 
 
 
19.  Approval of appointment of chief financial officer after assessing the qualifications, experience and background, etc. 
of the candidate. 
 
 
 
20. Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the audit committee. 
 
 
 
21.  Reviewing the utilization of loans and / or advances from / investment by the holding company in the subsidiary 
exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans / 
advances / investments existing as on the date of coming into force of this provision. 
 
 
 
22.  Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, amalgamation 
etc., on the listed entity and its shareholders
 
 
 
23. Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 
 
 
 
24. Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors 
 
 
 
25. Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses. 
 
 
 
26.  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor shall be subject to review by the 
audit committee. 
 
 
 
27. Statement of deviations: 
 
 
 
 
a. 
 quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to stock 
exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1). 
 
 
 
 
b. 
 Annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice 
in terms of Regulation 32(7).
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
58
 
vi) Details of the Board meetings and annual general meeting held during the year
 
 
 The details of attendance at the Board meetings held during FY2025 and at annual general meeting of the Company are as 
below:
Name of Directors
Attendance
Meeting 1 
18th May, 
2024
Meeting 2  
10th August, 
2024
Meeting 3  
8th November, 
2024
Meeting 4  
7th February, 
2025
Meeting 5  
29th March, 
2025
Last AGM  
13th September, 
2024
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain






Mr. Abhishek Jain






Mrs.  Celine George






Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi






Mr. Rohit Rajput






Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain






 
vi) Committees of the Board
 
 
 The Board has constituted a set of committees with specific terms of references and ensure expedient resolution of diverse matters 
and achieve objectivity. The minutes of the meetings of all committees of the Board are placed before the Board for confirmation. 
 
 
Each committee of the Board is guided by its terms of reference, which defines the scope and powers of the committee.
 
 
 These committees play a crucial role in the governance structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal with specific 
activities which concern the Company and need a closer review. 
 
 
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary to all the committees.
 
 
A. 
Audit committee
 
 
 
 Your Company has a duly constituted Audit Committee (‘the Committee’) and its composition as well as charter are in line 
with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. 
 
 
 
 All members of the Committee are financially literate and have accounting or related financial management expertise as 
mandated by the Listing Regulations.
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Regulation 
18 of the Listing Regulations. The functioning and terms of reference of the Committee including the role, powers 
and duties, quorum for meeting and frequency of meetings, have been devised keeping in view the requirements 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
 Oversight of the listed entity’s financial reporting process 
and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure 
that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and 
credible.
 
 
 
2. 
 Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of auditors of the listed entity. 
 
 
 
3. 
 Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other 
services rendered by the statutory auditors.
 
 
 
4. 
 Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before submission 
to the board for approval, with particular reference to:
 
 
 
 
a. 
 Matters required to be included in the director’s 
responsibility statement to be included in the board’s 
report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of 
Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
 
 
 
b. 
 Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same. 
 
 
 
 
c. 
Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management. 
Audit CommiƩee
Stakeholders
RelaƟonship
CommiƩee
NominaƟon and
RemuneraƟon
CommiƩee
Corporate Social
Responsibility
CommiƩee
Board of 
Directors
61
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
5. 
To devise a policy on board diversity. 
 
 
 
6. 
 To extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of Independent directors; and
 
 
 
7. 
To recommend / review remuneration of managing director / whole-time director.
 
 
 
8. 
To recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management. 
 
 
 
9. 
 For every appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate for 
the balancing the holistic set of skills, knowledge, wisdom, and experience on the Board. Based on such evaluation, 
prepare the role and responsibilities, qualifications, and capabilities required of an incoming independent director. The 
person recommended to the Board for appointment as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in 
such description. To identify suitable candidates, the Committee may: 
 
 
 
 
a) 
use the services of an external agencies, 
 
 
 
 
b) 
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds having due regard to diversity and, 
 
 
 
 
c) 
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
 
 
 
 The committee also acts as a compensation committee for implementation of the PPAP Automotive Limited Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2022.
 
 
 
Meetings, attendance & composition of the NRC: 
 
 
 
During the year, the NRC met two times and quorum was present in the meeting. 
 
 
 
The details of the NRC meeting and attendance of the members of NRC during FY2025 is as below:
Name of Committee Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Non-
Executive
Meeting 1
18th May, 2024
Meeting 2
8th November, 2024
Mrs. Celine George 
Chairperson

-


Mr. Rohit Gupta
Member

-


Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Member
-



 
 
 
 Mrs. Celine George, Chairperson of the NRC, was present at the AGM of the Company held on 13th September, 2024, to 
answer shareholders’ queries.
 
 
 
Remuneration to the Directors 
 
 
 
 The appointment of the executive directors is governed by resolutions passed by the shareholders of the Company, 
which covers the terms and conditions of such appointment, read with the service rules of the Company. A separate 
service contract is not entered into by the Company with executive directors. No notice period or severance fee is 
payable to any Director.
 
 
 
The independent directors were also paid sitting fees for their separate meeting held during the year.
 
 
 
Details of remuneration paid and securities held by executive directors during FY2025:
(` in lacs)
Name of Directors
Salary and 
perquisite 
Bonus
Commission 
Others
Total
No. of equity 
shares held
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain  
(Chairman & Managing Director)
120.40
0.17
45.97
-
166.54
38,67,180 
90,123(3)
Mr. Abhishek Jain  
(CEO & Managing Director)
120.40
0.17
45.97
7.2
173.74
10,02,404
 
 
 
(3)Holding equity shares in the name of Ajay Kumar Jain HUF as Karta.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
60
 
 
 
The details of the Committee meetings and attendance of the members of the Committee during FY2025 are as below:
 
 
 
 Meetings, attendance & composition of the audit committee:
Name of the 
Committee Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Executive Meeting 1 
18th May, 
2024
Meeting 2  
10th 
August, 
2024
Meeting 3  
8th 
November 
2024
Meeting 4  
7th February, 
2025
Mr. Deepak Kumar 
Sethi
Chairman

-




Mr. Abhishek Jain
Member
-





Mr. Rohit Rajput 
Member

-




 
 
 
 In addition to the members of the Committee, these meetings were attended by Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating 
Officer, internal auditors and statutory auditors of the Company, and those executives of the Company who were considered 
necessary for providing inputs to the Committee. 
 
 
 
 Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi, Chairman of the Committee was present at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 
13th September, 2024, to answer shareholders’ queries.
 
 
 
 The Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of the management, the internal auditors, and the statutory auditor, 
in carrying out its oversight responsibilities. The management is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity 
of the Company’s financial statements including consolidated statements, accounting, and financial reporting principles. 
The management is also responsible for internal control over financial reporting and all procedures are designed to ensure 
compliance with Indian accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations as well as for objectively reviewing and 
evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of the Company’s system of internal controls. The recommendations of 
Committee were duly accepted by the Board of Directors.
 
 
B. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
 
 
 
 The Company has a duly constituted Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), which inter-alia, identifies and 
recommends persons who are qualified to become Directors.
 
 
 
 The NRC also has the responsibility of setting criteria for appointment of Directors, senior management, and Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP) of the Company, recommending appointment & remuneration to the Board, performance evaluation of 
Directors and the Board, board diversity etc. The recommendations of NRC were duly accepted by the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Regulation 
19(4) of the Listing Regulations. The functioning and terms of reference of the NRC including the role, powers and 
duties and quorum for meeting, have been devised keeping in view the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Listing Regulations are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
 To identify persons who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down and to recommend to the Board their appointment and removal and to carry out 
evaluation of every director’s performance.
 
 
 
2. 
 For every appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a description of 
the role and capabilities required of an independent director. The person recommended to the Board for appointment 
as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in such description.
 
 
 
3. 
 To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a Director and 
recommend to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel and other 
employees.
 
 
 
4. 
To formulate the criteria for evaluation of independent directors and the board.
63
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
Meetings, attendance & composition of the SRC: 
 
 
 
During the year, the SRC met once. The quorum was present in the meeting.
 
 
 
The details of the SRC meeting and attendance of the members of SRC during FY2025 are as below:
Name of Committee Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Non-
Executive
Executive
Meeting 1
18th May, 2024
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Chairman
-

-

Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Member

-
-

Mrs. Celine George
Member

-
-

 
 
 
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer act as Secretary to SRC.
 
 
 
 Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Chairperson of the SRC, was present at the AGM of the Company held on 13th September, 2024, 
to answer shareholders’ queries.
 
 
 
 Details of investors’ complaints handled by the Company and its registrar & share transfer agent during FY2025 
are as below: 
Number of complaints remaining unresolved as on 1st April, 2024
0
Number of complaints received during the year
2
Number of complaints resolved during the year
2
Number of complaints remaining unresolved as on 31st March, 2025
0
 
 
D. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
 
 
 
 In terms of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 
2014 as amended, the Board of Directors have approved a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy that strives 
towards welfare and sustainable development of the different segments of our society. 
 
 
 
 Your Company believes in making lasting impact towards creating a just, equitable, humane, and sustainable society. The 
Company’s endeavour to continuously evolve and ramp up the CSR activities in both social and environmental spheres 
improving the quality of life of our society through its CSR endeavours. The CSR initiatives of the Company are categorized 
into environment, education, and health care. 
 
 
 
 The CSR Policy is also available on the website of the Company and can be accessed by web link https://www.ppapco.in/
assets/pdf/policies/Corporate_Social_Responsibility_Policy.pdf
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a Charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated under Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013. The functioning and terms of reference of the CSR committee including the role, 
powers and duties and quorum for meeting, have been devised keeping in view the requirements of Section 135 
of the Companies Act, 2013 are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
To frame the CSR policy and its review from time to time.
 
 
 
2. 
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities.
 
 
 
3. 
Monitor implementation and adherence to the CSR policy of the Company from time to time.
 
 
 
4. 
To ensure compliance with the laws, rules & regulations governing the CSR; and
 
 
 
5. 
Such other activities as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
62
 
 
 
The executive directors are not entitled to stock option and performance linked incentive.
 
 
 
 Non-executive directors are paid sitting fees for attending the meeting of Board and Committees of Board. 
 
 
 
Details of sitting fees paid to non-executive directors and equity shares held by them during FY2025:
(` in lacs)
Name of Directors
Sitting Fees
No. of Equity shares held
Mrs. Celine George
4.5
-
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
6.5
-
Mr. Rohit Rajput
7.0
-
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
4.0
5,33,890
 
 
 
Inter-se relationship between Directors
 
 
 
The Directors’ inter-se relationship are as follows:
Name of Directors
Relationship with other Directors
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Husband of Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain and father of Mr. Abhishek Jain
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Wife of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain and mother of Mr. Abhishek Jain
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Son of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain and Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
 
 
 
 There are no pecuniary relationships or transactions held with the non-executive director, other than the sitting fees drawn 
by the non-executive directors.
 
 
 
 Mr. Ramesh Chander Khanna, Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Deepak Singh, Vice President, Mr. Sachin Jain, Chief Financial 
Officer and Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer are the senior management personnel of 
the Company. During FY2025 there is no change among the senior management personnel of the Company.
 
 
C. 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
 
 
 
 Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”) is responsible for redressal of shareholders complaints. The Board of 
Directors of the Company has with a view to expediting the process of share transfers, has delegated the power to 
Company Secretary who resolve the requests of share transfer.  
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Regulation 
20(4) read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations. The functioning and terms of reference of the 
SRC including the role, powers and duties and quorum for meeting, have been devised keeping in view the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
 Consider and resolve the grievances of security holders of the Company, including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of securities, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new / duplicate 
certificates, general meetings etc. 
 
 
 
2. 
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
 
 
 
3. 
 Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services being rendered 
by the registrar & share transfer agent; and 
 
 
 
4. 
 Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders of 
the Company.
65
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(b)  Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by Stock Exchange or 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any statutory authority
 
 
 The Company has complied with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Board of India and other statutory authorities 
on all matters relating to capital markets during the last three years. 
 
 
 No penalties have been imposed or strictures passed against the Company by the stock exchanges, the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India or any statutory authority on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years.
 
(c) Disclosure of accounting treatment
 
 
 The Company has adopted Indian Accounting Standards as amended (“Ind AS”) and accordingly the financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles laid down in Ind AS as per the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and notified under Section 133 and other relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the other accounting principles generally accepted in India.
 
(d) Whistle blower policy (Vigil mechanism)
 
 
 The Company has adopted whistle blower policy that provides a formal vigil mechanism for directors, employees and all 
stakeholders to report genuine concerns about the unethical behaviour, actual or suspected frauds of violation of the Company’s 
Code of Conduct and Ethics. The directors and employees are not only encouraged but required to report their genuine concerns 
and grievances under this policy. The vigil mechanism under the whistle blower policy provides adequate safeguard against 
victimization of the directors and employees who avail of the mechanism and provide for direct access to the Chairman of 
the audit committee in exceptional cases.  The Company affirms that no employee of the Company was denied access to the 
Chairman of the audit committee.
 
 
 This policy is also available on the Company’s website and is accessible at https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/WHISTLE_
BLOWER_POLICY_.pdf 
 
(e) Declaration by independent directors 
 
 
 The Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors confirming that they meet the criteria of independence as 
prescribed under the provisions of Section 149(7) Companies Act, 2013 read with the Schedules and Rules issued thereunder and 
Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force). 
 
(f) 
Training of board members
 
 
 The Directors on Board are experienced professionals having wide range of expertise in diverse fields. They keep themselves 
abreast with latest developments in the field of management, technology and business environment through various symposiums, 
seminars etc. 
 
(g)  Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
 
 
 The Company has an internal complaints committee under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder, to redress the complaints received regarding sexual harassment. The 
following is the summary of sexual harassment complaints received and disposed off during FY2025:
Number of complaints filed during the financial year
Nil
Number of complaints disposed of during the financial year
Nil
Number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year
Nil
 
(h) 
 Payment of dividend through electronic means
 
 
 The Company provides the facility for direct credit of the dividend to the shareholders’ bank account. The Listing Regulations 
also mandate companies to credit the dividend to the shareholders electronically. Shareholders who hold shares in demat 
mode should inform their depository participant, whereas shareholders holding shares in physical form should inform the 
Company their updated bank account details. 
 
 
 In accordance with SEBI Master Circular bearing reference no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated 7th May, 
2024 any payment including dividend, interest or redemption payment in respect of physical folios is permitted only through 
electronic mode w.e.f. 1st April, 2024, and such payment shall be made electronically only upon furnishing of PAN, KYC details 
and Nomination by holders of physical securities. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
64
 
 
 
Meetings, attendance & composition of the CSR Committee: 
 
 
 
During the year, the CSR committee met two times and quorum was present in both the meetings. 
 
 
 
 The details of the CSR committee meetings and attendance of the members of the CSR committee during FY2025 are as 
below:
Name of Committee 
Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Non-
Executive
Executive
Meeting 1
18th May, 
2024
Meeting 2
8th November, 2024
Mr. Rohit Rajput
Chairman

-
-


Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Member

-
-


Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Member
-
-



2. 
General body meetings 
 
a) 
Annual General Meetings:
 
 
Details of last three years annual general meetings of the Company are as under:
For the year
Venue
Day, Date & Time
Number 
of special 
resolutions
2023-24
Conducted through video conferencing / other audio-
visual means. Deemed location is the registered office of 
the Company at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase – III, 
New Delhi-110020.
Friday, 13th September, 2024 at 
11:30 a.m.
2
2022-23
Conducted through video conferencing / other audio-
visual means. Deemed location is the registered office of 
the Company at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase – III, 
New Delhi-110020.
Friday, 15th September, 2023 at 
11:30 a.m.
2
2021-22
Conducted through video conferencing / other audio-
visual means. Deemed location is the registered office of 
the Company at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase – III, 
New Delhi-110020.
Friday, 16th September, 2022 at 
11:30 a.m.
4
 
b) 
Postal ballot
 
 
 During the year under review, neither any special resolution was passed through postal ballot nor is any special resolution 
proposed to be conducted through postal ballot as on the date of this corporate governance report.
3. 
Disclosures
 
(a) Related party transactions
 
 
 All related party transactions entered during year under review are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of 
business. Prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is obtained for the transactions which are of a foreseen and repetitive 
nature. The statement of transactions entered pursuant to the omnibus approval so granted is placed before the Audit Committee 
for review on a quarterly basis.
 
 
 For reference, the details of related party transactions in accordance with IND AS–24 are given in note no. 40 in the notes to 
the Financial Statements.
 
 
 No material related party transactions i.e. transactions exceeding one thousand crore or ten percent of the annual consolidated 
turnover as per the last audited financial statements whichever is lower were entered during the year under review.
 
 
 The policy on related party transactions has been uploaded on the website of the Company and can be accessed at: https://
www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy_final-v1.pdf 
67
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
5. 
Total fees paid to statutory auditors
 
 The total fees for all services paid by the Company, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory auditors and all entities in the network 
firm / network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part, are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(` in lacs)
Type of Service
31st March, 2025
Audit fees
29.40
Others
1.34
Total
30.74
6. 
CEO and CFO certification
 
 The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company give annual certification on financial reporting and 
internal controls to the Board in terms of requirements of the Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations. The Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chief Financial Officer also give quarterly certification on financial results while placing the financial results before the Board 
in terms of requirements of the Regulation 33 (2) of the Listing Regulations. 
 
 In terms of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations, the certificate duly signed by the Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company was placed before the Board, certifying the accuracy of financial statements 
(standalone & consolidated) and the adequacy of internal controls pertaining to financial reporting for FY2025 and is annexed to this 
report.
7. 
Familiarization program for Independent Directors 
 
 Familiarization program for Independent Directors form a part of the Board process. The Board familiarization program consists of 
detailed induction for all new Independent Directors when they join the Board of Directors of the Company and ongoing sessions on 
business strategy, operational and functional matters. 
 
 The exhaustive induction for Independent Directors enables them to be familiarized with the Company, its history, its culture, its 
principles, its values, and its purpose of existence. The Managing Director & CEO also makes presentations in order to facilitate clear 
understanding of the business of the Company and the environment in which the Company operates.
 
 The Independent Directors are updated on an on-going basis at the Board / Committee meetings, inter-alia, on the following:
 
• 
Nature of the industry in which the Company operates.
 
• 
Business important developments.
 
• 
 Important changes in regulatory framework having impact on the Company.
 
• 
 Discussion on the state of economy, preparedness for changes etc.; and
 
• 
 The manufacturing facilities of the Company at its various locations.
 
 The Company provides an overview to its Directors by way of detailed presentations by the various business & functional heads 
at Board meetings. Besides these, the Directors are updated about Company’s new projects, research & development initiatives, 
changes in regulatory environment and strategic direction. The Company also arranges for visits to the Company’s Plants to enable 
them to get understanding of the processes and operations of the Company.
 
 The familiarization program along with details imparted to the Independent Directors during the year are available on the Company’s 
website and is accessible at https://www.ppapco.in/financials#familiarization_programme 
8. 
Code of conduct and ethics
 
 The Company has code of conduct for all employees including the members of the Board and senior management personnel. All 
members of the Board and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the said code of conduct for FY2025. 
 
 The declaration to this effect signed by the CEO & Managing Director of the Company forms part of this Report.
 
 The code of conduct and ethics for Board members and senior management can be accessed at the following link: https://www.
ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics_final-v1.pdf
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
66
 
(i) 
Foreign currency exchange rates
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in 
INR at exchange rates prevailing on the date of the 
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities are reported at the exchange rates prevailing 
at the year end and exchange differences arising on 
settlement or translation are recognised in statement of 
profit and loss. Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the 
initial transactions. 
 
(j) 
Risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations
 
 
 The Company uses foreign exchange forward, option 
and futures contracts to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm 
commitments and forecasted transactions. The use of 
hedging instruments is governed by the Company’s 
hedging policy as approved by the Board of Directors.
 
(k) 
 Disclosure of compliance of Regulation 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-Regulation (2) of Regulation 
46
 
 
 The Company has complied with all the applicable 
mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 
to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of the 
Listing Regulations. 
 
(l) 
 Certificate for transfer of shares and reconciliation 
of share capital
 
 
 As stipulated by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India, practising company secretary conducts the 
reconciliation of share capital audit of the Company for 
the purpose of reconciliation of total admitted capital 
with the depositories, i.e. National Securities Depository 
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (CDSL) and the total issued and listed capital of 
the Company. 
 
 
 The Company Secretary in practice conducts such audit 
in every quarter and issues a reconciliation of share 
capital audit certificate to this effect to the Company. 
A copy of such audit report is submitted to the stock 
exchanges, where the Company’s shares are listed. 
 
(m)  Discretionary requirements under Regulation 27 of 
the Listing Regulations
 
 
 The 
status 
of 
compliance 
with 
discretionary 
recommendations of the Regulation 27 of the Listing 
Regulations with stock exchanges are provided below:
 
 
i. 
 The Board: As the Chairman of the Company is 
an executive chairman, hence the provision on 
entitlement of chairperson’s office at the expense of 
the Company in case of non-executive chairperson 
is not applicable.  The Board has one women 
independent director.
 
 
ii. 
 Shareholder rights: The quarterly and year to date 
financial statements are published in newspapers 
and uploaded on Company’s website.
 
 
iii.  Modified opinion in auditors’ report: The auditors 
have expressed an unmodified opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company for FY2025.
 
 
iv.  Reporting of internal auditor: Internal auditors 
periodically apprise the audit committee on findings 
and observation, if any of internal audit and actions 
taken thereon.
4. 
Evaluation of the Board’s performance
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations, 
the Board has adopted a policy to evaluate performance of 
each Director, the Board as a whole, its Committees and the 
Chairman. Evaluation is carried out by the Board, NRC and 
by the Independent Directors. A structured questionnaire 
was prepared for the Directors considering various factors for 
evaluation including contribution to the Board work, domain 
expertise, strategic vision, industry knowledge, participation, 
effectiveness, and quality of discussions etc. The Company 
has conducted online survey for evaluation of the Board and its 
Committees, Independent Directors, Non-Executive Directors, 
Executive Directors, and the Chairman of the Company.
 
 Performance of the Board was evaluated by each Director on 
the parameters such as its roles and responsibilities, business 
risks, contribution to the development of strategy and effective 
risk management, understanding of operational programmes, 
availability of quality information in a timely manner etc. 
Independent Directors also carried out evaluation of the Board 
performance.
 
 Board committees were evaluated by Board members on the 
parameters such as role and responsibilities, effectiveness 
of the committee vis-a-vis assigned role, appropriateness of 
committee composition, timely receipt of information by the 
committee, knowledge updation by the committee members 
etc.
 
 Directors were also evaluated individually by all other 
Directors (except the Director himself) on the parameters of 
his / her vigilance at the board meetings, devotion of time and 
efforts to understand the Company and its business, quality in 
contributions at the board meetings, application of knowledge 
and experience while considering the strategy, effectiveness 
of follow-up in the areas of concern, communication with 
board members, senior management and KMP. 
 
 The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the entire 
evaluation process.
69
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
17. Means of communication
 
 The Company, from time to time and as may be required, communicates with its shareholders and investors through multiple 
channels of communications such as dissemination of information on the online portal of the stock exchanges, the annual reports 
and uploading relevant information on its website.
 
a. 
 Quarterly and annual financial results: Pursuant to Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations, the Company furnishes the quarterly 
as well as annual financial results within the prescribed timelines by online filings, to both the stock exchanges i.e. National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE). Such information has also been simultaneously displayed in 
the ‘Investors’ section on the Company’s website at www.ppapco.in.
 
 
Quarterly and annual financial results are published in all the editions of ‘Business Standard’ newspaper (English & Hindi). 
 
b. 
 Presentations to institutional investors / analysts: Presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts are displayed 
on Company’s website at www.ppapco.in. and intimated to both the stock exchanges i.e. National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE)
 
c. 
 Website: Pursuant to Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations, the Company’s website www.ppapco.in contains a dedicated 
functional segment called ‘Investors’ where all the information needed by shareholders is available including information on 
Directors, shareholding pattern, quarterly reports, financial results, annual reports and various policies of the Company. 
 
d. 
 SEBI complaints redress system (SCORES): The investor complaints are processed in a centralized web-based complaints 
redress system. The salient features of this system are: Centralized database of all complaints, online upload of action taken 
reports by concerned companies and online viewing by investors of actions taken on the complaint and its status.
 
e. 
 Designated exclusive email-id: The Company has designated the e-mail id investorservice@ppapco.com for investor servicing. 
Investors can also mail their queries to Registrar and Share Transfer Agent at delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com. 
 
f. 
 A Greener Environment-now and for future: The Company’s philosophy focuses on making the environment greener for the 
benefit of posterity. To leverage technology and reducing paper consumption, the Company circulates to its directors, notes for 
board / committee meetings though an electronic platform. Your Company encourages its shareholders to register / update the 
e-mail ids for communication purpose thereby contributing to the environment.
18. Shareholders’ information
i)
AGM
Day
: 
Friday
Date
:
25th September, 2025
Time
:
11:30 a.m.
Mode
:
Through video conferencing / other audio-visual means 
(Deemed venue-54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New 
Delhi-110020)
ii)
Financial year
:
1st April to 31st March
iii)
Quarterly Unaudited Financial Results
Quarter ending 30th June, 2025
:
On or before 14th August, 2025
Quarter ending 30th September, 2025
:
On or before 14th November, 2025
Quarter ending 31st December, 2025
:
On or before 14th February, 2026
iv)
Annual Audited Financial Results
Year ending 31st March, 2026
:
On or before 30th May, 2026
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
68
9. 
Subsidiary companies
 
 All the subsidiary companies are managed by their respective board of directors. Their boards have the rights and obligations to 
manage such companies in the best interest of their stakeholders.
 
 The Company has the policy for determining material subsidiaries and can be accessed at: https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/
policies/Policy_for-determining-material-subsidiaries_final-v12.pdf 
 
During FY2025 the Company has no material subsidiary.
10. Code of conduct for prevention of insider trading
 
 Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company has 
code of conduct for regulating, monitoring, and reporting of trading by designated persons (‘the code of conduct’) and the code of 
practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information (“code of practice”). The code of conduct 
ensures reporting of trading by the designated persons and their immediate relatives. The code of practice ensures fair disclosure 
of events and occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market.
11.  Compliance certificate from the practicing company secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate 
governance
 
 The certificate from the practicing company secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance is annexed and 
forms an integral part of this report.
12.  Compliance certificate from the Practicing Company Secretaries regarding debarred or disqualified Directors 
 
 The certificate from the Practicing Company Secretaries regarding debarred or disqualified Directors not being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of Company by the Securities and Exchange Board of India / MCA or any such statutory authority is annexed 
and forms an integral part of this report.
13. Unclaimed securities suspense account 
 
 As per SEBI directive, outstanding unclaimed shares have been transferred to unclaimed securities suspense account and the voting 
rights on these shares remain frozen till the rightful owner claims such shares:
Particulars
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
equity shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares lying in the unclaimed 
suspense account as on 1st April, 2024.
28
1,687
Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and shares 
transferred from suspense account during the year.
-
-
Number of shareholders and aggregate number of shares transferred to the unclaimed 
suspense account during the year.
-
-
Aggregate number of shareholders and outstanding shares in the suspense account lying 
as on 31st March, 2025.
28
1,687
14. Transfer of Shares to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) 
 
 In terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 6 of Investors Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended from time to time) (“Rules”), if a shareholder does not claim the 
dividend amount for a consecutive period of seven years or more, then the shares held by him / her shall be transferred to the demat 
account of Investors Education and Protection Fund Authority (‘IEPFA’) constituted in accordance with the Rules.
 
 During FY2025, the Company has transferred 2625 shares in IEPFA. The total 14130 equity shares are lying with the IEPFA as on 
31st March 2025. The details of the shareholders whose shares are transferred with IEPFA are also posted on the website of the 
Company i.e. www.ppapco.in. The unclaimed shares which have been transferred, can be claimed back by the shareholders from 
IEPFA by following the procedure as prescribed in the Rules. 
15. Credit rating
 
 CRISIL, the reputed rating agency, has assigned the credit rating of the Company on the long-term bank facilities at CRISIL A- /
Stable (Downgraded from CRISIL A/Negative) and short-term bank facilities at CRISIL A2+ (Downgraded from CRISIL A1). 
16. Details of loans and advances in which directors are interested are given in note no. 15 in the notes to the Financial Statements.
71
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
xiv)
Distribution of shareholding 
Details of category wise shareholding as on 31st March, 2025 are as below:
Categories
No. of shareholders
Percentage
No. of shares held
Percentage
1-500
16495
94.8916
1242599
8.8212
501-1000
455
2.6175
356433
2.5303
1001-2000
214
1.2311
317190
2.2517
2001-3000
78
0.4487
195427
1.3873
3001-4000
40
0.2301
143932
1.0218
4001-5000
25
0.1438
115431
0.8194
5001-10000
32
0.1841
230270
1.6347
10001-above
44
0.2531
11485231
81.5335
TOTAL
17383
100.00
14086513
100.00
xv) Dematerialization of shares 
 
 The equity shares of the Company are being traded under compulsorily demat form as per SEBI notification. The Company’s shares 
are tradable compulsorily in electronic form and are available for trading in the depository systems of both National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
S. No.
Mode of holding
No. of shares
% of total share capital
1.
Physical 
92
0.00
2.
CDSL
51,65,748
36.67
3.
NSDL
89,20,673 
63.33
 
Total
1,40,86,513
100.00
xvi) Details of Shareholding Pattern as on 31st March, 2025 are as below:
S. No.
Category
Total number of shares
% of total number of shares
A.
Promoters & Promoters’ Group
i
Individual / Hindu Undivided Family
5539137
39.32
ii
Bodies Corporate 
3561730
25.28
Total Shareholding of Promoters & Promoters’ Group (A)
91,00,867
64.61
B.
Public Shareholding
i
Foreign Portfolio Investor 
798013
5.66
ii
Bodies Corporate
407745
2.90
iii
Foreign Companies
225000
1.60
iv
Individuals
2964163
21.04
v
Others
 
Non Resident Indians
430784
3.06
IEPF Authority 
14130
0.10
Trusts
-
-
HUF
145454
1.03
Clearing Members
357
0.00
Total Public Shareholding (B)
4985646
35.39
 
Total (A+B)
1,40,86,513
100.00
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
70
v)
Date of Book closure
:
Friday, 19th September 2025 to Thursday, 25th September 2025
vi)
Dividend Payment Date
Final dividend 2024-2025 of ` 1.5/- per equity share 
recommended by the Board of Directors at its meeting held 
on 16th May, 2025 subject to the approval of shareholders
:
If approved, will be paid within 30 days from the date of AGM.
vii)
Listing on stock exchanges
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex
Bandra (E), Mumbai-400051
BSE Limited
Phiroje Jeejeebhoy Towers
Dalal Street, Mumbai 400001
viii)
Stock code
BSE 
:
532934
NSE
:
PPAP
ISIN No.
:
INE095I01015
ix) 
Listing fees
The Company has paid listing fees up to the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited where Company’s securities are listed.
x)
Compliance officer 
Name
:
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal
Designation
:
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Tel
:
+91-120-4093901
Email
:
investorservice@ppapco.com
xi)
Address of Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
:
MUFG Intime India Private Limited Noble Heights, 1st Floor, 
Plot NH 2, C-1 Block LSC, Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, 
New Delhi - 110058
Email: rnt.helpdesk@in.mpms.mufg.com
Website: www.in.mpms.mufg.com
Tel: +91-11-49411000
xii)
Share transfer system 
As mandated by SEBI, the equity shares of the Company can only be issued in dematerialized form while processing service 
requests for issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account, transmission and transposition, 
etc. A communication to this effect was sent to the shareholders. Accordingly, shareholders holding equity shares in physical 
form are requested to have their shares dematerialized to be able to freely transfer them.
As per the requirement of Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations, the Company has obtained the certificate from the 
Company Secretary in practice for due compliance of share transfer formalities
xiii)
Information of dividend
Information in respect of the unclaimed dividend as on 31st March, 2025, will be uploaded on the website of Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) of the Government (www.iepf.gov.in) and on the website of the Company (www.ppapco.in). 
Dividends, if not en-cashed for a consecutive period of 7 years, from the date of transfer to unpaid/ unclaimed dividend account 
of the Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF. Further, the shares of a member who does not en-cash his dividend for a 
continuous period of 7 years, are also liable to be transferred to the Demat account of IEPF Authority.
73
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
CERTIFICATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY 
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
The Board of Directors,
PPAP Automotive Limited
We, the undersigned, in the capacities as Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of PPAP Automotive 
Limited (“the Company”), to the best of our knowledge and belief, hereby certify that:
a) 
 We have reviewed financial statements (standalone and consolidated) of the Company for the year ended on 31st March, 2025 and 
that to the best of our knowledge and belief we state that :
 
i. 
 These statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might be 
misleading;
 
ii. 
 These statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting 
standards, applicable laws and regulations. 
b) 
 There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violate the Company’s code of conduct. 
c) 
 We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that they have evaluated the 
effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and they have disclosed to the auditors and 
the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which they are aware and the steps 
they have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
d) 
We have indicated to the auditors and the audit committee: 
 
i. 
Significant changes in internal control, if any, over financial reporting during the year;
 
ii. 
 Significant changes in accounting policies during the year, if any, and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements; and 
 
iii. Instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or an 
employee having a significant role in the listed entity’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Place: Noida 
Abhishek Jain 
Sachin Jain
Date: 16th May, 2025 
CEO & Managing Director 
Chief Financial Officer
DECLARATION UNDER PART D OF SCHEDULE V OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2015
Dear Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
I hereby confirm that all the members of the Board and Senior Managerial Personnel of the Company have affirmed due observance of 
the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Company during the financial year 2024-25.
Place: Noida 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
72
xvii)
Outstanding GDR / ADR / Warrants or any convertible instrument, conversion date and likely impact on equity
No outstanding GDR / ADR / Warrants or any convertible instrument as on 31st March, 2025.
xviii)
Details of utilisation of funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement as specified under 
Regulation 32(7) of the Listing Regulations
No funds are raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement
xix)
Securities are not suspended from trading during FY2025.
xx)
The Company’s plants are located at Noida (Uttar Pradesh), Surajpur (Uttar Pradesh), Pathredi (Rajasthan), Vallam Vadagal 
(Tamil Nadu), Viramgam (Gujarat), Sanand (Gujarat) and Pune (Maharashtra).
xxi)
Registered office
:
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
Tel: +91-011-26311671 / 26910777
E-mail:  investorservice@ppapco.com
Address for correspondence and 
corporate office
:
B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II, 
Noida-201305, U.P.
Tel: +91-120-4093901
E-mail:  investorservice@ppapco.com
xxii)
No agreements are entered during FY2025 under clause 5A of paragraph A of para A of  Schedule III of the Listing 
Regulations.
75
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C Clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To 
The Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited “hereinafter referred to as the Company”
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Phase-III, Delhi-110020
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of PPAP Automotive 
Limited having CIN L74899DL1995PLC073281 and having registered office at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III Delhi 110020 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance 
with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status 
at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we hereby certify 
that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company, as stated below for the financial year ending on 31.03.2025, have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. 
No.
Name of Directors
Current Designation
DIN
Date of original 
appointment 
in Company
Date 
of 
appointment 
at 
current 
designation
Date 
of 
cessation, if 
any
Remarks
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman and 
Managing Director
00148839 18.10.1995
01.11.2023
-
-
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
00137651 01.12.2006
01.04.2025
-
-
3
Mrs. Celine George
Independent Director
02563846 16.04.2020
16.04.2022
-
-
4
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Independent Director
03605973 04.02.2023
04.02.2023
-
-
5
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Non-Executive Director 00228718 26.12.2013
26.12.2013
-
-
6
Mr. Rohit Rajput
Independent Director
07944150 09.11.2023
09.11.2023
-
-
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. 
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
 
For VLA & Associates
Company Secretaries
Vishal Lochan Aggarwal
(Proprietor)
Place: New Delhi 
Membership No.: F7241
Date: 23.07.2025  
C. P. No.: 7622
UDIN: F007241G000843252 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
74
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONDITIONS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE UNDER SCHEDULE V OF THE SEBI 
(LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To the Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase III, Delhi-110020
1. 
 We have reviewed the implementation of the corporate governance procedures by PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Company”) during 
the year ended March 31st 2025, with the relevant records and documents maintained by the Company, furnished to us for our 
review and report on Corporate Governance, as approved by the Board of Directors. 
2. 
 The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited 
to procedure and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of the opinion on the financial statements of the Company. 
3. 
 We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has to conduct the affairs of the Company.
4. 
 On the basis of our review and according to the best of our information and according to the explanation given to us, the Company 
has been complying with conditions of Corporate Governance, as stipulated in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
 
For NKJ & ASSOCIATES
Company Secretaries
NEELESH KR. JAIN
Proprietor
Place: New Delhi 
FCS No.: 5593
Date: 16th May, 2025  
C.P. No.: 5233
UDIN: F005593G000315421
PR No. 6416/2025
77
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
II. 
Products/ Services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):  
S. No.
Description of Main Activity group
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of PPAP
1
Manufacturing of automotive parts
Manufacturing 
of 
automotive 
parts 
for 
passenger vehicles & two-wheelers
90%
17. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No.
Product/ Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles 
34300
100%
III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
7
3
10
International
Nil
Nil
Nil
19. Markets served by PPAP:
a.
Locations
Number
National (No. of States) 
9
International (No. of Countries) 
1
b. 
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
3%
c. 
A brief on types of customers
 
PPAP’s esteemed clientele includes all major OEM vehicle manufacturer and tier-2 suppliers of OEM:
 
 Passenger vehicles clientele includes Maruti Suzuki India Limited, Honda Cars India Limited, Toyota Kirloskar Motors, Hyundai, 
Toyota Boshoku, Kia Motors, Volkswagen, Renault Nissan, ISUZU, Mahindra, Magna Corp, Hyundai Mobis, Motherson, Unitex, TS 
Tech Limited, Asahi India Glass Limited, Saint-Gobain, Polyplastics Industries Private Limited, Henkel, JSG Innotech, Krishna Maruti 
Ltd., Lumax Industries, Yanfeng, MTI, etc.
 
Commercial vehicle clientele includes SML ISUZU, ISUZU, Faurecia.
 
 Two-wheeler clientele includes Suzuki, UNO Minda, Motovolt, Sankei Pragati India Private Limited, JRG Automotive Industries India 
Private Limited, etc.
 
Tooling clientele includes IAC, Amber, Havells, Aisin Group, etc.
 
Pail Containers clientele includes Dayal Group, MD Biocoals Private Limited.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
76
PREFACE
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), through its notification dated May 5, 2021, introduced amendments to the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. As per this notification, the top 1,000 listed companies in India, 
based on market capitalization on the BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, are mandated to disclose their 
performance on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) parameters through the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report (BRSR).
SEBI deserves recognition for taking a pioneering step in mandating sustainability disclosure through BRSR, which provides a 
comprehensive and structured framework emphasizing quantifiable and comparable ESG metrics. This approach facilitates standardized 
disclosures, enabling better benchmarking across industries and companies.
Although BRSR is mandatory for the top 1,000 listed companies, PPAP Automotive Limited is voluntarily disclosing its Fourth BRSR for 
the financial year 2024-25. This demonstrates our commitment to transparency, accountability, and sustainable business practices. The 
report outlines key ESG initiatives and highlights the company’s efforts in contributing to long-term stakeholder value creation.
We remain committed to engaging meaningfully with our stakeholders and continue to strive toward our vision of becoming a global 
benchmark in excellence across all aspects of our business.
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 
Company details
S.No.
Details
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN):
L74899DL1995PLC073281
2
Name:
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
3
Year of incorporation:
18-10-1995
4
Registered office address:
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
5
Corporate address:
B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II, Noida-201305, Uttar 
Pradesh
6
E-mail:
compliance@ppapco.com
7
Telephone:
91-120-4093901
8
Website:
https://www.ppapco.in/
Financial year for which reporting is being done:
2023-24
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done:
2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
Equity shares are listed on BSE Limited (BSE) and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)
11
Paid-up Capital (in INR Cr)
140865130
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
Mr. Ramesh Chander Khanna
Landline number: +91-120-4093901
Email ID: sustainability@ppapco.com
13
Reporting boundary 
Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis 
and limited to PPAP Automotive Limited
14
Name of Assurance Provider
DQS India (Assurance provided for Sustainability Report 
data)
15
Type of Assurance obtained
Type 2, Moderate Level Assurance
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
79
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
V. 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23. Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures: As of March 31, 2025
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / subsidiary / 
associate companies / joint  
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited)
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
Yes, PPAP positively influences and 
encourages its group companies to 
adopt Business Responsibility (BR) 
initiatives.
2
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
3
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
Joint Venture
50%
4
Avinya Industrial Products Limited 
(incorporated on 29.03.2025)
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
5
Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited 
(incorporated on 24.03.2025)
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
6
Avinya Sealing Systems  Limited 
(incorporated on 21.02.2025)
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
VI. CSR Details:
24. (a) (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135: (Yes/No) 
Yes, applicable.
 
 
(ii) Turnover (in `): 5376417171.34
 
 
(iii) Net worth (in `): 3251783059.7459
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. Complaints/Grievances on any aspect of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder group 
from whom com-
plaint is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place
2024-25
2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
Shareholders
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
Employees
Yes
5
0
-
7
0
-
Customers
Yes
52
0
-
41
0
-
Value Chain Partners
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
PPAP has established a code of conduct & ethics policy, a code of fair disclosure policy and a whistle-blower policy to allow for the 
expression of concerns and grievances. This policy is consistent with PPAP’s dedication to the highest possible standards of ethical, moral 
and legal business conduct with commitment to open communication. During the reporting year, 5 and 52 complaints from employees and 
customers were received respectively and all the concerns were closed on a timely basis. 
Links of the same are as follows:
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V6.pdf 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code-of_Fair_Disclosure.pdf
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/WHISTLE_BLOWER_POLICY-1_2.pdf
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
78
IV. Employees
20. Details as at the end of FY 2024-25:
a. Employees (including differently abled):
Employees
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male (%)
Female (%)
No.
% 
No.
% 
1
Permanent
1286
1244
97%
42
  3%
2
Other than Permanent
812
1110
83%
161
17%
3
Total
2259
2056
91%
203
  9%
b. Differently abled Employees
Employees
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male (%)
Female (%)
No.
% 
No.
% 
1
Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
2
Other than Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
3
Total differently abled employees
-
-
-
-
-
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:
Total
No. and % of Females
No.
% 
Board of Directors
6
2
33.33%
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
3
1
25.00%
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
Employee Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent
3.91%
0.10%
4.01%
4.26%
0.22%
4.48%
9%
2%
11%
Other Than Permanent
10.78
0.50%
11.28%
11%
1%
12%
19%
3%
22%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
81
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
7
Employment
Risk
Retaining key talent is of vital importance in the 
manufacturing industry and higher turnover could 
lead to increased cost of rehiring and diminishing 
morale among the existing workforce.
One of the primary goals of our people 
strategy is to align employees with 
strategic business imperatives. We have 
also continually invested in the growth 
and development of our employees.
Negative
8
Employee 
Diversity
Opportunity
We believe that an inclusive work atmosphere 
motivates individuals to perform better, resulting 
in increased business success. 
Not Applicable
Positive
9
Labor 
Management 
Opportunity 
We are dedicated to ensuring a motivated, 
skilled and diverse staff capable of meeting 
ourobjectives by facilitating our employees' 
professional development in accordance with 
their goals and skills.
Not Applicable
Positive
10
Occupational 
Health & 
Safety
Risk
PPAP has a large number of employees working 
across all sites. As a result, safeguarding the 
safety of its employees is vital for the company's 
continuous regulatory and social license to 
operate, particularly in regard to process-
related hazards. If the Company's safety-
related procedures or performance are deemed 
inadequate, or if a safety incident occurs, it will 
have a negative impact on the health, well-
being, and morale of employees, as well as a 
bad reputational impact on the Company. It may 
also cause the Company to incur operational and 
financial losses, including the potential partial 
shutdown of the plant.
We prioritize the health, safety, and 
overall well-being of our employees. We 
have a well-defined safety organization 
that 
focuses 
on 
implementing 
appropriate safety measures. Our EHS 
policy, objectives and SOPs are all 
aimed at making PPAP a very safe and 
healthy place to work.
Negative
11
Local 
Communities 
Opportunity
PPAP is committed towards the upliftment of the 
marginalized and economically weaker sections 
of the society through improving environment, 
education, health and hygiene.
Not Applicable
Positive
12
Anti-corruption 
& Anti-
competitive 
behavior
Risk
We may face reputational damage, which could 
materially impact our brands and sales, if we 
fail to maintain the mandated environmental 
compliances.
We are subject to a continually evolving 
laws, regulations and policies that 
have an influence on our products and 
operations. Hence, Robust mechanism 
for ensuring proactive compliance and 
continual compliance evaluation.
Positive
13
Customer 
Privacy 
Risk
Data Privacy and Security breach could cause us 
significant business disruption, not only affecting 
our ability to deliver products to our customers 
but the personal safety of our customers and 
employees. Failure to meet the data protection 
obligations could result in enforcement action, 
fines, and reputational and financial damage.
Since, we work in a highly automated 
environment and use cutting-edge 
technology to support a variety of 
operations. To mitigate information 
technology-related 
risks, 
we 
have 
implemented a governance framework, 
information security practises, and a 
business continuity plan.
Negative
14
Economic 
Performance
Opportunity
Economic performance is critical to maintain 
stability and positive momentum. Delivering on 
our business and strategic objectives is the key to 
realizing our planned future profitability and cash 
generation through return on our investments.
Not Applicable
Positive
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
80
26. Overview of PPAP’s material business conduct issues.
PPAP’s key material issues identified in the materiality matrix are divided under Environment, Social and Governance (ESG). The 
materiality assessment process is in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, which is reviewed and approved by 
the PPAP’s steering committee. The identification of material issues was rated considering their importance and impact on the business 
and stakeholders.
S. 
No. 
Material Issue 
identified
Risk or 
Opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk or 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Positive/
Negative 
Implications
1
Energy & 
Emissions
Opportunity 
Being a responsible company, we are making 
continuous efforts into creating a value chain 
with a low carbon footprint, from planning and 
designing to purchasing and manufacturing. 
We are focusing on implementing an array of 
practices to reduce energy consumption and 
improve energy efficiency in our processes by 
using cutting-edge technology across all our 
facilities to reduce CO2 emissions.
Not Applicable
Positive
2
Material 
Management
Risk 
Supply chain disruptions, if not managed, could 
have an adverse effect on production volume, 
revenue, profitability, customer satisfaction and 
reputation.
An 
effective 
supply 
chain 
risk 
management 
framework 
enables 
early, 
proactive, 
engagement 
with 
our suppliers to identify and mitigate 
potential disruptions in supply of RM.
Negative
3
Water 
Management
Opportunity 
We typically optimize water use in our facilities 
through technological interventions. Keeping 
track of water usage using innovative technology 
and equipment effectively increases water saving. 
Not Applicable
Positive
4
Waste 
Management
Risk
Hazardous waste generated from high-end 
equipment to operate our facilities, require 
authorized treatment procedures.
The hazardous waste is sent for 
disposal to the treatment, storage, 
and disposal facility authorized by 
respective SPCB.  Disposal of waste in 
compliance with operating permits and 
hazardous waste authorizations.
Negative
5
Supplier 
environmental 
and social 
assessment
Risk
We view suppliers as partners in our growth and 
view their position as being of utmost importance. 
Hence, the proper identification of an adequate 
supplier base aligning with our sustainability 
goals is crucial to our business demands.
New suppliers are screened, rated and 
assessed on the actual and prospective 
negative environmental and social 
repercussions. Relevant actions to 
prevent, reduce, or remediate the 
consequences are implemented. 
Negative
6
Biodiversity 
Opportunity 
PPAP commenced its journey of afforestation 
using self-created SOPs in the degraded forest 
around the 600-year-old Tughlaqabad Fort. Using 
125 different native species trees, we were able 
to successfully conduct a plantation drive on 70 
acres of land at Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park 
because of our initiative. We continuously partner 
with organizations like schools, and NGOs for 
plantation activities. 
Not Applicable
Positive
83
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. Statement by the director 
responsible for the business 
responsibility 
report, 
highlighting 
ESG-related 
challenges, 
targets, 
and 
achievements.
Please refer to the ‘Message from Chairman & Managing Director’ section of the Sustainability Report FY 24-25
8. Details of the highest 
authority 
responsible 
for 
implementation and oversight 
of the Business Responsibility 
policy(s).
Mr. Abhishek Jain, Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
9. Does the entity have a 
specified Committee of the 
Board/Directors responsible 
for 
decision-making 
on 
sustainability-related issues? 
(Yes/No). 
If 
yes, 
provide 
details.
At PPAP Automotive Ltd., a Sustainability Steering Committee comprising key members of senior management is responsible for 
guiding and overseeing the implementation of sustainability initiatives across the organization. 
The Steering Committee is supported by the active involvement of functional heads from EHS, HR, CSR, and Finance, who contribute 
to tracking progress and ensuring effective execution of sustainability programs.
Monthly review meetings are conducted to assess developments on material ESG issues and maintain alignment with emerging 
sustainability trends and regulatory changes. The progress towards sustainability targets and key performance indicators is reviewed 
regularly.
A quarterly progress report on sustainability initiatives is also presented to the Board of Directors, ensuring alignment with the 
company’s long-term ESG goals.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by 
PPAP:
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any 
other Committee
Subject for Review
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against the above policies 
and follow-up action
The policies of PPAP are reviewed on a need or periodic basis by the Committees of Board 
Committees or the Board of Directors of PPAP.
Compliance with statutory requirements 
of relevance to the principles, and 
rectification of any non-compliances
PPAP complies with the extant regulations as applicable.
Frequency 
(Annually, 
Half 
Yearly, 
Quarterly, Any other)
The policies are reviewed internally at least once a year and brought before the Board 
Committee/Board as and when required.
11. Has the entity carried out an independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide the name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policies are reviewed internally, and external assistance is availed whenever required.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
82
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Principles of National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
P1 - Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable. 
P-2 - Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe. 
P-3 - Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees. Including those in their value chains.
P4 - Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all their stakeholders. 
P-5 - Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 
P-6 - Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment. 
P-7 - Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent. 
P8 - Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development. 
P-9 - Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumer in a responsible manner. 
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s 
policy/policies 
cover 
each 
principle 
and 
its 
core 
elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
b. 
Has 
the 
policy 
been 
approved by the Board? (Yes/
No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
c. Web Link of the Policies, if 
available
Some policies may also comprise a combination of internal PPAP policies that are available to all internal stakeholders and are 
available on PPAP’s website. https://www.ppapco.in/financials#codes_and_policies 
2. Whether the entity has 
translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
3. Do the enlisted policies 
extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
NA
Yes
Yes
4. Name of the national 
and 
international 
codes/ 
c e r t i f i c a t i o n s / l a b e l s / 
standards adopted by your 
entity and mapped to each 
principle.
IAFT 16949
ISO 14001 
ISO 45001 
IATF 16949
ISO 45001
IATF 16949
Code 
of 
Conduct
ISO 14001
-
-
IATF 16949
5. 
Specific 
commitments, 
goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, 
if any.
PPAP Sustainability Approach for FY25 includes:
• 
 Betterment of the local community in which we operate and the upliftment of the marginalized section of our society by providing 
education through the Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation.
• 
Endeavour to preserve water and clean air and ensure responsible management of hazardous & non-hazardous waste.
• 
 We aim to achieve 50% CO2 reduction (Scope 1 & 2) by 2030 and Net Zero by 2045. This year, we are focused on reducing Scope 
1 and Scope 2 emissions compared to the previous year.
• 
Increase the share of renewable energy and maximize energy efficiency.
• 
Target to reduce water consumption by 10% year-on-year.
• 
Focus on training internal and external stakeholders to strengthen sustainability awareness and practices.
• 
Commitment to increase the percentage of women workforce to at least 15%
6. 
Performance 
of 
the 
entity against the specific 
commitments, 
goals, 
and 
targets along with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
PPAP strongly believes that sustainability is a journey and is constantly working on it.
For PPAP Automotive Ltd, we have observed a rise in the proportion of female employees in our workforce to 9% as of 31 March 2025.
85
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
2. 
 Details of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings with regulators/
law enforcement agencies imposed on your company by regulatory/ judicial institutions in the financial year:
Monetary
 
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No) 
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non-Monetary
 
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been preferred? 
(Yes/No) 
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3. 
 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed. 
Not Applicable.
4. 
 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-
link to the policy.
 
 Yes, PPAP Automotive Ltd. has a clear stance against bribery and corruption, which is addressed through our Code of Conduct and 
Ethics. The policy reflects our commitment to operate with integrity, fairness, and transparency across all levels of the organization. 
It applies to employees, directors, suppliers, vendors, and anyone acting on behalf of the company.
 
 The Code outlines that no employee or associated party shall offer, give, solicit, or receive bribes or any form of improper payments, 
either directly or indirectly, for securing business or any undue advantage. This zero-tolerance approach is central to our governance 
culture and compliance practices.
 
 The policy also helps promote responsible behaviour, guides decision-making, and ensures that our business is conducted ethically, 
in line with all applicable laws.
 
 The Code of Conduct and Ethics can be accessed at: 
 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V6.pdf
5. 
 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
6. 
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict 
of Interest of the Directors 
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict 
of Interest of the KMPs 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
84
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable 
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and implement 
the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity 
in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent, and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year(FY 24-25):
Segment
Total number of training 
& awareness programs 
held
Topics /principles covered under the training and its 
impact
% Coverage 
by awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
2
PPAP shares business presentations periodically at the 
meetings of the board of directors and the committees to inform 
the directors about the strategy, operations, and functions 
of PPAP. At various board meetings, presentations are also 
made on safety, health, and environment, risk management, 
PPAP policies, and changes in the regulatory environment.
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
2
100%
Employees 
other 
than BOD and KMPs
372
PPAP’s basic policy for training and development is the 
cultivation of “Teach and be Taught”. Training is based on the 
70-20-10 principle i.e., 10% of the time of trainee goes in the 
classroom, 20% of learning is supported by the coach, and 
70% action on projects which enable an employee to complete 
the learning cycle and understand the processes in depth.
100%
87
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe.
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of products and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively:
 
Current Financial 
year 2024-25
Previous Financial 
Year 2023-24 
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
-
83.5%
Reduction in RM consumption by material weight and design
Capex
-
-
-
2. 
(i) 
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No):
 
 
 Yes, PPAP has well-defined procedures in place for sustainable sourcing. We actively engage with our suppliers to ensure 
that environmental and social impacts are identified and addressed at the stage of contract formulation, as well as through 
continuous collaboration. Suppliers are evaluated against a comprehensive set of environmental and social criteria, including 
human rights (such as child labour and forced or compulsory labour), employment practices, health and safety standards, 
industrial relations, incidents of abuse, coercion, or harassment, wages and compensation, and working hours.
 
 
 PPAP has a robust Quality, Environment, Health, and Safety (QEHS) Policy and encourages suppliers to adhere to the same. 
The Supplier Manual covers key aspects such as safety protocols, Substances of Concern (SoC), POP declarations, and the 
policy on responsible sourcing of raw materials. In FY 2024–25, 100% of new suppliers were assessed in accordance with 
PPAP’s environmental and social criteria.
2 
(ii) If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? Product/Service: 100%
3. 
 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
 
 We monitor material consumption, minimize waste, and use more recycled materials to optimize our resource management. The 
circularized packaging materials are the number of bins & trolleys at the plant level that is returned from the customer, eliminating 
the need for extra packing material. The same bins will be reused until the end of their life cycle. For e-waste disposal, PPAP works 
with authorized e-waste handlers and approximately 1.10 tonnes of e-waste was generated and recycled by authorized recyclers. 
4. 
 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If 
not, provide steps taken to address the same.
 
 We have registered for the EPR for Plastic waste management with CPCB in line with our commitment to responsible management 
of waste. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
86
7. 
 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.  
Not Applicable.
8. 
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable*365)/Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
72.4
72.41
9. 
Open-ness of business 
 
 Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans 
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameters
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of Purchases
a. 
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
37.38
24.56
b. 
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
22
22
c. 
 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases 
from trading houses
92.21
94.40
Concentration of Sales
a. 
Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales
Not Applicable
b. 
Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
c. 
 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers / distributors
Share of RPTs in
a. 
Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total Purchases
3%
2%
b. 
Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)
3%
3%
c. 
 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties / Total loans & advances)
97%
97%
d. 
 Investments (Investments in related parties / Total Investments 
made)
98%
88%
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programs held
Topics/principles covered under 
the training
% of value chain partners covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the awareness programmes
1
B2B Safety Campaign
53%
2. 
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes, PPAP has procedures in place to avoid/manage conflict of interest involving members of the Board, and the same has been 
embedded in the code of conduct & ethics policy and related party transactions policy as follows:
 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V6.pdf
 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy1.pdf
89
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, 
including those in their value chains.
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
 Total 
(A) 
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C) 
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A) 
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employee
a. Male
1244
135
11%
0
0
0
0%
NA
b. Female
42
1
2%
0
0
1
2%
c. Total
1286
136
11%
0
0
0
0%
Other than Permanent employees
a. Male
812
812
100%
0
0
0
0
NA
b. Female
161
161
100%
0
0
0
0
c. Total
973
973
100%
0
0
0
0
Note: b. PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
c. 
 Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in 
the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of the total revenue of the 
company
0.17%
0.042%
 
 Employees have always been an asset of PPAP. PPAP endeavours to establish long-term relationships with its employees by 
providing an atmosphere that is motivating and enjoyable to work in, with the goal of moving toward a high-performance socio-
economic work culture at all levels.
2. 
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Benefits
No. of employees covered 
as a % of total employees
Deducted and de-posited 
with the authority  
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees covered 
as a % of total employees
Deducted and deposited 
with the authority  
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
Yes
100%
Yes
Gratuity
100%(As per Act)
Yes
100% 
Yes
ESI
100%(As per Act)
Yes
100% 
Yes
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
88
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
N I C 
Code
Name of Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective / 
Assessment was conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
34300
Manufacture of parts 
and accessories for 
motor vehicles
100%
Cradle to Gate
No
No
PPAP is IATF-16949, ISO-14001, ISO-45001 & ISO-50001 certified, and PPAP follows all these standards while producing its products.
2. 
 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective /Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
 
 Life Cycle Assessment has not been conducted. However, significant social and environmental risks have already been identified 
during production. The Company regularly reviews its environmental risks and undertakes initiatives to mitigate them as per the ISO 
14001 standard.
3. 
 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Plastics 
1.94%
1.74%
4. 
 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonne) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
 
 No product and packaging material is reclaimed at the end of life of products, as PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers 
(OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user.
5. 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category. 
 
Not Applicable
91
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Note: As per Company Policy, we follow the Calendar Year (Jan 24 to Dec 24) for performance review. Hence, the data considers the 
manpower strength as on 31st Dec 2024. PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
10. Health and Safety Management System :
 
a. 
 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system?
 
 
 Yes, PPAP is ISO 45001 (Occupational Safety & Health Management System) certified. Extracts from the Company’s “Quality 
Environment Health & Safety (QEHS) Policy” are displayed at the manufacturing plants in English as well as in regional 
languages. The Company has also developed visitor safety security procedures and entry regulations at factory with safety 
communication to ensure the same at all levels. PPAP covers 100% of its employees under the Occupational Safety & Health 
Management System.
 
b. 
 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by 
the entity?
 
 
 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is the main focal area for PPAP since it is committed to providing a safe, secure, and 
healthy workplace for its employees. The company has a well-defined safety team that is in charge of conducting all safety, 
electrical and fire audits, risk assessments, safety meetings, and implementing necessary safety measures on identified unsafe 
conditions and acts (Hiyari Hatto Points) in order to prevent any near-miss or accidents. The safety team periodically conducts 
numerous training sessions for the employees to increase awareness regarding the work-related hazards. PPAP ensures that 
all the safety standards and guidelines are complied with.
 
c. 
 Whether you have processes for employees/workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Yes/No)
 
 
 Yes, all the work-related hazards reported by employees is listed and a dedicated team under the safety officer is assigned to 
analyse and implement the countermeasures to close all work-related hazards which are communicated in DWM (Daily Work 
Management), safety committee meetings and townhall meeting.
 
d. 
Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
 
 
 Yes, PPAP believes in creating a safe working environment for all its employees by having tie up with hospitals for employees 
and their families. 
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
1.3
Total recordable work-related injuries
-
-
No. of fatalities
-
-
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
-
-
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
 
 PPAP emphasizes the importance of providing a safe and healthy workplace for all its employees and third-party contractors. 
PPAP regularly evaluates its workplace health, safety, and environmental performance. Along with that, following measures are 
continuously monitored and implemented across all units: 
 
• 
Assurance of machine safety by installing safety devices during the design phase of machine manufacturing. 
 
• 
EHS mobile app for reporting unsafe acts and unsafe conditions on digital platforms.
 
• 
PPAP has done the Hazard identification and Risk assessment (HIRA) of all the activities inside the premises. 
 
• 
Training provided on the work-related activities as per weekly and monthly basis. 
 
• 
SOP and OCP’s are prepared and followed for the all the routine and non-routine activities.
 
• 
Daily KYT (Kiken yochi training or hazard prediction activity) is conducted to raise awareness among employees.
 
• 
For the improvement of OHS conditions at workstations, KAIZENS (continuous improvements) done.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
90
3. 
Accessibility of workplaces
 
 Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
 Currently, there is no facility available at the plant. However, PPAP is working towards making its plants accessible to differently abled 
people.
4. 
 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
 
 Equal opportunity policy is combined in PPAP’s code of conduct & ethics policy, link for the same is available: https://www.ppapco.
in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V6.pdf 
5. 
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Other than Permanent employees
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
0
0
-
-
Female
0
0
-
-
Total
0
0
-
-
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
6. 
 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
 
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes (Monthly Town Hall Meeting, Online help desk, Grievance 
register/Gate Meeting/ Female Samvad)
Other than Permanent Employees
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
7. 
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity: 
 
 There are no employee associations at PPAP. PPAP, however, acknowledges and respects the right to freedom of association and 
does not oppose collective bargaining and follows all local laws for the representation of labour.
8. 
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill upgradation
Total
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill upgradation
(A) 
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
(A) 
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No.(C)
% (C/A)
Permanent & Other than Permanent Employees
Male
2,056
2,056
100%
2,056
100%
2023
2023
100%
2023
100%
Female
203
203
100%
203
100%
164
164
100%
164
100%
Total
2259
2259
100%
2259
100%
2187
2187
100%
2187
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
9. 
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Permanent & Other than Permanent employees
Male
1992
1992
100%
2423
2423
100%
Female
190
190
100%
205
205
100%
Total
2182
-
-
2628
2628
100%
93
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
 
 No significant risks/concerns observed from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain 
partners.
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its 
stakeholders.
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
 PPAP identifies its key stakeholders based on the extent to which they are significantly impacted by the Company’s operations, 
products, or services, or whose actions can materially influence the Company’s ability to execute its strategies and achieve its 
objectives. The stakeholder engagement process at PPAP serves as a vital mechanism to understand the reasonable expectations, 
interests, and information needs of these stakeholders. Through this process, PPAP ensures that the perspectives of key stakeholder 
groups are considered and integrated into its strategic and operational planning.
 
 PPAP believes that the stakeholder engagement process serves as a tool for understanding the reasonable expectations and 
interests of stakeholders and their information needs. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
92
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
Year 
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during the 
year
Pending resolution 
at the end of the 
year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending resolution 
at the end of the 
year
Remarks
Health and safety 
practices
8
0
Resolved
2
0
Resolved
Working Conditions
2
0
Resolved
5
0
Resolved
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
14. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
 
 All units of PPAP are assessed against the ISO 45001:2018 standard. PPAP complies with all the health and safety-related laws and 
rules. 
15.  Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
 
 No significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N)? 
No
2. 
 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
 
 PPAP ensures that the statutory dues are deducted and remitted in conformity with regulations for transactions. Complinity software 
is also implemented for adherence of Legal compliance and dues. The internal and statutory audits review this activity as well. PPAP 
expects its value chain partners to adhere to employee well-being and uphold the values of Supplier’s code of conduct & ethics.
3. 
 Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Employees
Total no. of affected employees
No. of employees that are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment 
or whose family members have been placed in suita-ble employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
 
 Given the nature of operations, safety has always been an important aspect of PPAP’s working culture and it has been the Company’s 
constant endeavour to extend this safety culture among all its employees. Regular health monitoring and check-ups by external 
hospitals are conducted as a measure of identification of any work-related ill-health. At PPAP, health & safety are a part of the 
company’s guiding principles on employees’ well-being.
4. 
 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
 
Yes, PPAP provides transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability through retainership & advisory engagement. 
5. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
43
Working conditions
43
95
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 Education: PPAP supported the education of children from economically weaker sections by sponsoring school uniforms, books, 
tuition fees, and transportation costs. In FY 2024–25, 70 students benefited from these initiatives.
 
 Healthcare: Through donations to the Akshaya Patra Foundation, organisation of health check-up camps, and distribution of 
essential ration kits, PPAP positively impacted the lives of over 400 beneficiaries during the year.
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(s) of the entity, in the following 
format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
No.
% 
Total
No.
% 
Employees
Permanent
1542
1542
100%
1260
1260
100%
Other than permanent
1326
1326
100%
927
927
100%
Total Employees
2868
2868
100%
2187
2187
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
2. 
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
Total
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
 No. (B)
% (B/A)
Employees
Permanent
1286
NA
1286
100%
1260
NA
1260
100%
Male
1244
1244
100%
1243
1243
100%
Female
42
42
100%
17
17
100%
Other than Permanent
973
973
100%
927
927
100%
Male
812
812
100%
780
780
100%
Female
161
161
100%
147
147
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
3. 
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
 
a. 
Median Remuneration/wages:
Segments
Male
Female
Number
Average
Number
Average
remuneration/ salary/ wages
remuneration/ salary/ wages
Board of Directors
4
2
Key Managerial Personnel
2
1
Employees other than BoD and KMP
*PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
94
2. 
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
Frequency 
Purpose & Scope of Engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Investors
No
AGM, Investor conferences, press 
releases and newsletters, Updates 
on website of the Company
Quarterly
Growth of the Company, Reward to 
shareholders, ROCE, Governance and risk 
management
Suppliers
Yes
Suppliers / Vendors meet via 
Networking & Exhibition Suppliers' 
feedback and periodic site visits
Need-based, Monthly, 
Quarterly
Payment terms, Growth of suppliers, Fair & 
transparent dealing Logistics
Employees
No
Trainings, Town hall, Suggestions/ 
DWM meetings, Award and Annual 
functions,  Engagement Surveys, 
Workshops.
Continuous
Growth opportunities, Safe working 
environment, Hygiene & sanitation, Talent 
attraction, retention, Training & development
Community
Yes
Community meetings and visits, 
Interaction with local bodies
Need-based, Monthly, 
Quarterly
Livelihood support & Local employment, 
Healthcare facilities, Education, Air and water 
pollution
Customers
Yes
Customer satisfaction surveys, Direct 
customer relationship satisfaction 
initiatives, plant visit.
Continuous
Product quality and delivery, Health and safety 
aspects, Innovation, 
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 
 At PPAP, economic, environmental, and social topics are regularly discussed at the Board level. Stakeholder consultations are 
handled by the Corporate Governance team and other relevant functions, who interact with stakeholders, gather their feedback, and 
review key concerns. This feedback is then shared with the management and presented to the Board to ensure that stakeholder 
views are taken into account in decision-making.
2. 
 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 
 Yes, PPAP uses stakeholder consultation in the development of its sustainability materiality matrix. The materiality assessment is 
conducted every two years, with the most recent assessment carried out in FY 2023–24 and the next scheduled for FY 2025–26. 
The assessment is led by the Steering Committee through an online survey to gather feedback from diverse stakeholder groups on 
ESG material issues.
 
 PPAP views the stakeholder engagement process as an important tool to understand stakeholders’ expectations, interests, and 
information needs. For example, improvement in gender diversity was identified as one of the material topics through this process 
and was subsequently discussed with, and endorsed by, the Board of Directors for inclusion in policies and activities.
3. 
 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder group.
 
 PPAP recognises its responsibility towards underprivileged communities around its business locations and identifies them as 
disadvantaged, vulnerable, and marginalised stakeholders. The Company engages with these groups with a commitment to 
contribute to the betterment of the local community and the upliftment of vulnerable sections of society through the Vinay and 
Ajay Jain Foundation—a registered trust dedicated to focused CSR implementation in the areas of environment, education, and 
healthcare (CSR Policy).
 
 Environment: During FY 2024–25, the Foundation continued its plantation initiatives at Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park and further 
developed the nursery near Dera Mandi. These projects not only contributed to ecological restoration but also generated employment 
for 15 beneficiaries from local communities.
97
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
10. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Sexual Harassment
-
Discrimination at workplace
-
Child Labour
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
Wages
-
Other human rights-related issues
-
11.  Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
 
No significant risk was observed in this reporting period.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Details of a business process being modified/introduced to address human rights grievances/complaints.
 
No human rights grievance/complaint was received during the reporting period.
2. 
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
 
No human rights due diligence was conducted during the reporting period.
3. 
 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently-abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
 Currently, there is no facility available at the plant. However, PPAP is working towards making its workplace accessible to differently-
abled people.
4. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
-
Discrimination at workplace
33%
Child Labour
33%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
33%
Wages
33%
Other
33%
5. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
 
No significant risks/concerns observed in the assessment of suppliers.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
96
 
b. 
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format: 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
2.35
3.72
4. 
 Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes, PPAP has instituted an Internal Complaints (IC) Committee for redressal of human rights issue and for ensuring time-bound 
treatment of such complaints.
5. 
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 
 PPAP is committed to the highest standards of ethical, moral, and legal business conduct. PPAP’s dedication to human rights and 
fair treatment is outlined in its code of conduct and ethics policy. The company is committed to the fundamental principles of human 
rights & labor rights, a workplace free of harassment, and prohibition of child labour. The company sets a standard of ‘zero tolerance’ 
for any kind of violation of human rights.
6. 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Wages
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Other human rights related issues
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
7. 
 Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, 
in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24 
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH) 
0
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers 
0
0
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
8. 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
 
 PPAP views all incidents of discrimination and harassment cases, very seriously and encourages employees to report any incidents 
of harassment to the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) formed under Policy of Prevention of Sexual Harassment at the workplace 
of the Company (“POSH Policy”). Any aggrieved individual may make, in writing, a complaint of Sexual Harassment at the workplace 
to the Committee giving details of the harassment. 
9. 
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes, PPAP follows its policy on Human Rights which are embedded in the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Company. The Code 
of Conduct and Ethics extends to the Company and its subsidiary Companies. The Company is committed to the fundamental 
principles of human rights & labour rights, workplace free of harassment, and prohibition of child labour. The Company sets a 
standard of ‘zero tolerance’ for any kind of discrimination or harassment, extends to value chain partners as per the contracts during 
supplier manual agreement.
99
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
4. 
Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 
To Surface water
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) To Groundwater
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) To Seawater
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third parties
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v) Others
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
0
Note: Assurance of data was conducted by DQS India (Third-party independent assurer).
5. 
 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
 
 Yes, PPAP has implemented a Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) mechanism across its operations. Wastewater generated from cooling 
towers, which was earlier discharged into municipal drains, is now stored in underground tanks and reused for purposes such as 
gardening and greenbelt development. The wastewater is treated and recycled in-house for multiple applications, including:
 
• 
Reuse of cooling extrusion water for horticulture and greenbelt development.
 
• 
Rainwater harvesting through dedicated tanks to recharge groundwater levels.
 
• 
Installation of two Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) in FY 2024–25.
6. 
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY  2024-25
FY  2023-24
Nox
Kg
166.92
226.63
Sox
Kg
70.76
71.96
Particulate matter (PM)
Kg
21.97
30.75
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
CO
Kg
38.60
25.83
Note: Assurance of data was conducted by DQS India (Third-party independent assurer).
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
98
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the 
environment.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 24-25 
(Current 
Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 
(Previous 
Financial Year)
From Renewable Energy Sources
Total electricity consumption (A)- Giga Joules
3130
2912
Total fuel consumption (B)-Giga Joules
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)-Giga Joules
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
3130
2912
From Non-Renewable Energy Sources
Total electricity consumption (D)- Giga Joules
56936
54205
Total fuel consumption (E)-Giga Joules
9382
6835
Energy consumption through other sources (F)-Giga Joules
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
66316
61040
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)- Giga Joules
69448
63952
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations) 
134.52
142.71
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy 
consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) – 
-
-
2. 
 Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.  
 
No designated consumers entity in PPAP.
3. 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 
Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
30749.63
31464.26
(iii) Third- party water
18080.58
13819.99
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
48830.21
45284.26
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
48830.21
45284.26
Water intensity per crore of turnover (Total water consumption/Revenue from operations)
94.58
101.05
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Water intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
101
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 
Incineration
1.49
1.56
(ii) Landfilling
100.38
92.71
(iii) Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
101.87
94.27
Note: Assurance of data was conducted by DQS India (Third-party independent assurer).
10.  Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
 
 PPAP recognizes that the natural resources are finite and therefore need to be conserved and recycled. In the endeavour to achieve 
the same it continues to evaluate opportunities for technology upgradation, improved processes for waste reduction. PPAP always 
focuses on 5R concept (Refrain, Reform, Reduce, Reuse and Re-cycle). PPAP has installed the bio-composter for canteen waste 
and recycle the food waste produced by PPAP. PPAP is using reclaimed packaging materials in the form of bins that will return from 
the customer, eliminating the need for single use packaging. The same bins will be reused until the end of their life cycle.
 
 PPAP follows the international standard of materials as per IMDS and verify the SOC/POP free material to protect against any 
toxicity.
11.  If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: Not Applicable.
12.  Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year: Not Applicable.
13.  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
 
 Yes, PPAP gives highest priority to ensure environment-friendly practices, having all valid consent to operate (Air & Water), 
hazardous waste authorization by concerned pollution control boards, ensuring compliance with applicable environmental laws, 
rules, regulations, and guidelines. 
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
 
(i) 
Name of the area: Delhi NCR, Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Pathredi (Rajasthan).
 
(ii) Nature of operations: Manufacturing of Automotive sealing parts (Extrusion, Injection Moulding, Assembly).
 
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
30749.63
31464.26
(iii) Third party water
18080.58
13819.99
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
48830.21
45284.26
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
48830.21
45284.26
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
100
7. 
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
610
443.35
Total Scope 2 emissions
11324
10780.76
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per crore of turnover
23.11
25.05
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of 
physical output
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional)– the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
Note: Assurance of data was conducted by DQS India (Third-party independent assurer).
8. 
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
 
Yes, the reduction of resources forms an integral part of PPAP’s continuous focus on reducing its carbon footprint on the environment. 
 
• 
 Installation of the energy-efficient lighting system and implementation of energy-saving kaizens (including fuel) in the existing 
machinery has helped us achieve the potential of annual energy saving of 1275.79 GJ and reduction of 253.74 tonnes of CO2 
emissions. We periodically hold awareness training across all our business units to spread energy-saving habits among our staff. 
 
• 
Waste saving initiative has led us to save 0.130 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
9. 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
1263.94
1136.46
E-waste (B)
0.00
0.69
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
0.00
-
Radioactive waste (F)
0.00
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any.  (G)
5.01
5.03
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H).  Please specify, if any.
436.49
399.74
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)
1705.44
1541.92
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)
-
-
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total 
waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
-
-
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 
Recycled
1478.74
1447.43
(ii) Re-used
-
-
(iii) Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
1478.74
1447.43
103
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
7. 
 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts. 
 
29% suppliers assessed. 
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
 
 
PPAP is a member of 7 business associations.
 
b. 
 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations you are a member of/are affiliated to, on the basis of no. of 
members.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach 
of 
trade 
and 
industry 
chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) 
Association
2
Bhiwadi Manufacturers Association (BMA)
3
Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
4
HCI Supplier's Club Society
5
Maruti Suzuki Suppliers Welfare Association (MSSWA)
6
Tools and Gauge Manufacturers Association of India (TAGMA)
7
Toyota Kirloskar Suppliers Association (TKSA)
2. 
 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
 
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity.
 
PPAP is currently not engaged in public advocacy.
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) undertaken by PPAP for projects in the current Financial Year.
 
SIA activity has not been started yet; however, PPAP has been planning to undertake the SIA in the upcoming years.
2. 
 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format: Nil
3. 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
A register of grievances is kept and maintained to receive and redress grievances of the community. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
102
Water intensity per crore of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
94.58
101.05
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Not Applicable
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) 
Into Surface water
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) Into Groundwater
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) Into Seawater
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third parties
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v) Others
 
- No treatment
 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
2. 
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: Not Applicable.
3. 
 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities. Not Applicable.
4. 
 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as 
well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S.No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative
Outcome of the initiative
1.
Energy Conservation 
Initiatives
Installation of the energy-efficient lighting 
system and implementation of energy-saving 
kaizens (including fuel) in the existing machinery.
The potential of annual energy saving of 1275.79 
GJ and reduction of 253.74 tonnes of CO2 
emissions.
2.
Water saving 
initiatives
Installation of water-efficient technology and 
water-saving taps
It has led to 852 KL of water saving in the reporting 
period.
3.
Waste Management 
Initiatives
Installation of PADCARE bins for safe disposal 
of sanitary napkins
It has led us to save 0.130 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
5. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 
 Yes, PPAP has a well-defined risk, business continuity and disaster management plan. The plan outlines all the contingencies 
along with the overall governance and monitoring of the business continuity function. Business continuity spans people, processes, 
and technology. Requisite training programs have been conducted for the teams to be prepared to respond in a crisis. Most of the 
business functions are supported through automation with the help of technology.
6. 
 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
 
No significant adverse impact has been observed to the environment, arising from the value chain. 
105
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in 
a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1. 
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
 PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. However, PPAP has a 
customer complaint handling system based on IATF16949:2016 and business policy of each customer. PPAP provides immediate 
containment action and awareness training to all concerned team members to stop out flow of suspected material to the customers. 
Detailed countermeasure with simulation and 4M/why-why analysis is shared with the customer within two weeks from the date of 
the complaint received. After receiving effectiveness confirmation of action, PPAP does the horizontal deployment of the action taken 
wherever possible and standardize the standard operating procedure and related documents. No customer complaints are pending 
at the end of the financial year.
2. 
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
Product/Services
As a % to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NIL
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and safe disposal
3. 
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
Nil
Nil
Advertising
Cybersecurity
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
Note: PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user.
4. 
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
 
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
-
NA
Forced recalls
-
NA
5. 
 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
 
 Yes, PPAP has policy for cyber security and certified ISO 27001: 2013. Web-link of the policy is as follows: https://www.ppapco.in/
assets/pdf/policies/Privacy_policy.pdf
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken 
by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
 
 During the reporting period, there was no observance of any issue related to cyber security, data privacy and safety of products and 
services.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
104
4. 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
 
 PPAP undertakes initiatives to build the capacities of the suppliers. PPAP supports the MSMEs in nearby locations of its plants for 
raw material sourcing/packaging/consumable etc. The supply chain team of PPAP periodically visits the facilities of the vendors for 
their continuous upgradation and suggest them improvement points.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
21%
21%
Sourced directly from within India
92%
92%
5. 
 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on 
a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
35%
23%
Semi-urban
17%
12%
Urban
33%
38%
Metropolitan
14%
27%
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments.
 
Not Applicable.
2. 
 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies: 
Nil 
3. 
a) 
 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
 
 
We do not have a preferential policy. However, we support the local and small-scale suppliers such as MSMEs.
 
b) 
From which marginalized/vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
 PPAP supports the MSMEs and small suppliers in nearby locations of its plants for raw material sourcing/packaging/consumables 
etc.
 
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
During the reporting period, it constituted around 21% of the total procurement.
4. 
 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
 
Not Applicable.
5. 
Details of corrective actions taken in intellectual property-related cases wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved:
 
Not Applicable.
6. 
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects: 
S. No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Environment
13
100%
2
Education
62
100%
3
Health Care
350
100%
107
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Global Economy Overview
In the financial year 2025, the global economy experienced a 
modest growth of 3.3%. Despite the ongoing challenges from 
geopolitical issues and the shifting trade dynamics, inflationary 
pressures eased across most economies due to the stabilizing 
commodity prices and prudent monetary policies. Central banks 
remained cautious, focussed on supporting the growth and 
maintaining the price stability. Global trade continues to evolve, 
with a greater focus on supply chain optimisation, diversification, 
and regionalization thus creating opportunities for countries with 
strong manufacturing ecosystems and competitive advantages.
According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), global growth 
is expected to slow-down to 2.8% in the financial year 2025. The 
introduction of tariffs by the U.S. and the responses from its major 
trading partners are already impacting global trade, weakening 
business confidence, and adding to market uncertainty. Growth in 
emerging and developing economies is expected to be at 3.7%, 
with countries like China expected to be affected more due to 
their higher exposure to U.S. The unpredictability in trade policy is 
making businesses face uncertainty which is adding pressure on 
the foreign exchange rates.
Indian Economy Overview
India’s economy displayed resilience and consistent growth 
throughout FY 2024-25, continuing with its status as one of the 
world’s fastest-expanding major economies. As indicated by the 
Second Advanced Estimate (SAE) data released by the National 
Statistical Office (NSO), real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is 
6.5% for the FY 2024-25, following a notable 9.2% (per the First 
Revised Estimates) growth in the previous financial year.
This sustained momentum reflects the nation’s sound economic 
foundations, supportive government policies, an expanding services 
sector, and strong domestic demand, all of which contribute to 
increased confidence in India’s long-term growth potential.
Government reforms, substantial investments in both physical 
and digital infrastructure, and initiatives like ‘Make in India’ and the 
Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme have played a crucial role in 
improving the country’s growth path and encouraging self-sufficiency.
Automobile Industry Overview
India’s automobile industry continues to be a key contributor to the 
country’s manufacturing growth and economic development. As 
the world’s fourth largest automotive market, India has benefitted 
from evolving consumer preferences and higher discretionary 
spending.
The Passenger Vehicle (PV) segment witnessed moderate 
growth of 3% and the demand for Utility Vehicles (UVs), grew by 
14%. UV volume increase was fuelled by a slew of new model 
launches featuring advanced features and contemporary designs 
that resonated well with consumer preferences. In contrast, the 
Passenger Car segment (comprising sedans and hatchbacks) 
experienced a decline in production volume in FY25, with a drop 
of around 12%. Cleaner fuels like CNG and strong hybrids gained 
traction, while EV growth remained moderate.
Auto Ancillary Market Overview
The Indian auto ancillary industry has maintained healthy 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
momentum in FY25, with industry estimates indicating growth in the 
range of 8–10% over FY24, supported by robust OEM production, 
a growing aftermarket, and rising demand for EV components. 
Passenger vehicle output is likely to remain moderate, primarily 
driven by SUV sales. The two-wheelers are seeing recovery in both 
rural and premium segments. Exports, projected at around USD 
20–21 billion, remain a key growth driver. 
Stable raw material prices and easing supply chain pressures are 
aiding margins, while policy measures such as the PLI scheme, 
scrappage policy, and stricter emission norms are boosting 
technology transformation.
Segments like electrical and electronic components, braking 
systems, and EV-ready parts are poised for above-average 
growth, positioning the industry for a positive but moderated growth 
trajectory compared to FY24 highs. 
Group Overview
Established in 1978, PPAP began its operations by manufacturing 
custom-made extrusion products. The Company entered the 
automotive sector in 1985, initially supplying plastic profiles for the 
first generation of Maruti vehicles. Over the years, PPAP evolved 
into a full-fledged Tier-1 automotive supplier for plastic extrusions, 
injection mouldings, and rubber-based sealing systems. With 
strategic collaborations from global leaders such as Tokai Kogyo 
Co. Ltd. and Nissen Chemitec Corporation, PPAP has continued 
to invest in technology, talent, and processes to support India’s 
growing mobility ecosystem.
Today, PPAP is present across multiple business verticals—from 
automotive OEM parts to aftermarket solutions, tooling’s, industrial 
products, and energy storage systems—with a clear focus on de-
risking and diversification.
The PPAP Group comprises of five entities:
• 
 PPAP Automotive Limited – The parent company engaged 
in manufacturing automotive sealing systems and injection 
moulded plastic parts.
• 
 PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited – Joint venture 
with Tokai Kogyo Co. Ltd., Japan, for EPDM rubber sealing 
systems
• 
 ELPIS Automotives Private Limited – Wholly-owned 
subsidiary is in the aftermarket and premium accessories 
business.
• 
 Avinya Batteries Limited – Wholly-owned subsidiary 
is focused on energy storage solutions (formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited).
• 
 Avinya 
Industrial 
Products 
Limited- 
Wholly-owned 
subsidiary is engaged in providing products for industrial 
application in India and Overseas.
• 
 Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited – Wholly-
owned subsidiary is in the commercial tooling’s business. 
PPAP places a strong emphasis on product innovation and 
process excellence. PPAP’s in-house R&D capabilities support 
the development of engine-agnostic components, battery pack 
solutions, and high-performance plastic molds. Close collaboration 
with OEMs and technology partners has enabled the Company to 
stay ahead of evolving vehicle platforms.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
106
7. 
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
a. 
Number of instances of data breaches: 0
 
b. 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: 0%
 
c. 
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: None 
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of PPAP can be accessed (provide web link if applicable). 
 
 Information on products and services can be availed from the official website of PPAP. Link for the same is as follows: https://www.
ppapco.in/ 
2. 
 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers, especially vulnerable and marginalised consumers, about safe and 
responsible usage of products and services.
 
 PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. Safe and responsible 
usage of product ensured by collaboration of OEM customers with their terms of manufacturing and delivery of products. 
3. 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 
 PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. However, PPAP has 
contingency plan of covering the risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services and very well informed to all customers.
4. 
 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. 
 
 Not applicable as PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. 
However, PPAP displays product label on part by laser printing as per customer requirements. The label displays information 
related to part manufacturing date, time and material used. We also provide details about the material used to customer like SOC 
(Substances of Concern) free, Conflict Mineral free, POP (Persistent Organic Pollutants) free and compliance with RoHS (Restriction 
of Hazardous Substances).
5. 
 Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the 
entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
 
 Not applicable as PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. 
However, PPAP engages with its customers at various platforms to understand their expectations and has a well-defined system 
to measure customer satisfaction at regular intervals. Customer satisfaction are one of the most important factors of any business. 
Customer Satisfaction trends are compiled, monitored, and reviewed by top management on a periodic basis and action plans are 
discussed with customers.
109
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Outlook & Strategic Focus
• 
 Strong order pipeline to be executed over FY26–FY27, 
positioning the division for sustained growth.
• 
 Plans to scale export capabilities and serve international 
tooling demand.
• 
 Continued investment in high-speed machining, CAD/CAM 
design, and validation systems.
• 
 Strategic goal: position PPAP as a precision tooling leader 
within India and in key export markets.
Industrial Product Business
PPAP’s Industrial Product Division is focused on extending its 
core capabilities in plastic extrusion, injection molding, and rubber 
extrusion to sectors beyond the automotive industry. This division 
caters to a variety of industries including infrastructure, renewable 
energy, consumer appliances, construction, and agriculture.
Key product offerings include Pail containers (5L to 25L) in 
round and square formats Parts for solar panel cleaning robots, 
Paint dispensers and paint buckets, housing components and 
building materials, Parts for AHU systems (Air Handling Units), 
components for electrical and modern bath fittings, Plastic and 
rubber parts for white goods and consumer appliances.
These products are manufactured at the Surajpur Industrial Area 
facility in Uttar Pradesh. The division is positioned as a strategic 
diversification lever for PPAP to address non-automotive markets, 
using the same principles of precision engineering, tooling 
expertise, and quality control that define its automotive operations.
FY25 Performance
• 
Revenue contribution stood at ~2% of consolidated revenue.
• 
 Revenue more than doubled YoY, driven by strong growth in 
containers, dispensers, and white goods applications.
• 
 Successfully developed new parts for solar robotics, AHU 
systems, and modern bath fittings.
• 
 Export trial orders completed for global customers, validating 
capabilities for overseas markets.
Outlook & Strategic Focus
• 
 The division is actively expanding into international markets, 
with a focus on B2B clients in the US, Middle East, and 
Southeast Asia.
• 
 Aims to become a significant contributor to the Group’s 
revenue over the next 2–3 years.
• 
 Continued focus on custom tooling’s, application-specific 
designs, and long-term client relationships.
• 
 Strengthening PPAP’s visibility in non-auto industrial 
applications by leveraging shared R&D and infrastructure.
Battery and Energy Storage Business
Rebranded as Avinya Batteries Limited, the business shifted 
its focus from mobility to stationary energy storage systems—
telecom, solar, and industrial ESS.
Avinya Batteries specializes in the manufacturing of high-quality 
lithium-ion battery packs, including Pouch Cell, Cylindrical Cell, 
and Prismatic Cell varieties. 
Apart from developing in-house capability, Avinya Batteries is also 
tying up with renowned institutions and technology startups to 
develop value added solutions for its customers.
FY25 Performance
• 
 In FY25, Avinya Batteries successfully narrowed its losses, 
setting a strong foundation for future growth.
• 
 Cost efficiencies were achieved in several areas, notably in 
inventory management and employee benefits.
• 
 Looking ahead, the business is well positioned to capitalize 
on the increasing demand in its sector, driven by expanding 
market opportunities and a focus on innovation, quality etc.
Outlook & Strategic Focus
• 
Turn losses into profits by focusing on premium customers.
• 
 Leverage operational synergies across functions to improve 
efficiency and margins.
• 
 Implement minor operational changes to enhance productivity 
and profitability.
• 
 Achieving growth with existing investments, avoiding 
additional capital expenditure.
Opportunities and Threats
• 
Growth in EV and Sustainable Mobility:
 
 The increasing adoption of electric vehicles presents a significant 
growth avenue. With ` 208 crore in EV-related orders booked 
in FY25, PPAP is well-positioned to serve new-age OEMs and 
electrified platforms with engine-agnostic products.
• 
Aftermarket Expansion and Digital Penetration:
 
 The Company’s aftermarket division (Elpis) is scaling 
aggressively through e-commerce platforms, pan-India 
offline distribution, and new warehousing infrastructure. Entry 
into export markets, such as the GCC, opens high-margin 
growth potential.
• 
Export Opportunities in Parts and Industrial Products:
 
 Initial exports commenced in FY25 for both the Automotive 
and Industrial Product Divisions. As global OEMs look to 
diversify supply chains amid tariff disruptions, PPAP can 
become a reliable alternate source.
• 
Stationary Energy Storage:
 
 Avinya Batteries has repositioned into telecom, solar, and 
industrial ESS segments. As India accelerates its grid storage 
investments, the division is poised to benefit from early mover 
capabilities.
Risks and Challenges
• 
Automotive Industry Cyclicality:
 
 The automotive industry remains inherently cyclical and 
sensitive to broader economic factors, policy changes, 
and interest rate movements. Any prolonged downturn, 
particularly in the passenger vehicle or commercial vehicle 
segments, may impact overall component demand.
• 
Raw Material Price Volatility:
 
 Fluctuations in global crude oil and commodity prices affect 
input costs such as polymers and rubber. Although industry 
players adopt pass-through mechanisms, volatility in raw 
material prices can create margin pressures across the value 
chain.
• 
Global Trade Uncertainty:
 
 Evolving global trade dynamics, including rising protectionism 
and tariff regimes, introduce unpredictability into export 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
108
The Company is committed to responsible manufacturing 
practices with an emphasis on waste reduction, energy 
efficiency, and workforce development. Environmental and 
social considerations are embedded into our plant operations, 
while governance standards align with regulatory norms and 
stakeholder expectations.
Automotive Parts Business
The Automotive Parts segment is the cornerstone of PPAP’s 
operations. The Company is a leading supplier of automotive body 
sealing systems, interior trims, and exterior plastic components 
using polymer extrusion and injection molding technology. These 
components are supplied to India’s top OEMs across passenger 
vehicles (PV), commercial vehicles (CV), and two-wheelers (2W). 
The products are engine-agnostic, making them compatible with 
both internal combustion engine (ICE) and electric vehicles (EV).
PPAP has seven dedicated OE manufacturing units in Noida, 
Greater Noida, Pathredi (Rajasthan), Viramgam (Gujarat), 
Sanand (Gujarat), Pune (Maharashtra) and Vallam Vadagal (Tamil 
Nadu). PPAP’s customer list includes Maruti Suzuki, Tata Motors, 
Hyundai, Toyota, Honda, Renault-Nissan, Kia, MG Motor, Skoda-
Volkswagen, Isuzu, and several Tier-1 suppliers.
FY25 Performance
• 
 The Automotive Parts business accounted for ~89.4% of the 
consolidated revenue in FY25.
• 
 Secured new lifetime orders worth ` 601 crores of which 
` 208 crore were from the EV vehicles.
• 
 Successfully onboarded Mahindra & Mahindra as a direct 
OEM customer.
• 
Increased content per vehicle with OEMs like Kia Motors.
• 
Daily dispatches exceeded 2.25 lakh parts per day.
• 
SKU count rising to 2,600+.
Outlook & Strategic Focus
• 
 Targeting execution of the ` 3439 Crores lifetime orders over 
the next 3–5 years.
• 
 Focus on increasing per vehicle content and winning more 
EV programs.
• 
 Enhancing 
product 
offerings 
through 
value-added 
components.
• 
 Driving operating leverage through better asset utilization 
and yield improvement.
Aftermarket Business
PPAP’s aftermarket operations are managed through its wholly 
owned subsidiary ELPIS Automotives Private Limited, established 
in 2019. ELPIS caters to both B2B and B2C segment offering a 
broad product portfolio and addressing the growing demand for 
high-quality spare parts, accessories, and car care solutions in 
India and in select international markets.
The product range includes:
• 
 Engineering Plastics: Components essential for various 
automotive applications.
• 
 Rubber Sealing Products: Ensuring reliable vehicle sealing 
and performance parts.
• 
 Car Accessories: Enhancing aesthetic and functional appeal 
of the vehicles.
• 
 Car Care Products: Maintenance and protection solutions for 
vehicles.
• 
 Automotive Glass Care Products: Enhancing visibility and 
safety for road users.
To support this growing business, ELPIS started with a warehouse 
in Okhla, New Delhi. Later it consolidated its operations at a 
centralized spare parts facility in Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. 
This hub now serves as a distribution base for domestic and 
international aftermarket covering regions including Nepal, 
Bhutan, and GCC countries via Dubai, UAE. The setup facilitates 
efficient logistics and timely delivery.
ELPIS is also aggressively expanding into digital retailing with 
product listings on Amazon and its own e-commerce portal, 
shopelpis.com. Elpis’s distribution network continues to evolve, 
supported by growing warehousing capacity, channel partnerships, 
and brand building initiatives.
FY25 Performance
• 
 In FY25, the aftermarket business delivered a robust 
performance registering a 15% year-on-year revenue growth 
and contributing 4% to the consolidated turnover.
• 
 The Company launched over 550 new SKUs during the year 
taking the total portfolio to more than 1,271 SKUs
Outlook & Strategic Focus
• 
 Aftermarket to contribute 10 % + of group revenues by FY27.
• 
 Building a pan-India distribution network supported by 
regional warehouses.
• 
Target direct exports to Middle East, Africa, and South Asia.
• 
 Focus on brand equity, premium offerings, and tech-enabled 
distribution.
Commercial Tool Room Business
PPAP Automotive commercialized its tooling operations in 2019, 
marking a strategic pivot into the development and manufacturing 
of plastic injection tooling. To enhance focus, scale, and market 
responsiveness, this business was carved out into a dedicated 
subsidiary—Meraki Precision Molds Private Limited in FY25.
The tooling facility, located at Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh, is 
equipped with advanced capabilities and serves a wide spectrum 
of industries including Automotive, Electrical, and White Goods. It 
manufactures a range of high-precision moulds, including:
• 
Gas-assist moulds.
• 
Multi-cavity moulds.
• 
Hot runner systems.
• 
 Specialized techniques such as 2K molding and over-
molding.
This facility has aligned its offerings with the evolving needs of 
OEMs and Tier-1s by maintaining industry-specific technology 
and quality standards and offering complete design-to-validation 
services. This transformation into Meraki Precision Molds reflects 
our strategic commitment to diversification, innovation, and 
customer-centric manufacturing.
FY25 Performance
• 
 Tooling revenue grew by 75% year-on-year, contributing ~4% 
to group revenues.
• 
 Delivered over 120 moulds worth approximately ` 25 crore 
across a 12–18-month period.
• 
Achieved 80% capacity utilization.
• 
 Served customers across automotive, white goods, and the 
appliance sector.
111
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the Standalone 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, including a summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter 
referred to as “Standalone Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2025, and 
its profit (including other comprehensive income), changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (“SA”) specified under 
Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”). Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described 
in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Standalone 
Financial Statements. 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters (‘KAM’) are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have 
determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
1. 
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized to the extent that economic benefit will 
flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. It 
is measured at fair value consideration received or receivable, net 
of returns and allowances, discounts and rebates. The Company 
recognizes revenue when it satisfies its performance obligation 
by transferring the goods to the customers and in determining the 
transaction price for the sale of products, the Company considers 
the effects of various factors such as discounts and price 
adjustments. Since there is significant judgement and estimate 
involved in calculation of price variations to be recorded as at the 
year end, revenue recognition has been identified as a key audit 
matter.
Principal Audit Procedures
We performed the following procedures:
• 
 We understood business revenue recognition policy and how 
they are applied, including the relevant controls, and tested 
the controls over revenue recognition;
• 
Analytical review of the revenue recognized over the year;
• 
 Agreeing on a sample basis amounts of revenue to customer 
contracts and verifying the extent, timing and customer 
acceptance of goods, where relevant.
• 
 We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue 
transactions around the period end date, to check that they 
were recognized in the appropriate period; and
• 
 We 
discussed 
key 
contractual 
arrangements 
with 
management and obtained relevant documentation and 
communication with customers; and
• 
 Also tested, on sample basis, debit/credit notes in respect of 
agreed price variations passed on to the customers
Based on our audit procedures we did not identify any evidence 
of material misstatement in the revenue recognized for the year in 
the standalone financial statements.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
110
opportunities and global sourcing strategies for OEMs and 
suppliers alike.
• 
Macroeconomic and Policy Risks:
 
 Unforeseen changes in fiscal or monetary policy, inflationary 
trends, or geopolitical developments can affect demand 
patterns, capital investment cycles, and overall economic 
stability, thereby impacting industry growth.
Financial Highlights-Standalone basis
• 
 Revenue stood at INR 537.6 Cr in FY25, + 6.7% YoY, 
supported by a strong order pipeline and stable execution 
across key verticals. 
• 
 Gross margins improved significantly to 42.8% in FY25 from 
40.6% in FY24, indicating better product mix and raw material 
cost efficiencies.
• 
 EBITDA stood at INR 60.6 Cr, up by 38.2% YoY, with EBITDA 
margin expanding to 11.3% from 8.7%, driven by operating 
leverage and continued focus on cost optimization. 
• 
 PAT stood at INR 14.1 Cr versus a loss of INR 4.7 Cr in FY24, 
reflecting improved profitability due to better execution and 
operating efficiency.
• 
 With fundamentals intact, PPAP’s continued emphasis on 
working capital discipline, execution efficiency, and margin 
preservation will play a pivotal role in sustaining growth 
momentum.
 
 Note: Significant changes in key financial ratios along with 
explanation forms part of note no. 46 of standalone financial 
statements.
Outlook and Guidance
PPAP enters FY26 with strong momentum and a healthy order 
book of ` 3439 Crores providing multi-year revenue visibility. While 
the overall industry is expected to witness modest growth, PPAP’s 
management remains confident of outperforming its peers by:
• 
 Enhancing asset utilization across parts, tooling, and battery 
operations.
• 
Improving material yield efficiency (targeting 88–90%).
• 
Scaling aftermarket and exports.
• 
 Achieving margin expansion through better manpower 
productivity and cost discipline.
PPAP has provided revenue guidance of ` 600–660 crore for 
FY26, along with a targeted PAT of ` 20–25 crores.
PPAP is focused on building a resilient diversified business model 
combining core auto parts with high-potential adjacencies in 
tooling, energy storage, aftermarket, and industrial components.
Internal Control System and their adequacy
The Company has a robust internal control framework, designed to 
ensure the orderly and efficient conduct of its business operations, 
safeguard its assets, prevent and detect frauds and errors, ensure 
accuracy and completeness of accounting records, and facilitate 
timely preparation of financial information.
The internal control systems are aligned with statutory 
requirements as well as industry best practices. These systems 
are continuously reviewed and monitored by the management, 
and their effectiveness is periodically evaluated by the Internal 
Auditor, which reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews the internal audit findings, monitors 
the implementation of audit recommendations, and ensures that 
corrective actions are taken promptly to strengthen the control 
environment. 
The internal control framework is adequate and effective in 
mitigating operational, compliance, and financial risks, thereby 
supporting the achievement of the Company’s objectives.
Human Resource
Our people are the cornerstone of our success, and we remain 
committed to fostering a workplace culture built on trust, respect, 
and continuous learning. The Human Resource function plays 
a pivotal role in aligning talent management strategies with the 
Company’s long-term business objectives, ensuring that we 
attract, develop, and retain the best talent in the industry. As on 
31st March 2025, PPAP has employed a total of 1295 employees 
across its operations.
During FY25, the HR team focused on strengthening employee 
engagement, enhancing leadership capabilities, and implementing 
structured training programmes to upskill our workforce in line with 
evolving technological and market needs. Special emphasis is 
placed on health, safety, and well-being initiatives, ensuring a safe 
and supportive environment for all employees.
We continued to promote diversity, inclusion, and equal 
opportunity across all levels of the organisation. Digital HR tools 
were integrated into our processes to improve efficiency and 
transparency.
Going forward, our HR strategy will continue to focus on nurturing 
talent, fostering a culture of performance and collaboration, and 
equipping our people with the skills needed to meet the challenges 
of a dynamic business environment. We believe that empowering 
our employees will directly contribute to achieving sustainable 
growth and long-term value creation for all stakeholders.
Safety, Health, and Environment
We are strongly committed to safeguarding the environment in 
which we operate for the benefit of current and future generations. 
As a responsible business, we adhere to and follow all the 
applicable environmental laws and regulations. We strive to make 
the best use of our resources while minimizing operational impacts 
and reducing our environmental footprint.
Our commitment to reduce freshwater consumption, energy 
consumption, mindful resource utilization, and waste generation 
exemplifies our efforts to address climate threats to become a low-
carbon organization.
PPAP conforms to all key international standards — ISO IATF 
16949:2009, ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018, and ISO 
50001:2018 — to achieve world-class benchmarks in quality, 
environmental management, and occupational health & safety. 
These standards are regularly verified and certified by reputed 
third-party agencies.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the management discussion & analysis report 
describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or forecasts 
may be forward looking within the meaning of applicable laws. 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the 
statement. Crucial factors that could influence the Company’s 
operations include global and domestic demand and supply 
conditions affecting selling prices, raw material availability and 
prices, changes in government regulations, tax laws, economic 
developments within the country and other factors such as 
litigation and industrial relations.
113
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
has an adequate internal financial controls system with reference to the Standalone Financial statement in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls. 
• 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Management and the Board of Directors.
• 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify 
our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
• 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the Standalone Financial Statements that, individually or in aggregate, makes it probable 
that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the financial statements may be influenced. We consider quantitative 
materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; and (ii) evaluating 
the effect of any identified misstatements in the financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
1. 
A. 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our report, we report that: 
 
 
a. 
 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit.
 
 
b. 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books except for the matters stated in paragraph 1(B)(f) below on reporting under rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) (“the Rules”);
 
 
c. 
 The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Statement of Cash Flow dealt with by this report are in 
agreement with the books of account;
 
 
d. 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the 
Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014;
 
 
e. 
 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2025, taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025, from being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164 (2) of the Act;
 
 
f. 
 The modifications relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith are as stated in paragraph 
1(A) (b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and paragraph 1(B)(f) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014;
 
 
g. 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 
A”. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
financial controls over financial reporting;
 
B. 
 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
a. 
 The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at March 31, 2025, on its financial position in its Standalone 
Financial Statements. Refer Note 39 to the Standalone Financial Statements; 
 
 
b. 
 The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses;
 
 
c. 
 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company;
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
112
2. 
Recognition of Assessment of impairment of investments in subsidiaries and joint venture
The management assesses at least annually, the existence of 
impairment indicators of each non-current investments, and in case 
of such existence, these assets are subject to an impairment test. 
For the purpose of the impairment testing, value in use has been 
determined by considering forecasting and discounting future cash 
flows.
Furthermore, the value in use is highly sensitive to changes in some 
of the inputs used for forecasting the future cash flows. Further, 
the determination of the recoverable amount of the investments 
of unquoted non-current investments involved judgment due to 
inherent uncertainty in the assumptions supporting the recoverable 
amount of these investments.
Accordingly, the impairment of non-current investments was 
determined to be a key audit matter in our audit of the standalone 
Ind AS financial statements.
Principal Audit Procedures
We performed the following procedures:
• 
 We assessed the reasonableness of key assumptions used 
in the cash flow forecasts including discount rates, expected 
growth rates and terminal growth rates.
• 
 We obtained the management testing of impairment and 
discussed the assumptions and other factors used in the 
assessment.
• 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models.
• 
 We evaluated the adequacy of disclosures in the Standalone 
Financial Statements related to management’s assessment 
on the impairment tests and as required under Indian 
Accounting Standard (Ind-AS) -36 Impairment of Assets
Based on the work carried out, we did not have any reason to 
believe that the investments were not properly valued.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis, Report on Corporate Governance and Director’s Report including Annexures to Director’s Report, 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The aforesaid report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Standalone Financial 
Statements or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
When we read the Company’s annual report and if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance and shall take appropriate actions, if required.
Responsibilities of Management and Board of Directors for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation and 
presentation of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance 
including other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also: 
• 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
• 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company 
115
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements of the PPAP Automotive Limited for 
the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
(Referred to in paragraph 1 (g) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion 
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 
2025, in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting and such internal 
financial controls were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal financial controls over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to 
as “the Act”).
Auditors’ Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, 
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting was established and maintained and whether such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exits, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend 
on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risk of misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due 
to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting include those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions 
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets 
that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
114
 
 
 
(i) 
 The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in note 60(vi) to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
 
 
 
(ii)  The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in note 60(vi) to the 
Standalone financial statements, no funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been 
received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
(iii)  Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 
11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement.
 
 
d. 
 The dividend declared / paid by the Company during the year and until the date of this audit report is in compliance with 
Section 123 of the Act.
 
 
e. 
 Based on our examination which included test checks, the Company has used accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account, which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the respective software except that audit logs have been enabled at the 
database level in the software from August 29, 2024 onwards.
 
 
 
 Further, the audit trail, to the extent maintained in the prior year, has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention
 
C. 
 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of Section 197(16) 
of the Act, as amended,
 
 
 In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us, the remuneration paid during the current year by the 
Company to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director 
is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other 
details under Section 197(16) of the Act which is required to be commented upon by us.
2. 
 As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of 
Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in the “Annexure B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, 
to the extent applicable.
 
For T R Chadha & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 006711N/N500028
Place: New Delhi 
Neena Goel
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Partner
Membership No. 057986
UDIN: 25057986BMIKLA1446 
117
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date to the 
members of PPAP Automotive Limited on the Standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
To the best of our information and according to the explanations provided to us by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of the audit, we state that:
i) 
In respect of the Company’s Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets:
 
a. 
(A)  The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of 
Property, Plant and Equipment and relevant details of right-of-use assets covered under Ind AS 116, ‘Leases’.
 
 
(B) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
b. 
 The Company has a program of verification of property, plant and equipment, so to cover all the items once every 3 years which, in 
our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. Pursuant to the program, certain 
Properties, Plant and Equipment were due for verification during the year and were physically verified by the Management during 
the year. According to the information and explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on such verification. 
 
c. 
 Based on the examination of the registered sale deed, and conveyance deed provided to us, we report that the title deeds of all the 
immovable properties of land and buildings disclosed in the financial statements included in property, plant and equipment, are held 
in the name of the Company as at the balance sheet date. Immovable properties of land and buildings whose title deeds have been 
pledged as security for loans are held in the name of the Company based on the confirmations directly received by us from the Bank.
 
d. 
The Company has not revalued any of its Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible assets during the year. 
 
e. 
 No proceedings have been initiated during the year or are pending against the Company as at March 31, 2025, for holding any 
Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules made thereunder.
ii) 
In respect of the Company’s Inventory: 
 
a. 
 The inventories were physically verified during the year by the Management at reasonable intervals. In our opinion and according 
to the information and explanations given to us, the coverage and procedure of such verification by the Management is appropriate 
having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its operations. No discrepancies of 10% or more in the aggregate for 
each class of inventories were noticed on such physical verification of inventories when compared with books of account. 
 
b. 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of 
` 5 crores, in aggregate, from banks, on the basis of security of current assets. In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the quarterly statements comprising of Stock statements and book debt statements, filed by the 
Company with banks are in agreement with the unaudited books of account of the Company of the respective quarters other than 
those mentioned in Note 19 of the Standalone Financial Statements.
iii) 
(a)  According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not made investments or provided bank guarantee 
or security during the year. The Company has granted unsecured loans during the year to a Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
 
 
(A)  the aggregate amount during the year, and balance outstanding at the balance sheet date with respect to such loans or 
advances in the nature of loan to wholly owned subsidiary are as follows: 
 
 
               ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Guarantees
Unsecured Loan
Aggregate amount granted/ 
provided during the year 
Balance outstanding 
as at 31.03.2025
Aggregate amount granted/ 
provided during the year 
Balance outstanding 
as at 31.03.2025
Subsidiary
-
312.29
1,361.00
3,697.50
 
 
(B)  In our opinion and according to information and explanations given to us, the Company has not given loans or advances 
in the nature of loan or guarantees or security to parties other than subsidiary during the period under Audit.
 
(b)  In our opinion and according to information and explanations given to us, the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans given 
during the year are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the company’s interest.
 
(c)  The Company has granted loan to the subsidiary which is repayable on demand. During the year the Company has not demanded 
such loan. Having regard to the fact that the repayment of principal and interest has not been stipulated by the Company, in our 
opinion the repayments of principal amounts and receipts of interest are regular. (Refer reporting under clause (iii)(f) below)
 
(d)  In respect of loans granted and advances in the nature of loans provided by the Company, there is no amount overdue for more 
than 90 days at the balance sheet date.
 
(e)  The Company has not granted any loan or advance in the nature of loan which has fallen due during the year. Further, no fresh 
loans were granted to any party to settle the overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
 
(f) 
 The Company has granted loan or advance in the nature of loan which are repayable on demand or without specifying any 
terms or period of repayment, as per details below: 
 
 
 
 
 
               ` in Lakhs
Particulars
All Parties
Promoters
Related Parties
Aggregate of loans/advances in nature of loan - Repayable on demand (A) 
Agreement does not specify any terms or period of repayment (B)
3,697.50
-
-
-
3,697.50
-
Total (A+B)
3,697.50
-
3,697.50
Percentage of loans/advances in nature of loan to the total loans
100%
-
100%
iv) Compliance with the sections 185 and 186
 
 According to the information and explanation given to us, the Company has complied with the provisions of sections 185 and 186 of 
the Act in respect of loans, investments, guarantees and security, as applicable.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
116
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
For T R Chadha & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 006711N/N500028
Place: New Delhi 
Neena Goel
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Partner
Membership No. 057986
UDIN: 25057986BMIKLA1446 
119
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
e. 
 On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or 
person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
 
f. 
 The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries or joint ventures.
x) 
Issue of securities
 
a. 
 The Company did not raise any money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) during the 
year. Accordingly, clause 3 (ix) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.  
 
b. 
 During the year the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible debentures 
(fully or partly or optionally) and hence reporting under clause (x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xi) Fraud
 
a. 
 To the best of our knowledge and information and explanations given by the management, we report that no fraud by the 
Company and no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
 
b. 
 To the best of our knowledge, no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies Act has been filed in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government, during the 
year and up to the date of this report. 
 
c. 
As represented to us by the Management, there were no whistle-blower complaints received by the Company during the year.
xii) Nidhi Company
 
The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence reporting under clause (xii) of the Order is not applicable. 
xiii) Related parties
 
 In our opinion, the Company is in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, where applicable, for all transactions 
with the related parties and the details of related party transactions have been disclosed in the financial statements etc. as required 
by the applicable accounting standards.
xiv) Internal Audit
 
a. 
In our opinion the Company has an adequate internal audit system commensurate with the size and the nature of its business.
 
b. 
We have considered, the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date for the period under audit.
xv) Non-cash transactions
 
 In our opinion, during the year the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with its directors and hence provisions of section 192 of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company.
xvi) Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
 
a. 
 The Company is not required to be registered under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Hence, reporting 
under clauses (xvi)(a), (b), and (c) of the Order is not applicable.
 
b. 
 The Group does not have any CIC as part of the group and accordingly reporting under clause (xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable.
xvii) Cash loss
 
 The Company has not incurred cash losses during the financial year covered by our audit and the immediately preceding financial year.
xviii) Resignation of statutory auditors
 
 There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, provisions of clause 3(xviii) of the order are not 
applicable.
xix) Ability to pay liabilities
 
 On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, 
other information accompanying the financial statements and our knowledge of the Board of Directors and Management plans 
and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to 
believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report indicating that the Company is not capable of meeting 
its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based 
on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within 
a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx) CSR unspent amount
 
 The Company has fully spent the required amount towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and there is no unspent CSR 
amount for the year requiring a transfer to a Fund specified in Schedule VII to the Act or special account in compliance with the 
provision of section 135(6) of the Act. Therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xx) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
 
For T R Chadha & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 006711N/N500028
Place: Noida 
Neena Goel
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Partner
Membership No. 057986
UDIN: 25057986BMIKLA1446 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
118
v) 
Public Deposits
 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted deposits or amount which are deemed to 
be deposits. Hence, reporting under clause (v) of the Order is not applicable.
vi) Cost Records
 
 The maintenance of cost records has been specified by the Central Government under section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013. We 
have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 
2014, as amended, prescribed by the Central Government for maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 
2013, and are of the opinion that prima facie, the prescribed cost records have been made and maintained by the Company. We have, 
however, not made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii) Statutory Dues
 
In respect of statutory dues:
 
a. 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is generally regular in depositing undisputed statutory 
dues with appropriate authorities including Goods and Services Tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income Tax, 
Sales-Tax, Duty of Customs, Cess and any other statutory dues applicable to the Company and that there are no undisputed 
statutory dues outstanding as at 31 March, 2025 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
 
 
 Undisputed demand payable in respect of Provident Fund and Employees’ State Insurance in arrears as at March 31, 2025, for 
a period of more than six months from the date they became payable are as given below:
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount 
(` in Lakhs)
Period to which 
the amount relates
Due Date
Date of 
Payment
Remarks
The 
Employees’ 
Provident 
Funds 
and Misc. Provisions 
Act, 1952
Provident 
Fund 
Payable
0.97
Jun’22 to Mar’25
15th of next 
month 
for 
which salary 
is due
Not Paid
The PF amount is unpaid 
on account of non-linking 
of UAN with Aadhar by an 
employee.
Employees’ 
State 
Insurance Act, 1948
ESI 
Payable
0.03
Jun’22 to Mar’25
15th of next 
month 
for 
which salary 
is due
Not Paid
The ESI amount is unpaid 
on account of non-linking 
of UAN with Aadhar by an 
employee.
 
b. 
 In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the company and the books and records examined by 
us in the normal course of the audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that there are no dues of income tax 
or sale tax or service tax or goods and service tax or duty of customs or duty of excise or value added tax or cess which have 
not been deposited on account of any dispute except as mentioned in table below:
Sr
Name of the Statute
Nature of 
Dues
Amount 
in ` Lakh
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the dispute is pending
1
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
2.12
May 2004 to July, 2004
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), Delhi
2
Central Excise Act, 1944
Excise Duty
70.72
April 2015 to March, 2016
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), Delhi
3
Goods & Service Tax
GST
0.74
F.Y. 2018-19
Joint/ 
Additional 
Commissioner 
(Appeals), CGST, Jaipur
4
Goods & Service Tax
GST
3.41
F.Y. 2017-18
Appellate
Authority/ Spl. Commissioner SGST, 
Department of Trade and Taxes, New 
Delhi
5
Goods & Service Tax
GST
52.03
F.Y. 2018-19
First appellate authority, Ahmedabad*
6
Goods & Service Tax
GST
12.27
F.Y. 2019-20
Joint/ 
Additional 
Commissioner 
(Appeals), CGST, Bhiwadi
7
Goods & Service Tax
GST
194.56
F.Y. 2020-21
Asstt. 
Commissioner, CGST Div- V, Noida, 
2024-25
viii) Undisclosed Income
 
 According to the information and explanations given to us and the records of the Company examined by us, there were no transactions 
relating to previously unrecorded income that were surrendered or disclosed as income in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 during the year.
ix) Borrowings
 
a. 
 In our opinion, the Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of interest 
thereon to any lender during the year. 
 
b. 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not been declared a willful defaulter by any bank 
or financial institution or government or any government authority.
 
c. 
 To the best of our knowledge and belief, in our opinion, term loans availed by the Company were, applied by the Company 
during the year for the purposes for which the loans were obtained.
 
d. 
 On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, funds raised on a short-term basis have, prima facie, not 
been used during the year for long-term purposes by the Company.
121
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
Particulars
Notes
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
INCOME
Revenue from operations
25
 53,764.17 
 50,386.22 
Other income
26
 458.45 
 377.44 
Total Income (I) 
 54,222.62 
 50,763.66 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
27
 29,997.57 
 30,095.26 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
28
 745.55 
 (188.64)
Employee benefits expense
29
 9,591.15 
 9,072.95 
Finance costs
30
 1,436.90 
 1,226.33 
Depreciation and amortization expense
31
 3,201.35 
 3,213.79 
Other expenses
32
 7,372.51 
 7,022.27 
Total Expenses (II)
 52,345.03 
 50,441.96 
Profit / (loss) before exceptional items and tax from continuing opera-
tions (I-II)
 1,877.59 
 321.70 
Profit / (loss) before tax from continuing operations (I-II)
 1,877.59 
 321.70 
Tax expenses
22
Current tax
 319.92 
 - 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
 0.43 
 (23.69)
Deferred tax
 147.96 
 812.64 
Profit / (loss) for the year
 1,409.28 
 (467.25)
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
33
Items that will not be reclassified to profit & loss in subsequent periods
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
 53.59 
 68.30 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
Income tax effect on such items
 (13.49)
 (17.19)
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 40.10 
 51.11 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 1,449.38 
 (416.14)
Earnings per equity share (computed on the basis of profit for the year) 
34
(1) Basic (in `)
 10.01 
 (3.34)
(2) Diluted (in `)
 9.96 
 (3.34)
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
(` in lacs)
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
120
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
31.03.2025
 As at 
31.03.2024 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
 28,384.93 
 28,481.94 
Capital work-in-progress
3a
 2,389.72 
 1,468.09 
Right of use assets
4
 711.78 
 335.42 
Investment properties
5
 58.61 
 74.50 
Other intangible assets
6
 888.17 
 865.95 
Intangible assets under development
6a
 253.57 
 198.07 
Financial assets
a. Investments
7
 6,604.51 
 6,504.28 
b. Other financial assets
8
 285.49 
 299.22 
Tax assets (net)
9
 5.23 
 168.70 
Other non-current assets
10
 591.35 
 1,316.55 
 40,173.36 
 39,712.72 
Current assets
Inventories
11
 4,867.20 
 5,850.43 
Financial assets
a. Investments
7
 446.91 
 624.72 
b. Trade receivables
12
 7,156.16 
 6,467.42 
c. Cash and cash equivalents
13
 62.67 
 97.75 
d. Other balances with banks
14
 9.61 
 11.21 
e. Loans
15
 3,797.10 
 2,398.62 
f. Other financial assets
8
 1,251.51 
 610.05 
Other current assets
16
 1,455.95 
 1,081.63 
 19,047.11 
 17,141.83 
Total Assets
 59,220.47 
 56,854.55 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
17
 1,408.65 
 1,400.00 
Other equity
18
 31,109.18 
 29,899.12 
 32,517.83 
 31,299.12 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
a. Borrowings
19
 5,737.05 
 6,391.99 
b. Lease liabilities
4
 474.43 
 199.65 
c. Other financial liabilities
20
 8.01 
 12.03 
Provisions
21
 480.88 
 533.16 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
22
 1,733.71 
 1,589.45 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
a. Borrowings
19
 9,220.16 
 7,469.20 
b. Lease liabilities
4
 213.68 
 104.54 
c. Trade payables
23
- total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,637.19 
 1,112.94 
- total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 4,911.27 
 4,534.94 
Other financial liabilities 
20
 855.15 
 699.59 
Other current liabilities
24
 1,303.60 
 2,805.33 
Provisions
21
 127.51 
 102.60 
Total Liabilities
 26,702.64 
 25,555.42 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 59,220.47 
 56,854.55 
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
BALANCE SHEET  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH,2025
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
123
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Loan
 (1,398.48)
 (917.71)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (187.26)
 (133.25)
Interest (including interest on lease liabilities) paid
 (1,326.59)
 (1,117.76)
Proceeds from issue of equity share capital
 8.65 
 - 
Proceeds of long term borrowings
 2,500.00 
 2,700.00 
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (3,154.95)
 (3,026.70)
Proceeds / (repayment) of short term borrowings
 1,750.96 
 1,939.64 
Dividends paid
 (316.95)
 (70.00)
Payment of unclaimed dividend
 1.60 
 0.17 
Net cash flow from financing activities (C)
 (2,123.02)
 (625.59)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 (35.08)
 56.43 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the 
year
 97.75 
 41.32 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 62.67 
 97.75 
Components of cash and cash equivalents at the 
end of the year
Cash on hand
 58.16 
 42.60 
Balance with banks
On current accounts
 4.51 
 55.15 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 - 
 - 
 62.67 
 97.75 
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Note: The cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7 
‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
122
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit before tax
 1,877.59 
 321.70 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,201.35 
 3,213.79 
Interest expense
 1,341.67 
 1,128.49 
Provision for bad & doubtful debts
 7.88 
 16.17 
Profit on sale of investments
 (14.00)
 (13.36)
Employees share based payments
 74.93 
 127.60 
Fair valuation gain on investment in mutual funds
 (17.38)
 (38.60)
Unrealised exchange Loss/(Gain)
 (7.75)
 (1.38)
Profit on cancellation of lease
 - 
 (1.35)
Interest income
 (318.58)
 (184.24)
 4,268.12 
 4,247.13 
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes
 6,145.71 
 4,568.82 
Working capital adjustments
Decrease / (Increase) in inventories
 983.22 
 (38.09)
Decrease / (Increase) in trade and other receivables
 (974.45)
 (1,145.39)
Movement in trade and other payables
 (441.86)
 307.21 
Movement in provisions
 12.74 
 123.10 
 (420.35)
 (753.19)
Cash generated from operations
 5,725.36 
 3,815.64 
Direct taxes refunded / (paid)(net)
 (156.89)
 (168.69)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
 5,568.47 
 3,646.95 
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant, equipment
 (906.84)
 (2,142.51)
Purchase of assets in CWIP
 (2,752.73)
 (576.36)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (226.56)
 (315.80)
Purchase of Intangible assets under development
 (91.28)
 (25.39)
Sale of tangible fixed assets
 69.34 
 38.18 
Sale of current investments
 449.99 
 921.82 
Purchase of current investments
 (240.80)
 (1,049.10)
Purchase of non current investments
 (100.23)
 - 
Interest income
 318.58 
 184.24 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (3,480.53)
 (2,964.92)
(` in lacs)
125
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
1. 
Corporate information
 
 PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED (“PPAP” or “the Company”) is a limited company domiciled in India and was incorporated on 18th 
October, 1995. The registered office of the Company is located at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate Phase III New Delhi - 110020, India.
 
 The company’s core competence is in developing Plastic and Rubber based extrusion systems as well as Plastic injection molding 
systems for various industries. The company also focuses in developing high precision plastic injection toolings.
 
 The company started its journey of achieving Global Level Excellence with the start of the Automotive Business. Over the years the 
company strives to delight its customers in the Automotive Industry as well as Industrial Products industry. PPAP group is poised to 
establish itself as a leading product solutions company in the areas of its core competence.
 
 With the advent of electrification of the Automotive Industry, PPAP has established itself as one of the leading manufacturers of Li-Ion 
based Battery pack solution provider for the 2 wheeler and 3 wheeler industry.
 
The Company’s state of the art manufacturing facilities are located in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu,  Rajasthan and Gujarat. 
 
The Company is listed on the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited . 
 
 The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31st March 2025 were authorized for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the Directors on 16th May, 2025.
2. 
Material accounting policy information
 
2.1 Basis of preparation
 
 
 The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as 
prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
and the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2016.
 
 
 The financial statements have been prepared on accrual and going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except 
for the certain assets and liabilities which have been measured at different basis and such basis has been disclosed in relevant 
accounting policy.
 
 
 The financial statements are presented in INR and all values are rounded to the nearest lakh (INR 00,000), except when 
otherwise indicated.
 
2.2 Material accounting policy information
 
 
a. 
Current versus non-current classification
 
 
 
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current / non-current classification. 
 
 
 
An asset/ liability is treated as current when it is:
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed or settled in normal operating cycle
 
 
 
• 
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised/settled within twelve months after the reporting period,
 
 
 
• 
 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period 
 
 
 
• 
 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period.
 
 
 
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. 
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities respectively.
 
 
b. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
 
 
Tangible assets
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost [i.e., cost of acquisition or construction inclusive of freight, erection and 
commissioning charges, non-refundable duties and taxes, expenditure during construction period, borrowing costs (in 
case of a qualifying asset) upto the date of acquisition/ installation], net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.  
 
 
 
 When significant parts of property, plant and equipment (identified individually as component) are required to be replaced 
at intervals, the Company derecognizes the replaced part, and recognizes the new part with its own associated useful 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
124
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
A. 
Equity share capital (refer note 17) 
(` in lacs)
Equity shares of ` 10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At 1st April, 2023
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2024
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Changes in equity share capital during the year on exercise of employee stock options
 86,513 
 8.65 
As at 31st March, 2025
 14,086,513 
 1,408.65 
B. 
Other equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Items of Other 
comprehensive 
income
Total equity
(refer note 18)
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
Employee 
Stock 
Options 
reserve
Re-measurement 
gains / (losses) 
on defined benefit 
plans
As at 31st March, 2023
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  22,121.08 
 48.76 
 (79.68)
 30,249.10 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 (467.25)
-
 - 
 (467.25)
Share based payments (Refer note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 136.17 
 - 
 136.17 
Other comprehensive income (note 33)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 51.11 
 51.11 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (467.27)
 136.17 
 51.11 
 (279.99)
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (70.00)
 - 
 - 
 (70.00)
As at 31st March, 2024
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  21,583.81 
 184.93 
 (28.57)
 29,899.11 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 1,409.28 
-
 - 
 1,409.28 
Exercise of employee stock options
 - 
 170.08 
 - 
 (170.08)
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Retained earnings
 - 
 - 
 0.77 
 (0.77)
 - 
 0.00 
Share based payments (Refer note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 77.61 
 - 
 77.61 
Other comprehensive income (note 33)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 40.10 
 40.10 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 170.08 
 1,410.05 
 (93.24)
 40.10 
 1,526.99 
Dividend (Refer note 51)
 - 
 - 
 (316.93)
 - 
 - 
 (316.93)
As at 31st March, 2025
 1,158.95 
 7,170.08  22,676.93 
 91.69 
 11.53 
 31,109.18 
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
127
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 Product development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. 
Amortisation is not recorded on product engineering in progress until development is complete.
 
 
e. 
Borrowing costs
 
 
 
 Borrowing costs are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
 
 
f. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 
 The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs 
of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
 
 
 
 When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 
 Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
 
 
g. 
Inventories
 
 
 
 Items of inventories are measured at lower of cost and net realizable value after providing for obsolescence, wherever 
considered necessary. Cost of inventories comprises of cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs including 
manufacturing overheads incurred in bringing them to their respective present location and condition. Cost of raw material, 
stores and spares, packing materials, trading and other products are determined on moving weighted average basis. Work-
in-progress is carried at cost or net realisable value whichever is lower.
 
 
h. 
Revenue Recognition
 
 
 
The Company derives revenues primarily from manufacturing and sale of automotive components and molds.
 
 
 
 Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
 
 
Arrangements with customers for sale of automotive components and molds are mostly on a fixed – price basis. 
 
 
 
 Revenue from fixed-price contracts are recognised when the performance obligations are satisfied upon delivery of 
components to the customers and where there is no uncertainty as to measurement or collectability of consideration. When 
there is uncertainty as to measurement or ultimate collectability, revenue recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is 
resolved.
 
 
 
 The Company accounts for volume discounts and pricing incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based on the 
rateable allocation of the discounts/ incentives to each of the underlying performance obligation that corresponds to the 
progress by the customer towards earning the discount/ incentive. Also, when the level of discount varies with increase 
in levels of revenue transactions, the Company recognizes the liability based on its estimate of the customer’s future 
purchases. If it is probable that the criteria for the discount will not be met, or if the amount thereof cannot be estimated 
reliably, then discount is not recognized until the payment is probable and the amount can be estimated reliably. The 
Company recognizes changes in the estimated amount of obligations for discounts in the period in which the change 
occurs.
 
 
 
 Contract modifications are accounted for when additions, deletions or changes are approved either to the contract scope 
or contract price.
 
 
 
 Revenues in excess of invoicing are classified as contract assets (which we refer as unbilled revenue) while invoicing in 
excess of revenues are classified as contract liabilities (which we refer to as unearned revenues).
 
 
 
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
 
 
 
 Interest income is recognized on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the interest rate 
applicable.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
126
life and it is depreciated accordingly. Whenever major inspection/overhaul/repair is performed, its cost is recognized in 
the carrying amount of respective assets as a replacement, if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and 
maintenance costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the cost of the 
respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are eliminated from financial statements, either on disposal or when retired from active use. 
Losses/gains arising in case retirement/disposals of property, plant and equipment are recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss in the year of occurrence.
 
 
 
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment are provided to the extent of depreciable amount on the straight line (SLM) 
Method. Depreciation is provided at the rates and in the manner prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 
except on some assets, where useful life has been taken based on internal technical evaluation as given below:
Particulars
Useful lives 
Dies and Molds
15 years
 
 
 
 Leasehold Land and Leasehold Improvements are amortized over the period of the lease or the useful life of the asset, 
whichever is lower.
 
 
 
 The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation/ amortization of property, plant and equipment are reviewed 
at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
 
 
 
i. 
Capital work in progress
 
 
 
 
 Capital work in progress includes construction stores including material in transit/ equipment / services, etc. received 
at site for use in the projects.
 
 
 
 
 All revenue expenses incurred during construction period, which are exclusively attributable to acquisition / construction 
of fixed assets, are capitalized at the time of commissioning of such assets.
 
 
c. 
Investment properties
 
 
 
 Investment properties held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both are stated in the balance sheet at cost, less 
any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged on 
a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Any gain or loss on disposal of investment property is determined as 
the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. Transfer to, or from, investment property is done at the carrying amount of the property.
 
 
d. 
Intangible assets
 
 
 
 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and  accumulated impairment loss.
 
 
 
 Intangible assets with finite lives (i.e. software and licenses) are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for 
impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and method 
for an intangible asset is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
 
 
 
 Costs relating to computer software and technical know-how are capitalised and amortised on straight line method over 
their estimated useful economic life of six years.
 
 
 
Internally generated: Research & development Costs
 
 
 
 a) 
Research costs are charged to the statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which they are incurred.
 
 
 
b) 
 Product development costs incurred on new dies and molds and new products are  recognised as intangible assets, 
when feasibility has been established, the Company has committed technical, financial and other resources to 
complete the development and it is  probable that asset will generate future economic benefits.
 
 
 
 
 The cost of an internally generated intangible asset is the sum of directly attributable expenditure incurred from the 
date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria to the completion of its development.
 
 
 
 
Product development costs is amortised over the life of the related product, being a period of 6 years.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
129
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
 
 
 
 Other long-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss as and when they accrue. 
The Company determines the liability using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations carried out as at the 
balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses in respect of such benefits are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
 
 
 
Post-employment obligations
 
 
 
Defined contribution plans:
 
 
 
 The Company makes payments made to defined contribution plans such as provident fund and employees’ state insurance 
fund. The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted 
for as defined contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
 
 
 
Defined benefit plans:
 
 
 
 The Company has defined benefit plan namely gratuity fund for employees. The gratuity fund is recognised by the income 
tax authorities and is administered through trust set up by the Company. Any shortfall in the size of the fund maintained 
by the trust is additionally provided for in profit or loss. The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of 
gratuity plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of 
plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuary using the projected unit credit method. The 
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows by reference 
to market yields at the end of the reporting period on Government bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation. The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in profit or loss.
 
 
 
 Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained 
earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss as past 
service cost. 
 
 
k. 
Employee Share based Payments
 
 
 
 The Company operates equity settled share based plan for the employees (Referred to as employee stock option plan 
(ESOP)). ESOP granted to the employees are measured at fair value of the stock options at the grant date using Black-
Scholes model. Such fair value of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase 
in equity (employee stock option reserve). At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of number 
of equity shares expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss such that cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the 
employee stock option reserve. The Company recovers the expenses incurred on behalf of its subsidiary for the stock 
options granted to the employees of the subsidiaries. 
 
 
l. 
Royalty 
 
 
 
 The Company pays/ accrues for royalty in accordance with the relevant licence agreement with the technical know-how 
provider. The lump sum royalty incurred towards obtaining technical assistance/ technical know-how and engineering support 
to manufacture new parts, ownership of which rests with the technical know-how provider, is recognised as an intangible asset. 
Royalty payable on sales of products i.e. running royalty is charged to the Statement of Profit and loss as and when incurred.
 
 
m. Leases
 
 
 
As a lessee:
 
 
 
 The Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (ROU) and a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in which it is 
a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. For these short-term 
and low value leases, the Company recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease 
term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised. 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
128
 
 
 
Foreign currency transactions
 
 
 
The Company’s financial statements are presented in INR, which is also its functional currency. 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in functional currency using the exchange rates at the date the 
transaction.
 
 
 
 At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are reported using the exchange rate prevailing at the year 
end.
 
 
 
Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. 
 
 
i. 
Taxes on income
 
 
 
Current tax
 
 
 
 Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid/ recovered to/from the taxation authorities. The tax rates and 
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
 
 
 
 Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity/other comprehensive income is recognised under the 
respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
 
 
 
 Current tax assets are offset against current tax liabilities if, and only if, a legally enforceable right exists to set off the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
 
 
 
 Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT), paid in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 gives rise to expected future economic 
benefits in the form of adjustment of future tax liability arising within a specified period, is recognised as an asset only to the 
extent there is convincing evidence that the Company will pay normal income tax during the specified period. Such asset 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and the carrying amount of MAT credit asset is written down to the extent there is 
no longer convincing evidence to the effect that the Company will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
 
 
 
Deferred tax
 
 
 
 Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any 
unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available 
against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can 
be utilised.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date. Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity/other comprehensive income is recognized in 
respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss.
 
 
 
 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
 
 
j. 
Employee benefits
 
 
 
Short-term obligations
 
 
 
 Liabilities for wages and salaries including non-monetary benefits that are expected to be settled within twelve months of 
rendering the service are recognised in the period in which the employee renders the related service and are measured at 
the undiscounted amount expected to be paid.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
131
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
 
 
 
Contingent liability is disclosed in the case of:
 
 
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from past events, when it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation;
 
 
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from past events, when no reliable estimate is possible
 
 
 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
 
 
 
Earnings per share
 
 
 
 Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed 
by dividing adjusted net profit after tax by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity shares and dilutive potential 
equity shares during the year. 
 
 
o. 
Recent accounting pronouncements
 
 
 
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standards or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. During the year ended March 31, 2025, MCA has notified 
Ind AS 117 - Insurance Contracts and amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to sell and leaseback transactions, 
applicable from April 1, 2024. The Company has assessed that there is no significant impact on its financial statements.
 
 
 
 On May 9, 2025, MCA notifies the amendments to IND AS 21- Effects of changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. These 
amendments aim to provide clearer guidance on assessing currency exchangeability and estimating exchanges rates 
when currencies are not readily exchangeable. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after April 
1, 2025. The Company is currently assessing the probable impact of these amendments in its financial statements.
 
 
p. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand, cheques on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as 
defined above.
 
 
q. 
Fair value measurement
 
 
 
 The Company measures financial instruments such as derivatives and certain investments, at fair value at each balance 
sheet date. 
 
 
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole: 
 
 
 
• 
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
directly or indirectly observable 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable 
 
 
 
 For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the balance sheet on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
130
 
 
 
Lease Liability
 
 
 
 At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease 
payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The 
lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company 
and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising the option to 
terminate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognized as expenses in the period in 
which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
 
 
 
 In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement 
date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments 
made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease 
term, a change in the lease payments.
 
 
 
Right of Use (ROU) Assets
 
 
 
 The ROU assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made at or before 
the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
 
 
 
 Whenever the Company incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site on which 
it is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision 
is recognised and measured under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The costs are 
included in the related right-of-use asset.
 
 
 
 The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section 2.3, Impairment of non-
financial assets.
 
 
 
 ROU assets are depreciated over the shorter period of the lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. If the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying 
asset’s useful life. The depreciation starts at the commencement date of the lease.
 
 
 
 Lease liability and ROU asset is separately presented in the balance sheet and lease payments is classified as financing 
cash flows.
 
 
 
As a lessor :
 
 
 
 The Company enters into lease arrangements as a lessor with respect to some of its investment properties and buildings.
 
 
 
 Leases for which the Company is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as finance lease. All 
other leases are classified as operating leases.
 
 
 
 Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
 
 
 Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Company’s net 
investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate 
of return on the Company’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
 
 
n. 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
 
 
 
 Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past events 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
 
 
 
 If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
133
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month ECL. 
 
 
 
 
 Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a 
financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are 
possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
 
 
 
 
 ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the group in accordance with the contract 
and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When 
estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider:
 
 
 
 
• 
 All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over 
the expected life of the financial instrument.
 
 
 
 
• 
Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms
 
 
 
 
 As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio 
of its trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life 
of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed 
default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed. On that basis, the Company 
estimates the following provision matrix at the reporting date:
Less than 6 months
6 months -1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Default rate
0.05%
1.00%
50.00%
75.00%
100.00%
 
 
 
 
 ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the 
statement of profit and loss (P&L). This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the P&L.
 
 
 
b) 
Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Company classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortized cost, except for financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be subsequently 
measured at fair value.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
 
 
 All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and 
borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
 
 
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized as 
well as through the EIR amortization process.
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial 
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. financial liabilities are classified 
as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
132
 
 
r. 
 Financial instruments
 
 
 
 A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a   financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.
 
 
 
a) 
Financial assets
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Company classifies financial assets as subsequently measured at amortized cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of its business model for managing the financial 
assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
 
 
 
 
 All financial assets are recognized initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value 
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified in below categories:
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective 
is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if it is held within a 
business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets 
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Company has made an irrevocable election 
for its investments which are classified as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair value in 
other comprehensive income based on its business model. 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued through profit 
or loss.
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is primarily derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or the 
Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset.
 
 
 
 
Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
 
 
 
 
 The Company has accounted for its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at cost less impairment 
loss, if any. 
 
 
 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
 
 
 
 
 The Company assesses impairment based on expected credit losses (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss, the calculation of which is based on historical data, on the financial assets that are trade receivables 
or contract revenue receivables and all lease receivables.
 
 
 
 
 The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables or 
contract revenue receivables and all lease receivables resulting from transactions within the scope of Ind AS 116.
 
 
 
 
 The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognizes impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
 
 
 
 For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines that 
whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased 
significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, 
lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
135
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
Judgements
 
 
 In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements:
 
 
Contingencies
 
 
 Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course of business in relation to claims against the Company, including legal, 
contractor, land access and other claims. By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future 
events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum, of contingencies inherently involves the 
exercise of significant judgments and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
 
 
Estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are described below. The Company based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to 
market change or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions 
when they occur.
 
 
Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. It is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair 
value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators.
 
 
Defined benefit plans
 
 
 The cost of the defined benefit plan and other post-employment benefits and the present value of such obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments 
in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
 
 
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
 When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based on 
quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. The inputs to 
these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgment is required 
in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
 
Impairment of financial assets
 
 
 The impairment provisions for financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. The 
Company uses judgments in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on 
Company’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
134
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
c) 
Offsetting of financial instruments 
 
 
 
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to 
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
 
 
d) 
Derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps, full 
currency swaps and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity 
price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
 
 
 
 
 Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
 
e) 
Government grants
 
 
 
 
 Government grants are recognized where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attached conditions will be complied with.
 
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an asset, the cost of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon is treated as 
capital grant which is recognized as income in statement of profit and loss over the period and in proportion in which 
depreciation is charged.
 
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognized as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the 
related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed.
 
 
 
 
 When the Company receives grants of non-monetary assets, the asset and the grant are recorded at fair value 
amounts and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of the benefit of the 
underlying asset.
 
 
 
 
 When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the 
current applicable market rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as a government grant. The loan or 
assistance is initially recognized and measured at fair value and the government grant is measured as the difference 
between the initial carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per 
the accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities.
 
 
 
f) 
Unless specifically stated to be otherwise, these policies are consistently followed.
 
2.3 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated 
and are based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
 
 
 In particular, the Company has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are 
required. Further information on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below 
and also in the relevant notes to the financial statements. Changes in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
137
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
3a. Capital work-in-progress
Particulars
Building 
Construction
Plant & 
Machinery
Furniture& 
Fixtures
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Moulds 
 
Computer 
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2023
 98.66 
 772.48 
 2.00 
 0.59 
 17.99 
 - 
 891.74 
Additions
 435.87 
 1,388.79 
 37.89 
 22.90 
 3.87 
 86.19 
 1,975.51 
Disposals / capitalizations
 11.91 
 1,346.57 
 21.83 
 13.60 
 2.18 
 3.06 
 1,399.15 
As at 1st April, 2024
 522.62 
 814.70 
 18.06 
 9.89 
 19.68 
 83.13 
 1,468.09 
Additions
 556.68 
 1,784.63 
 89.64 
 189.93 
 29.91 
 101.94 
 2,752.73 
Disposals / capitalizations
 58.07 
 1,485.69 
 32.28 
 77.29 
 18.49 
 159.28 
 1,831.10 
As at 31st March, 2025
 1,021.23 
 1,113.64 
 75.42 
 122.53 
 31.10 
 25.79 
 2,389.72 
a) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2025
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 1,510.78 
 106.61 
 772.33 
 - 
 2,389.72 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2024
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 1,074.87 
 393.22 
 - 
 - 
 1,468.09 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
i) 
 There is no capital work in progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan at the end 
of current year and previous year.
4. 
Right of use assets
Particulars
 Leasehold Building 
 Vehicle 
 IT Assets 
Total
Lease liabilities
As at 1st April, 2023
 31.38 
 52.84 
 - 
 84.22 
 87.65 
Additions
 323.95 
 62.11 
 7.56 
 393.62 
 358.59 
Cancellation of lease
 55.28 
 - 
 - 
 55.28 
 (19.54)
Depreciation
 87.20 
 36.39 
 0.40 
 124.00 
 - 
Accumulated 
Depreciation 
on 
Cancellation of lease
 36.86 
 - 
 - 
 36.86 
 - 
Finance cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.73 
Lease payments (outflow)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (133.25)
As at 1st April, 2024
 249.71 
 78.55 
 7.15 
 335.42 
 304.19 
Additions
 467.69 
 56.50 
 31.90 
 556.09 
 531.87 
Depreciation
 133.84 
 40.17 
 5.72 
 179.73 
Finance cost
 39.31 
Lease payments (outflow)
 (187.26)
As at 31st March, 2025
 583.56 
 94.88 
 33.33 
 711.78 
 688.11 
Non-current portion
 474.43 
Current portion
 213.68 
As at 31st March, 2025
-
-
-
-
 688.11 
Non-current portion
 199.65 
Current portion
 104.54 
As at 31st March, 2024
-
-
-
-
 304.19 
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 44.
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities is 7.55%-9.02%.
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit & loss related to leases are as under:
Particulars
Year ended 31.03.2025
Year ended 31.03.2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 179.73 
 124.00 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 39.31 
 10.73 
Expense relating to short term and low value leases (included in other expenses)- 
Ref. Note 37
 9.50 
 4.50 
Total
 228.54 
 139.23 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
136
 
(` in lacs)
3. 
Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 Land 
 Factory 
Building 
 Plant & 
Machinery 
 Furniture 
& fixtures 
 Vehicle 
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Moulds 
 Computer 
 Total 
Cost 
As at 1st April, 
2023
2,210.27 
12,081.47 
 23,546.10 
 971.03 
 914.94 
 501.42  5,050.59 
 505.43  45,781.25 
Additions
 - 
 11.91 
 1,407.83 
 23.41 
 72.39 
 18.30 
 584.34 
 24.33 
 2,142.51 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 43.66 
 - 
 75.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 118.86 
As at 1st April, 
2024
2,210.27 
12,093.38 
 24,910.27 
 994.44 
 912.13 
 519.72  5,634.93 
 529.76  47,804.90 
Additions
 - 
 62.13 
 1,412.63 
 31.57 
 155.93 
 75.69 
 809.20 
 190.78 
 2,737.93 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 141.69 
 - 
 135.33 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 277.02 
As at 31st 
March, 2025
2,210.27 
12,155.51 
 26,181.21 
 1,026.01 
 932.73 
 595.41  6,444.13 
 720.54  50,265.81 
Depreciation
As at 1st April, 
2023
 90.22 
 2,215.90 
 10,626.76 
 425.69 
 605.99 
 346.70  1,862.47 
 352.27  16,526.00 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2023-24
 21.06 
 432.64 
 1,953.04 
 84.56 
 64.12 
 35.53 
 233.80 
 52.90 
 2,877.65 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 31.99 
 - 
 48.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80.68 
As at 1st April, 
2024
 111.28 
 2,648.54 
 12,547.81 
 510.25 
 621.42 
 382.23  2,096.27 
 405.17  19,322.97 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2024-25
 21.06 
 432.97 
 1,823.92 
 76.73 
 70.13 
 30.83 
 262.18 
 47.79 
 2,765.61 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 79.41 
 - 
 128.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 207.70 
As at 31st 
March, 2025
 132.34 
 3,081.51 
 14,292.32 
 586.98 
 563.26 
 413.06  2,358.45 
 452.96  21,880.88 
Net book value
As at 31st 
March, 2025
2,077.93 
 9,074.00 
 11,888.89 
 439.03 
 369.47 
 182.35  4,085.68 
 267.58  28,384.93 
As at 31st 
March, 2024
2,098.99 
 9,444.84 
 12,362.46 
 484.19 
 290.71 
 137.49  3,538.66 
 124.59  28,481.94 
Note : Property, plant & equipment refer material accounting policies note no 2.2b
(i) 
Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 
 
I. 
Refer note 19 for property, plant and equipment pledged / hypothecated as security for borrowing by the Company.
 
II. 
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment during the year. 
 
III.  The title deeds of all the immovable properties held by the Company (other than properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
139
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
6. Other Intangible assets
Cost 
Software
Technical Know How
Product Development
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2023
 566.84 
 1,590.10 
 - 
 2,156.95 
Additions
 48.33 
 129.63 
 137.84 
 315.80 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 615.17 
 1,719.73 
 137.84 
 2,472.75 
Additions
 7.88 
 183.19 
 71.27 
 262.34 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 623.05 
 1,902.92 
 209.11 
 2,735.09 
Amortisation
As at 1st April, 2023
 348.04 
 1,062.50 
 - 
 1,410.54 
Amortization charge for the year 2023-2024
 62.97 
 129.53 
 3.76 
 196.25 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 411.01 
 1,192.03 
 3.76 
 1,606.79 
Amortization charge for the year 2024-2025
 59.62 
 152.58 
 27.92 
 240.12 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 470.63 
 1,344.61 
 31.68 
 1,846.91 
Net book value
As at 31st March, 2025
 152.42 
 558.31 
 177.43 
 888.17 
As at 31st March, 2024
 204.16 
 527.70 
 134.08 
 865.95 
6a. Intangible assets under development
Software
Intangible Asset- 
Product Development
Total
As at 1st April, 2023
 - 
 172.68 
 172.68 
Additions
 37.08 
 162.00 
 199.08 
Disposals / capitalizations
 34.00 
 139.69 
 173.69 
As at 1st April, 2024
 3.08 
 194.99 
 198.07 
Additions
 10.84 
 80.44 
 91.28 
Disposals / capitalizations
 3.68 
 32.10 
 35.78 
As at 31st March, 2025
 10.24 
 243.33 
 253.57 
a) Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2025
Particulars
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of
Total
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 127.13 
 - 
 -  
253.57 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 -  
- 
b) Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2024
Particulars
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of
Total
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 87.71 
 - 
 -  
198.07 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 -  
- 
i) 
 There is no intangible assets under development whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan 
at the end of current year and previous year.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
138
 
(` in lacs)
5. Investment properties
 Land 
 Factory Building 
 Total 
Cost as at 1st April , 2023
 14.89 
 186.29 
 201.18 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 14.89 
 186.29 
 201.18 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 14.89 
 186.29 
 201.18 
Depreciation
Depreciation as at 1st April , 2023
 0.72 
 110.07 
 110.79 
Depreciation charge for the year 2023-24
 0.18 
 15.71 
 15.89 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 0.90 
 125.78 
 126.68 
Depreciation charge for the year 2024-25
 0.18 
 15.71 
 15.89 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 1.08 
 141.49 
 142.57 
Net book value
As at 31st March, 2025
 13.80 
 44.80 
 58.61 
As at 31st March, 2024
 13.98 
 60.51 
 74.50 
(a) Amount recognised in profit and Loss for Investment Properties are as under:
(` in lacs)
Year ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
Rental income
 56.81 
 56.81 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) on properties generating rental 
income
 2.35 
 0.85 
Depreciation and Amortization
 15.89 
 15.89 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) on properties not generating rental 
income
 - 
 - 
(b)  The Company has no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop Investment Properties or for repairs, maintenance 
and enhancements. There is no restrictions on the realisability of investment properties or the remittance of income and proceeds of 
disposal on the Company.
(c)  The fair value of the Company’s Investment properties as at March 31, 2025, has been arrived at on the basis of valuation carried out 
at the respective date. The fair value measurement for all the investments properties has been categorised as Level 2 based on the 
inputs to the valuation technique used. Considering the type of the assets, market approach (sales comparable method) to estimate 
the fair value of the subject properties is adopted.
 
The significant assumption used in the determination of fair value was the market price (per sqf).
 
 Under market approach, fair value is estimated based on comparable transactions. The market approach is based upon the principle 
of substitution under which a potential buyer will not pay more for the property than it will cost to buy a comparable substitute 
property. The unit of comparison applied by the Company is the price per square feet (‘sqf’).
 
Fair Value of Investment Properties:
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
 Level 2 
Land & Building
 2,461.51 
 2,269.04 
Total
 2,461.51 
 2,269.04 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
141
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
8. Other financial assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
 As at 
31.03.2025
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Security Deposits
 258.98 
 234.81 
Bank deposits (having original maturity more than 12 months)
 26.51 
 64.41 
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less 
than 12 months
 64.69 
 10.32 
Interest accrued on loan
 84.32 
 2.41 
Unbilled revenue
 1,072.67 
 541.34 
Insurance claim receivable
 10.68 
 43.81 
Share based Payments to employees of Subsidiary & Joint Venture
 14.01 
 11.35 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Foreign exchange forward contracts not qualifying or not designated in 
hedge accounting relationships
 5.14 
 0.82 
Total
 285.49 
 299.22 
 1,251.51 
 610.05 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss reflect the positive change in fair value of those foreign exchange forward 
contracts that are not designated in hedge relationships, but are, nevertheless, intended to reduce the level of foreign currency risk for 
expected sales and purchases.
* Bank deposits
Bank deposits are held as security against letter of credit and bank guarantees.
9.  Tax Assets (net)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Tax assets
(net of provision for income tax)
 5.23 
 168.70 
Total
 5.23 
 168.70 
10. Other non-current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Capital advances
 559.96 
 1,218.20 
Prepaid expenses
 18.04 
 20.93 
Other non current assets
 13.35 
 77.42 
Total
 591.35 
 1,316.55 
11. Inventories
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Raw materials
 2,670.44 
 2,864.58 
Work-in-progress
 776.09 
 682.90 
Finished goods
 1,147.57 
 1,986.31 
Stores and spares
 265.75 
 311.13 
Goods in transit
 7.35 
 5.51 
Total 
 4,867.20 
 5,850.43 
Note:
a. 
Refer note 19 (V) for inventory pledged / hypothecated as security for borrowing by the Company.
b. 
For mode of valuation refer material accounting policy information number 2.2 (g)
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
140
 
(` in lacs)
7. Investments
 Non-current 
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
(a) Investments in equity shares of Subsidiaries at cost
Unquoted
Avinya Batteries Ltd (formerly: PPAP Technology Limited) 1,37,99,235 (31st 
March, 2024: 1,37,99,235) equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up
 1,379.92 
 1,379.92 
 - 
 - 
Elpis Automotives Private Limited (formerly Elpis Components Distributors 
Private Limited 5,00,000 (31st March, 2024: 5,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 
each fully paid up
 50.00 
 50.00 
 - 
 - 
Other Equity Investment- Fair Value of Financial Guarantee given for Avinya 
Batteries Ltd (formerly: PPAP Technology Limited)*
 21.36 
 21.36 
 - 
 - 
 1,451.28 
 1,451.28 
 - 
 - 
(b) Investment in equity shares of joint venture company at cost
Unquoted
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited 4,85,00,000 (31st March, 2024 : 
4,85,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up
 4,853.00 
 4,853.00 
 - 
 - 
 4,853.00 
 4,853.00 
 - 
 - 
Other Investments
(c) Investment in Preference Shares at fair value through profit or loss
Unquoted
0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of Motovolt Mobility 
Private Limited: 4,87,800 (March 31, 2024: 4,87,800) Shares of ` 10 each 
fully paid up #
 200.00 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of NRV Designx Private 
Limited: 185 (March 31, 2024: nil) Shares of ` 10 each fully paid up #
 100.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 300.23 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
(d) Investment in mutual fund at fair value through profit or loss
Quoted
ICICI Mutual Fund: 37277.951 (March 31, 2024: 3124.821) units
 - 
 - 
 11.62 
 12.02 
PGIM Flexi Cap: 53445.85 (March 31, 2024: 41080.896) units
 - 
 - 
 17.81 
 13.76 
ABSL Multicap: 115638.243 (March 31, 2024: 84268.6) units
 - 
 - 
 20.66 
 14.00 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund: 1101671.789 (March 31, 2024: 
19,51,999.543) units
 - 
 - 
 298.45 
 522.62 
Canara Robecco Emerging Equities: 8235.01 (March 31, 2024: 6496.21) 
units
 - 
 - 
 19.26 
 14.04 
Axis Midcap: 19423.199 (March 31, 2024: 15446.494) units
 - 
 - 
 19.67 
 12.83 
SBI Contra: 7948.063 (March 31, 2024: 4862.165) units
 - 
 - 
 28.49 
 16.29 
HDFC Large And Midcap Fund: 4887.20 (March 31, 2024: 3392.036) units
 - 
 - 
 15.15 
 9.76 
Mahindra Manulife Multi Cap Badhat Yojana: 49476.934 (March 31, 2024: 
31434.071) units
 - 
 - 
 15.80 
 9.41 
 - 
 - 
 446.91 
 624.72 
Other Investments
(c) Investment in Preference Shares at fair value through profit or loss
Unquoted
-
-
-
-
Total
 6,604.51 
 6,504.28 
 446.91 
 624.72 
* Financial guarantees given to subsidiary was initially recognised at fair value will continue to be accounted as Other Equity 
Investment until the investment in subsidiary is derecognised or impaired.
# These preference shares are non-cumulative. Cost is treated as fair value as there is no significant observable input available 
for the same.
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 446.91 
 624.72 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 6,604.51 
 6,504.28 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
143
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Trade receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or 
jointly with any other person
 - 
 - 
Due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director 
or a member
 570.61 
 326.88 
13. Cash and cash equivalents
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024 
Balances with banks
On current accounts
 4.51 
 55.15 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 - 
 - 
Cash on hand
 58.16 
 42.60 
Total
 62.67 
 97.75 
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
Balance with banks 
On current accounts 
 4.51 
 55.15 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months 
 - 
 - 
Cash on hand 
 58.16 
 42.60 
Total 
 62.67 
 97.75 
14. Other balances with banks
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Bank Balance: unpaid dividend account (earmarked balances with banks)
 9.61 
 11.21 
Total
 9.61 
 11.21 
15. Loans
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024
Loans to related parties
(Considered good, unsecured)
Loan to subsidiary company 
 3,697.50 
 2,336.50 
Other loans
(Unsecured, considered good)
Loan to staff
 74.68 
 42.81 
Labour welfare receivable
 24.92 
 19.31 
Total
 3,797.10 
 2,398.62 
Loans are non-derivative financial assets which generate a fixed or variable interest income for the Company. The carrying value may be 
affected by changes in the credit risk of the counterparties.
16. Other current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024
Advance to suppliers & contractors
 96.21 
 87.57 
Prepaid expenses
 407.15 
 282.18 
Balances with government authorities
 863.83 
 667.39 
Other current assets
 88.76 
 44.49 
Total
 1,455.95 
 1,081.63 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
142
 
(` in lacs)
12. Trade receivables
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Unsecured, considered good
 7,156.16 
 6,467.42 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 24.75 
 16.86 
 7,180.91 
 6,484.28 
Less: Impairment allowance for trade receivable - credit impaired
 24.75 
 16.86 
Total 
 7,156.16 
 6,467.42 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2025
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 5,597.48 
 1,512.18 
 24.03 
 16.68 
 5.79 
 - 
 - 
 7,156.16 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 0.79 
 0.09 
 6.49 
 17.37 
 - 
 - 
 24.75 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,597.48 
 1,512.97 
 24.13 
 23.17 
 23.16 
 - 
 - 
 7,180.91 
Less: Impairment allowance for 
trade receivable - credit impaired
 (24.75)
Net Trade receivables
 5,597.48 
 1,512.97 
 24.13 
 23.17 
 23.16 
 - 
 - 
 7,156.16 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2024
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 5,829.48 
 579.58 
 44.72 
 13.59 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 6,467.42 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 0.29 
 0.45 
 15.98 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 16.86 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,829.48 
 579.87 
 45.17 
 29.56 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 6,484.28 
Less: Impairment allowance for 
trade receivable - credit impaired
 (16.86)
Net Trade receivables
 5,829.48 
 579.87 
 45.17 
 29.57 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 6,467.42 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
145
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
18. Other equity
Amount
a) Securities premium
As at 1st April, 2023
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 170.08 
As at 31st March, 2025
 7,170.08 
b) Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
As at 1st April, 2023
 (79.68)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 51.11 
As at 1st April, 2024
 (28.57)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 40.10 
As at 31st March, 2025
 11.53 
Other comprehensive income for the period
c) Employee Stock Options reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 48.76 
Employee Stock Options reserve for the period
 136.17 
As at 1st April, 2024
 184.93 
Employee Stock Options reserve for the period
 77.61 
Transfer to securities premium
 (170.08)
Transfer to Retained earnings
 (0.77)
As at 31st March, 2025
 91.69 
d) General reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 1,158.95 
Add / (Less): Movement during the year
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 1,158.95 
Add / (Less): Movement during the year
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 1,158.95 
e) Retained earnings
As at 1st April, 2023
 22,121.07 
Profit for the period
 (467.25)
Less: Final dividend paid
 (70.00)
As at 1st April, 2024
 21,583.81 
Profit for the period
 1,409.28 
Add: Transfer from Employee Stock Options reserve
 0.77 
Less: Final dividend paid
 (176.07)
Less: Interim dividend Paid
 (140.86)
As at 31st March, 2025
 22,676.93 
Total other equity
As at 31st March, 2025
 31,109.18 
As at 31st March, 2024
 29,899.12 
Nature and purpose of reserves
a) 
Securities premium
 
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in securities premium.
b) 
Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
 
 The amount of actuarial gains / losses recognised on post employment defined benefit employee obligations till date. Actuarial gains / losses 
are differences between any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience adjustments within 
the plans which are recognised  in ‘other comprehensive income’ and subsequently not reclassified to the statement of profit and loss. 
c) 
Employee Stock Options reserve
 
 The Company has share option scheme under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to certain executives 
and senior employees.
 
 The employee stock options reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, including 
key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer Note 36 for further details of these plans.
d) 
General reserve
 
 he general reserve is free reserve which is created from time to time on transfer of profits from retained earnings. General reserve is created 
by transfer from one component of equity to another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, items included in general reserve 
will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss.
e) 
Retained earnings
 
 Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other distributions 
paid to investors.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
144
 
(` in lacs)
17. Equity share capital
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Authorized
2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each (Prev. Year 2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Subscribed and fully paid up
1,40,86,513 equity shares of ` 10 each (Prev. Year 1,40,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 1,408.65 
 1,400.00 
Total
 1,408.65 
 1,400.00 
A. 
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at  
31.03.2025
As at  
31.03.2024
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares 
Amount 
At the beginning of the year
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issued during the year
 86,513.00 
 8.65 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 14,086,513 
 1,408.65 
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
B. 
Terms / Rights attached to equity shares
 
 The Company has only one class of equity share having face value of ` 10 per share. The holder of the equity shares is entitled to 
receive dividend as declared from time to time. The holder of share is entitled to voting rights proportionate to their share holding.
 
 In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive assets of the Company remaining 
after settlement of all liabilities. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
C. 
Following shareholders hold equity shares more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company:
Name of Shareholder
As at  
31.03.2025
As at  
31.03.2024
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Ajay Kumar Jain
 3,867,180 
27.45%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
Abhishek Jain
 1,002,404 
7.12%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.72%
 3,200,000 
22.86%
D. 
 Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to contract(s) without 
payment being received in cash
Particulars
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to 
contract(s) without payment being received in cash
Nil
Nil
E. 
Details of Promoter’s Shareholding
S. No.
Promoter’s Name
As at 31.03.2025
As at 31.03.2024
%age change 
during the 
year
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
1
Ajay Kumar Jain 
 3,867,180 
27.45%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
-0.17%
2
Abhishek Jain 
 1,002,404 
7.12%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
-0.04%
3
Vinay Kumari Jain
 533,890 
3.79%
 533,890 
3.81%
-0.02%
4
Ajay Kumar Jain (HUF)
 90,123 
0.64%
 90,123 
0.64%
0.00%
5
Rashi Jain 
 45,540 
0.32%
 45,540 
0.33%
-0.01%
6
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.72%
 3,200,000 
22.86%
-0.14%
7
Prism Suppliers Private Limited 
 193,700 
1.38%
 193,700 
1.38%
0.00%
8
Smart Commotrade Private Limited      
 168,030 
1.19%
 168,030 
1.20%
-0.01%
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
147
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Note III:
Secured by way of hypothecation of vehicles.
Note IV:
The Company has used the loans for the purpose for which these were taken.
Note V:
Working capital loans from banks are secured by hypothecation of inventories, book debts, other current assets and factory land & 
building situated at Sector-81, Phase-II, Noida on first pari passu basis. Further, working capital facilities from Axis Bank & ICICI Bank 
are secured by first pari passu charge on immovable property situated at Kasna, Greater Noida.
Note VI:
Bank
Facility
 Limit
MCLR / Repo. Rate (% per annum)
Spread (% per annum)
HSBC Bank
CC
 1,000.00 
 8.50 
 0.80 
HDFC Bank
CC
 1,800.00 
 9.20 
 - 
ICICI Bank
CC
 2,200.00 
 9.00 
 0.20 
Axis Bank
CC
 100.00 
 6.25 
 2.40 
SBI Bank
CC
 1,000.00 
 8.85 
 0.15 
Note VII:
Supplier finance arrangement (reverse factoring) with Mynd Solutions Private Limited at bid rate of 7.35- 7.70 % and repayment period 
15-90 days after invoice date.
Note VIII:
In pursuant to borrowing taken by the Company from banks on security of current assets, the Company is required to submit the 
information periodically which includes the stock statement, trade receivable and trade payable etc. During the current year, the Company 
has submitted the following financial information to all banks from whom working capital demand loan has been taken on quarterly basis 
which in some of these cases is not reconciled with books as follows:
Particulars/ Quarter ending
Amount as per 
books of accounts
Amount as reported in the 
quarterly return / statement
Difference
Reason for material discrepancies
Inventories
30.06.2024
 6,059.00 
 5,943.15 
 115.85 
Due to timing differences in reporting to bank and 
routine book closure process.
30.09.2024
 6,424.67 
 6,095.75 
 328.92 
31.12.2024
 6,130.68 
 5,940.90 
 189.78 
31.03.2025
 4,867.20 
 4,638.28 
 228.92 
Trade Receivables
30.06.2024
 5,236.67 
 5,683.39 
 (446.72)
Due to timing differences in reporting to bank and 
routine book closure process.
30.09.2024
 7,721.38 
 7,729.04 
 (7.66)
31.12.2024
 6,661.33 
 6,661.54 
 (0.21)
31.03.2025
 6,609.58 
 6,634.46 
 (24.88)
Trade Payables
30.06.2024
 3,230.42 
 3,271.61 
 (41.19)
Due to timing differences in reporting to bank and 
routine book closure process.
30.09.2024
 3,532.51 
 3,532.51 
 (0.00)
31.12.2024
 3,624.47 
 3,624.47 
 (0.00)
31.03.2025
 3,280.30 
 2,913.93 
 366.37 
Inventories
30.06.2023
 6,721.96 
 6,104.76 
 617.20 
Due to timing differences in reporting to bank and 
routine book closure process.
30.09.2023
 5,740.57 
 5,277.11 
 463.46 
31.12.2023
 6,299.57 
 6,099.19 
 200.38 
31.03.2024
 5,850.43 
 5,718.65 
 131.78 
Trade Receivables
30.06.2023
 5,594.53 
 5,709.02 
 (114.49)
Due to timing differences in reporting to bank and 
routine book closure process.
30.09.2023
 5,551.67 
 5,606.72 
 (55.05)
31.12.2023
 5,000.67 
 5,045.75 
 (45.08)
31.03.2024
 5,707.32 
 5,770.49 
 (63.17)
Trade Payables
30.06.2023
 3,680.63 
 3,682.27 
 (1.64)
Due to timing differences in reporting to bank and 
routine book closure process.
30.09.2023
 3,734.52 
 3,736.51 
 (1.99)
31.12.2023
 3,346.13 
 3,346.13 
 (0.00)
31.03.2024
 3,710.18 
 3,736.83 
 (26.65)
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
146
 
(` in lacs)
19. Borrowings
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Secured
Term loans
Term loan from banks (refer note I below)
 8,351.09 
 8,521.07 
 - 
 - 
Term loan from financial institution (refer note II below)
 80.47 
 481.92 
 432.84 
 - 
Vehicle loans (refer note III below)
From banks
 207.03 
 109.48 
Less: Current maturities
 (2,901.54)
 (2,720.48)
 2,901.54 
 2,720.48 
Working capital loans from banks (refer note V below)
 3,652.26 
 4,593.72 
Short Term Loans from banks:
Unsecured
Supplier Finance Arrangements (refer note VII below)
 733.52 
 155.00 
Financial institution (refer note VIII below)
 1,500.00 
 - 
Total
 5,737.05 
 6,391.99 
 9,220.16 
 7,469.20 
Terms of borrowings
Type of loan
Loan outstanding 
MCLR/ 
Repo. Rate
Spread
Repayment terms
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
(% per 
annum)
(% per 
annum)
AXIS bank term loan
 203.70 
 425.93 
 6.75 
 2.40 Repayable in 11 monthly installment ` 18.52 lakhs each. 
 932.78 
 1,419.44 
 6.50 
 2.90 Repayable in 23 monthly installment ` 40.56 lakhs each. 
 132.04 
 200.93 
 6.50 
 2.90 Repayable in 23 monthly installment ` 5.74 lakhs each. 
 1,440.00 
 1,800.00 
 6.25 
 2.40 Repayable in 16 quarterly installment ` 90.00 lakhs each. 
 765.00 
 900.00 
 6.25 
 2.40 Repayable in 17 quarterly installment ` 45.00 lakhs each. 
HDFC bank term loan
 270.00 
 630.00 
 9.50 
 0.45 Repayable in 3 quarterly installment ` 90.00 lakhs each. 
 47.37 
 110.53 
 9.50 
 0.45 Repayable in 3 quarterly installment ` 15.79 lakhs each. 
 1,111.11 
 1,555.56 
 9.00 
 0.45 Repayable in 10 quarterly installment ` 111.11 lakhs each. 
SBI Term Loan
 56.62 
 - 
 8.85 
 0.15 Repayable in 5 monthly installment ` 11.33 lakhs each. 
 697.66 
 - 
 8.85 
 0.15 Repayable in 26 monthly installment ` 26.83 lakhs each. 
 194.80 
 - 
 8.85 
 0.15 Repayable in 29 monthly installment ` 6.50 lakhs each. 
ICICI bank term loan
 1,445.60 
 - 
 9.10 
 0.20 Repayable in 78 monthly installment ` 18.53 lakhs each. 
 1,054.40 
 - 
 9.10 
 0.20 Repayable in 78 monthly installment ` 13.52 lakhs each. 
HSBC bank term loan
 192.53 
 8.75 
 0.25 Taken over by SBI term loan 
 1,019.67 
 8.90 
 0.25 Taken over by SBI term loan 
 266.50 
 8.48 
 0.25 Taken over by SBI term loan 
Term loan from 
financial institution 
(PICUP) - see Note II 
below
 513.31 
 481.92 
 - 
 - Repayable in one installment after seven years from the 
date of disbursement i.e. 02.11.2018 for ` 432.99 lakhs and 
30.03.2022 for ` 121.66 lakhs. 
Vehicle loans from 
banks- see Note III 
below
 207.03 
 109.48 
 7 % to 
8.36% per 
annum 
 - Repayable in equal monthly instalments of 1 to 60 months 
Working capital loans 
from banks- see Note 
V & VII below
 3,652.26 
 4,593.72 
 see Note V & VI 
On demand 
Note I: 
Term loans from banks are secured by first pari passu charge on current assets, moveable fixed assets and factory land and building of the 
Company situated at Kasna, Greater Noida. Further, term loan from Axis bank is secured by first pari passu charge on immovable property 
situated at Sector-81, B Block, Phase -II, Noida.
Note II:
Loan from State Owned Corporation, viz. The Pradeshiya Industrial & Investment Corporation of U.P. Limited is secured by bank guarantee 
equivalent to 100% of loan amount.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
149
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
At India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.168% (31st March, 2024: 25.168%)
 472.55 
 80.97 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 
 (0.43)
 23.69 
Net disallowances on which deferred tax is not recognised
 3.68 
 27.25 
Adjustment for taxable timing difference
 - 
 729.69 
Income taxed at special rate
 (2.10)
 (2.00)
Exempted income / deductions
 33.87 
 (5.98)
Incremental deferred tax on account of financial assets and other items
 (24.91)
 (64.66)
Unabsorbed losses and depreciation carry forward and set off
 (14.35)
 - 
 468.31 
 788.95 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 468.31 
 788.95 
Income tax attributable to a discontinued operation 
 - 
 - 
 468.31 
 788.95 
 
C. 
Deferred tax
 
 
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and 
loss / OCI
 As at 
31.03.2025
 As at 
31.03.2024
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Adjustment for timing difference on- accelerated depreciation for tax 
purposes 
 1,864.91 
 1,851.07 
 (13.84)
 (864.53)
Provision for gratuity & leave encashment
 (153.12)
 (253.25)
 (100.13)
 (4.48)
Adjustment for timing difference
 - 
 - 
 (16.87)
 - 
Present valuation of borrowings & other items of temporary differences
 30.74 
 17.39 
 (13.35)
 39.17 
Modification of financial liability
 (8.82)
 (25.77)
 (17.27)
 - 
Deferred tax (expense) / income
 (161.46)
 (829.84)
Net deferred tax (assets) / liabilities
 1,733.71 
 1,589.45 
Reflected in the balance sheet as follows: 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Deferred tax assets
 153.12 
 253.25 
Deferred tax liabilities
 (1,886.83)
 (1,842.70)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 (1,733.71)
 (1,589.45)
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Opening balance
 1,589.45 
 785.37 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in profit & loss
 147.96 
 812.64 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in OCI
 13.49 
 17.20 
Modification of financial liability
 (17.19)
 (25.77)
Closing balance
 1,733.71 
 1,589.45 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
148
 
(` in lacs)
20. Other financial liabilities
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024 
Security deposits
 4.03 
 4.03 
 - 
 - 
Interest accrued on borrowings
 - 
 - 
 57.48 
 32.73 
Unclaimed dividends
 - 
 - 
 9.61 
 11.21 
Fair Value of Financial Guarantee given*
 3.98 
 8.00 
 4.04 
 3.79 
Other Payables (including payable to employees)
 - 
 - 
 784.02 
 651.86 
Total
 8.01 
 12.03 
 855.15 
 699.59 
* Maximum exposure to the credit risk, if the guarantee is called on, is ` 312.29 lakhs (PY ` 443.07 lakhs) 
312.29  
 443.07 
 
(` in lacs)
21. Provisions
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024 
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity
 302.21 
 354.35 
 97.75 
 73.79 
Provision for compensated absences (Refer note 35 for Ind AS 19 
disclosures)
 178.67 
 178.81 
 29.76 
 28.81 
Total
 480.88 
 533.16 
 127.51 
 102.60 
22. Income Taxes
 
 The major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 are:
 
A. 
Statement of profit and loss
 
(i) 
Profit & loss section 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024
Current income tax charge
 319.92 
 - 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year
 0.43 
 (23.69)
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 147.96 
 812.64 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit & loss 
 468.31 
 788.95 
 
(ii) OCI section
 
 
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024 
Net (loss) / gain on remeasurements of defined benefit plans 
 (13.49)
 (17.19)
Income tax charged to OCI
 (13.49)
 (17.19)
 
(` in lacs)
 
B. 
 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for financial year ended 
31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations 
 1,877.59 
 321.70 
Profit / (loss) before tax from a discontinued operation
 - 
 - 
Accounting profit before income tax 
 1,877.59 
 321.70 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
151
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
26. Other income
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Other non operating income 
Interest income
 318.58 
 184.24 
Profit on sale of investment
 14.00 
 13.36 
Gain on fair valuation of current investments
 17.38 
 38.60 
Foreign exchange gain
 - 
 22.86 
Profit on cancellation of leased assets
 - 
 1.35 
Rent received
 75.24 
 79.15 
Other Income
 28.52 
 33.15 
Guarantee/ Commission Income
 4.73 
 4.73 
Total
 458.45 
 377.44 
27. Cost of materials consumed
Year Ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Raw material
 26,499.73 
 27,651.74 
Dyes & chemicals
 237.81 
 237.83 
Packing material
 1,153.09 
 1,036.63 
Steel
 837.77 
 513.54 
Dies & molds
 1,269.17 
 655.52 
Total 
 29,997.57 
 30,095.26 
28. Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock in trade and work-in-progress
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress
 682.90 
 1,162.44 
Finished goods
 1,986.30 
 1,318.12 
Total inventories at the beginning of the year (A)
 2,669.20 
 2,480.56 
Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress
 776.09 
 682.90 
Finished goods
 1,147.56 
 1,986.30 
Total inventories at the end of the year (B)
 1,923.65 
 2,669.20 
Total (A-B)
 745.55 
 (188.64)
29. Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Salaries and wages
 8,662.82 
 8,073.71 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 380.15 
 359.87 
Staff welfare expenses
 548.18 
 639.37 
Total
 9,591.15 
 9,072.95 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
150
 
(` in lacs)
23. Trade payables
 As at 
31.03.2025
 As at 
31.03.2024 
   total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,637.19 
 1,112.94 
   total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 4,911.27 
 4,534.94 
Total
 6,548.46 
 5,647.88 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2025
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 1,036.28 
 600.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,637.19 
(ii) Others
 2,994.34 
 1,906.33 
 1.54 
 7.77 
 1.29 
 -  4,911.27 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,030.62 
 2,507.24 
 1.54 
 7.77 
 1.29 
 -  6,548.46 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2024
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 1,092.87 
 20.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,112.94 
(ii) Others
 3,117.17 
 1,384.36 
 33.41 
 - 
 - 
 -  4,534.94 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,210.04 
 1,404.42 
 33.41 
 - 
 - 
 -  5,647.88 
24. Other current liabilities
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Advance from customers
 825.85 
 2,167.12 
Statutory dues payable
 421.29 
 581.75 
Other payable
 56.46 
 56.46 
Total
 1,303.60 
 2,805.33 
25. Revenue from operations
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Sale of products
Automotive parts
 48,187.07 
 47,632.43 
Moulds
 5,382.63 
 2,556.11 
 53,569.70 
 50,188.54 
Other operating revenue
GST subsidy
 194.47 
 194.47 
Investment subsidy on employment
 - 
 3.21 
Total 
 53,764.17 
 50,386.22 
Note 25.1: Performance Obligation and disaggregation of revenue
The Company recognised revenue when (or as) a performance obligation was satisfied , i.e. when ‘control’ of the goods underlying the 
particular performance obligation were transferred to the customer and there is no unsatisfied performance obligation at the year end. 
The company operates and generates major revenue in domestic market. 
Note 25.2: Timing of revenue recognition
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Goods transferred at a point in time
 53,569.70 
 50,188.54 
Note 25.3: Contract Balances
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Trade Receivables (refer Note 12)
 7,156.16 
 6,467.42 
Unbilled revenue (Contract Assets- refer Note 8)
 1,072.67 
 541.34 
Contract Liabilities (Advance from customers- refer Note 24)
 825.85 
 2,167.12 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
153
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
33. Components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
 
 The disaggregation of changes to OCI by each type of reserve in equity is shown below:
During the year ended 31st March, 2024
Actuarial gains / losses on defined 
benefit employee obligations
Total
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 
 53.59 
 53.59 
Income tax effect
 (13.49)
 (13.49)
Total
 40.10 
 40.10 
During the year ended 31st March, 2023
Actuarial gains / losses on defined 
benefit employee obligations
Total
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 
 68.30 
 68.30 
Income tax effect
 (17.19)
 (17.19)
Total
 51.11 
 51.11 
34. Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
 Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS are calculated by dividing the profit for the year 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the 
weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity 
shares.
 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic earnings for the year
 1,409.28 
 (467.25)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic earnings for the year
 1,409.28 
 (467.25)
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic earnings per share
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
Add: Weighted average number of equity shares issued during the year in calculating basic 
earnings per share
 79,304 
 - 
 14,079,304 
 14,000,000 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted earnings per share (refer 
note below)
 14,149,442 
 14,097,105 
Earnings per equity share 
Basic (in `)
 10.01 
 (3.34)
Diluted (in `)
 9.96 
 (3.34)
Note: Weighted average number of equity shares used as denominator
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares used as denominator in calculating basic earnings 
per shares
 14,079,304 
 14,000,000 
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
Outstanding employee stock options (For details relating to stock options, refer note 36)
 70,138 
 97,105 
Weighted average number of equity shares and potential equity shares used as denominator in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
 14,149,442 
 14,097,105 
Face value of each equity share (in `)
10 
10 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
152
 
(` in lacs)
30. Finance costs
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Interest expense
 1,397.59 
 1,215.60 
Interest on lease liabilities
 39.31 
 10.73 
Total
 1,436.90 
 1,226.33 
31. Depreciation and amortization expense
 Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment (refer note 3)
 2,765.61 
 2,877.64 
Depreciation of Right of Use Assets (refer note 4)
 179.73 
 124.00 
Depreciation of Investment Properties (refer note 5)
 15.89 
 15.89 
Amortization of Intangible Assets (refer note 6)
 240.12 
 196.25 
Total
 3,201.35 
 3,213.79 
32. Other expenses
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Other manufacturing expenses
Stores and spares consumed
 210.83 
 255.78 
Power and fuel
 1,430.85 
 1,465.39 
Factory expenses
 417.82 
 363.61 
Repair & maintenance
Building
 35.12 
 19.83 
Machinery
 508.46 
 484.56 
Others
 362.20 
 326.31 
Administrative and other expenses
Rent
 9.49 
 4.50 
Rates & taxes
 11.52 
 15.08 
Listing expenses
 5.85 
 13.85 
Postage & telephone expenses
 31.42 
 37.38 
Printing & stationery
 68.83 
 66.33 
Traveling & conveyance expenses
 824.32 
 673.87 
Office electricity & water
 16.62 
 6.16 
Insurance charges
 233.03 
 200.94 
Factory security 
 164.60 
 161.54 
Foreign exchange loss
 6.03 
 - 
Foreign exchange hedging loss
 2.58 
 5.23 
Legal & professional charges
 524.39 
 475.03 
Meeting expenses
 - 
 0.15 
Motor car expenses
 33.10 
 34.50 
Bank charges
 33.88 
 16.99 
Fees & subscription
 88.62 
 64.13 
Allowance for credit loss (net)
 7.88 
 16.17 
Corporate social responsibility expenses (refer note 53)
 11.93 
 14.27 
Directors sitting fees
 22.00 
 23.60 
Payment to collaborators / royalty
 313.82 
 327.42 
Charity & donation
 2.00 
 - 
Discount and short recovery
 2.06 
 5.87 
Miscellaneous expenses
 145.86 
 143.31 
Bad debts written off
 3.28 
 - 
Auditors' remuneration 
As audit fees
 27.00 
 20.60 
For certification
 2.75 
 1.00 
For reimbursement of expenses
 1.34 
 0.67 
Selling & distribution expenses
Freight & forwarding expenses
 1,755.38 
 1,745.00 
Advertisement, publicity & sales promotion
 57.65 
 33.19 
Total
 7,372.51 
 7,022.27 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
155
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 23.85 
 13.55 
Remeasurement return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gain) / loss arising from experience adjustments
 (2.63)
 (27.45)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 21.22 
 (13.90)
 
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity liability for the Company’s plans are shown below:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Discount rate
6.99%
7.22%
Expected rate of return on plan assets
6.99%
7.22%
Future salary increases
5.25%
5.25%
Attrition rate (up to 30 years)
3.00%
3.00%
Attrition rate (from 31 to 44 years)
2.00%
2.00%
Attrition rate (above 44 years)
1.00%
1.00%
Retirement age
58 years
 58 years 
 
 A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 is as shown below:
Gratuity plan
Sensitivity level
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Assumptions
Discount rate
+0.50%
 +0.50% 
 (51.42)
 (47.66)
-0.50%
-0.50%
 55.14 
 51.18 
Future salary increases
+0.50%
 +0.50% 
 54.21 
 51.01 
-0.50%
-0.50%
 (51.16)
 (48.18)
 
 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation 
as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. Sensitivities due to mortality and 
withdrawals are insignificant and hence ignored. Sensitivities as to rate of inflation, rate of increase of pensions in payments, rate of 
increase of pensions before retirement & life expectancy are not applicable being a lump sum benefit on retirement.
 
Company’s best estimate of expense for the next Annual reporting period is ` 136.53 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 129.78 lakhs).
The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period) 
 97.75 
 73.80 
Between 1 to 2 years
 66.28 
 40.19 
Between 2 to 3 years
 53.38 
 58.99 
Between 3 to 4 years
 63.36 
 46.35 
Between 4 to 5 years
 60.48 
 54.12 
Between 5 to 6 years
 66.77 
 53.25 
Over 6 years
 819.24 
 753.96 
Total expected payments 
 1,227.26 
 1,080.66 
 
 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 15.71 years (31st March, 
2024: 16.10 years)
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
154
 
(` in lacs)
35. Employee benefit plans
 
Defined contribution plans - general description
 
 Retirement benefits in the form of provident fund, superannuation fund and national pension scheme are defined contribution 
schemes. The Company has no obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company’s contribution to 
the provident fund is ` 320.37 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 302.96 lakhs).
 
Defined benefit plans - general description
 
Gratuity:
 
 The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Gratuity is computed as 15 days salary, for  every completed year of service or part 
thereof in excess of 6 months and is payable on retirement / termination / resignation. The benefit vests on the employee completing 
5 years of service. The Company makes provision of such gratuity asset / liability in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial 
valuation as per the projected unit credit method.
 
 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit & loss and 
the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the gratuity plan:
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 1,080.65 
 971.81 
Current service cost
 94.08 
 84.76 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Interest cost
 78.02 
 71.53 
Benefits paid
 (46.72)
 (33.54)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations-OCI
 21.22 
 (13.90)
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 1,227.26 
 1,080.65 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 656.60 
 492.63 
Contribution by employer
 160.00 
 160.00 
Benefits paid
 (41.03)
 (31.13)
Expected interest income on plan assets
 - 
 - 
Actual gain / (loss) on plan asset
 50.35 
 35.10 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 825.91 
 656.60 
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets and defined benefit obligation
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Fair value of plan assets
 825.91 
 656.60 
Defined benefit obligation
 (1,227.26)
 (1,080.65)
Amount recognised in the balance sheet
 (401.34)
 (424.06)
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Current service cost
 94.08 
 84.76 
Net interest expense
 30.62 
 35.27 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 124.70 
 120.03 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
157
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
37. Leases
 
Operating leases taken
 
 The Company has taken certain building on operating lease arrangements. The lease expense recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 9.50 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 4.50 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Not later than one year
 7.38 
 6.72 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 7.38 
 6.72 
 
Operating leases given
 
 The Company has given certain properties on operating lease arrangements. The lease income recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 75.14 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 79.15 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Not later than one year
 65.53 
 79.15 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 65.53 
 79.15 
38. Commitments
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
(i) 
 Capital Commitments towards future liability for capital expenditure in respect of which 
contracts have been made (net of advances).
 1,524.47 
 398.80 
(ii)  Letters of credit and Bank guarantees issued by bankers towards procurement of goods and 
services and outstanding as at year end.
 1,204.24 
 1,081.03 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
156
 
(` in lacs)
36. Employee Share-based Payments
 
 Refer Note k for accounting policy on Employee Share-based Payments
 
 The Company has formulated employee share-based payment schemes with the objective to reward the employees for their 
association and performance, to motivate them to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Company, to create a variable pay 
structure for the different employees, incentivize them in line with Company’s performance, to retain and motivate senior and critical 
human resources, to promote loyalty to the Company and to achieve sustained growth and create shareholder’s value by aligning the 
interests of the employees with the long-term interests of the Company.
 
 The shareholders of the Company by way of special resolution dated 16th September, 2022 approved the Plan authorizing the 
Committee to Grant not exceeding 7,00,000 Options to the permanent employees of the company, its subsidiaries, joint venture 
and directors (excluding promoter directors and independent directors), collectively eligible employees, in one or more tranches, 
from time to time, which in aggregate shall be exercisable into not more than 7,00,000 Shares of face value of ` 10 each fully paid 
up (which is 5% of the paid up capital of the Company as on date), with each such Option conferring a right upon the Employees to 
apply for one Share in the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions as may be decided under the Plan.
 
 The maximum number of Options that may be granted per Employee and in aggregate shall be decided by the Committee depending 
upon the designation and the appraisal/ assessment process. However, the Grant of Options to identified Employees, shall not, at 
any time exceed the total Option pool size approved by the shareholders for ESOP 2022.
 
 This Employee Stock Option Plan is called ‘PPAP Employee Stock Option Plan 2022’ (“ESOP 2022”/ “Plan”) : The ESOP 2022 is 
established with effect from date of shareholders’ approval i.e. 16th September, 2022 on which the shareholders of the Company have 
approved it and shall continue to be in force until (i) its termination by the Board/ Committee as per provisions of Applicable Laws, or (ii) 
the date on which all of the Options available for issuance under the ESOP 2022 have been issued and  exercised, whichever is earlier.
 
 The fair value at grant date of stock options granted during the year ended 31/03/2025 was ` 173.91 (31st March, 2024: ` 234.45). The 
fair valuation has been carried out by an independent valuer by applying Black and Scholes Model. The inputs to the model include 
the exercise price, the term of option, the share price at grant date and the expected volatility, expected dividends and the risk free 
rate of interest for terms of options.
 
The details of options granted, the key assumptions for Fair Value on the date of grant are as under:
Particulars
ESOP 2022
Tranche- 3
Tranche- 2
Tranche- 1
Grant Date
08.11.2024
09.11.2023
12.11.2022
Vesting period
 18 months 
 18 months 
 18 months 
Share price on grant date (`)
184.71
245.85
 205.50 
Risk free interest rate (zero-coupon government issues of the country with a remaining term 
equal to the expected term of the option)
6.83%
7.13%
7.51%
Dividend Yield
0.64%
0.66%
0.73%
Expected Volatility (Standard Deviation) 
The measure of volatility used in the Black Scholes options Pricing models is the annualised 
standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the company's share 
over life of the options
39.81%
52.77%
42.05%
Fair Value of option on grant date
173.91
234.45
 196.60 
Average time to maturity of option
 1.75 
 1.75 
 1.75 
Exercise Price
10
 10 
 10 
Weighted average exercise price per option
10
 10 
 10 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (months)
13
 1 
 - 
Options outstanding at beginning of the year
 - 
 29,648 
 83,086 
Options granted during the year
 42,250 
 - 
 - 
Options forfeited/ lapsed during the year
 - 
 - 
 840 
Options cancelled during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options vested during the year
 - 
 - 
 83,086 
Options exercised during the year
 - 
 - 
 81,423 
Options expired during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options outstanding at year end
 42,250 
 29,648 
 - 
Options vested and exercisable at year end
 - 
 - 
 823 
Vesting conditions
As per policy approved by Shareholders
During the year, the company has recognised an expense of ` 74.93 lakhs (Previous year- ` 127.60 lakhs).
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
159
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
40. Related party disclosures
 
A. 
List of related parties
(a) Joint Venture
1.
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
(b) Key Management Personnel (KMP)
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing Director
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain, CEO & Managing Director
3
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi, Independent Director (upto 25.12.2023)
4
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta, Independent Director (upto 31.03.2024)
5
Mrs. Celine George, Independent Director
6
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Non-Executive Director
7
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi, Independent Director (w.e.f 04.02.2023)
8
Mr. Rohit Rajput, Independent Director (w.e.f 09.11.2023)
9
Mr. Sachin Jain, Chief Financial Officer
10
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary
(c)  Related Parties in the group where common control exists
1.
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
(d) Wholly owned subsidiaries
1
Elpis Automotives Private Limited (formerly Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited)
2
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP Technology Limited)
3
Avinya Industrial Products Limited (incorporated on 29.03.2025)#
4
Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited (incorporated on 24.03.2025)#
5
Avinya Sealing Systems Limited (incorporated on 21.02.2025)#
(e)  Other Related Party-Post employment benefit plan of the Company
1.
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group Gratuity Fund Trust
 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties in the ordinary course of business:
Related party transactions
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party-Post 
employment benefit plan 
of the Company
Total
CSR expenses paid
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
31.03.2025
 56.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 56.20 
31.03.2024
 58.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 58.80 
Material / licence purchases 
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 56.84 
 - 
 56.84 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 865.04 
 - 
 865.04 
31.03.2024
 - 
 508.51 
 - 
 508.51 
Loan given
Avinya 
Batteries 
Limited 
(formerly 
PPAP 
Technology Limited)
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 1,361.00 
 - 
1,361.00 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 1,124.91 
 - 
1,124.91 
Loan repayment received
Avinya 
Batteries 
Limited 
(formerly 
PPAP 
Technology Limited)
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 261.06 
 - 
 261.06 
Receipts for other services*
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 197.90 
 - 
 - 
 197.90 
31.03.2024
 - 
 286.74 
 - 
 - 
 286.74 
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 3.75 
 - 
 3.75 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 9.00 
 - 
 9.00 
Avinya 
Batteries 
Limited 
(formerly 
PPAP 
Technology Limited)
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 350.00 
 - 
 350.00 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 56.81 
 - 
 56.81 
Sales
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 336.21 
 - 
 336.21 
31.03.2024
 - 
 158.22 
 - 
 - 
 158.22 
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 1,185.61 
 - 
1,185.61 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 1,108.20 
 - 
1,108.20 
Contribution to fund: Employer’s contribution 
towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group 
Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 160.00 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 160.00 
* Other services include management support fee, reimbursement of expenses, job work charges, interest received on loan given and rental income.
# There has been no capital infusion by the Company in the aforesaid subsidiaries, and no financial transactions have taken place in these newly incorporated 
entities during the reporting period.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
158
 
(` in lacs)
39. Contingent liabilities not  provided for in respect of
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Income tax appeal 
For assessment year 2017-18 (Note i)
 - 
 41.37 
GST appeals (includes excise and sales tax demands) (Note ii, iii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii, ix)
 335.85 
 168.65 
Total
 335.85 
 210.02 
Notes:
(i) 
 A demand of ` 41.37 lakhs has been raised for the assessment year 2017-18 for disallowance of 25% of royalty expense. 
The company has filed an appeal before Income Tax Appellate Tribunal , Delhi Bench “F”, New Delhi against the order of 
CIT(Appeals) for disallowance of the royalty amount. The Hon’ble  Income Tax Appellate Tribunal , Delhi Bench F, New Delhi has 
deleted the disallowance vide its order dated 08/10/2024.
(ii) 
 Demand of excise duty of ` 1.06 lakhs along with penalty of ` 1.06 lakhs was imposed on the Company by Additional Commissioner, 
Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central Excise Act, 1944. The 
Company had filed an appeal against the aforesaid order with Commissioner of Central Excise, Okhla. The Commissioner of central 
excise has rejected the appeal. Thereafter, the Company has filed the appeal with the Central Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(CESTAT) and the appeal is pending.
(iii) 
 Demand of excise duty of ` 35.36 lakhs along with penalty of ` 35.36 lakhs was imposed on the Company by Additional Commissioner, 
Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central Excise Act, 1944 and 
was outstanding as on 31.03.2016.The Company had filed the appeal  with the Central Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(CESTAT) and CESTAT has decided the case in favour of Company and set aside the demand. The Company approached the 
Delhi High Court against the order of CESTAT and the High Court has remanded the case back to CESTAT for hearing it again. The 
matter is pending in CESTAT, Delhi.
(iv) 
 Demand of ` 5.97 Lakh plus interest @ 18% p.a. and penalty of ` 0.74 lakhs was issued by Central GST, Bhiwadi, Rajasthan 
for availment of excess ITC for FY 2018-19. The department has disallowed the ITC on account of non-filing of GSTR- 3B by 
suppliers. The company has disputed the demand and filed an appeal with The Joint/ Additional Commissioner (Appeals), 
CGST, Jaipur. The basic demand of `5.97 lakh has been deposited on 24.03.2025 under Amnesty Scheme and the basic liability 
has been accordingly adjusted with demand. On payment of demand under amnesty scheme, the penalty and interest are to 
be waived by the department. We will file the necessary form to avail the waiver of interest and penalty imposed by the GST 
Authority within time limit of 30th June, 2025.
(v) 
 Demand of ` 33.66 Lakh against penalty on short paid GST was issued by Central GST, Bhiwadi, Rajasthan related to FY 2017-18. 
The company had disputed the demand and filed an appeal with The Joint/ Additional Commissioner (Appeals), CGST, Jaipur. The 
Appeal has been decided in favour of the company  and the entire demand has been dropped.
(vi) 
 Demand of ` 1.60 Lakh along with interest of ` 1.60 lakhs and penalty of ` 0.20 lakh was imposed on the Company by SGST, 
Delhi for incorrect admissibility of ITC of tax paid or deemed to been paid related to FY 2017-18. The company has disputed the 
demand and filed an appeal with Appellate Authority/ Spl. Commissioner SGST, Department of Trade and Taxes, New Delhi.
(vii) 
 Demand of ` 25.12 lakhs along with interest of ` 24.40 lakhs and penalty of ` 2.51 lakh was imposed on the Company by SGST, 
Gujarat for availment of excess ITC for FY 2018-19 on 23rd April, 2024. The company had disputed the demand and filed the appeal 
with first appellate authority, Ahmedabad within the limitation period of 3 months from the date of demand order passed on 19th July 
2024. 
(viii)  Demand of ` 6.14 lakhs along with applicable interest and an equivalent amount of penalty was imposed on the Company by the 
Central GST Authorities, Rajasthan, vide Order No. ZD081224065470K dated 23.12.2024. The demand pertains to the alleged 
wrongful availment of ITC for the F.Y. 2019-20.The Company has disputed the demand and filed an appeal before the First 
Appellate Authority, Jaipur, Rajasthan, on 30th December 2024.
(ix) 
 Demand of ` 100.12 lakhs along with interest ` 84.23 lakhs and penalty `10.21 lakhs was imposed by CGST,Noida vide Order 
No.ZD090225380630F dated 27.02.2025 for alleged  incorrect admissibility of ITC/ short payment of tax on outward supplies for 
FY 2020-21. The Company has disputed the demand and filed an appeal before the Commissioner of CGST (Appeals), Noida 
on 15.05.2025.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
161
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
41. Segment information
 
 According to Ind AS 108, identification of operating segments is based on Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) approach for 
making decisions about allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance. Based on the consideration of dominant 
sources and nature of risk & returns, the company is considered an automotive components manufacturer. Most of the activities are 
revolving around this business and accordingly has only one reportable segment. The geographical location of its main operations 
and the internal organization / reporting and management structure supports such treatment.
42. Dues to micro and small enterprises
 
 The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(MSMED Act, 2006),  to the extent information available with the Company is given below:
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
(i)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at 
the end of each accounting year:
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,637.19 
 1,112.94 
Interest due on above
 0.44 
 0.62 
(ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
(iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for 
the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
160
 
(` in lacs)
Remuneration to key management personnel*
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
 166.55 
 120.57 
Mr. Abhishek Jain
 173.75 
 127.77 
Mr. Sachin Jain
 42.34 
 32.40 
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal
 14.15 
 12.30 
Short-term employee benefits
 396.79 
 293.05 
# As the liabilities for gratuity and compensated absences are provided on an actuarial basis for the company as a whole, the amounts pertaining to the key 
management personnel are not included above.
Details relating to remuneration of KMP other than MD / Manager / Whole Time Director
Name of KMP
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Remuneration
Short-term employee 
benefits
Sitting Fees
Remuneration
Short-term employee 
benefits
Sitting Fees
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
 - 
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
 - 
 3.70 
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.60 
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.60 
Mrs. Celine George
 - 
 - 
 4.50 
 - 
 - 
 3.80 
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
 - 
 - 
 6.50 
 9.00 
 - 
 3.40 
Mr. Rohit Rajput
 - 
 - 
 7.00 
 - 
 - 
 2.50 
Net outstanding balance:
Related Party
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party-  
Post employment benefit 
plan of the Company
Total
Trade receivable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 8.20 
 - 
 - 
 8.20 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 570.61 
 - 
 570.61 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 326.88 
 - 
 326.88 
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited)
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 5.59 
 - 
 5.59 
Trade payable
 - 
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2024
 - 
 60.87 
 - 
 - 
 60.87 
Security Deposit Received
ELPIS Automotives Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 2.93 
 - 
 2.93 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 2.93 
 - 
 2.93 
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited)
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 1.10 
 - 
 1.10 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 1.10 
 - 
 1.10 
Loan given
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited)
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 3,697.50 
 - 
 3,697.50 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 2,336.50 
 - 
2,336.50 
Remuneration
Payable to key management personnel
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.93 
 23.93 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.53 
 23.53 
Contribution 
to 
fund: 
Employer’s 
contribution towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group 
Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 707.65 
 707.65 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 590.49 
 590.49 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
163
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
 
(ii) Fair value hierarchy
 
 
 All financial instruments for which fair value is recognised or disclosed are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurements as a whole.
 
 
 Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets.This includes listed equity instruments, traded bonds 
and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments (including bonds) which are traded in the stock 
exchanges is valued using the closing price as at the reporting period. The mutual funds are valued using the closing NAV.
 
 
 Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the 
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as 
little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the 
instrument is included in level 2.
 
 
 Level 3: valuation techniques for which the lowest level input which has a significant effect on fair value measurement is not 
based on observable market data.
 
 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the financial year 2023-24 and 2024-25.
 
 
 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Company’s assets and liabilities, other than those 
whose fair values are close approximations of their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value-recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2025
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2025
 446.91 
 446.91 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2025
 300.23 
 - 
 - 
300.23
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2025
 5.14 
 - 
 5.14 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value-recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2024
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2024
 624.72 
 624.72 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2024
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
200
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2024
 0.82 
 - 
 0.82 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
162
 
(` in lacs)
43. Fair values measurements
 
(i) 
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
FVTPL
Amortized 
cost
FVTPL
Amortized 
cost
Financial assets
Investments*
 - in equity instruments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - in mutual funds
 446.91 
 - 
 624.72 
 - 
 - in unquoted preference shares
 300.23 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
Other financial assets
 - 
 1,537.00 
 - 
 908.45 
Trade receivables
 - 
 7,156.16 
 - 
 6,467.42 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 62.67 
 - 
 97.75 
Other balances with banks
 - 
 9.61 
 - 
 11.21 
Loans
 - 
 3,797.10 
 - 
 2,398.62 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 5.14 
 - 
 0.82 
 - 
Total financial assets
 752.28 
 12,562.54 
 825.54 
 9,883.45 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (non current)
 - 
 5,737.05 
 - 
 6,391.99 
Borrowings (current)
 - 
 9,220.16 
 - 
 7,469.20 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 688.11 
 - 
 304.19 
Trade payables
 - 
 6,548.46 
 - 
 5,647.88 
Other financial liabilities (non current)
 - 
 8.01 
 - 
 12.03 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 - 
 855.15 
 - 
 699.59 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 23,056.94 
 - 
 20,524.88 
*Investment value excludes investment in joint venture of ` 4,853 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 4,853 lakhs) and investment in 
wholly owned subsidiary companies of ` 1429.92 lakhs (31st March, 2024 ` 1,429.92 lakhs) which are shown at cost in balance 
sheet as per Ind AS 27 ‘ Separate Financial Statements’.
i) 
 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged 
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and 
assumptions were used to estimate the fair value.
ii) 
 The fair values of the Company’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using effective interest rate (EIR) method 
using discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance 
risk as at 31st March, 2025 was assessed to be insignificant.
iii) 
 Long-term receivables / payables are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables.
iv)  The fair value of security deposit has been estimated using DCF model which consider certain assumptions viz. forecast 
cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility.
v) 
 The fair values of the investment in mutual fund has been determined based on net assets value (NAV) available in open 
market.
vi) The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
vii)  Cost of unquoted preference shares has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These 
investments in preference shares are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
165
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
B. 
Foreign currency sensitivity 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes 
in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to 
the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency). Foreign currency risk 
sensitivity is the impact on the Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, JPY and EURO exchange rates, with 
all other variables held constant. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Change in USD rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2025
+5%
 (1.87)
-5%
 1.87 
31.03.2024
+5%
 (11.51)
-5%
 11.51 
Change in JPY rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2025
+5%
 (2.25)
 (5%) 
 2.25 
31.03.2024
+5%
 (2.55)
 (5%) 
 2.55 
 
 
 
 The movement in the pre-tax effect on profit and loss is a result of a change in the fair value of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currency.
 
ii. 
Credit risk
 
 
 Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions.
 
 
 Credit risk from investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the treasury functions in accordance with the 
management policies. Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate rating and 
/or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits. The management continually re-assess the Company’s policy and update 
as required. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure.
 
 
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
 
 
A. 
Trade receivables
 
 
 
 Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and 
control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit 
review and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are 
regularly monitored.
 
 
 
 At the year end the Company does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than disclosed in Note 12.
 
 
 
 An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. The calculation is 
based on historical data. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class 
of financial assets disclosed in Note 43. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the 
concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and 
operate in largely independent markets.
 
 
B. 
Financial instruments and cash deposits
 
 
 
 Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
164
 
(` in lacs)
44. Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 The Company’s principal financial liabilities, comprise borrowings, trade payables, and creditors for expenses. The Company’s 
principal financial assets include investments, long term deposits, trade receivables, cash and short-term deposits / loan that derive 
directly from its operations.
 
 The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the management 
of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by the Board of Directors that advises on financial risks and the 
appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Company. The Board provides assurance to the Company’s management 
that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, 
measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. The management reviews and agrees 
policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
 
i. 
Market risk
 
 
 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk 
and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include, deposits and FVTPL investments.
 
 
 The sensitivity analysis of the above mentioned risk in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March, 2025 and 
31st March, 2024.
 
 
 The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement 
obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
 
 
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses:
 
 
- 
 The sensitivity of the relevant profit or loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is 
based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
 
 
A. 
Interest rate risk
 
 
 
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Increase / decrease in basis points
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2025
INR
+50
 (63.68)
INR
-50
 63.68 
31.03.2024
INR
+50
 (66.35)
INR
-50
 66.35 
 
 
 
 The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable 
market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior years.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
167
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
46. Additional Regulatory Information: Financial Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
% change Reason where variance 
exceeds 25% 
Current ratio (in 
times)
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
 1.04 
 1.02 
2% Not applicable
Debt- Equity Ratio 
(in times)
Total Debt
Shareholder’s Equity
 0.46 
 0.44 
4% Not applicable
Debt Service 
Coverage ratio (in 
times)
Earnings for debt 
service = Net profit 
after taxes + Non-cash 
operating expenses
Debt service = 
Interest & Lease 
Payments + Principal 
Repayments
 1.18 
 0.98 
17%
Return on Equity 
ratio (in %)
Net Profits after taxes 
– Preference Dividend
Average 
Shareholder’s Equity
4.42%
-1.48%
134% Increase in profit after tax
Inventory Turnover 
ratio (in times)
Cost of goods sold or 
sale
Average Inventory
 10.03 
 8.64 
14%
Trade Receivable 
Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net credit sales = 
Gross credit sales - 
sales return
Average Trade 
Receivable
 7.89 
 7.63 
3%
Trade Payable 
Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net credit purchases = 
Gross credit purchases 
- purchase return
Average Trade 
Payables
 5.04 
 5.04 
0%
Net Capital 
Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net sales = Total sales 
- sales return
Working capital = 
Current assets – 
Current liabilities
 69.06 
 136.49 
-98% Increase in working capital
Net Profit ratio 
(in %)
Net Profit
Net sales = Total 
sales - sales return
2.6%
-0.9%
135% Improved sales and profit 
after tax
Return on Capital 
Employed (in %)
Earnings before 
interest and taxes
Capital Employed = 
Tangible Net Worth + 
Total Debt + Deferred 
Tax Liability
6.9%
3.4%
51% Improved sales and profit 
after tax
Return on 
Investment (in %)
"Income generated 
from investments"
"Time weighted 
average investments"
5.86%
9.71%
-66% Decrease in interest rate
47. Derivative instruments and unhedged foreign currency exposure
 
The amount of foreign currency exposure that are not hedged by derivative instruments or otherwise are as under:
31.03.2025
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
31.03.2024
Foreign 
currency 
Amount 
Foreign 
currency 
Amount 
Foreign trade payables
USD in lakhs
 0.44 
 37.39 
 2.76 
 230.29 
JPY in lakhs
 79.14 
 44.91 
 92.62 
 51.02 
EURO in lakhs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign trade receivables
USD in lakhs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JPY in lakhs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
EURO in lakhs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
166
 
(` in lacs)
 
iii. Liquidity risk
 
 
 The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts.
 
 
 The financial condition of the financier under suppler finance arrangement is sound and there is no likelihood that arrangement 
will be terminated and service will become unavailable.
 
 
 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted 
payments.
Particulars
Less than 3 months
 3 to 12 months 1 to 5 years
> 5 years
Total
Year ended 31.03.2025
Borrowings
 731.84 
 2,602.53 
 5,169.42 
 608.97 
 9,112.77 
Supplier Finance Arrangements
 733.52 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 733.52 
Lease liabilities
 63.88 
 190.99 
 551.53 
 - 
 806.41 
Trade payables
 4,030.62 
 2,507.24 
 10.60 
 - 
 6,548.46 
Other financial liabilities
 847.07 
 - 
 4.03 
 - 
 851.10 
Total
 6,406.94 
 5,300.77 
 5,735.57 
 608.97 
 18,052.25 
Year ended 31.03.2024
Borrowings
 693.00 
 2,057.72 
 6,434.49 
 - 
 9,185.21 
Supplier Finance Arrangements
 155.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 155.00 
Lease liabilities
 39.26 
 86.86 
 219.91 
 - 
 346.03 
Trade payables
 4,210.04 
 1,437.83 
 - 
 - 
 5,647.88 
Other financial liabilities
 699.59 
 - 
 12.03 
 - 
 711.63 
Total
 5,796.89 
 3,582.41 
 6,666.43 
 - 
 16,045.74 
 
iv. 
Excessive risk concentration
 
 
 Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly 
affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Company’s 
performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
 
 
The Company is in automotive components manufacturing business and the management has assessed risk concentration as low.
 
 
The detail in respect of percentage of revenues generated from top 4 customers are as follows:
Particulars
 Year ended 31.03.2025 
Year ended 31.03.2024
Revenue from top customer- 1 (in %)
31%
32%
Revenue from top customer- 2 (in %)
15%
15%
Revenue from top customer- 3 (in %)
12%
14%
Revenue from top customer- 4 (in %)
8%
6%
45. Capital management
 
 The objective of the Company’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Company 
to carry out committed work programme requirements. The Company monitors the long term cash flow requirements of the business 
in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
 
 The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain 
or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for 
cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities or undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No changes were 
made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31st March, 2025.
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Non-current Borrowings
 5,737.05 
 6,391.99 
Current Borrowings
 9,220.16 
 7,469.20 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 62.67 
 97.75 
Debt
 14,894.54 
 13,763.44 
Lease Liabilities- Non current
 474.43 
 199.65 
Lease Liabilities- Current
 213.68 
 104.54 
Net Debt (incl. lease liabilities) (A)
 15,582.65 
 14,067.63 
Total Equity (B)
 32,517.83 
 31,299.12 
Gearing Ratio [A÷(A+B)]
32.40%
31.01%
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
169
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
53.
 
Details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
31.03.2024
31.03.2023
a) Gross amount required to be spent as per section 135 of the  Companies Act, 2013 during 
the year
 11.93 
 14.27 
b) Amount spent during the year ending on 31st March 2024:
(i) Construction / acquisition of an asset
 - 
 - 
(ii) On purpose other than (i) above
 56.20 
 58.80 
c) Amount carried forward from previous year for setting off in the current year
 89.01 
 44.49 
d) Excess amount spent during the year carried forward to subsequent year
 133.28 
 89.01 
e) The Company has spent excess amount and details of the same are as follows:
Balance carried forward from previous year
 89.01 
 44.49 
Amount required to be spent during the year
 11.93 
 14.27 
Amount spent during the year
 56.20 
 58.80 
Balance carried forward to next year
 133.28 
 89.01 
f) Details of amount spent during the year:
i) Providing healthcare and meal to unprivileged and downtrodden children which help them to 
pursue their education.
 5.00 
 5.00 
ii) Making payment of school fees of unprivileged children.
 13.37 
 13.07 
iii) Providing study material to unprivileged children.
iv) Plantation for promoting environmental sustainability.
 37.38 
 40.52 
v) Administrative Expenses (Cost of CSR, audit etc)
 0.45 
 0.22 
Closing Balance
 0.59 
 - 
Total
 56.20 
 58.80 
g) Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per Section 135(5)
 nil 
 nil 
54. Details of transactions with Struck-off Companies 
 nil  
 nil 
55. Details of Benami Property 
 nil  
 nil 
56 Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company 
 nil  
 nil 
57  No adjusting or significant non-adjusting events have occurred between the reporting 
 
date and date of authorization of financial statements 
 nil  
 nil
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
168
 
(` in lacs)
48. Balance confirmation
 
 Debit and credit balance of trade payables and trade receivables to the extent not confirmed are subject to confirmation and 
reconciliation with parties.
49.  In the opinion of the Board of Directors and to the best of their knowledge and belief, the aggregate value of current assets on 
realization in the ordinary course of business will not be less than the amount at which these are stated in the balance sheet.
50.  Disclosure of movement in provisions during the year as per Ind AS 37, “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”:
Particulars
Balance as on 
1st April, 2024
Provided during 
the year
Paid / Adjusted 
during the year
Balance as on 
31st March, 2025
Provisions
Gratuity
 1,080.65 
 189.24 
 (42.64)
 1,227.26 
Accumulated leaves
 207.62 
 46.99 
 (46.17)
 208.43 
Income Tax
 - 
 319.92 
 - 
 319.92 
Total
 1,288.27 
 556.15 
 (88.81)
 1,755.61 
51. Dividends paid and proposed
Particulars
Year Ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
A
Paid during the year
Interim dividend for FY 2024-25 ` 1 per share (FY 2023-24: nil) of ` 10/- each
 140.86 
 - 
Final dividend for FY 2023-24: ` 1.25 per share (FY 2022- 23 ` 0.50 per share)
 176.07 
 70.00 
 316.93 
 70.00 
B
Proposed for approval at the annual general meeting (not recognised as a liability)
Final dividend for FY 2024-25 ` 1.50 per share (FY 2023-24: ` 1.25 per share)
 211.30 
 175.00 
 211.30 
 175.00 
 
 
 Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognized as a 
liability as at year end.
52. Disclosure under Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’
 
 Ind AS 7 requires the entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities 
arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion of a 
reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities.
Particulars
31.03.2024
Cash flows
Non-cash changes
31.03.2025
Fair value changes
Long-term borrowings
 9,112.48 
 (530.55)
 56.66 
 8,638.59 
Short term borrowings
 4,748.72 
 (362.94)
 - 
 4,385.78 
Lease Liabilities
 304.19 
 (187.26)
 571.18 
 688.11 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 14,165.39 
 (1,080.75)
 627.84 
 13,712.48 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
171
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
60.  Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 which are not 
covered in any of the notes above
 
(i) 
 No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the company for holding any benami property under benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
 
(ii) Reconciliation of quarterly statement of current assets filed with banks or financial statements
 
 
 There are no material variations between the quarterly statement of current assets filed during the year with the banks and the 
books of accounts. 
 
(iii) Wilful Defaulter
 
 
No bank has declared the company as “willful defaulter”.
 
(iv) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies:
 
 
 All applicable cases where registration of charges or satisfaction is required with Registrar of Companies have been done. No 
registration or satisfaction is pending at end of financial year 2024-2025.
 
(v) Scheme of arrangements:
 
 
 No scheme of arrangements has been approved by the competent authority in terms of Section 230 to 237 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
 
(vi) Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
Particulars
Description
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by 
the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
 
(vii) Undisclosed income
 
 
 There is no such income which has not been disclosed in the books of accounts. No such income is surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
(viii) Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
 
 
The Company does not deal in Crypto Currency. Therefore further disclosures are not given.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
170
 
(` in lacs)
58. Investment In Subsidiaries, Joint Venture and Associates
 
(i).  These financial statement are separate financial statements prepared in accordance with Ind AS-27 “Separate Financial 
Statements”.
 
(ii). The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are as under :
Name of the 
Subsidiaries
Country of 
incorporation
Portion of ownership 
interest
Method 
used to 
account 
for the 
investment
Disclosure required under 
Section 186 (4) of the 
Companies Act, 2013
Closing Balance
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
Investment 
made in FY 
2024-25
Investment 
made in FY 
2023-24
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
Avinya Batteries 
Limited (formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited)
India
100%
100%
At cost
 - 
 - 
 1,379.92 
 1,379.92 
Elpis Automotives Private 
Limited 
(formerly 
Elpis 
Components 
Distributors 
Private Limited)
India
100%
100%
At cost
 - 
 - 
 50.00 
 50.00 
Avinya Industrial Products 
Limited
India
100%
 - 
see Note 
40
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Meraki 
Precision 
Tool 
Engineering Limited
India
100%
 - 
see Note 
40
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Avinya Sealing Systems 
Limited
India
100%
 - 
see Note 
40
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
(iii). The Company’s investment in joint venture is as under :
Name of Joint Venture
Country of 
incorporation
Portion of ownership 
interest
Method 
used to 
account 
for the 
investment
Disclosure required under 
Section 186 (4) of the 
Companies Act, 2013
Closing Balance
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
Investment 
made in FY 
2024-25
Investment 
made in FY 
2023-24
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
PPAP Tokai India Rubber 
Private Limited
India
50%
50%
At cost
 - 
 - 
 4,853.00 
 4,853.00 
 
(iv). The company investment in associate is nil.
59.  Critical judgements, estimates and assumptions
1. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
 
 The Company assesses the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that 
those assets have suffered an impairment loss. Where the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss (if any) is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 While assessing the recoverable amount, the Company used the discounted cash flow approach including various significant 
estimates and assumptions such as forecast of future revenue, operating margins, growth rate and selection of the discount rates. 
2. 
Loss Allowance on trade receivables
 
 An impairment analysis of trade receivables is performed at each reporting period based on the Company’s history of collections, 
customer’s creditworthiness, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates.  Basis this assessment, the allowance 
for doubtful trade receivables as at March 31, 2025 is considered adequate.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
173
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
2. 
Recognition of Assessment of impairment of investments in subsidiaries and joint venture
The management assesses, at least annually, the existence 
of impairment indicators of each non-current investments, 
and in case of such existence, these assets are subject to an 
impairment test. 
For the purpose of the impairment testing, value in use has 
been determined by considering forecasting and discounting 
future cash flows.
Furthermore, the value in use is highly sensitive to changes in 
some of the inputs used for forecasting the future cash flows. 
Further, the determination of the recoverable amount of the 
investments of unquoted non-current investments involved 
judgment due to inherent uncertainty in the assumptions 
supporting the recoverable amount of these investments.
Accordingly, the impairment of non-current investments 
was determined to be a key audit matter in our audit of the 
standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Principal Audit Procedures
We performed the following procedures:
• 
 We assessed the reasonableness of key assumptions used in the cash flow 
forecasts including discount rates, expected growth rates and terminal growth 
rates.
• 
 We obtained the management testing of impairment and discussed the 
assumptions and other factors used in the assessment.
• 
We tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models.
• 
 We evaluated the adequacy of disclosures in the Standalone Financial 
Statements related to management’s assessment on the impairment tests 
and as required under Indian Accounting Standard (Ind-AS) -36 Impairment of 
Assets
• 
 We also assessed the objectivity and independence of Company’s specialists 
involved in the process. 
Based on the work carried out, we did not have any reason to believe that the 
investments were not properly valued.
Information Other than the Consolidated financial statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis, Director’s Report including annexures to the Director’s Report, Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report and Report on Corporate Governance, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, standalone financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. The Management Discussion and Analysis Report, Director’s Report including annexures to the Director’s Report, Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report and Report on Corporate Governance are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s 
report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, identified above when it 
becomes available, compare it with the financial statements of the subsidiaries audited by the other auditors, to the extent it relates to these entities and, 
in doing so, place reliance on the work of the other auditors and consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Other information so far 
as it relates to the subsidiaries is traced from their financial statements audited by the other auditors.
When we read the Management Discussion and Analysis, Director’s Report, Business Responsibility Report and Report on Corporate Governance, 
if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and shall 
take appropriate actions, if required.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated changes in equity of the Group and its joint venture, in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and its joint venture are responsible for the maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and its joint venture and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Management of the companies included in the Group and its joint venture are 
responsible for assessing the ability of the respective entities to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate their respective entities or to cease 
operations or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and its joint venture are also responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of the Group and its joint venture.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
172
TO THE MEMBERS OF PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
Report on the audit of the Consolidated financial statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of PPAP Automotive Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding 
Company”), and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and its joint venture, which comprise 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, including a summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Consolidated Financial Statements”). 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of reports of other auditors 
on separate Financial Statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and joint venture as referred to in ‘Other Matters’ paragraph 
below, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated 
state of affairs of the Group and its joint venture as at March 31, 2025, and the consolidated profit and consolidated total other comprehensive income, 
consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) read together with the independence requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matter section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Emphasis of Matter
One of the subsidiaries has accumulated losses resulting in erosion of net-worth and has incurred cash losses in the current and immediately preceding 
financial year. The current liabilities of the subsidiary exceed its current assets as at the balance sheet date.  Considering the Holding Company’s 
continuing financial support to the subsidiary for its operations, the financial statements have been prepared on an going concern basis. Refer note 
58(c) of the consolidated financial statements.
Our report is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters (‘KAM’) are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Consolidated financial 
statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the 
key audit matters to be communicated in our report:
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
1. 
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized to the extent that economic benefit 
will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably 
measured. It is measured at fair value of consideration received 
or receivable, net of returns and allowances, discounts and 
rebates. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies 
its performance obligation by transferring the goods to the 
customers and in determining the transaction price for the 
sale of products, the Company considers the effects of various 
factors such as discounts and price adjustments. Since there 
is significant judgement and estimate involved in calculation 
of price variations to be recorded as at the year end, revenue 
recognition has been identified as a key audit matter.
Principal Audit Procedures
We performed the following procedures:
• 
 We understood business revenue recognition policy and how they are applied, 
including the relevant controls, and tested controls over revenue recognition;
• 
Analytical review of the revenue recognized over the year;
• 
 Agreeing on a sample basis, amounts of revenue to customer contracts and 
verifying the extent, timing and customer acceptance of goods, where relevant.
• 
 We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue transactions around the 
period end date, to check that they were recognized in the appropriate period; 
and
• 
 We discussed key contractual arrangements with management and obtained 
relevant documentation and communication with customers; and
• 
 Also tested, on sample basis, debit/credit notes in respect of agreed price 
variations passed on to the customers
Based on our audit procedures we did not identify any evidence of material 
misstatement in the revenue recognized for the year in the standalone financial 
statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
175
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the Group’s share of net profit/(loss) and disclosures 
included in respect of aforesaid joint venture, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid 
joint venture, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements/ financial information and based on the evaluation of the responses to the group 
audit instructions by the auditor of joint venture. 
The Company incorporated three wholly-owned subsidiaries—one in February 2025 and two in March 2025. There has been no capital infusion by the 
Holding Company in the aforesaid subsidiaries, and no financial transactions have taken place in these newly incorporated entities during the reporting 
period. Accordingly, there is no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statement for the ended March 31, 2025 with respect to these subsidiaries.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements above and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in 
respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors and the financial statements/financial 
information certified by the Holding Company’s Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
1. 
 A. 
 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors on the separate 
financial statements of the subsidiaries and joint venture referred to in the Other Matters section above we report, to the extent applicable 
that: 
 
 
(1) 
 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements;
 
 
(2) 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to the preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors, except for the matters 
stated in paragraph 1(B)(f) below on reporting under rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) (“the 
Rules”);
 
 
(3) 
 The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements;
 
 
(4) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of 
the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014;
 
 
(5) 
 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on March 31, 2025, taken on record 
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiaries which are incorporated in 
India, none of the directors of the Group companies and joint venture incorporated in India is disqualified as on March 31, 2025, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
 
 
(6) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A” which is based on the 
auditors’ reports of the Holding company, and the subsidiaries incorporated in India. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of internal financial controls over the financial reporting of those companies;
 
B. 
 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: 
 
 
(a) 
 The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial position of the Group and 
its joint venture- Refer to note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements;
 
 
(b) 
 The Group and joint venture did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses;
 
 
(c) 
 There were no amounts, during the year, which were required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Holding Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture company incorporated in India;
 
 
(d) 
(i) 
 The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and joint venture, which are companies incorporated 
in India, whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditor of such 
subsidiaries and joint venture, respectively, that to the best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note 60(vi), no funds 
(which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company or by the subsidiaries or joint venture to or in any 
other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Holding Company or of the subsidiaries or joint venture (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
(ii) 
 The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India, whose 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
174
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform 
audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk 
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
• 
 Obtain an understanding of internal financial control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding company has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. 
• 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the 
management of the Holding Company.
• 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management of the Holding Company’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation 
of Consolidated Financial Statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its joint venture to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date 
of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or its joint venture to cease to continue as a going concern. 
• 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• 
 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group and its joint 
venture to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors. 
For the other entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain 
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the Consolidated Financial Statements that, individually or in the aggregate, makes it probable that 
the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the Consolidated Financial Statements may be influenced. We consider quantitative 
materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work, and (ii) to evaluate the effect of 
any identified misstatements in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not 
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements/ financial information of two subsidiaries included in the Statement, whose financial statement reflect total 
assets of ` 5,522.42 Lakh as of March 31, 2025, and total revenues of ` 821.86 Lakh and ` 2,822.00 Lakh, total net profit/(loss) of ` (197.59) Lakh 
and ` (817.00) Lakh for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2025, respectively and total comprehensive income/(loss) of  ` (207.44) Lakh and 
` (826.45) Lakh for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2025, respectively and net cash outflows of ` 10.45 Lakh for the year ended March 31, 2025, 
as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statement. These financial statements have been audited by their respective independent auditors whose 
reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Statement, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries is based 
solely on the reports of the other auditors and the procedures performed by us are as stated Auditor’s Responsibility section above after considering 
the requirement of Standard on Auditing (SA 600) on ‘Using the work of Another Auditor’ including materiality.
The Consolidated Financial Statement also includes Group’s share of net profit/(loss) using equity method of ` (125.39) Lakh and total comprehensive 
income/(loss) of ` (126.90) Lakh for the year ended on 31st March 2025 as considered in the consolidated financial statement in respect of joint venture 
whose financial statements are unaudited. These financial statements/ financial information have been furnished to us by the Holding Company’s 
177
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements of  
PPAP Automotive Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to aforesaid Consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
(Referred to in paragraph 1 A (6) under the ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Holding Company”) as of March 31, 2025, we have audited 
the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
The respective Company’s management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements based on the criteria established by the respective company, considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”).
Auditors’ Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial 
reporting with reference to consolidated financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exits, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risk of misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls system over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to consolidated financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting with reference to consolidated financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion 
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the reports of other auditors referred to in 
the Other Matters paragraph below, the Holding company, and its subsidiaries companies, which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an 
adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 
31, 2025, based on the criteria for internal financial control over financial reporting established by the respective companies considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(the “Guidance Note”).
Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under Section 143 (3) (i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over financial reporting with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements insofar as it related to two subsidiaries, which is incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding report of 
auditors of such company.
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements in so far as it relates to one joint venture incorporated in India, whose financial statements / financial information are unaudited and our opinion 
on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group is not affected as 
the Group’s share of net profit/loss (including Other Comprehensive Income) and disclosures included in respect of the joint venture in these Consolidated Financial 
Statements are not material to the Group.
Our report is not modified in respect of the above matters.
For T R Chadha & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 006711N/N500028
Place: Noida 
Neena Goel
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Partner
Membership No. 057986
UDIN: 25057986BMIKLB2043 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
176
financial statements have been audited under the Act, have represented to us and the other auditor of the subsidiaries and joint 
venture, respectively, that to the best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in note 60(vi), no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Holding Company or by the subsidiaries or joint venture from any 
person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Holding Company or the subsidiaries or joint venture shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
(iii)  Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed 
by us and that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries or joint venture which are companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has caused us or the 
other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under d(i) and d(ii) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
 
 
(e) 
 The final dividend proposed by the Holding Company whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, during the year is 
in accordance with section 123 of the Act, as applicable.
 
 
(f) 
 Based on our examination which included test checks, performed by us and on the consideration of the reports of the other auditors of 
the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India, the Holding Company and its subsidiaries have used accounting softwares 
for maintaining their respective books of account, which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the respective software except for following instances:
 
 
 
(i) 
 the audit logs have been enabled at the database level in the software from August 29, 2024 onwards in case of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries;
 
 
 
 During the course of performing our procedures and that performed by the respective auditors of the subsidiaries, except for the 
aforesaid instances of audit trail not maintained at the database levels where the question of our commenting on whether the audit trail 
has been tampered with does not arise, we and the respective auditors of the above referred subsidiaries did not notice any instance 
of audit trail feature being tampered with.
 
 
Further, the audit trail has been preserved by the holding company and its subsidiaries as per the statutory requirements for record retention.
 
C. 
 With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the requirements of Section 197(16) of the Act, 
as amended;
 
 
 In our opinion and according to the information and explanation given to us, the remuneration paid during the current year by the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries and joint venture which are incorporated in India to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of Section 
197 of the Act. 
2. 
 With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the “Order”/ “CARO”) issued by 
the Central Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, to be included in Auditor’s report, according to the information and explanations 
given to us, and based on the CARO reports issued by the auditors of the subsidiaries and joint venture included in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Holding Company, to which reporting under CARO is applicable, provided to us by the Management of the Holding Company 
and based on the identification of matters of qualifications or adverse remarks in their CARO reports by the respective component auditors and 
provided to us, we report that the auditors of such companies have not reported any qualifications or adverse remarks in their CARO report except 
for the following:
Sl. No.
Name of the Company
CIN
Relationship with the 
Holding Company
Clause number of the CARO report 
which is qualified or is adverse
1
Avinya Batteries Limited 
(Formerly PPAP Technology 
Limited)
U31109DL2015PLC274891
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiary
3(xvii) and 3(xix)
For T R Chadha & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No. 006711N/N500028
Place: Noida 
Neena Goel
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Partner
Membership No. 057986
UDIN: 25057986BMIKLB2043 
179
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
Particulars
Notes
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
INCOME
Revenue from operations
26
 55,400.55 
 52,291.77 
Other income
27
 130.58 
 166.24 
Total Income (I) 
 55,531.13 
 52,458.01 
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed
28
 30,554.62 
 30,551.03 
Purchase of stock in trade
 482.93 
 296.24 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
29
 675.22 
 444.30 
Employee benefits expense
30
 10,050.14 
 9,519.07 
Finance costs
31
 1,642.12 
 1,467.21 
Depreciation and amortization expense
32
 3,444.80 
 3,414.53 
Other expenses
33
 7,920.31 
 7,506.78 
Total Expenses (II)
 54,770.14 
 53,199.16 
Profit / (loss) before exceptional items and share of (profit) / loss of associates 
and a joint venture and tax from continuing operations (I-II)
 761.00 
 (741.15)
Profit / (loss) before share of (profit) / loss of associates and a joint venture and 
tax from continuing operations (I-II)
 761.00 
 (741.15)
Share of profit of Joint venture
 125.40 
 (64.27)
Profit / (loss) before tax from continuing operations
 886.39 
 (805.42)
Tax expenses
22
Current tax
 319.92 
 17.78 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
 0.21 
 (19.60)
Deferred tax
 (133.45)
 500.27 
Profit / (loss) for the year
 699.72 
 (1,303.86)
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
34
Items that will not be reclassified to profit & loss in subsequent periods
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
 40.96 
 69.00 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
 1.51 
 0.38 
Income tax effect on such items
 (10.31)
 (17.37)
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 32.16 
 52.02 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 731.87 
 (1,251.85)
Profit / (Loss) for the  period attributable to:
    Owners of the Company
 699.72 
 (1,303.86)
    Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the  period attributable to:
    Owners of the Company
 32.16 
 52.02 
    Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive income / (loss) for the  period attributable to:
    Owners of the Company
 731.87 
 (1,251.85)
    Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Earnings per equity share (computed on the basis of profit for the year) 
35
(1) Basic (in `)
 4.97 
 (9.31)
(2) Diluted (in `)
 4.95 
 (9.31)
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
(` in lacs)
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
178
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
 29,787.54 
 30,030.29 
Capital work-in-progress
3a
 2,401.18 
 1,482.94 
Right of use assets
4
 883.72 
 338.65 
Other intangible assets
5
 953.27 
 930.82 
Intangible assets under development
5a
 253.57 
 210.92 
Financial assets
a. Investments
6
 3,895.82 
 3,668.70 
b. Other financial assets
7
 302.18 
 299.45 
Tax assets (net)
8
 5.23 
 168.70 
Other non-current assets
9
 679.49 
 1,323.93 
 39,162.00 
 38,454.40 
Current assets
Inventories
10
 6,105.97 
 6,934.60 
Financial assets
a. Investments
6
 464.90 
 629.84 
b. Trade receivables
11
 7,253.66 
 6,725.41 
c. Cash and cash equivalents
12
 147.24 
 192.77 
d. Other balances with banks
13
 30.96 
 11.21 
e. Loans
14
 100.70 
 63.95 
f. Other financial assets
7
 1,404.24 
 851.08 
Current tax assets (net)
15
 10.37 
 - 
Other current assets
16
 2,077.75 
 1,709.26 
 17,595.79 
 17,118.11 
Total Assets
 56,757.79 
 55,572.51 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
17
 1,408.65 
 1,400.00 
Other equity
18
 27,381.64 
 26,889.10 
 28,790.29 
 28,289.10 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
a. Borrowings
19
 6,174.40 
 7,359.88 
b. Lease liabilities
4
 571.79 
 199.65 
c. Other financial liabilities
20
 -0.28 
 3.45 
Provisions
21
 516.27 
 561.83 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
22
 860.28 
 1,000.75 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
19
 10,440.20 
 8,568.42 
Lease liabilities
4
 285.10 
 106.77 
Trade payables
23
- total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,684.84 
 1,132.03 
- total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 5,024.07 
 4,617.04 
Other financial liabilities 
20
 958.11 
 782.92 
Other current liabilities
24
 1,324.08 
 2,842.34 
Provisions
21
 128.64 
 103.72 
Current tax liabilities (net)
25
 - 
 4.61 
Total Liabilities
 27,967.50 
 27,283.41 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 56,757.79 
 55,572.51 
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
181
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
Particulars
Year ended
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Investment in fixed deposits (purchased) / matured
 (21.35)
 - 
Interest income
 320.90 
 184.66 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (3,539.87)
 (2,999.59)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Loan
 (36.75)
 (55.69)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (262.91)
 (161.37)
Interest paid
 (1,804.55)
 (1,514.95)
Proceeds from issue of equity share capital
 8.65 
 - 
Proceeds of long term borrowings
 2,500.00 
 2,700.00 
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (3,685.17)
 (3,328.69)
Proceeds / (repayment) of short term borrowings
 1,871.78 
 1,482.19 
Dividends paid
 (316.95)
 (70.00)
Payment of unclaimed dividend
 1.60 
 0.17 
Net cash flow from financing activities (C)
 (1,724.30)
 (948.34)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 (45.53)
 110.17 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 192.77 
 82.60 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 147.24 
 192.77 
Components of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
Cash on hand
 68.23 
 42.67 
Balance with banks
On current accounts
 79.01 
 150.10 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 - 
 - 
 147.24 
 192.77 
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Note: The cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7 
‘Statement of Cash Flows’.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
180
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
Particulars
Year ended
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit before tax
 886.39 
 (805.42)
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,444.80 
 3,414.54 
Interest expense
 1,833.24 
 1,526.87 
Balances written off
 0.16 
 - 
Provision for bad & doubtful debts
 7.93 
 16.19 
Profit on sale of investments
 (14.00)
 (13.36)
Employees share based payments
 74.34 
 130.59 
Fair valuation gain on investment in mutual funds
 (18.25)
 (38.72)
Unrealised exchange Loss/(Gain)
 (6.56)
 (0.19)
Share in net (profit) / loss in associate & Joint venture
 (125.40)
 64.27 
Profit on cancellation of lease
 - 
 (1.35)
Interest income
 (320.90)
 (184.66)
Operating profit before working capital changes
 5,761.75 
 4,108.76 
Working capital adjustments
Decrease / (Increase) in inventories
 828.63 
 677.90 
Decrease / (Increase) in trade and other receivables
 (653.18)
 (838.57)
Movement in trade and other payables
 (547.97)
 146.48 
Movement in provisions
 (2.26)
 146.87 
Cash generated from operations
 5,386.97 
 4,241.44 
Direct taxes refunded / (paid) (net)
 (168.31)
 (183.34)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
 5,218.65 
 4,058.10 
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant, equipment
 (934.47)
 (2,167.28)
Purchase of assets in CWIP
 (2,752.73)
 (570.22)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (227.24)
 (315.80)
Purchase of Intangible assets under development
 (91.28)
 (36.85)
Sale of tangible fixed assets
 69.34 
 38.18 
Sale of current investments
 449.99 
 916.82 
Purchase of current investments
 (252.80)
 (1,049.10)
Purchase of non current investments
 (100.23)
 - 
(` in lacs)
183
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
1. 
Corporate information
 
 The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of PPAP Automotive Limited (“PPAP”) and its subsidiary 
companies (collectively, the Group) for the year ended 31st March 2025. PPAP Automotive Limited (“PPAP” or “the company” or the” 
Parent”) is a public limited company domiciled in India and was incorporated on 18th October 1995. The registered office of the Parent 
Company is located at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III New Delhi-110020, India.
 
 The Group’s core competence is in developing Plastic and Rubber based extrusion systems as well as Plastic injection molding 
systems for various industries. The Group also focuses in developing high precision plastic injection toolings.
 
 The Group started its journey of achieving Global Level Excellence with the start of the Automotive Business. Over the years the 
Group strives to delight its customers in the Automotive Industry as well as Industrial Products industry. The Group is poised to 
establish itself as a leading product solutions company in the areas of its core competence.
 
 With the advent of electrification of the Automotive Industry, PPAP has established itself as one of the leading manufacturers of Li-Ion 
based Battery pack solution provider for the 2 wheeler and 3 wheeler industry.
 
 The Parent Company’s state of the art manufacturing facilities are located in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and 
Maharashtra. 
 
The Parent Company is listed on the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited. 
 
 The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2025 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution 
of the directors on 16th May, 2025.
2. 
Material accounting policy information
 
2.1 Basis of preparation
 
 
 The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS) as prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015 and the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2016.
 
 
 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost convention, except for the certain assets and 
liabilities which have been measured at different basis and such basis has been disclosed in relevant accounting policy.
 
 
 The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) and all values are rounded to the nearest lakh (INR 00,000), 
except when otherwise indicated.
 
2.2 Basis of Consolidation
 
 
(i) 
Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 Subsidiary companies are entities over which the group has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed 
to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. Subsidiary companies are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date the control ceases. The group combines the 
financial statements of the parent and its subsidiary companies line by line adding together like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income and expenses. Inter company transactions, balance and unrealised gains on transactions between group 
companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the group. Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement of change in equity and balance sheet respectively.
 
 
(ii) Associates
 
 
 
 Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally the 
case where the group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using 
the equity method of accounting (see (iv) below), after initially being recognised at cost.
 
 
(iii) Joint arrangements
 
 
 
 Under Ind AS 111 Joint Arrangements, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or 
joint ventures. The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal 
structure of the joint arrangement. PPAP has one joint venture. Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
182
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2025
A. 
Equity share capital (refer note 17) 
(` in lacs)
Equity shares of ` 10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At 1st April, 2023
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 - 
At 31st March, 2024
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Changes in equity share capital during the year on exercise of employee stock options
 86,513 
 8.65 
As at 31st March, 2025
 14,086,513 
 1,408.65 
B. 
Other equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Items of Other 
comprehensive 
income
Total equity
(refer note 18)
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
Employee 
Stock 
Options 
reserve
Re-measurement 
gains / (losses) 
on defined benefit 
plans
At 1st April, 2023
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  19,957.04 
 48.76 
 (89.96)
 28,074.79 
Net income / (loss) for the year
(1,303.88)
 - 
 - 
 (1,303.88)
Share based payments (Refer note 37)
 136.17 
 136.17 
Other comprehensive income (note 34)
 52.02 
 52.02 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
(1,303.88)
 136.17 
 52.02 
 (1,115.69)
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (70.00)
 - 
 - 
 (70.00)
As at 31st March, 2024
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  18,583.16 
 184.93 
 (37.94)
 26,889.10 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 699.72 
 - 
 - 
 699.72 
Exercise of employee stock options
 - 
 170.08 
 (170.08)
 - 
Share based payments (Refer note 37)
 77.59 
 77.59 
Other comprehensive income (note 34)
 32.16 
 32.16 
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 170.08 
 699.72 
 (92.44)
 32.16 
 809.48 
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (176.08)
 - 
 - 
 (176.08)
Interim dividend
 - 
 - 
 (140.85)
 - 
 (140.85)
As at 31st March, 2025
 1,158.95 
 7,170.08  18,965.95 
 92.44 
 (5.79)
 27,381.64 
Material accounting policy information 
2
The accompanying Notes 3 to 60 form an integral part of these financial statements.
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
185
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment are provided to the extent of depreciable amount on the straight line 
method (SLM). Depreciation is provided at the rates and in the manner prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013 except on some assets, where useful life has been taken based on internal technical evaluation as given 
below:
Particulars
Useful lives 
Dies and Moulds
15 years
 
 
 
 
 Leasehold Land and Leasehold Improvements are amortized over the period of the lease or the useful life of the 
asset, whichever is lower.
 
 
 
 
 The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation / amortization of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
 
 
 
ii) 
Capital work in progress
 
 
 
 
 Capital work in progress includes construction stores including material in transit / equipment / services, etc. received 
at site for use in the projects.
 
 
 
 
 All revenue expenses incurred during construction period, which are exclusively attributable to acquisition / construction 
of fixed assets, are capitalized at the time of commissioning of such assets.
 
 
c. 
Investment properties 
 
 
 
 Investment properties held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both are stated in the balance sheet at cost, less 
any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged on 
a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Any gain or loss on disposal of investment property is determined as 
the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. Transfer to, or from, investment property is done at the carrying amount of the property.
 
 
d. 
Intangible Assets
 
 
 
 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment loss.
 
 
 
 Intangible assets with finite lives (i.e. software and licenses) are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for 
impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and method 
for an intangible asset is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
 
 
 
 Costs relating to computer software and technical know-how are capitalised and amortised on straight line method over 
their estimated useful economic life of six years.
 
 
 
 Internally generated: Research & development Costs
 
 
 
i) 
Research costs are charged to the statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which they are incurred.
 
 
 
ii) 
 Product development costs incurred on new dies and moulds and new products are recognised as intangible assets, 
when feasibility has been established, the Group has committed technical, financial and other resources to complete 
the development and it is probable that asset will generate future economic benefits.
 
 
 
 The cost of an internally generated intangible asset is the sum of directly attributable expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria to the completion of its development.
 
 
 
 Product development costs is amortised over the life of the related product, being a period of 6 years. Product development 
expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. Amortisation is not recorded on 
product engineering in progress until development is complete.
 
 
e. 
Borrowing Costs
 
 
 
 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
 
 
f. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 
 The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
184
method (see (iv) below), after initially being recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
 
(iv) Equity method
 
 
 
 Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise 
the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in profit and loss, and the group’s share of other 
comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends received or receivable from associates 
and joint ventures are recognized as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment. 
 
 
 
 When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including 
any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the other entity.
 
 
 
 Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent 
of the group’s interest in these entities. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by Group.
 
 
 
 The carrying amount of equity accounted investments are tested for impairment in accordance with the policy described in 
note 2.3 (f) below.
 
2.3  Material accounting policy information
 
 
a. 
Current versus non-current classification
 
 
 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current / non-current classification. 
 
 
 
An asset/ liability is treated as current when it is:
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed or settled in normal operating cycle;
 
 
 
• 
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised/settled within twelve months after the reporting period;
 
 
 
• 
 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period; and 
 
 
 
• 
 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period.
 
 
 
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. 
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities respectively.
 
 
b. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
 
 
i) 
Tangible assets
 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost [i.e., cost of acquisition or construction inclusive of freight, erection 
and commissioning charges, non-refundable duties and taxes, expenditure during construction period, borrowing 
costs (in case of a qualifying asset) upto the date of acquisition / installation], net of accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any.  
 
 
 
 
 When significant parts of property, plant and equipment (identified individually as component) are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Group derecognizes the replaced part, and recognizes the new part with its own associated 
useful life and it is depreciated accordingly. Whenever major inspection / overhaul / repair is performed, its cost is 
recognized in the carrying amount of respective assets as a replacement, if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All 
other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 
 The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the cost of the 
respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are eliminated from financial statements, either on disposal or when retired from active 
use. Losses / gains arising in case retirement / disposals of property, plant and equipment are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss in the year of occurrence.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
187
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
j. 
Taxes on income
 
 
 
Current tax
 
 
 
 Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid / recovered to / from the taxation authorities. The tax rates and 
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
 
 
 
 Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity / other comprehensive income is recognised under 
the respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the 
tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions where appropriate.
 
 
 
 Current tax assets are offset against current tax liabilities if, and only if, a legally enforceable right exists to set off the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
 
 
 
 Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT), paid in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 gives rise to expected future economic 
benefits in the form of adjustment of future tax liability arising within a specified period, is recognised as an asset only to 
the extent there is convincing evidence that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period. Such asset 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and the carrying amount of MAT credit asset is written down to the extent there is 
no longer convincing evidence to the effect that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
 
 
 
Deferred tax
 
 
 
 Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and 
any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax 
losses can be utilised.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date. Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity / other comprehensive income is recognized in 
respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss.
 
 
 
 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
 
 
k. 
Employee benefits
 
 
 
Short-term obligations
 
 
 
 Liabilities for wages and salaries including non-monetary benefits that are expected to be settled within twelve months of 
rendering the service are recognised in the period in which the employee renders the related service and are measured 
at the undiscounted amount expected to be paid.
 
 
 
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
 
 
 
 Other long-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and loss as and when they 
accrue. The Group determines the liability using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations carried out as at 
the balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses in respect of such benefits are charged to the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
Post-employment obligations
 
 
 
Defined contribution plans:
 
 
 
 The Group makes payments made to defined contribution plans such as provident fund and employees’ state insurance 
fund. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted 
for as defined contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
186
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal 
and its value in use. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset 
or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 
 Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
 
 
g. 
Inventories
 
 
 
 Items of inventories are measured at lower of cost and net realizable value after providing for obsolescence, wherever 
considered necessary. Cost of inventories comprises of cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs including 
manufacturing overheads incurred in bringing them to their respective present location and condition. Cost of raw material, 
stores and spares, packing materials, trading and other products are determined on weighted average basis. Work-in-
progress is carried at cost or net realisable value whichever is lower.
 
 
h. 
Revenue Recognition
 
 
 
The Group derives revenues primarily from manufacturing and sale of automotive components and moulds.
 
 
 
 Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
 
 
Arrangements with customers for sale of automotive components and moulds are mostly on a fixed – price basis. 
 
 
 
 Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognised when the performance obligations are satisfied upon delivery of 
components to the customers and where there is no uncertainty as to measurement or collectability of consideration. When 
there is uncertainty as to measurement or ultimate collectability, revenue recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is 
resolved.
 
 
 
 The Group accounts for volume discounts and pricing incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based on the 
rateable allocation of the discounts / incentives to each of the underlying performance obligation that corresponds to the 
progress by the customer towards earning the discount / incentive. Also, when the level of discount varies with increase in 
levels of revenue transactions, the Group recognizes the liability based on its estimate of the customer’s future purchases. 
If it is probable that the criteria for the discount will not be met, or if the amount thereof cannot be estimated reliably, then 
discount is not recognized until the payment is probable and the amount can be estimated reliably. The Group recognizes 
changes in the estimated amount of obligations for discounts in the period in which the change occurs.
 
 
 
 Contract modifications are accounted for when additions, deletions or changes are approved either to the contract scope 
or contract price.
 
 
 
 Revenues in excess of invoicing are classified as contract assets (which we refer as unbilled revenue) while invoicing in 
excess of revenues are classified as contract liabilities (which we refer to as unearned revenues).
 
 
 
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
 
 
 
 Interest income is recognized on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the interest rate 
applicable.
 
 
i. 
Foreign currency transactions
 
 
 
The Group’s financial statements are presented in INR, which is also its functional currency. 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in functional currency using the exchange rates at the date the 
transaction.
 
 
 
 At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are reported using the exchange rate prevailing at the year 
end.
 
 
 
Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
189
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
 
 
 
 In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement 
date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount 
of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, 
the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the 
lease payments.
 
 
 
Right of Use (ROU) Assets
 
 
 
 The ROU assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made at or before 
the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
 
 
 
 Whenever the Group incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site on which it 
is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision 
is recognised and measured under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The costs are 
included in the related right-of-use asset.
 
 
 
 The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section 2.3, Impairment of non-
financial assets.
 
 
 
 ROU assets are depreciated over the shorter period of the lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. If the Group 
is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful 
life. The depreciation starts at the commencement date of the lease.
 
 
 
 Lease liability and ROU asset is separately presented in the balance sheet and lease payments is classified as financing 
cash flows.
 
 
 
As a lessor :
 
 
 
The Group enters into lease arrangements as a lessor with respect to some of its investment properties and buildings.
 
 
 
 Leases for which the Group is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as finance lease. All 
other leases are classified as operating leases.
 
 
 
 Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
 
 
 Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment 
in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on 
the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
 
 
o. 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
 
 
 
 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past events and it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
 
 
 
 If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
 
 
 
Contingent liability is disclosed in the case of:
 
 
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from past events, when it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation;
 
 
 
• 
a present obligation arising from past events, when no reliable estimate is possible
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
188
 
 
 
Defined benefit plans:
 
 
 
 The Group has defined benefit plan namely gratuity fund for employees. The gratuity fund is recognised by the income tax 
authorities and is administered through trusts set up by the Group. Any shortfall in the size of the fund maintained by the 
trust is additionally provided for in profit or loss. The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of gratuity 
plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan 
assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuary using the projected unit credit method. The present 
value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows by reference to 
market yields at the end of the reporting period on Government bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation. The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in profit or loss.
 
 
 
 Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained 
earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss as past 
service cost.
 
 
l. 
Employee Share based Payments
 
 
 
 The Parent Company operates equity settled share-based plan for the employees (Referred to as employee stock option 
plan (ESOP)). ESOP granted to the employees are measured at fair value of the stock options at the grant date using Black-
Scholes model. Such fair value of the equity settled share based payments are amortised on a straight line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Parent Company’s estimate of equity shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding 
increase in equity (employee stock option reserve). At the end of each reporting period, the Parent Company revises 
its estimate of number of equity shares expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss such that cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, 
with a corresponding adjustments to the employee stock option reserve. 
 
 
 
 The Parent Company recovers the expenses incurred on behalf of its subsidiary for the stock options granted to the 
employees of the subsidiaries.
 
 
m. Royalty 
 
 
 
 The Group pays/ accrues for royalty in accordance with the relevant licence agreement with the technical know-how 
provider. The lump sum royalty incurred towards obtaining technical assistance / technical know-how and engineering 
support to manufacture new parts, ownership of which rests with the technical know-how provider, is recognised as an 
intangible asset. Royalty payable on sales of products i.e. running royalty is charged to the statement of Profit and loss as 
and when incurred.
 
 
n. 
Leases
 
 
 
As a lessee:
 
 
 
 The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (ROU) and a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in which 
it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. For these 
short-term and low value leases, the Group recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease. Certain lease arrangements include the options to extend or terminate the lease before 
the end of the lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they 
will be exercised. 
 
 
 
Lease Liability
 
 
 
 At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease 
payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The 
lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Group and 
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising the option to terminate. 
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognized as expenses in the period in which the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
191
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
 
 
 
 
 All financial assets are recognized initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value 
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified in below categories:
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective 
is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if it is held within 
a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial 
assets and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Group has made an irrevocable 
election for its investments which are classified as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair 
value in other comprehensive income based on its business model. 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued through profit 
or loss.
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is primarily derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or the 
Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset.
 
 
 
 
Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
 
 
 
 
The Group has accounted for its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at cost. 
 
 
 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
 
 
 
 
 The Group assesses impairment based on expected credit losses (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss, the calculation of which is based on historical data, on the financial assets that are trade receivables 
or contract revenue receivables and all lease receivables.
 
 
 
 
 The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on Trade receivables or contract 
revenue receivables and all lease receivables resulting from transactions within the scope of Ind AS 116
 
 
 
 
 The application of simplified approach does not require the Group to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
 
 
 
 For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that whether 
there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased 
significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, 
lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer 
a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month ECL. 
 
 
 
 
 Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a 
financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are 
possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
 
 
 
 
 ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the group in accordance with the contract 
and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
190
 
 
 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
 
 
p. 
Earnings per share
 
 
 
 Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed 
by dividing adjusted net profit after tax by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity shares and dilutive potential 
equity shares during the year. 
 
 
q. 
Recent accounting pronouncements
 
 
 
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standards or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. During the year ended March 31, 2025, MCA has notified 
Ind AS 117 - Insurance Contracts and amendments to Ind As 116 – Leases, relating to sale and lease back transactions, 
applicable from April 1, 2024. The Group has assessed that there is no significant impact on its financial statements.
 
 
 
 On May 9, 2025, MCA notifies the amendments to Ind AS 21 - Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates. These 
amendments aim to provide clearer guidance on assessing currency exchangeability and estimating exchange rates when 
currencies are not readily exchangeable. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 
2025. The Group is currently assessing the probable impact of these amendments on its financial statements.
 
 
r. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand, cheques on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as 
defined above.
 
 
s. 
Fair value measurement
 
 
 
 The Group measures financial instruments such as derivatives and certain investments, at fair value at each balance sheet 
date. 
 
 
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole: 
 
 
 
• 
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
directly or indirectly observable 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable 
 
 
 
 For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the balance sheet on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
 
 
t. 
Financial instruments
 
 
 
 A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a   financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.
 
 
 
(i) 
Financial assets
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Group classifies financial assets as subsequently measured at amortized cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of its business model for managing the financial 
assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial asset.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
193
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
(iii) Offsetting of financial instruments 
 
 
 
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to 
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
 
 
(iv) Derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps, full currency 
swaps and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity price 
risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
 
 
 
 
 Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
u. 
Government grants
 
 
 
 Government grants are recognized where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached 
conditions will be complied with.
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an asset, the cost of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon is treated as capital 
grant which is recognized as income in statement of profit and loss over the period and in proportion in which depreciation 
is charged.
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognized as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the 
related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed.
 
 
 
 When the Group receives grants of non-monetary assets, the asset and the grant are recorded at fair value amounts and 
released to profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of the benefit of the underlying asset.
 
 
 
 When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current 
applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a government grant. The loan or assistance is 
initially recognized and measured at fair value and the government grant is measured as the difference between the initial 
carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy 
applicable to financial liabilities.
 
 
v. 
Unless specifically stated to be otherwise, these policies are consistently followed.
 
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated 
and are based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
 
 
 In particular, the Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required. 
Further information on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below and also 
in the relevant notes to the financial statements. Changes in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
 
 
Judgements
 
 
 In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements:
 
 
Contingencies
 
 
 Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course of business in relation to claims against the Group, including legal, 
contractor, land access and other claims. By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
192
estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider:
 
 
 
 
• 
 All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over 
the expected life of the financial instrument.
 
 
 
 
• 
 Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms
 
 
 
 
 As a practical expedient, the Group uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its 
trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the 
trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default 
rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed. On that basis, the Group estimates the 
following provision matrix at the reporting date:
Less than 6 months
6 months -1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Default rate
0.05%
1.00%
50.00%
75.00%
100.00%
 
 
 
 
 ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the 
statement of profit and loss (P&L). This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the P&L.
 
 
 
(ii) Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Group classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortized cost, except for financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be subsequently 
measured at fair value.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
 
 
 All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net 
of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and 
borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
 
 
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized as 
well as through the EIR amortization process.
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial 
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified 
as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
195
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
3. 
Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 Land 
 Factory 
Building 
 Building 
Renovation 
 Plant & 
Machinery 
 Furniture 
& fixtures 
 Vehicle 
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Molds 
 Computer 
 Total 
Cost 
As at 1st April, 
2023
2,225.16  12,267.76 
 200.27 
 24,976.71 
 1,027.74 
 918.12 
 544.44  5,050.59 
 556.86  47,767.65 
Additions
 - 
 11.91 
 - 
 1,408.26 
 33.39 
 72.39 
 18.99 
 584.34 
 27.55 
 2,156.82 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 44.67 
 - 
 75.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 119.87 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Property
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 
2024
2,225.16  12,279.67 
 200.27 
 26,340.30 
 1,061.13 
 915.31 
 563.43  5,634.93 
 584.41  49,804.60 
Additions
 - 
 62.13 
 - 
 1,413.26 
 45.69 
 155.93 
 78.10 
 809.20 
 204.62 
 2,768.94 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 141.70 
 - 
 135.33 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 277.03 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Property
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st 
March, 2025
2,225.16  12,341.80 
 200.27 
 27,611.86 
 1,106.82 
 935.91 
 641.53  6,444.13 
 789.02  52,296.51 
Depreciation
As at 1st April, 
2023
 90.76 
 2,310.25 
 34.98 
 10,738.06 
 432.14 
 606.40 
 355.24  1,862.47 
 370.32  16,800.63 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2023-24
 21.24 
 448.35 
 38.21 
 2,045.88 
 90.58 
 64.50 
 43.60 
 233.80 
 68.21 
 3,054.36 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 31.99 
 - 
 48.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80.68 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Property
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 
2024
 112.00 
 2,758.60 
 73.18 
 12,751.95 
 522.72 
 622.21 
 398.84  2,096.27 
 438.53  19,774.31 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2024-25
 21.24 
 448.68 
 37.97 
 1,916.54 
 83.24 
 70.51 
 39.50 
 262.18 
 62.48 
 2,942.36 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 79.41 
 - 
 128.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 207.69 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Property
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st 
March, 2025
 133.24 
 3,207.28 
 111.16 
 14,589.08 
 605.97 
 564.44 
 438.34  2,358.45 
 501.01  22,508.97 
Net book 
value
As at 31st 
March, 2025
2,091.92 
 9,134.52 
 89.11 
 13,022.78 
 500.85 
 371.47 
 203.20  4,085.68 
 288.02  29,787.54 
As at 31st 
March, 2024
2,113.16 
 9,521.07 
 127.09 
 13,588.35 
 538.40 
 293.10 
 164.59  3,538.66 
 145.88  30,030.29 
Note : Property, plant & equipment refer material accounting policy information no 2.2b
(i) 
Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 
 
 I. 
Refer note 19 for property, plant and equipment pledged / hypothecated as security for borrowing by the Group.
 
II. 
The Group has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment during the year. 
 
III.  The title deeds of all the immovable properties held by the Group (other than properties where the Group is the lessee and 
the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the name of the Group.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
194
events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum, of contingencies inherently involves the 
exercise of significant judgments and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
 
 
Estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, 
are described below. The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the consolidated financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to 
market change or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when 
they occur.
 
 
(a) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 
 The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An 
asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. It is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those 
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 
 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, 
an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for 
publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators.
 
 
(b) Defined benefit plans
 
 
 
 The cost of the defined benefit plan and other post-employment benefits and the present value of such obligation are 
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases, mortality 
rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined 
benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
 
 
(c) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
 
 When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based 
on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. The 
inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of 
judgment is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit 
risk and volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
 
(d) Impairment of financial assets
 
 
 
 The impairment provisions for financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. 
The Group uses judgments in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on 
Group’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
197
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
5. Other Intangible assets
Cost 
Software
Technical 
Know How
Website 
Development
Product 
Development
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2023
 649.36 
 1,590.10 
 3.13 
 - 
 2,242.58 
Additions
 48.33 
 129.63 
 - 
 137.84 
 315.80 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 697.69 
 1,719.73 
 3.13 
 137.84 
 2,558.38 
Additions
 8.56 
 183.19 
 - 
 84.11 
 275.86 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 706.24 
 1,902.92 
 3.13 
 221.95 
 2,834.24 
Amortisation
As at 1st April, 2023
 353.88 
 1,062.50 
 0.27 
 - 
 1,417.26 
Amortization charge for the year 2023-2024
 63.61 
 129.53 
 0.27 
 16.90 
 210.31 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 417.49 
 1,192.03 
 0.54 
 16.90 
 1,627.57 
Amortization charge for the year 2024-2025
 60.25 
 152.58 
 0.27 
 40.30 
 253.41 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 477.74 
 1,344.61 
 0.81 
 57.20 
 1,880.97 
Net book value
As at 31st March, 2025
 228.51 
 558.31 
 2.32 
 164.75 
 953.27 
As at 31st March, 2024
 280.20 
 527.70 
 2.59 
 120.94 
 930.81 
5a. Intangible assets under development
Software
Intangible Asset- Product Development
Total
As at 1st April, 2023
 - 
 174.07 
 174.07 
Additions
 37.08 
 173.46 
 210.54 
Disposals / capitalizations
 34.00 
 139.69 
 173.69 
As at 1st April, 2024
 3.08 
 207.84 
 210.92 
Additions
 10.84 
 80.43 
 91.27 
Disposals / capitalizations
 3.68 
 44.94 
 48.62 
As at 31st March, 2025
 10.24 
 243.33 
 253.57 
a) 
Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2025
Particulars
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of 
Total
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years More than 3 years
 Projects in progress
 126.44 
 127.13 
 - 
 - 
 253.57 
 Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b) 
Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2024
Particulars
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of 
Total
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 123.20 
 87.71 
 -   
 -   
 210.92 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
i) 
 There is no intangible assets under development whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original 
plan at the end of current year and previous year.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
196
 
(` in lacs)
3a. Capital work-in-progress
Particulars
Building 
Construction
Plant & 
Machinery
Furniture & 
Fixtures
Office 
Equipment 
Dies & 
Moulds 
Computer 
Total 
As at 1st April, 2023
 98.66 
 772.49 
 11.53 
 0.59 
 17.99 
 0.00 
 901.26 
Additions
 435.87 
 1,400.25 
 37.89 
 22.90 
 3.87 
 89.57 
 1,990.36 
Disposals / capitalizations
 11.91 
 1,346.57 
 31.36 
 13.60 
 2.18 
 3.06 
 1,408.68 
As at 1st April, 2024
 522.62 
 826.17 
 18.06 
 9.89 
 19.68 
 86.52 
 1,482.94 
Additions
 556.68 
 1,784.63 
 102.75 
 190.07 
 29.91 
 111.31 
 2,775.36 
Disposals / capitalizations
 58.07 
 1,485.69 
 45.39 
 77.43 
 18.49 
 172.04 
 1,857.12 
As at 31st March, 2025
 1,021.23 
 1,125.11 
 75.42 
 122.53 
 31.10 
 25.79 
 2,401.18 
a) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2025
Capital work-in-progress
Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 1,510.78 
 118.07 
 772.33 
 - 
 2,401.18 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2024
Capital work-in-progress
Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 1,089.71 
 393.24 
 -   
 -   
 1,482.94 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
i) 
 There is no capital work in progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan at the end 
of current year and previous year.
4. 
Right of use assets
Particulars
Leasehold Building
 Vehicle 
 IT Assets 
Total
Lease liabilities
As at 1st April, 2023
 34.61 
 52.84 
 - 
 87.46 
 90.99 
Additions
 349.78 
 62.11 
 7.56 
 419.44 
 384.42 
Cancellation of lease
 55.28 
 - 
 - 
 55.28 
 (19.54)
Depreciation
 113.03 
 36.39 
 0.40 
 149.82 
 - 
Accumulated Depreciation on 
Cancellation of lease
 36.86 
 - 
 - 
 36.86 
 - 
Finance cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.92 
Lease payments (outflow)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (161.37)
As at 1st April, 2024
 252.94 
 78.55 
 7.15 
 338.65 
 306.42 
Additions
 704.38 
 56.50 
 33.24 
 794.12 
 749.11 
Depreciation
 202.82 
 40.17 
 6.05 
 249.04 
Finance cost
-
-
-
-
 52.99 
Lease payments (outflow)
-
-
-
-
 (251.63)
As at 31st March, 2025
 754.50 
 94.88 
 34.34 
 883.72 
 856.89 
Non-current portion
-
-
-
-
 571.79 
Current portion
-
-
-
-
 285.10 
As at 31st March, 2025
 856.89 
Non-current portion
-
-
-
-
 199.65 
Current portion
-
-
-
-
 106.77 
As at 31st March, 2024
-
-
-
-
 306.42 
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 45.
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities is 7.55%-9.02%.
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit & loss related to leases are as under:
Particulars
Year ended 31.03.2025
Year ended 31.03.2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 249.04 
 124.00 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 52.99 
 10.73 
Expense relating to short term and low value leases (included in other expenses)- 
Ref. Note 38
 9.50 
 4.50 
Total
 311.54 
 139.23 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
199
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
7. Other financial assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Security Deposits
 275.67 
 234.81 
 - 
 - 
Bank deposits (having original maturity more than 12 months)*
 26.51 
 64.64 
 - 
 224.72 
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less 
than 12 months*
 - 
 - 
 304.90 
 30.28 
Interest accrued on loan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.41 
Unbilled revenue
 - 
 - 
 1,072.67 
 541.35 
Insurance claim receivable
 - 
 - 
 10.68 
 43.81 
Share based Payments to employees of Joint Venture
 - 
 - 
 10.68 
 7.43 
Other financial assets
 - 
 - 
 0.17 
 0.26 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Foreign exchange forward contracts not qualifying or not designated in 
hedge accounting relationships
 - 
 - 
 5.14 
 0.82 
 Total 
 302.18 
 299.45 
 1,404.24 
 851.08 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss reflect the positive change in fair value of those foreign exchange forward 
contracts that are not designated in hedge relationships, but are, nevertheless, intended to reduce the level of foreign currency risk for 
expected sales and purchases.
* Bank deposits
Bank deposits are held as security against letter of credit and bank guarantees.
8. Tax assets (net)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Tax assets  
(net of provision for income tax)
 5.23 
 168.70 
Total
 5.23 
 168.70 
9. Other non-current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Capital advances
 559.96 
 1,218.60 
Prepaid expenses
 18.04 
 20.93 
Other non current assets
 101.49 
 84.40 
Total
 679.49 
 1,323.93 
10. Inventories
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Raw materials
 3,028.27 
 3,138.16 
Stock in trade
 379.26 
 293.55 
Work-in-progress
 1,244.78 
 1,179.38 
Finished goods
 1,180.25 
 2,006.87 
Stores and spares
 265.75 
 311.13 
Goods in transit
 7.66 
 5.51 
Total 
 6,105.97 
 6,934.60 
Note:
a. Refer note 19 (V) for inventory pledged / hypothecated as security for borrowing by the Group.
b. For mode of valuation refer material accounting policy information number 2.2 (g)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
198
 
(` in lacs)
6. Investments
 Non-current 
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
(a) Investment in equity shares of joint venture company at cost
Unquoted
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited 4,85,00,000 (31st March, 2024 : 
4,85,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 each fully paid up
 3,595.59 
 3,468.70 
 3,595.59 
 3,468.70 
Other Investments
(c) Investment in Preference Shares at fair value through profit or loss
Unquoted
0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of Motovolt Mobility 
Private Limited: 4,87,800 (March 31, 2024: 4,87,800) Shares of ` 10 each 
fully paid up #
 200.00 
 200.00 
0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of NRV Designx 
Private Limited: 185 (March 31, 2024: nil) Shares of ` 10 each fully paid up 
#
 100.23 
 - 
 300.23 
 200.00 
(d) Investment in mutual fund at fair value through profit or loss
Quoted
ICICI Mutual Fund: 37277.951 (March 31, 2024: 3124.821) units
 11.62 
 12.02 
PGIM Flexi Cap: 53445.85 (March 31, 2024: 41080.896) units
 17.81 
 13.76 
ABSL Multicap: 115638.243 (March 31, 2024: 84268.6) units
 20.66 
 14.00 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund: 1101671.789 (March 31, 2024: 
19,51,999.543) units
 298.45 
 522.60 
Canara Robecco Emerging Equities: 8235.01 (March 31, 2024: 6496.21) 
units
 19.26 
 14.04 
Axis Midcap: 19423.199 (March 31, 2024: 15446.494) units
 19.67 
 12.83 
SBI Contra: 7948.063 (March 31, 2024: 4862.165) units
 28.49 
 16.29 
HDFC Large And Midcap Fund: 4887.20 (March 31, 2024: 3392.036) units
 15.15 
 9.76 
Mahindra Manulife Multi Cap Badhat Yojana: 49476.934 (March 31, 2024: 
31434.071) units
 15.80 
 9.41 
ICICI Pru Savings Fund: 3798.571 (March 31, 2024 794.59) units
 15.77 
 3.06 
Kotak Mutual Fund: 3055.00 (March 31, 2024: 3054.99) units
 2.22 
 2.07 
Total
 3,895.82 
 3,668.70 
 464.90 
 629.84 
* Financial guarantees given to subsidiary was initially recognised at fair value will continue to be accounted as Other Equity 
Investment until the investment in subsidiary is derecognised or impaired.
# These preference shares are non-cumulative. Cost is treated as fair value as there is no significant observable input available 
for the same.
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 464.90 
 629.84 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 3,895.82 
 3,668.70 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
201
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
12. Cash and cash equivalents
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Balances with banks
On current accounts
 79.00 
 150.10 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months
 - 
 - 
Cash on hand
 68.24 
 42.67 
Total
 147.24 
 192.77 
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
Balance with banks 
On current accounts 
 79.00 
 150.10 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months 
 - 
 - 
Cash on hand 
 68.24 
 42.67 
Total 
 147.24 
 192.77 
13. Other balances with banks
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Bank Balance: unpaid dividend account (earmarked balances with banks)
 9.61 
 11.21 
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less than 12 months
 21.35 
 - 
Total
 30.96 
 11.21 
14. Loans
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Other loans
(Unsecured, considered good)
Loan to staff
 74.68 
 44.64 
Labour welfare receivable
 26.02 
 19.31 
Total
 100.70 
 63.95 
Loans are non-derivative financial assets which generate a fixed or variable interest income for the Group. The carrying value may be 
affected by changes in the credit risk of the counterparties.
15. Current tax assets (net)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Income tax refundable (net of provision for income tax ` nil, (PY Income tax provision:  net of 
advance tax of ` 13.17 lakhs)
 10.37 
 - 
Total
 10.37 
 - 
16. Other current assets  
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Advance to suppliers & contractors
 124.44 
 169.38 
Prepaid expenses
 420.49 
 289.09 
Balances with government authorities
 1,444.05 
 1,206.29 
Other current assets
 88.76 
 44.49 
Total
 2,077.75 
 1,709.26 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
200
 
(` in lacs)
11. Trade receivables
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Unsecured, considered good
 7,253.66 
 6,725.41 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 69.05 
 29.04 
 7,322.71 
 6,754.45 
Less: Impairment allowance for trade receivable - credit impaired
 69.05 
 29.04 
Total 
 7,253.66 
 6,725.41 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2025
Outstanding 
for 
following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 5,150.51 
 1,734.75 
 27.94 
 50.24 
 21.63 
 - 
 - 
 6,985.07 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 268.59 
 - 
 - 
 268.59 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 0.81 
 0.10 
 23.31 
 29.25 
 15.57 
 - 
 69.05 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,150.51 
 1,735.73 
 28.04 
 73.51 
 319.47 
 15.57 
 - 
 7,322.71 
Less: Impairment allowance for 
trade receivable - credit impaired
 (69.05)
Net Trade receivables
 5,150.51 
 1,735.73 
 28.04 
 73.51 
 319.47 
 15.57 
 - 
 7,253.66 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2024
Outstanding 
for 
following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 6,018.39 
 625.54 
 64.11 
 13.59 
 3.79 
 - 
 - 
 6,725.41 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 0.37 
 0.45 
 15.98 
 12.24 
 - 
 - 
 29.04 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 6,018.39 
 625.91 
 64.56 
 29.56 
 16.03 
 - 
 - 
 6,754.45 
Less: Impairment allowance for 
trade receivable - credit impaired
 (29.04)
Net Trade receivables
 6,018.39 
 625.91 
 64.56 
 29.56 
 16.03 
 - 
 - 
 6,725.41 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
203
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
C. 
Following shareholders hold equity shares more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Parent Company:
Name of Shareholder
As at  
31.03.2025
As at  
31.03.2024
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Ajay Kumar Jain
 3,867,180 
27.45%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
Abhishek Jain
 1,002,404 
7.12%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.72%
 3,200,000 
22.86%
D. 
 Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to contract(s) without 
payment being received in cash.
Particulars
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to 
contract(s) without payment being received in cash
Nil
Nil
E. 
Details of Promoter’s Shareholding
S. No.
Promoter’s Name
As at 31.03.2024
As at 31.03.2023
% change 
during the 
year
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
1
Ajay Kumar Jain 
 3,867,180 
27.45%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
-0.17%
2
Abhishek Jain 
 1,002,404 
7.12%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
-0.04%
3
Vinay Kumari Jain
 533,890 
3.79%
 533,890 
3.81%
-0.02%
4
Ajay Kumar Jain (HUF)
 90,123 
0.64%
 90,123 
0.64%
0.00%
5
Rashi Jain 
 45,540 
0.32%
 45,540 
0.33%
-0.01%
6
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.72%
 3,200,000 
22.86%
-0.14%
7
Prism Suppliers Private Limited 
 193,700 
1.38%
 193,700 
1.38%
0.00%
8
Smart Commotrade Private Limited      
 168,030 
1.19%
 168,030 
1.20%
-0.01%
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
202
 
(` in lacs)
17. Equity share capital
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Authorized
2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each (2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Subscribed and fully paid up
1,40,86,513 equity shares of ` 10 each (1,40,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 1,408.65 
 1,400.00 
Total
 1,408.65 
 1,400.00 
A. 
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at  
31.03.2025
As at  
31.03.2024
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares 
Amount 
At the beginning of the year
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issued during the year
 86,513 
 8.65 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 14,086,513 
 1,408.65 
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
B. 
Terms / Rights attached to equity shares
 
 The Company has only one class of equity share having face value of ` 10 per share. The holder of the equity shares is entitled to 
receive dividend as declared from time to time. The holder of share is entitled to voting rights proportionate to their share holding.
 
 In the event of liquidation of the Parent Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive assets of the Company 
remaining after settlement of all liabilities. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
205
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
19. Borrowings
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Secured
Term loans
Term loan from banks (refer note I below)
 8,519.38 
 8,824.14 
140.13
 136.18 
Term loan from financial institution (refer note II below)
 80.47 
 481.93 
432.84
 - 
Vehicle loans (refer note III below)
From banks
 207.03 
 109.48 
 - 
 - 
Less: Current maturities
 (2,901.54)
 (2,720.48)
2901.54
 2,720.48 
Working capital loans from banks (refer note V below)
 - 
 - 
4569.44
 5,394.03 
Short Term Loans from banks:
Unsecured
Supplier Finance Arrangements (refer note VII below)
 - 
 - 
733.52
 155.00 
Term loan from financial institution
 269.06 
 664.81 
1662.73
 162.73 
Total
 6,174.40 
 7,359.88 
10440.2
 8,568.42 
Terms of borrowings
Type of loan
Loan outstanding 
MCLR/ 
Repo. Rate
Spread
Repayment terms
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024
(% per 
annum)
(% per 
annum)
AXIS bank term loan
 203.70 
 425.93 
 6.75 
 2.40 Repayable in 11 monthly instalment ` 18.52 lakhs each. 
 932.78 
 1,419.44 
 6.50 
 2.90 Repayable in 23 monthly instalment ` 40.56 lakhs each. 
 132.04 
 200.93 
 6.50 
 2.90 Repayable in 23 monthly instalment ` 5.74 lakhs each. 
 1,440.00 
 1,800.00 
 6.25 
 2.40 Repayable in 16 quarterly instalment ` 90.00 lakhs each. 
 765.00 
 900.00 
 6.25 
 2.40 Repayable in 17 quarterly instalment ` 45.00 lakhs each. 
HDFC bank term loan
 270.00 
 630.00 
 9.50 
 0.45 Repayable in 3 quarterly instalment ` 90.00 lakhs each. 
 47.37 
 110.53 
 9.50 
 0.45 Repayable in 3 quarterly instalment ` 15.79 lakhs each. 
 1,111.11 
 1,555.56 
 9.00 
 0.45 Repayable in 10 quarterly instalment ` 111.11 lakhs each.
SBI Term Loan
 56.62 
 - 
 8.85 
 0.15 Repayable in 5 monthly instalment ` 11.33 lakhs each.
 697.66 
 - 
 8.85 
 0.15 Repayable in 26 monthly instalment ` 26.83 lakhs each.
 194.80 
 - 
 8.85 
 0.15 Repayable in 29 monthly instalment ` 6.50 lakhs each.
 308.43 
 - 
 8.00 
 2.65 Repayable in 26 quarterly instalments.
ICICI bank term loan
 1,445.60 
 - 
 9.10 
 0.20 Repayable in 78 monthly instalment ` 18.53 lakhs each.
 1,054.40 
 - 
 9.10 
 0.20 Repayable in 78 monthly instalment ` 13.52 lakhs each.
HSBC bank term loan
 192.53 
 8.75 
 0.25 Taken over by SBI term loan
 1,028.01 
 8.90 
 0.25 Taken over by SBI term loan
 266.50 
 8.48 
 0.25 Taken over by SBI term loan
 430.91 
 7.08 
 2.00 Taken over by SBI term loan
Term loan from 
financial institution 
(PICUP) - see Note II
 513.31 
 481.93 
 -   
 -   
Repayable in one instalment after seven years from the 
date of disbursement i.e. 02.11.2018 for ` 432.99 lakhs 
and 30.03.2022 for ` 121.66 lakhs.
Vehicle loans from 
banks- see Note III
 207.03 
 109.48 
 7 % to 
8.36% per 
annum 
 -   
Repayable in equal monthly instalments of 1 to 60 
months
Working capital loans 
from banks- see Note 
V & VI
 4,569.44 
 5,394.03 
see Note V & VI
On demand 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
204
 
(` in lacs)
18. Other equity
Amount
a) Securities premium
As at 1st April, 2023
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 - 
As at 1st April, 2024
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 170.08 
As at 31st March, 2025
 7,170.08 
b) Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
As at 1st April, 2023
 (89.96)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 52.02 
As at 1st April, 2024
 (37.94)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 32.16 
As at 31st March, 2025
 (5.79)
c) Share based payments reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 48.76 
SBP Reserve for the period
 136.17 
As at 1st April, 2024
 184.93 
SBP Reserve for the period
 (92.49)
As at 31st March, 2025
 92.44 
d) General reserve
As at 1st April, 2023
 1,158.95 
Add: Transferred from retained earnings
As at 1st April, 2024
 1,158.95 
Add: Transferred from retained earnings
 - 
As at 31st March, 2025
 1,158.95 
e) Retained earnings
As at 1st April, 2023
 19,957.04 
Profit for the period
 (1,303.88)
Less: Final dividend paid
 (70.00)
As at 1st April, 2024
 18,583.16 
Profit for the period
 699.72 
Less: Final dividend paid
 (176.08)
Less: Interim dividend Paid
 (140.85)
As at 31st March, 2025
 18,965.95 
Total other equity
As at 31st March, 2025
 27,381.64 
As at 31st March, 2024
 26,889.10 
Nature and purpose of reserves
a) 
Securities premium
 
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in securities premium.
b) 
Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
 
 The amount of actuarial gains / losses recognised on post employment defined benefit employee obligations till date. Actuarial gains / losses 
are differences between any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience adjustments within 
the plans which are recognised  in ‘other comprehensive income’ and subsequently not reclassified to the statement of profit and loss. 
c) 
Employee Stock Options reserve
 
 The Company has share option scheme under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to certain executives 
and senior employees.
 
 The employee stock options reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, including 
key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer Note 37 for further details of these plans. 
d) 
General reserve
 
 The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to general reserve pursuant to the earlier 
provision of Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013. 
e) 
Retained earnings
 
 Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other distributions 
paid to investors.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
207
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Note vii:
Supplier finance arrangement (reverse factoring) with Mynd Solutions Private Limited at bid rate of 7.35- 7.70 % and repayment period 
15-90 days after invoice date.
Note viii: 
In pursuant to borrowing taken by the Group from banks on security of current assets, the Group is required to submit the information 
periodically which includes the stock statement, trade receivable and trade payable etc. During the current year, the Group has submitted 
the following financial information to all banks from whom working capital demand loan has been taken on quarterly basis which in some 
of these cases is not reconciled with books as follows:
Particulars/ Quarter 
ending
Amount as per 
books of accounts
Amount as reported in the 
quarterly return /statement
Difference
Reason for material discrepancies
Inventories
30.06.2024
 6,873.69 
 6,797.84 
 75.85 Due to timing differences in reporting 
to bank and routine book closure 
process.
30.09.2024
 7,269.31 
 6,964.08 
 305.23 
31.12.2024
 6,997.14 
 6,877.36 
 119.78 
31.03.2025
 5,726.41 
 5,567.49 
 158.92 
Trade Receivables
30.06.2024
 5,639.02 
 6,156.44 
 (517.42)
Due to timing differences in reporting 
to bank and routine book closure 
process.
30.09.2024
 8,100.62 
 8,131.28 
 (30.66)
31.12.2024
 7,081.71 
 7,104.00 
 (22.29)
31.03.2025
 7,010.16 
 7,079.42 
 (69.26)
Trade Payables
30.06.2024
 3,230.42 
 3,271.61 
 (41.19)
Due to timing differences in reporting 
to bank and routine book closure 
process.
30.09.2024
 3,532.51 
 3,532.51 
 (0.00)
31.12.2024
 3,624.47 
 3,624.47 
 (0.00)
31.03.2025
 3,280.30 
 2,913.93 
 366.37 
Inventories
30.06.2023
 6,721.96 
 6,104.76 
 617.20 Due to timing differences in reporting 
to bank and routine book closure 
process.
30.09.2023
 5,740.57 
 5,277.11 
 463.46 
31.12.2023
 6,299.57 
 6,099.19 
 200.38 
31.03.2024
 5,850.43 
 5,718.65 
 131.78 
Trade Receivables
30.06.2023
 5,594.53 
 5,709.02 
 (114.49)
Due to timing differences in reporting 
to bank and routine book closure 
process.
30.09.2023
 5,551.67 
 5,606.72 
 (55.05)
31.12.2023
 5,000.67 
 5,045.75 
 (45.08)
31.03.2024
 5,707.32 
 5,770.49 
 (63.17)
Trade Payables
30.06.2023
 3,680.63 
 3,682.27 
 (1.64)
Due to timing differences in reporting 
to bank and routine book closure 
process.
30.09.2023
 3,734.52 
 3,736.51 
 (1.99)
31.12.2023
 3,346.13 
 3,346.13 
 (0.00)
31.03.2024
 3,710.18 
 3,736.83 
 (26.65)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
206
 
(` in lacs)
Note i: 
Term loans from banks are secured by first pari passu charge on current assets, moveable fixed assets and factory land and building 
of the Parent Company situated at Kasna, Greater Noida. Further, term loan from Axis bank is secured by first pari passu charge on 
immovable property situated at Sector-81, B Block, Phase -II, Noida.
Loan taken by one of the subsidiaries is secured by Corporate guarantee from Parent Company, PPAP Automotive Limited.
Note ii:
Loan from State Owned Corporation, viz. The Pradeshiya Industrial & Investment Corporation of U.P. Limited is secured by bank 
guarantee equivalent to 100% of loan amount.
Note iii:
Secured by way of hypothecation of vehicles.
Note iv:
The Group has used the loans for the purpose for which these were taken.
Note v:
Working capital loans from banks are secured by hypothecation of inventories, book debts, other current assets and factory 
land & building situated at Sector-81, Phase-II, Noida on first pari passu basis. Further, working capital facilities from 
Axis Bank & ICICI Bank are secured by first pari passu charge on immovable property situated at Kasna, Greater Noida. 
Secured by Corporate guarantee from Parent Company, PPAP Automotive Limited in case of loan by subsidiary company and secured 
against fixed deposit of ` 120 lakhs.
Note vi:
Bank
Facility
 Limit
MCLR / Repo. Rate (% per annum)
Spread (% per annum)
HSBC Bank
CC
 1,000.00 
 8.50 
 0.80 
HDFC Bank
CC
 1,800.00 
 9.20 
 - 
ICICI Bank
CC
 2,200.00 
 9.00 
 0.20 
ICICI Bank
CC
 191.00 
 7.80 
 - 
Axis Bank
CC
 100.00 
 6.25 
 2.40 
Axis Bank
CC
 500.00 
 6.25 
 3.35 
SBI Bank
CC
 1,000.00 
 8.85 
 0.15 
SBI Bank
CC
 300.00 
 8.00 
 2.65 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
209
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
 
B. 
 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for financial year ended 
31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
 
 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 
 
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations 
 761.00 
 (741.15)
 
 
Profit / (loss) before tax from a discontinued operation
 - 
 - 
 
 
Accounting profit before income tax 
 761.00 
 (741.15)
 
 
At India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.168% (31st March, 2024: 25.168%)
 211.12 
 (209.39)
 
 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 
 (7.54)
 27.78 
 
 
Net disallowances on which deferred tax is not recognised
 (5.63)
 26.82 
 
 
Adjustment for taxable timing difference
 (13.63)
 729.69 
 
 
Income taxed at special rate
 (2.10)
 (2.00)
 
 
Exempted income / deductions
 33.87 
 (5.98)
 
 
Incremental deferred tax on account of financial assets and other items
 (24.91)
 (68.47)
 
 
Unabsorbed losses and depreciation carry forward and set off
 (4.49)
 - 
 186.68 
 498.44 
 
 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 186.68 
 498.44 
 
 
Income tax attributable to a discontinued operation 
 - 
 - 
 186.68 
 498.44 
 
C. 
Deferred tax
 
 
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and 
loss / OCI
 
 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
Year ended 
31.03.2024
 
 
 Adjustment for timing difference on accelerated depreciation 
for tax purposes 
 1,934.74 
 1,178.75 
 (755.98)
 (123.07)
 
 
Unabsorbed losses and depreciation
 (911.51)
 (636.27)
 275.24 
 294.50 
 
 
Provision for gratuity & leave encashment
 (160.64)
 (261.45)
 (100.81)
 0.57 
 
 
Adjustment for timing difference
 (13.63)
 729.69 
 726.46 
 0.44 
 
 
 Present valuation of borrowings & other items of temporary 
differences
 20.14 
 15.79 
 (4.35)
 (729.68)
 
 
Modification of financial liability
 (8.82)
 (25.77)
 (17.41)
 39.61 
 
 
Deferred tax (expense) / income
 123.14 
 (517.63)
 
 
Net deferred tax (assets) / liabilities
 860.28 
 1,000.75 
 
 
Reflected in the balance sheet as follows: 
 
 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 
 
Deferred tax assets
 (1,072.15)
 (897.72)
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities
 1,932.43 
 1,898.47 
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 860.28 
 1,000.75 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
208
 
(` in lacs)
20. Other financial liabilities
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Interest accrued on borrowings
 - 
 3.45 
 57.48 
 32.73 
Unclaimed dividends
 - 
 - 
 9.61 
 11.21 
Fair Value of Financial Guarantee given
-0.28
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other Payables (including payable to employees)
 - 
 - 
 891.02 
 738.98 
Total
-0.28
 3.45 
 958.11 
 782.92 
 
(` in lacs)
21. Provisions
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity
 323.92 
 368.40 
 98.07 
 73.98 
Provision for compensated absences (Refer note 36 for Ind AS 19 
disclosures)
 192.35 
 193.43 
 30.57 
 29.74 
Total
 516.27 
 561.83 
 128.64 
 103.72 
22. Income Taxes
 
 The major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 are:
 
A. 
Statement of profit and loss
 
(i) 
Profit & loss section 
 
 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 
 
Current income tax charge
 319.92 
 17.78 
 
 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year
 0.21 
 (19.60)
 
 
Deferred tax
 
 
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (133.45)
 500.27 
 
 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit & loss 
 186.68 
 498.44 
 
(ii) OCI section
 
 
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
 
 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 
 
Net (loss) / gain on remeasurements of defined benefit plans 
 (10.31)
 (17.37)
 
 
Income tax charged to OCI
 (10.31)
 (17.37)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
211
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
25. Current tax liabilities (net)
 As at 
31.03.2025 
 As at 
31.03.2024 
Income tax provision 31st March, 2024: net of advance tax of ` 13.17 lakhs (PY 25.48 lakhs)
 - 
 4.61 
Total
 - 
 4.61 
26. Revenue from operations
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Sale of products
Automotive parts
 49,823.45 
 49,537.98 
Moulds
 5,382.63 
 2,556.11 
 55,206.08 
 52,094.09 
Other operating revenue
GST subsidy
 194.47 
 194.47 
Investment subsidy on employment
 - 
 3.21 
Total
 55,400.55 
 52,291.77 
Note 26.1: Performance Obligation and disaggregation of revenue
The Group recognised revenue when (or as) a performance obligation was satisfied , i.e. when ‘control’ of the goods underlying the 
particular performance obligation were transferred to the customer and there is no unsatisfied performance obligation at the year end. 
The Group operates and generates major revenue in domestic market. 
Note 26.2: Timing of revenue recognition
Particulars
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Goods transferred at a point in time
 55,206.08 
 52,094.09 
Note 26.3: Contract Balances
Particulars
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Trade Receivables (refer Note 12)
 7,253.66 
 6,725.41 
Unbilled revenue (Contract Assets)
 1,072.67 
 541.35 
Contract Liabilities (Advance from customers- refer Note 24)
 833.78 
 2,172.84 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
210
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net)
 
 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
 
 
Opening balance
 1,000.75 
 508.87 
 
 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in profit & loss
 (133.45)
 500.27 
 
 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in OCI
 15.44 
 17.36 
 
 
Modification of financial liability
 (22.45)
 (25.77)
 
 
Closing balance
 860.28 
 1,000.75 
 
(` in lacs)
23. Trade payables
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,684.84 
 1,132.03 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 5,024.07 
 4,617.04 
Total
 6,708.91 
 5,749.07 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2025
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 1,065.83 
 619.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,684.84 
(ii) Others
 2,756.03 
 2,257.44 
 1.54 
 7.77 
 1.29 
 -  5,024.07 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,821.86 
 2,876.46 
 1.54 
 7.77 
 1.29 
 -  6,708.91 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2024
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 1,111.68 
 20.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,131.74 
(ii) Others
 3,180.42 
 1,403.21 
 33.41 
 - 
 - 
 -  4,617.04 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 0.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.29 
(iv) Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,292.09 
 1,423.27 
 33.70 
 - 
 - 
 -  5,749.07 
24. Other current liabilities
 As at 
31.03.2025 
As at 
31.03.2024
Advance from customers
 833.78 
 2,172.84 
Statutory dues payable
 433.85 
 613.05 
Other payable
 56.46 
 56.46 
Total
 1,324.08 
 2,842.34 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
213
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
29. Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock in trade and work-in-progress
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress
 682.90 
 1,162.44 
Finished goods
 2,594.02 
 2,558.78 
Total inventories at the beginning of the year (A)
 3,276.92 
 3,721.22 
Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress
 776.09 
 682.90 
Finished goods
 1,825.60 
 2,594.02 
Total inventories at the end of the year (B)
 2,601.69 
 3,276.92 
Total (A-B)
 675.22 
 444.30 
30. Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Salaries and wages
 9,089.36 
 8,486.55 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 397.44 
 377.59 
Staff welfare expenses
 563.34 
 654.93 
Total
 10,050.14 
 9,519.07 
31. Finance costs
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Interest expense
 1,589.13 
 1,455.29 
Interest on lease liabilities
 53.00 
 11.92 
Total
 1,642.12 
 1,467.21 
32. Depreciation and amortization expense
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment (refer note 3)
 2,942.36 
 3,054.40 
Depreciation of Right of Use Assets (refer note 4)
 249.03 
 149.83 
Amortization of Intangible Assets (refer note 5)
 253.41 
 210.30 
Total
 3,444.80 
 3,414.53 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
212
 
(` in lacs)
27. Other income
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Other non operating income 
Interest income
 49.88 
 38.73 
Profit on sale of investment
 14.00 
 13.36 
Gain on fair valuation of current investments
 18.25 
 38.73 
Foreign exchange gain
 0.37 
 22.86 
Profit on sale of fixed assets
 25.85 
 3.13 
Profit on cancellation of leased assets
 - 
 1.35 
Rent received
 14.68 
 13.34 
Unclaimed balances written off
 0.16 
 - 
Other Income
 2.67 
 30.02 
Guarantee/ Commission Income
 4.73 
 4.73 
Total
 130.58 
 166.24 
28. Cost of materials consumed
Year ended 
31.03.2025
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Raw material
 27,056.78 
 28,107.51 
Dyes & chemicals
 237.81 
 237.83 
Packing material
 1,153.09 
 1,036.63 
Steel
 837.77 
 513.54 
Dies & molds
 1,269.17 
 655.52 
Total
 30,554.62 
 30,551.03 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
215
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
34. Components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
 
 The disaggregation of changes to OCI by each type of reserve in equity is shown below:
During the year ended 31st March, 2025
Actuarial gains / losses on defined 
benefit employee obligations
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
 40.96 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
 1.51 
Income tax effect
 (10.31)
Total
 32.16 
During the year ended 31st March, 2024
Actuarial gains / losses on defined 
benefit employee obligations
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 
 69.00 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
 0.38 
Income tax effect
 (17.37)
Total
 52.02 
35. Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
 Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS are calculated by dividing the profit for 
the year attributable to the equity holders of the Company by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year 
plus the weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into 
equity shares.
 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
Profit after taxation attributable to equity holders of the parent company
 699.72 
 (1,303.86)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company for basic earnings
 699.72 
 (1,303.86)
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic EPS
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
Add: Weighted average number of equity shares issued during the year in calculating basic 
earnings per share
 79,303.58 
 - 
 14,079,304 
 14,000,000 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted earnings per share (refer note 
below)
 14,149,442 
 14,097,105 
Earnings per equity share 
Basic (in `)
 4.97 
 (9.31)
Diluted (in `)
 4.95 
 (9.31)
Note: Weighted average number of equity shares used as denominator
Year ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares used as denominator in calculating basic earnings 
per shares
 14,079,304 
 14,000,000 
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
Outstanding employee stock options (For details relating to stock options, refer note 36)
 70,138.42 
 97,104.83 
Weighted average number of equity shares and potential equity shares used as denominator in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
 14,149,442 
 14,097,105 
Face value of each equity share (in `)
 10 
 10 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
214
 
(` in lacs)
33. Other expenses
 Year ended 
31.03.2025 
 Year ended 
31.03.2024 
Other manufacturing expenses
Stores and spares consumed
 210.83 
 258.30 
Power and fuel
 1,469.39 
 1,493.95 
Factory expenses
 428.25 
 366.91 
Repair & maintenance
Building
 36.39 
 23.48 
Machinery
 517.02 
 487.82 
Others
 367.84 
 339.53 
Administrative and other expenses
Rent
 16.91 
 3.37 
Rates & taxes
 11.52 
 15.08 
Listing expenses
 5.85 
 13.85 
Postage & telephone expenses
 34.39 
 40.78 
Printing & stationery
 83.94 
 80.75 
Traveling & conveyance expenses
 925.68 
 757.76 
Office electricity & water
 16.62 
 8.01 
Insurance charges
 239.47 
 209.69 
Factory security 
 191.07 
 177.97 
Foreign exchange loss
 7.35 
 3.64 
Foreign exchange hedging loss
 2.58 
 5.23 
Legal & professional charges
 579.87 
 533.51 
Meeting expenses
 - 
 0.15 
Motor car expenses
 33.10 
 34.50 
Bank charges
 43.72 
 25.60 
Fees & subscription
 96.99 
 75.44 
Allowance for credit loss (net)
 40.09 
 26.37 
Corporate social responsibility expenses (refer note 52)
 11.93 
 14.27 
Directors sitting fees
 24.75 
 25.60 
Payment to collaborators / royalty
 313.82 
 327.42 
Charity & donation
 2.00 
 - 
Discount and short recovery
 2.50 
 8.40 
Miscellaneous expenses
 159.85 
 158.57 
Bad debts written off
 3.28 
 0.70 
Auditors' remuneration 
As audit fees
 29.40 
 22.40 
For certification
 3.08 
 1.55 
For other matters
 - 
 0.23 
For reimbursement of expenses
 1.34 
 0.67 
Selling & distribution expenses
Freight & forwarding expenses
 1,909.59 
 1,870.54 
Advertisement, publicity & sales promotion
 99.89 
 94.75 
Total
 7,920.31 
 7,506.78 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
217
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 24.19 
 13.75 
Remeasurement return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gain) / loss arising from experience adjustments
 (1.47)
 (28.12)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 22.72 
 (14.37)
 
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity liability for the Group’s plans are shown below:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Discount rate
6.99%
7.22%
Expected rate of return on plan assets
6.99%
7.22%
Future salary increases
5.25%
5.25%
Attrition rate (up to 30 years)
3.00%
3.00%
Attrition rate (from 31 to 44 years)
2.00%
2.00%
Attrition rate (above 44 years)
1.00%
1.00%
Retirement age
58 years
58 years
 
 A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024 is as shown below:
Gratuity plan
Sensitivity level
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Assumptions
Discount rate
+0.50%
+0.50%
 (52.42)
 (48.41)
-0.50%
-0.50%
 56.22 
 51.99 
Future salary increases
+0.50%
+0.50%
 55.31 
 51.84 
-0.50%
-0.50%
 (52.20)
 (48.95)
 
 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation 
as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. Sensitivities due to mortality and 
withdrawals are insignificant and hence ignored. Sensitivities as to rate of inflation, rate of increase of pensions in payments, rate of 
increase of pensions before retirement & life expectancy are not applicable being a lump sum benefit on retirement.
 
Group’s best estimate of expense for the next Annual reporting period is ` 142.90 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 135.42 lakhs).
The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period) 
98.06
73.98
Between 1 to 2 years
66.57
40.36
Between 2 to 3 years
53.74
59.18
Between 3 to 4 years
65.39
46.58
Between 4 to 5 years
60.84
55.25
Between 5 to 6 years
69.01
53.47
Over 6 years
835.67
766.06
Total expected payments 
 1,249.28 
 1,094.88 
 
 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17.60 years (31st March, 
2024: 17.49 years)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
216
 
(` in lacs)
36. Employee benefit plans
 
Defined contribution plans - general description
 
 Retirement benefits in the form of provident fund, superannuation fund and national pension scheme are defined contribution 
schemes. The Group has no obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Group’s contribution to the 
provident fund is ` 335.61 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 315.43 lakhs).
 
Defined benefit plans - general description
 
Gratuity:
 
 The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Gratuity is computed as 15 days salary, for  every completed year of service or part 
thereof in excess of 6 months and is payable on retirement / termination / resignation. The benefit vests on the employee completing 
5 years of service. The Group makes provision of such gratuity asset / liability in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial 
valuation as per the projected unit credit method.
 
 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit & loss and 
the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the gratuity plan:
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 1,094.88 
 982.64 
Current service cost
 97.62 
 88.60 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Interest cost
 79.05 
 72.33 
Benefits paid
 (56.13)
 (34.08)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations-OCI
 33.86 
 (14.61)
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 1,249.28 
 1,094.88 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 656.60 
 492.63 
Contribution by employer
 160.00 
 160.00 
Benefits paid
 (41.03)
 (31.13)
Expected interest income on plan assets
 - 
 - 
Actual gain / (loss) on plan asset
 50.35 
 35.10 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 825.92 
 656.60 
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets and defined benefit obligation
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Fair value of plan assets
 825.92 
 656.60 
Defined benefit obligation
 (1,249.28)
 (1,094.88)
Amount recognised in the balance sheet
 (423.36)
 (438.28)
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Current service cost
 97.62 
 88.60 
Net interest expense
 31.65 
 35.45 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 129.27 
 124.05 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
219
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
38. Leases
 
Operating leases taken
 
 The Group has taken certain building on operating lease arrangements. The lease expense recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss is ` 16.91 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 3.37 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Not later than one year
 7.38 
 6.72 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 7.38 
 6.72 
 
Operating leases given
 
 The Group has given certain properties on operating lease arrangements. The lease income recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 14.67 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 13.34 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Not later than one year
 14.67 
 13.34 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 14.67 
 13.34 
39. Commitments
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
(i) Capital Commitments towards future liability for capital expenditure in respect of which contracts 
have been made (net of advances)
1524.47
 398.80 
(ii) Letters of credit and Bank guarantees issued by bankers towards procurement of goods and 
services and outstanding as at year end
 1,204.24 
 1,096.24 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
218
 
(` in lacs)
37. Employee Share-based Payments
 
 Refer Note k for accounting policy on Employee Share-based Payments
 
 The Parent Company has formulated employee share-based payment schemes with the objective to reward the employees for their 
association and performance, to motivate them to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Group, to create a variable pay 
structure for the different employees, incentivize them in line with Group’s performance, to retain and motivate senior and critical 
human resources, to promote loyalty to the Group and to achieve sustained growth and create shareholder’s value by aligning the 
interests of the employees with the long-term interests of the Group.
 
 The shareholders of the Parent Company by way of special resolution dated 16th September, 2022 approved the Plan authorizing the 
Committee to Grant not exceeding 7,00,000 Options to the permanent employees of the parent company, its subsidiaries, joint venture 
and directors (excluding promoter directors and independent directors), collectively eligible employees, in one or more tranches, from 
time to time, which in aggregate shall be exercisable into not more than 7,00,000 Shares of face value of ` 10 each fully paid up (which 
is 5% of the paid up capital of the Parent Company as on date), with each such Option conferring a right upon the Employees to apply 
for one Share in the Parent Company in accordance with the terms and conditions as may be decided under the Plan.
 
 The maximum number of Options that may be granted per Employee and in aggregate shall be decided by the Committee depending 
upon the designation and the appraisal/ assessment process. However, the Grant of Options to identified Employees, shall not, at 
any time exceed the total Option pool size approved by the shareholders for ESOP 2022.
 
 This Employee Stock Option Plan is called ‘PPAP Employee Stock Option Plan 2022’ (“ESOP 2022”/ “Plan”): The ESOP 2022 
is established with effect from date of shareholders’ approval i.e. 16th September, 2022 on which the shareholders of the Parent 
Company have approved it and shall continue to be in force until (i) its termination by the Board/ Committee as per provisions of 
Applicable Laws, or (ii) the date on which all of the Options available for issuance under the ESOP 2022 have been issued and 
exercised, whichever is earlier.
 
 The fair value at grant date of stock options granted during the year ended 31/03/2025 was ` 173.91 (31st March, 2024: ` 234.45). The 
fair valuation has been carried out by an independent valuer by applying Black and Scholes Model. The inputs to the model include the 
exercise price, the term of option, the share price at grant date and the expected volatility, expected dividends and the risk free rate of 
interest for terms of options. The details of options granted, the key assumptions for Fair Value on the date of grant are as under:
Particulars
ESOP 2022
Tranche- 3
Tranche- 2
Tranche- 1
Grant Date
08.11.2024
09.11.2023
12.11.2022
Vesting period
 18 months 
 18 months 
 18 months 
Share price on grant date (`)
184.71
245.85
 205.50 
Risk free interest rate (zero-coupon government issues of the country with a remaining 
term equal to the expected term of the option)
6.83%
7.13%
7.51%
Dividend Yield
0.64%
0.66%
0.73%
Expected Volatility (Standard Deviation) The measure of volatility used in the Black 
Scholes options Pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the company's share over life of the options
39.81%
52.77%
42.05%
Fair Value of option on grant date
173.91
234.45
 196.60 
Average time to maturity of option
 1.75 
 1.75 
 1.75 
Exercise Price
10
 10 
 10 
Weighted average exercise price per option
10
 10 
 10 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (months)
13
 1 
 - 
Options outstanding at beginning of the year
 - 
 29,648 
 83,086 
Options granted during the year
 42,250 
 - 
 - 
Options forfeited/ lapsed during the year
 - 
 - 
 840 
Options cancelled during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options vested during the year
 - 
 - 
 83,086 
Options exercised during the year
 - 
 - 
 81,423 
Options expired during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options outstanding at year end
 42,250 
 29,648 
 - 
Options vested and exercisable at year end
 - 
 - 
 823 
Vesting conditions
As per policy approved by Shareholders 
During the year, the Group has recognised an expense of ` 76.82 lakhs (Previous year- ` 136.17 lakhs).
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
221
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
41. Related party disclosures
 
A. 
List of related parties
(a) Joint Venture
1.
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
(b) Key Management Personnel (KMP)
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing Director
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain, CEO & Managing Director
3
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi, Independent Director (upto 25.12.2023)
4
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta, Independent Director (upto 31.03.2024)
5
Mrs. Celine George, Independent Director
6
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Non-Executive Director
7
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi, Independent Director (w.e.f 04.02.2023)
8
Mr. Rohit Rajput, Independent Director (w.e.f 09.11.2023)
9
Mr. Sachin Jain, Chief Financial Officer
10
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary
(c)  Related Parties in the group where common control exists
1.
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
(d) Wholly owned subsidiaries
1
Elpis Automotives Private Limited (formerly Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited)
2
Avinya Batteries Limited (formerly PPAP Technology Limited)
3
Avinya Industrial Products Limited (incorporated on 29.03.2025)
4
Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited (incorporated on 24.03.2025)
5
Avinya Sealing Systems  Limited (incorporated on 21.02.2025)
(e)  Other Related Party-  Post employment benefit plan of the Parent 
Company
1.
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group Gratuity Fund Trust
 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties in the ordinary course of business:
Related Party Transactions
Period
Related Parties where 
common control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Other Related Party-  Post employment 
benefit plan of the Company
Total
CSR expenses paid
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
31.03.2025
 56.20 
 - 
 - 
 56.20 
31.03.2024
 58.80 
 - 
 - 
 58.80 
Purchase of goods and services
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 865.04 
 - 
 865.04 
31.03.2024
 - 
 508.51 
 - 
 508.51 
Receipts for other services*
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 197.90 
 - 
 197.90 
31.03.2024
 - 
 286.74 
 - 
 286.74 
Sales
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 336.21 
 - 
 336.21 
31.03.2024
 - 
 158.22 
 - 
 158.22 
Contribution 
to 
fund: 
Employer's 
contribution towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees 
Group Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 160.00 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 160.00 
*Other services include management support fee, reimbursement of expenses, job work charges, interest received on loan given and rental income.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
220
 
(` in lacs)
40. Contingent liabilities not  provided for in respect of
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
Income tax appeal 
For assessment year 2017-18 (Note i)
 - 
 41.37 
GST appeals (includes excise and sales tax demands) (Note ii, iii, iv, v, vi, vii,viii,ix)
 335.85 
 168.65 
Total
 335.85 
 210.02 
Notes:
(i)
A demand of ` 41.37 lakhs has been raised for the assessment year 2017-18 for disallowance of 25% of royalty expense. The 
Group has filed an appeal before Income Tax Appellate Tribunal , Delhi Bench "F", New Delhi against the order of CIT(Appeals) 
for disallowance of the royalty amount. The Hon'ble  Income Tax Appellate Tribunal , Delhi Bench F, New Delhi has deleted the 
disallowance vide its order dated 08/10/2024.
(ii)
Demand of excise duty of ` 1.06 lakhs along with penalty of ` 1.06 lakhs was imposed on the Group by Additional Commissioner, 
Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central Excise Act, 1944. 
The Group had filed an appeal against the aforesaid order with Commissioner of Central Excise, Okhla. The Commissioner of 
central excise has rejected the appeal. Thereafter, the Group has filed the appeal with the Central Excise & Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (CESTAT) and the appeal is pending.
(iii)
Demand of excise duty of ` 35.36 lakhs along with penalty of ` 35.36 lakhs was imposed on the Group by Additional Commissioner, 
Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central Excise Act, 1944 and 
was outstanding as on 31.03.2016.The Group had filed the appeal  with the Central Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(CESTAT) and CESTAT has decided the case in favour of Group and set aside the demand. The Group approached the Delhi 
High Court against the order of CESTAT and the High Court has remanded the case back to CESTAT for hearing it again. The 
matter is pending in CESTAT, Delhi.
(iv)
Demand of ` 5.97 Lakh plus interest @ 18% p.a. and penalty of ` 0.74 lakhs was issued by Central GST, Bhiwadi, Rajasthan 
for availment of excess ITC for FY 2018-19. The department has disallowed the ITC on account of non-filing of GSTR- 3B by 
suppliers. The Group has disputed the demand and filed an appeal with The Joint/ Additional Commissioner (Appeals), CGST, 
Jaipur. The basic demand of ` 5.97 lakh has been deposited on 24.03.2025 under Amnesty Scheme and the basic liability 
has accordingly been adjusted with demand. On payment of demand under amnesty scheme, the penalty and interest are to 
be waived by the department. We will file the necessary form to avail the waiver of interest and penalty imposed by the GST 
Authority within time limit of 30th June, 2025.
(v)
Demand of ` 33.66 Lakh against penalty on short paid GST was issued by Central GST, Bhiwadi, Rajasthan related to FY 2017-
18. The Group had disputed the demand and filed an appeal with The Joint/ Additional Commissioner (Appeals), CGST, Jaipur. 
The Appeal has been decided in favour of the Group  and the entire demand has been dropped.
(vi)
Demand of ` 1.60 Lakh along with interest of ` 1.60 lakhs and penalty of ` 0.20 lakh was imposed on the Group by SGST, Delhi 
for incorrect admissibility of ITC of tax paid or deemed to been paid related to FY 2017-18. The Group has disputed the demand 
and filed an appeal with Appellate Authority/ Spl. Commissioner SGST, Department of Trade and Taxes, New Delhi
(vii)
Demand of ` 25.12 lakhs along with interest of ` 24.40 lakhs and penalty of ` 2.51 lakh was imposed on the Group by SGST, 
Gujarat for availment of excess ITC for FY 2018-19 on 23rd April, 2024. The Group had disputed the demand and filed the appeal 
with first appellate authority, Ahmedabad within the limitation period of 3 months from the date of demand order passed on 19th 
July 2024. 
(viii)
Demand of ` 6.14 lakhs along with applicable interest and an equivalent amount of penalty was imposed on the Group by the 
Central GST Authorities, Rajasthan, vide Order No. ZD081224065470K dated 23.12.2024. The demand pertains to the alleged 
wrongful availment of ITC for the F.Y. 2019-20.The Group has disputed the demand and filed an appeal before the First Appellate 
Authority, Jaipur, Rajasthan, on 30th December 2024.
(ix)
Demand of ` 100.12 lakhs along with interest ` 84.23 lakhs and penalty `10.21 lakhs was imposed by CGST,Noida vide Order 
No.ZD090225380630F dated 27.02.2025 for alleged  incorrect admissibility of ITC/ short payment of tax on outward supplies 
for FY 2020-21. The Group has disputed the demand and filed an appeal before the Commissioner of CGST (Appeals), Noida 
on 15.05.2025.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
223
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
42. Segment information
 
 According to Ind AS 108, identification of operating segments is based on Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) approach for 
making decisions about allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance. Based on the consideration of dominant 
sources and nature of risk & returns, the Group is considered an automotive components manufacturer. Most of the activities are 
revolving around this business and accordingly has only one reportable segment. The geographical location of its main operations 
and the internal organization / reporting and management structure supports such treatment.
43. Dues to micro and small enterprises
 
 The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(MSMED Act, 2006),  to the extent information available with the Group is given below:
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
(I)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at 
the end of each accounting year:
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,684.84 
 1,132.03 
Interest due on above
 0.44 
 0.62 
(II)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(III)
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
(IV)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(V)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for 
the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
222
 
(` in lacs)
Remuneration to key management personnel #
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
 166.55 
 120.57 
Mr. Abhishek Jain
 173.75 
 127.77 
Mr. Sachin Jain
 42.34 
 32.40 
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal
 14.15 
 12.30 
Short-term employee benefits
 396.79 
 293.05 
# As the liabilities for gratuity and compensated absences are provided on an actuarial basis for the Group as a whole, the amounts pertaining to the key 
management personnel are not included above.
Details relating to remuneration of KMP other than MD / Manager / Whole Time Director
Name of KMP
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Remuneration
Short-term 
employee benefits
Sitting Fees
Remuneration
Short-term 
employee benefits
Sitting Fees
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
 - 
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
 - 
 3.70 
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.60 
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.60 
Mrs. Celine George
 - 
 - 
 4.50 
 - 
 - 
 3.80 
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
 - 
 - 
 6.50 
 9.00 
 - 
 3.40 
Mr. Rohit Rajput
 - 
 - 
 7.00 
 - 
 - 
 2.50 
Net outstanding balance:
Related Party
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party-  
Post employment benefit 
plan of the Company
Total
Trade receivable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 8.20 
 - 
 8.20 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2024
 - 
 60.87 
 - 
 - 
 60.87 
Remuneration
Payable to key management personnel
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.93 
 23.93 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.53 
 23.53 
Contribution 
to 
fund: 
Employer's 
contribution towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees 
Group Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 707.65 
 707.65 
31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 590.49 
 590.49 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
225
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
 
(ii) Fair value hierarchy
 
 
 All financial instruments for which fair value is recognised or disclosed are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurements as a whole.
 
 
 Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets. This includes listed equity instruments, traded bonds 
and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments (including bonds) which are traded in the stock 
exchanges is valued using the closing price as at the reporting period. The mutual funds are valued using the closing NAV.
 
 
 Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the 
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as 
little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the 
instrument is included in level 2.
 
 
 Level 3: valuation techniques for which the lowest level input which has a significant effect on fair value measurement is not 
based on observable market data.
 
 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the financial year 2023-24 and 2024-25.
 
 
 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities, other than those whose 
fair values are close approximations of their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value-recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2025
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2025
 464.90 
 464.90 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2025
 300.23 
 - 
 - 
 300.23 
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2025
 5.14 
 - 
 5.14 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2024
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2024
 629.84 
 629.84 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2024
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2024
 0.82 
 - 
 0.82 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
224
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
44. Fair values measurements
 
(i) 
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
Financial assets
Investments*
        - in equity instruments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
        - in mutual funds
 464.90 
 - 
 629.84 
 - 
        - in unquoted preference shares
 300.23 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
Other financial assets
 - 
 1,701.28 
 - 
 608.37 
Trade receivables
 - 
 7,253.66 
 - 
 7,266.75 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 147.24 
 - 
 192.77 
Other balances with banks
 - 
 30.96 
 - 
 11.21 
Loans
 - 
 100.70 
 - 
 63.95 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 5.14 
 - 
 0.82 
 - 
Total financial assets
 770.27 
 9,233.83 
 830.66 
 8,143.04 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (non current)
 - 
 6,174.40 
 - 
 7,359.88 
Borrowings (current)
 - 
 10,440.20 
 - 
 8,568.42 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 856.89 
 - 
 306.42 
Trade payables
 - 
 6,708.91 
 - 
 5,749.07 
Other financial liabilities (non current)
 - 
 (0.28)
 - 
 3.45 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 - 
 958.11 
 - 
 782.92 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 25,138.24 
 - 
 22,770.16 
i) 
 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged 
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and 
assumptions were used to estimate the fair value.
ii) 
 The fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using effective interest rate (EIR) method 
using discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance 
risk as at 31st March, 2025 was assessed to be insignificant.
iii) 
 Long-term receivables / payables are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables.
iv)  The fair value of security deposit has been estimated using DCF model which consider certain assumptions viz. forecast 
cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility.
v) 
 The fair values of the investment in mutual fund has been determined based on net assets value (NAV) available in open 
market.
vi) The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
vii)  Cost of unquoted preference shares has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These 
investments in preference shares are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose.
227
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
B. 
Foreign currency sensitivity 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in 
foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s 
operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency). Foreign currency risk sensitivity is the 
impact on the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The following tables 
demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, JPY and EURO exchange rates, with all other variables 
held constant. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Change in USD rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2025
+5%
 (1.87)
-5%
 1.87 
31.03.2024
+5%
 (11.51)
-5%
 11.51 
Change in JPY rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2025
+5%
 (2.25)
 (5%) 
 2.25 
31.03.2024
+5%
 (2.55)
 (5%) 
 2.55 
 
 
 
 The movement in the pre-tax effect on profit and loss is a result of a change in the fair value of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currency.
 
ii. 
Credit risk
 
 
 Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions.
 
 
 Credit risk from investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the treasury functions in accordance with the 
management policies. Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate rating and 
/or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits. The management continually re-assess the Group’s policy and update as 
required. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure.
 
 
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
 
 
A. 
Trade receivables
 
 
 
 Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit review 
and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly 
monitored.
 
 
 
 At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than disclosed in Note 11.
 
 
 
 An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. The calculation is based 
on historical data. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial 
assets disclosed in Note 44. The Group does not hold collateral as security. The Group evaluates the concentration of 
risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and operate in largely 
independent markets.
 
 
B. 
Financial instruments and cash deposits
 
 
 
 Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance 
with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
226
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
45. Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 The Group’s principal financial liabilities, comprise borrowings, trade payables, and creditors for expenses. The Group’s principal 
financial assets include investments, long term deposits, trade receivables, cash and short-term deposits / loan that derive directly 
from its operations.
 
 The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s senior management oversees the management 
of these risks. The Group’s senior management is supported by the Board of Directors that advises on financial risks and the 
appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group. The Board provides assurance to the Group’s management that 
the Group’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, 
measured and managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. The management reviews and agrees policies 
for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
 
i. 
Market risk
 
 
 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk 
and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include, deposits and FVTPL investments.
 
 
 The sensitivity analysis of the above mentioned risk in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March, 2025 and 
31st March, 2024.
 
 
 The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement 
obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
 
 
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses:
 
 
- 
 The sensitivity of the relevant profit or loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is 
based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st March, 2025 and 31st March, 2024.
 
 
A. 
Interest rate risk
 
 
 
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Group’s debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Increase / decrease in basis points
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2025
INR
+50
 (95.86)
INR
-50
 95.86 
31.03.2024
INR
+50
 (92.33)
INR
-50
 92.33 
 
 
 
 The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable 
market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior years.
229
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
46. Capital management
 
 The objective of the Company’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Company 
to carry out committed work programme requirements. The Company monitors the long term cash flow requirements of the business 
in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
 
 The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain 
or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for 
cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities or undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No changes were 
made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31st March, 2025.
Particulars
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
Non-current Borrowings
 6,174.40 
 7,359.88 
Current Borrowings
 10,440.20 
 8,568.42 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 147.24 
 192.77 
Debt
 16,467.36 
 15,735.54 
Lease Liabilities- Non current
 571.79 
 199.65 
Lease Liabilities- Current
 285.10 
 106.77 
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 - 
 - 
Net Debt (incl. lease liabilities) (A)
 17,324.25 
 16,041.96 
Total Equity (B)
 28,790.29 
 28,289.10 
Gearing Ratio [A÷(A+B)]
37.57%
36.19%
47. Derivative instruments and unhedged foreign currency exposure
 
The amount of foreign currency exposure that are not hedged by derivative instruments or otherwise are as under:
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2025
As at 
31.03.2024
As at 
31.03.2024
 Foreign 
Currency 
Amount 
 Foreign 
Currency 
Amount
Foreign trade payables
USD in lakhs
 0.44 
 37.39 
 2.76 
 230.29 
JPY in lakhs
 79.14 
 44.91 
 92.62 
 51.02 
Foreign trade receivables
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
48. Balance confirmation
 
 Debit and credit balance of trade payables and trade receivables to the extent not confirmed are subject to confirmation and 
reconciliation with parties.
49.  In the opinion of the Board of Directors and to the best of their knowledge and belief, the aggregate value of current assets on 
realization in the ordinary course of business will not be less than the amount at which these are stated in the balance sheet.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
228
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
 
iii. Liquidity risk
 
 
 The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts.
 
 
 The financial condition of the financier under supplier finance arrangement is sound and there is no likelihood that arrangement 
will be terminated and service will become unavailable.
 
 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
 3 to 12 
months 
1 to 5 years
> 5 years
Total
Year ended 31.03.2025
Borrowings
 868.77 
 3,010.80 
 5,371.19 
 608.97 
 9,859.74 
Supplier Finance Arrangements
 733.52 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 733.52 
Lease liabilities
 84.06 
 253.51 
 653.99 
 - 
 991.56 
Trade payables
 3,965.66 
 2,732.66 
 10.59 
 - 
 6,708.91 
Other financial liabilities
 954.08 
 - 
 4.03 
 - 
 958.11 
Total
 6,620.54 
 5,877.62 
 6,144.72 
 608.97 
 19,251.84 
Year ended 31.03.2024
Borrowings
 828.00 
 2,460.66 
 7,172.95 
 - 
 10,461.61 
Supplier Finance Arrangements
 155.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 155.00 
Lease liabilities
 41.51 
 86.86 
 219.91 
 - 
 348.28 
Trade payables
 4,631.47 
 1,404.42 
 33.41 
 - 
 6,069.31 
Other financial liabilities
 782.92 
 - 
 12.03 
 - 
 794.95 
Total
 6,438.90 
 3,951.94 
 7,438.31 
 - 
 17,829.15 
 
iv. 
Excessive risk concentration
 
 
 Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly 
affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Group’s 
performance to developments affecting a particular industry.
 
 
The Group is in automotive components manufacturing business and the management has assessed risk concentration as low.
 
 
The detail in respect of percentage of revenues generated from top 4 customers are as follows:
Particulars
 Year ended 31.03.2025 
 Year ended 31.03.2024 
Revenue from top customer- 1 (in %)
31%
21%
Revenue from top customer- 2 (in %)
15%
13%
Revenue from top customer- 3 (in %)
12%
10%
Revenue from top customer- 4 (in %)
8%
6%
231
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
53.
 
Details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
31.03.2025
31.03.2024
a) Gross amount required to be spent as per section 135 of the  Companies Act, 2013 during the year
 11.93 
 14.27 
b) Amount spent during the year ending on 31st March 2024:
(i) Construction / acquisition of an asset
 - 
 - 
(ii) On purpose other than (i) above
 56.20 
 58.80 
c) Amount carried forward from previous year for setting off in the current year
 89.01 
 44.49 
d) Excess amount spent during the year carried forward to subsequent year
 133.28 
 89.01 
e) The Parent Company has spent excess amount and details of the same are as follows:
Balance carried forward from previous year
 89.01 
 44.49 
Amount required to be spent during the year
 11.93 
 14.27 
Amount spent during the year
 56.20 
 58.80 
Balance carried forward to next year
 133.28 
 89.01 
f) Details of amount spent during the year:
i) Providing healthcare and meal to unprivileged and downtrodden children which help them to pursue 
their education.
 5.00 
 5.00 
ii) Making payment of school fees of unprivileged children.
 13.37 
 13.07 
iii) Providing study material to unprivileged children.
iv) Plantation for promoting environmental sustainability.
 37.38 
 40.52 
v) Administrative Expenses (Cost of CSR, audit etc)
 0.45 
 0.22 
Total
 56.20 
 58.80 
g) Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per Section 135(5)
 nil 
 nil 
54. Details of transactions with Struck-off Companies 
 nil  
 nil 
55. Details of Benami Property 
 nil  
 nil 
56. Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the group 
 nil  
 nil 
57.  No adjusting or significant non-adjusting events have occurred between the reporting date and date of authorization of financial 
statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 nil  
 nil
58.  Disclosure as per Ind AS 112 ‘Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities’
 
(a) Subsidiary companies
 
 
 The Group’s subsidiaries at 31st March, 2025 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting solely of 
equity shares that are held directly by the group and the proportion of ownership interests held equals the voting rights held by the 
group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
Name 
of 
subsidiary 
company
Place of 
business/ 
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest held 
by the group as at
Ownership interest 
held by non-controlling 
interests as at
Principal activities 
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
Avinya 
Batteries 
Limited 
(formerly PPAP Technology 
Limited)
India
100%
100%
 - 
 -  Assembly of Li-ion 
based battery pack 
solutions 
Elpis 
Automotives 
Private 
Limited 
(formerly 
Elpis 
Components 
Distributors 
Private Limited)
India
100%
100%
 - 
 -  Trading of 
automotive parts 
Avinya 
Industrial 
Products 
Limited#
India
100%
-
 - 
 -  Trading of industrial 
products 
Meraki 
Precision 
Tool 
Engineering Limited#
India
100%
-
 - 
 -  Manufacturing & 
trading of tools 
Avinya 
Sealing 
Systems 
Limited#
India
100%
-
 - 
 -  Trading of industrial 
products 
 
 
#  There has been no capital infusion by the Company in the aforesaid subsidiaries, and no financial transactions have taken 
place in these newly incorporated entities during the reporting period. Also, the companies have yet to commence operations
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
230
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
50.  Disclosure of movement in provisions during the year as per Ind AS 37, ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’:
Particulars
Balance as on 1st 
April, 2024
Provided during the 
year
Paid / Adjusted 
during the year
Balance as on 
31st March, 2025
Provisions
Gratuity
 1,094.88 
 206.45 
 (52.04)
 1,249.29 
Accumulated leaves
 223.17 
 52.74 
 (52.99)
 222.92 
Income Tax
 17.78 
 319.92 
 (17.78)
 319.92 
Total
 1,335.83 
 579.11 
 (122.81)
 1,792.12 
51. Dividends paid and proposed
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2025
Year ended 
31.03.2024
A
Paid during the year
Interim dividend for FY 2024-25 ` 1 per share (FY 2023-24: nil) of ` 10/- each
 (140.86)
 - 
Final dividend for FY 2023-24: ` 1.25 per share (FY 2022- 23 ` 0.50 per share)
 176.07 
 70.00 
 35.22 
 70.00 
B
Proposed for approval at the annual general meeting (not recognised as a liability)
Final dividend for FY 2024-25 ` 1.50 per share (FY 2023-24: ` 1.25 per share)
 211.30 
 175.00 
 211.30 
 175.00 
 
 
 Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognized as a liability as at 
year end.
52. Disclosure under Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’
 
 Ind AS 7 requires the entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from 
financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion of a reconciliation between 
the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities.
Particular
31.03.2024
Cash flows
Non-cash changes
31.03.2025
Fair value changes
Long-term borrowings
 9,415.55 
 (665.33)
 56.66 
 8,806.88 
Short term borrowings
 5,847.94 
 1,690.72 
 - 
 7,538.66 
Lease Liabilities
 306.42 
 (251.63)
 802.10 
 856.89 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 15,569.91 
 773.76 
 858.76 
 17,202.43 
233
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
Reconciliation to carrying amounts
Particulars
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
as at 31.03.2025
as at 31.03.2024
Opening net assets
 6,931.56 
 7,059.34 
Profit/(loss) for the year
 250.79 
 (128.54)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
 3.01 
 0.76 
Dividends paid
 - 
 - 
Closing net assets
 7,185.36 
 6,931.56 
Group’s share in %
 50.00 
 50.00 
Group’s share in `
 3,592.68 
 3,465.78 
Goodwill / (Restricted reserves) / NCI
 - 
 - 
Carrying amount of the investment (including transaction costs)
 3,595.59 
 3,468.70 
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
Summarised statement of profit and loss for the year ended
Particulars
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
as at 31.03.2025
as at 31.03.2024
Revenue from operations
 15,700.84 
 13,085.94 
Other income
 34.40 
 104.33 
Depreciation and amortisation
 622.19 
 586.13 
Interest expense
 58.14 
 14.63 
Income tax expense/(income)
 92.38 
 (37.75)
Profit/(loss) for the year
 250.79 
 (128.54)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
 3.01 
 0.76 
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
 253.80 
 (127.78)
Dividends received
 - 
 - 
 
 
Details of Capital Expenditure for the year ended
Particulars
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
as at 31.03.2025
as at 31.03.2024
(a) Addition to Property, Plant & Equipment, Intangible Assets, etc
 150.68 
 449.71 
(b) Changes in Capital work in progress (+/-)
 796.14 
 71.18 
(c) Changes in Capital advance, if shown separately (+/-)
 (74.81)
132.04
Total
 872.01 
 652.93 
Addition to Property, Plant & Equipment
 22.97 
 296.26 
Addition to RoU
 12.63 
 78.03 
Addition to Intangible Assets
 115.08 
 75.42 
 150.68 
 449.71 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
232
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
 
(` in lacs)
 
(b) Non-controlling interests (NCI)
 
 
The group has no any material partly-owned subsidiary that has non-controlling interests.
 
(c)  One of the subsidiaries has accumulated losses resulting in erosion of net-worth and has incurred cash losses in the current 
and immediately preceding financial year. The current liabilities of the subsidiary exceed its current assets as at the balance 
sheet date.  Considering the Holding Company’s continuing financial support to the subsidiary for its operations, the financial 
statements have been prepared on an going concern basis.
 
(d) Interests in joint venture company
 
 
 List of joint venture companies as at 31st March, 2025 in which the group has interest, is as below. These entities have share 
capital consisting solely of equity shares, which are held directly by the group. The country of incorporation or registration is also 
their principal place of business, and the proportion of ownership interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights held.
Name 
of 
joint 
venture 
company
Place of business/ 
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership interest 
held by the group as at
Accounting 
method
Carrying amount as at 
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
as at 
31.03.2025
as at 
31.03.2024
PPAP 
Tokai 
India 
Rubber 
Private Limited
India
50%
50%
 Equity 
method 
 3,595.59 
 3,468.70 
 
(i) 
Summarised financial information of joint venture company of the group
 
 
 The tables below provide summarised financial information of joint venture companies of the group. The information disclosed 
reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint venture companies and not the group’s share of 
those amounts.
 
 
Summarised Balance Sheet
Particulars
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
as at 31.03.2025
as at 31.03.2024
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 588.27 
 562.67 
Other assets
 2,962.90 
 2,748.74 
Total current assets
 3,551.17 
 3,311.41 
Total non-current assets
 7,630.93 
 7,521.01 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions)
 307.03 
 142.03 
Other liabilities
 2,691.67 
 2,897.94 
Total current liabilities
 2,998.70 
 3,039.97 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions)
 874.53 
 753.21 
Other liabilities
 123.51 
 107.68 
Total non-current liabilities
 998.04 
 860.89 
Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 - 
Net assets
 7,185.36 
 6,931.56 
235
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
58.  Disclosure of additional information pertaining to the company, subsidiaries and associates as per Schedule III of 
Companies Act, 2013 :
Name of the Company
Net Assets (Total assets 
minus total liabilities)
Share in Profit or Loss
Share in other 
comprehensive 
income OCI
Share in total 
comprehensive income 
TCI
FY 2024- 25
FY 2024- 25
FY 2024- 25
FY 2024- 25
As % of 
Consolidated 
net assets
Net 
assets
As % of 
Consolidated 
profit or loss
Profit/ 
(Loss)
As % of 
Consolidated 
OCI
 OCI 
As % of 
Consolidated 
TCI
 TCI 
Parent Company
PPAP Automotive Limited
112.95%
32,517.83 
201.41%
 1,409.28 
124.71%
40.10 
198.03%
 1,449.38 
Indian Subsidiaries
Direct Subsidiaries
Elpis Automotives Private 
Limited 
(Formerly Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited)
0.63%
 180.08 
-2.79%
 (19.52)
-26.06%
(8.38)
-3.81%
 (27.90)
Avinya Batteries Limited 
(Formerly PPAP Technology 
Limited)
-4.05%
(1,165.48)
-113.97%
 (797.48)
-3.33%
(1.07)
-109.11%
 (798.55)
Indirect Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Foreign Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Non- controlling interest in all 
subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Associate
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Joint Venture
PPAP Tokai India Rubber 
Private Limited (Consolidated) 
(Investment as per equity 
method)
12.49%
 3,595.59 
17.92%
 125.40 
4.67%
 1.51 
17.34%
 126.90 
Intragroup eliminations and 
consolidation adjustments
-22.01%
(6,337.73)
-2.57%
 (17.95)
0.00%
 - 
-2.45%
 (17.95)
Total
100.00%
28,790.29 
100.00%
 699.72 
100.00%
32.16 
100.00%
 731.88 
 
 Note : The above figures are before eliminating intragroup transactions and intragroup balances as at 31st March, 2025. Total of 
intragroup eliminations is shown as separate line item.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
234
 
(` in lacs)
 
(ii) 
Capitals and Contingencies of joint venture company
 
 
(A)  Capital Commitment in respect of joint venture company 
 
 
 
 Capital Commitments towards future liability for capital expenditure in respect of which contracts have been made (net of advances) are ` 
64.19 lakhs (31st March, 2024: ` 179.78 lakhs)
 
 
(B) Contingent Liabilities 
 
 
 
Share of group in the contingent liabilities of joint venture (to the extent not provided for)
Particulars
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
As at 31.03.2025
As at 31.03.2024
Contingent liabilities not  provided for in respect of Letters of guarantee
 32.39 
 32.39 
Show Cause Notice for short payment of excise duty
 - 
 - 
Share of contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other investors of the joint 
venture companies: Show Cause Notice for wrong classification of right to use 
of license payment (i.e. Royalty) and dispute of GST inputs not reflected in 
GSTR-2A.
 2.01 
 4.69 
Total
 37.08 
 37.08 
 
 
Note :
 
 
 The Company has received show cause notice dated 20/11/2020 from Central GST, Audit Commissionerate Noida, Uttar Pradesh regarding 
dispute of classification of right to use of license payment (i.e. Royalty) for ` 6.66 lakhs and dispute of GST inputs not reflected in GSTR-2A for 
` 6.73 lakhs for the period 01.07.2017 to 31.03.2018.
 
 
 The Company has disputed the show cause notice for the above total demand of ` 13.39 lakhs with the Superintendent, Division-III, Range-15, 
Central GST, Commissionerate, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Against our reply, the Superintendent, Central GST, 
Range-15, Gautam Buddha Nagar has passed the rejected Order No.ZD091223659977O dated 30.11.2023 with a demand of ` 9.37 lakhs against 
which the company has disputed the order and filed an appeal before the Joint / Assistant Commissioner (Appeals),CGST,Range-15,Division-
III,Greater Noida on 01.03.2024. No.ZD091223659977O dated 30.11.2023 with a demand of ` 9.37 lakhs against which the company has disputed 
the order and filed an appeal before the Joint / Assistant Commissioner (Appeals),CGST,Range-15,Division-III,Greater Noida on 01.03.2024.
 
 
 The Appellate Authority, Central GST, Noida has rejected Appeal No. 272/GST/APPL-NOIDA/GBN/2023-24 dated 01.03.2024 and issued 
Rejection Order No. NOI-CGST-GBN-002-APPL-326-2024-25 dated 25.10.2024.
 
 
 Accordingly, the principal demand amount of ` 9.37 lakhs was deposited on 28.03.2025. For waiver of interest and penalty of ` 4.02 lakhs, we 
will file Form SPL-02 under the Amnesty Scheme within the prescribed time limit, as the matter falls under Section 73 of the CGST Act. Share 
of group in the demand is ` 2.01 lakhs.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
237
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
60.  Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 which are not 
covered in any of the notes above
 
(i) 
 No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the company for holding any benami property under benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
 
(ii) Reconciliation of quarterly statement of current assets filed with banks or financial statements
 
 
 There are no material variations between the quarterly statement of current assets filed during the year with the banks and the 
books of accounts. 
 
(iii) Willful Defaulter
 
 
No bank has declared the Group as “willful defaulter”.
 
(iv) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies:
 
 
 All applicable cases where registration of charges or satisfaction is required with Registrar of Companies have been done. No 
registration or satisfaction is pending at end of financial year 2024-2025.
 
(v) Scheme of arrangements:
 
 
 No scheme of arrangements has been approved by the competent authority in terms of Section 230 to 237 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
 
(vi) Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
Particulars
Description
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by 
the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
 
(vii) Undisclosed income
 
 
 There is no such income which has not been disclosed in the books of accounts. No such income is surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
(viii) Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
 
 
The Group does not deal in Crypto Currency. Therefore further disclosures are not given
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For T R Chadha & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 006711N/N500028
PPAP Automotive Limited
Neena Goel
Partner
Membership No: 057986
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
236
 
(` in lacs)
Name of the Company
Net Assets (Total assets 
minus total liabilities)
Share in Profit or Loss
Share in other 
comprehensive 
income OCI
Share in total 
comprehensive income 
TCI
FY 2023- 24
FY 2023- 24
FY 2023- 24
FY 2023- 24
As % of 
Consolidated 
net assets
Net 
assets
As % of 
Consolidated 
profit or loss
Profit/ 
(Loss)
As % of 
Consolidated 
OCI
 OCI 
As % of 
Consolidated 
TCI
 TCI 
Parent Company
PPAP Automotive Limited
110.64%
31,299.12 
35.84%
 (467.25)
98.26%
 51.11 
33.24%
 (416.14)
Indian Subsidiaries
Direct Subsidiaries
Elpis Automotives Private 
Limited
0.74%
 207.98 
-3.52%
 45.85 
0.27%
 0.14 
-3.67%
 45.98 
(Formerly Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited)
Avinya Batteries Limited 
(formerly PPAP Technology 
Limited)
-1.30%
 (366.93)
63.05%
 (822.07)
0.76%
 0.40 
65.64%
 (821.68)
Indirect Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Foreign Subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Non- controlling interest in 
all subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Associate
 - 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Joint Venture
PPAP Tokai India Rubber 
Private Limited (Consolidated) 
(Investment as per equity 
method)
12.26%
 3,468.70 
4.93%
 (64.27)
0.71%
 0.37 
5.10%
 (63.89)
Intragroup eliminations and 
consolidation adjustments
-22.34%
(6,319.78)
-0.30%
 3.88 
0.00%
 - 
-0.31%
 3.87 
Total
100.00%
28,289.10 
100.00%
(1,303.86)
100.00%
 52.02 
100.00%
(1,251.85)
 
 Note : The above figures are before eliminating intragroup transactions and intragroup balances as at 31st March, 2024. Total of 
intragroup eliminations is shown as separate line item.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2025
239
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
238
Form AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso of Section 129(3) read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of 
Subsidiaries / associate companies / joint ventures 
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
(` in lacs)
S. No.
1
2
3
4
5
Name of the subsidiary
ELPIS 
Automotives 
Private Limited
Avinya Batteries 
Limited (Formerly PPAP 
Technology Limited)
Avinya Industrial 
Products Limited
Meraki Precision 
Tool Engineering 
Limited
Avinya Sealing 
Systems 
Limited
Date of becoming subsidiary
04.10.2019
10.12.2019
29.03.2025
24.03.2025
21.02.2025
Start date of accounting 
period of subsidiary
01.04.2024
01.04.2024
29.03.2025
24.03.2025
21.02.2025
End date of accounting 
period of subsidiary
31.03.2025
31.03.2025
31.03.2026
31.03.2026
31.03.2026
Reporting currency 
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Share capital
50.00
1,379.92
5.00
5.00
5.00
Reserves & surplus
130.08
(2545.40)
-
-
-
Total assets
1154.93
4368.49
-
-
-
Total liabilities
974.85 
5533.97
-
-
-
Investments
17.99
-
-
-
-
Turnover
2186.69
635.31
-
-
-
Profit before taxation
(25.65)
(1059.35)
-
-
-
Provision for taxation
(6.13)
(261.87)
-
-
-
Profit after taxation
(19.52)
(797.48)
-
-
-
Proposed dividend
-
-
-
-
-
% of shareholding
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
1 
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations:
 
Avinya Industrial Products Limited
 
Meraki Precision Tool Engineering Limited
 
Avinya Sealing Systems Limited
2 
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Not applicable  
 
(` in lacs)
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
Statement pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to associate companies and joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of Associates / Joint Ventures
Joint Venture
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
1
Latest audited balance sheet date
31.03.2025
2
Date on which the associate or joint venture was associated or acquired
26.06.2013
3
Shares of associate / joint ventures held by the Company on the year end No.
4,85,00,000
Amount of Investment in associates / joint venture
4,850.00 lacs
Extend of holding %
50
4
Description of how there is significant influence
Due to shareholding
5
Reason why the associate / joint venture is not consolidated
Not applicable
6
Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited balance sheet
7185.36 lacs
7
Profit / loss for the year
i) 
Considered in consolidation
(125.39 lacs)
ii) 
Not Considered in consolidation
(250.79 lacs)
1. 
Associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations: Not applicable 
2. 
Associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Not applicable
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Neena Goel 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Partner 
Chairman & Managing Director 
CEO & Managing Director 
Membership No.: 057986 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
 
Sachin Jain 
Pankhuri Agarwal
 
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Place: Noida 
Place: Noida
Date: 16th May, 2025 
Date: 16th May, 2025
241
Corporate Overview  |  Statutory Reports  |  Financial Statements
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
240
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2024-25
242
NOTES
Registered Office
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
CIN: L74899DLI995PLC073281
