 
 
 
 
March 11, 2025  
 
To, 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
Exchange Plaza, Block G, C/1, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400 051 
Email: cmlist@nse.co.in 
Symbol: VBL 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers   
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001 
Email: corp.relations@bseindia.com  
Security Code: 540180 
 
Sub:  Notice of 30th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report of the Company for 
the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
In continuation to our letter dated February 10, 2025, as required under Regulation 34 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed 
the following: 
 
1. Notice of 30th Annual General Meeting of the Company scheduled to be held on Thursday, 
April 3, 2025 at 11:00 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing / Other Audio Visual Means 
facility; and 
 
2. Annual Report (including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report) of the 
Company for the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024. 
 
Further, please note that the Company is following 1st January to 31st December as its financial 
year in terms of Section 2(41) of the Companies Act, 2013 as approved by the Company Law 
Board.  
 
You are requested to take the above on record. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Varun Beverages Limited 
 
 
 
 
Ravi Batra 
 
Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: As above 
 
 
Ravi 
Batra
Digitally signed 
by Ravi Batra 
Date: 2025.03.11 
17:09:09 +05'30'
NOTICE
VARUN BEVERAGES LIMITED
Registered Office: F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase I, New Delhi-110 020; Tel: +91 11 41706720
Corporate Office: Plot No. 31, Institutional Area, Sector - 44, Gurugram-122 002; Tel: +91 124 4643100
Email: complianceofficer@rjcorp.in; Website: www.varunbeverages.com
Corporate Identity Number: L74899DL1995PLC069839
Notice is hereby given that 30th (Thirtieth) Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) of Varun Beverages Limited 
(‘the Company’) will be held on Thursday, April 3, 2025 
at 11:00 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing (‘VC’) / 
Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’) facility, to transact the 
following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company together with 
the report of Board of Directors and Auditors’ thereon 
and the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company together with Auditors’ Report thereon 
for the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024.
2.	
To declare final dividend of ` 0.50 per equity share of 
face value of ` 2/- each for the Financial Year ended 
December 31, 2024.
3.	
To appoint Mr. Varun Jaipuria (DIN: 02465412), who 
retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for 
re-appointment as a Director.
4.	
To appoint Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga (DIN: 
08440479), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment as a Director.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.	
To appoint M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Firm 
of Company Secretaries in Practice as Secretarial 
Auditors for a term of upto 5(Five) consecutive years, 
fix their remuneration and in this regard, to consider 
and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as 
an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 204 and other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, if any and Rule 9 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 
24A and other applicable provisions of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force) and subject 
to receipt of such other approvals, consents and 
permissions as may be required, M/s. Sanjay Grover & 
Associates, Firm of Company Secretaries in Practice 
(Firm Registration Number P2001DE052900) be 
and are hereby appointed as Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company for a term of upto 5(Five) consecutive 
years, to hold office from the conclusion of this 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) till the conclusion of 
35th (Thirty Fifth) AGM of the Company to be held in 
the Year 2030, at a remuneration to be fixed by the 
Board of Directors of the Company or any Committee 
of the Board of Directors (‘the Board’).
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, things 
and to sign all such documents and writings as may 
be necessary to give effect to this resolution and for 
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.”
By Order of the Board
For Varun Beverages Limited
Ravi Batra
Chief Risk Officer &
Group Company Secretary
Membership No. F-5746
Place: Gurugram 	
Address: F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area,
Date: February 10, 2025	
Phase – I, New Delhi - 110 020
Varun Beverages Limited
01
NOTES:
1.	
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), which sets 
out details relating to Special Business (being 
considered unavoidable by the Board of Directors) 
at the meeting, is attached with this Notice of 
30th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’).
2.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) vide its 
General Circular Nos. 14/2020, 17/2020, 20/2020, 
02/2021, 21/2021, 10/2022, 09/2023 and 09/2024 
dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, May 5, 2020, 
January 13, 2021, December 14, 2021, December 28, 
2022, September 25, 2023 and September 19, 2024 
respectively (‘MCA Circulars’), had permitted to hold 
AGM through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/ Other Audio 
Visual Means (‘OAVM’) facility without the physical 
presence of the Members at a common venue. In 
compliance with the provisions of the Act, SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR Regulations’) and 
MCA Circulars, 30th AGM of the Company is being 
held through VC/OAVM facility.
	
To comply with the provisions of Regulation 44 of 
SEBI LODR Regulations, Company is also providing 
one way live webcast of the proceedings of AGM 
which can be viewed on website of the Company at 
https://varunbeverages.com/agm/.
	
The Deemed Venue for the 30th AGM shall be the 
Registered office of the Company.
3.	
The AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars 
through 
VC/OAVM 
facility, 
therefore 
physical 
attendance of Members has been dispensed with, 
accordingly the facility for appointment of proxy(ies) 
by the Members will not be available for the AGM. 
Hence, the Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and Route 
Map are not annexed to this Notice.
	
However, Corporate Members intending to authorize 
their representatives to attend & vote at the 
AGM through VC / OAVM facility on its behalf are 
requested to send duly certified copy of the relevant 
Board resolution in the manner prescribed in Note 
No. 27.
4.	
Members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM 
facility shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning 
the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
5.	
The Board of Directors have recommended final 
dividend of ` 0.50 per equity share of face value of 
` 2/- each for the Financial Year ended December 31, 
2024 to the Members of the Company on a Record 
Date to be fixed by the Board of Directors of the 
Company. The final dividend will be paid within the 
prescribed statutory period and as per the mandate 
registered with the Company or with their respective 
Depository Participant(s).
6.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (“the IT Act”), dividend income is taxable in the 
hands of the members and the Company is required 
to deduct tax at source (“TDS”) from dividend 
paid to the Members at rates prescribed in the 
IT Act & also available at www.varunbeverages.com. 
In 
general, 
to 
enable 
compliance 
with 
TDS 
requirements, Members are requested to complete 
and/or update their Residential Status, Permanent 
Account Number (‘PAN’), Category as per the IT Act 
with their Depository Participant(s) in case shares 
are held in demat form and in case shares are held in 
physical form, with the Company by sending email at 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.in
7.	
Members holding shares in physical form, who have 
not updated their mandate for receipt of dividend 
directly into their bank accounts through Electronic 
Clearing Service or any other means (“Electronic 
Bank Mandate”), can register their Electronic Bank 
Mandate to receive dividend directly into their 
bank account electronically or any other means, 
by sending scanned copy of the following details/ 
documents to the Company’s Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent (‘RTA’) at einward.ris@kfintech.com 
or to the Company at complianceofficer@rjcorp.in 
before the date of AGM:
	
a. 	
a signed request letter mentioning your name, 
folio number, complete address and following 
details relating to bank account in which the 
dividend is to be received:
	
	
i)	
Name & Branch address of Bank and Bank 
Account type;
	
	
ii) 	 Bank Account Number allotted by your 
bank after implementation of Core Banking 
Solutions; and
	
	
iii) 	 11-digit IFSC Code.
	
b. 	
self attested scanned copy of cancelled cheque 
bearing the name of the member or first holder, 
in case shares are held jointly; 
	
c. 	
self attested scanned copy of the PAN linked 
with Aadhaar; and
	
d. 	
self attested scanned copy of any document 
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
02
(such as Aadhaar Card, Driving License, 
Election Identity Card, Passport) in support of 
the address of the member, as registered with 
the Company.
	
Members holding shares in demat mode are advised 
to update their Electronic Bank Mandate with their 
Depository Participant(s).
8.	
In the event the Company is unable to pay the 
dividend to any Member directly in their bank 
accounts 
through 
Electronic 
Clearing 
Service 
or any other means, due to non-registration of 
the Electronic Bank Mandate, the Company shall 
dispatch the bankers’ cheque/ demand draft to such 
Member within the prescribed statutory period.
9.	
In terms of Section 152 of the Act, Mr. Varun Jaipuria 
and Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga, Whole-time 
Directors, retires by rotation at the AGM and being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment. The 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the 
Board of Directors of the Company recommended 
their re-appointment.
10.	 Details 
of 
Directors 
seeking 
appointment/ 
re-appointment in AGM pursuant to Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) and Regulation 
36(3) of the SEBI LODR Regulations are Annexed to 
this Notice of AGM.
11.	
All material documents referred in the accompanying 
Notice and the Explanatory Statement are available 
on website of the Company for inspection by the 
Members up to the date of AGM and during the AGM.
12.	
During the AGM, Members may access scanned 
copy of Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding maintained under 
Section 170 of the Act, the Register of Contracts or 
Arrangements in which Directors are interested under 
Section 189 of the Act and Certificate from Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company certifying that Employees 
Stock Option Scheme 2016 of the Company is being 
implemented in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and in 
accordance with the resolution of the Members of 
the Company which will be available on website of 
the Company.
13.	
Pursuant to Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read 
with relevant Rules made thereunder and Regulation 
36 of SEBI LODR Regulations, companies can 
serve Annual Report and other communications 
through electronic mode to those Members who 
have registered their email address either with the 
Company or with the Depository Participants (‘DP’). 
Members holding shares in physical form and who 
have not registered their email address with the 
Company can now register the same by sending 
an email to Compliance Officer of the Company at 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.in and/or by sending a 
request to KFin Technologies Limited, RTA through 
email at einward.ris@kfintech.com or contact at 
1800-309-4001. Members holding shares in demat 
form are requested to register their email address 
with their DP only. The registered email address will 
be used for sending future communications.
14.	 In compliance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and 
SEBI Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79, 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62, SEBI/HO/CFD/ 
PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4, SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/
CIR/2023/167 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/
CIR/2024/133 dated May 12, 2020, May 13, 2022, 
January 5, 2023, October 7, 2023 and October 3, 
2024 respectively, the Notice of AGM and Annual 
Report along with login details for joining the AGM 
through VC / OAVM facility including e-voting are 
being sent only through electronic mode to those 
Members whose email address are registered with 
the Company or DP or RTA, unless the Members have 
registered their request for physical copy of the same. 
Members may note that this Notice of AGM and Annual 
Report will also be available on Company’s website 
(www.varunbeverages.com), Stock Exchange’s 
website (www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com) 
and National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’) 
website (www.evoting.nsdl.com).
15.	
The Notice of AGM and Annual Report will be 
sent to those Members / beneficial owners whose 
name appears in the Register of Members / list of 
beneficiaries received from the Depositories as on 
Friday, March 7, 2025.
16.	 Members 
desiring 
any 
information/clarification 
on the accounts or any matter to be placed at the 
AGM are requested to write to the Company at 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.in at least seven days 
before AGM from their registered email address 
mentioning their name, DPID Client ID / Folio no. and 
mobile number to enable the management to keep 
information ready at the AGM. Members desiring to 
seek information/clarification during the AGM on the 
accounts or any matter to be placed at the AGM may 
ask through the chat box facility provided by NSDL.
17.	
Members 
are 
requested 
to 
note 
that 
KFin 
Technologies Limited, Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 & 
32, Financial District, Nanakramguda Serilingampally 
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
03
Mandal Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana is RTA of 
the Company to manage the work related to shares 
held in physical and dematerialized form.
18.	
To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are 
requested to exercise due diligence and immediately 
notify the RTA of any change in their address and/ 
or bank mandate in respect of shares held in physical 
form and to their DPs in respect of shares held in 
dematerialized form. Members are also advised not 
to leave their demat account(s) dormant for long. 
Periodic statement of holding should be obtained 
from the concerned DP and holding should be 
verified. The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (‘SEBI’) has mandated the submission of PAN 
by every participant in securities market. Members 
holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, 
requested to submit their PAN to their respective 
DP with whom they are maintaining their demat 
accounts. Members holding shares in physical form 
can submit their PAN to the Company/ RTA.
19.	 SEBI vide its Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 dated May 7, 2024 has 
directed all the listed companies to update Bank 
Account details and PAN of the Members holding 
shares in physical form. It has been observed that 
many of the Members holding physical shares 
have not updated the said information. Therefore, 
such Members are requested to send the following 
documents to the Company’s RTA:
	
i.	
Self-attested copy of PAN card including that of 
joint Members (if any); and
	
ii.	
An original cancelled cheque of 1st Member 
(Name of 1st Member should be printed on 
cheque leaf). If name of 1st Member is not printed 
on cheque leaf, photocopy of passbook or bank 
statement duly attested by the banker along 
with cancelled cheque (Photocopy of cheque 
will not be accepted/entertained).
20.	 SEBI vide its notifications dated June 8, 2018, 
November 
30, 
2018 
and 
January 
24, 
2022, 
mandated that securities of listed companies can be 
transferred only in dematerialized form. Accordingly, 
the Company has stopped accepting any fresh 
lodgment of transfer of shares in physical form 
including transmission and transposition requests. 
In view of the above and to avail various benefits 
of dematerialization, Members holding shares in 
physical form are requested to dematerialize the 
shares held by them in physical form.
21.	
SEBI has mandated furnishing of PAN linked with 
Aadhaar, KYC details (i.e., Postal Address with PIN 
Code, email address, mobile number, bank account 
details) and nomination details by holders of 
securities in physical form. Any service request or 
complaint received from the Member will not be 
processed until the aforesaid details/ documents 
are provided to RTA. Relevant details and prescribed 
forms in this regard are available on website of 
the Company at https://www.varunbeverages.com/
corporate-governance/
22.	 Members holding shares in single name and physical 
form are advised to make nomination in respect of 
their shareholding in the Company by submitting 
Form No. SH-13 in terms of Section 72 of the Act read 
with rules made thereunder to the RTA. Members 
holding shares in electronic form may submit the 
same to their respective DP. The nomination form 
can be downloaded from the Company’s website 
www.varunbeverages.com under the investor relations 
section. Members who require communication in 
physical form in addition to e-communication or have 
any other queries, may write to the RTA or Company 
at its Registered Office address.
23.	 Non-Resident Indian Members are requested to 
inform RTA, immediately of:
	
a.	
Change in their residential status on return to 
India for permanent settlement.
	
b.	
Particulars of their bank account maintained 
in India with complete name, account number, 
account type and branch address of the Bank 
with PIN code.
24.	 Members are requested to note that pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 124 of the Act, Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’) read 
with relevant circulars and amendments thereto, 
amount of dividend which remains unpaid/unclaimed 
for a period of seven years from the date of transfer 
to the Company’s unpaid dividend account and 
corresponding shares on which the dividend remains 
unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more are 
required to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) constituted by the 
Central Government. The Company has been sending 
reminders to Members having unpaid/unclaimed 
dividends before transfer of such dividend or shares 
to IEPF.
	
Pursuant to above-mentioned provisions, Company 
had transferred ` 45,375/- to IEPF (being unpaid/
unclaimed interim dividend amount for FY 2017) and 
also transferred 299 equity shares (on which interim 
dividend for FY 2017 remained unpaid/unclaimed for 
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
04
seven consecutive years) to the designated demat 
account of IEPF Authority and the same can be 
claimed from IEPF Authority only after complying 
with prescribed procedure under IEPF Rules.
	
Further, details of the unpaid/ unclaimed dividend 
(interim & final) transferred to the “Unclaimed 
Dividend Account - Varun Beverages Limited” 
are uploaded on the website of the Company at 
www.varunbeverages.com/corporategovernance/. 
Members willing to claim dividend that remain 
unclaimed are requested to correspond with the RTA 
or to the Company at its registered office.
25.	 To comply with the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Act and Rules framed thereunder, Regulation 44 of 
the SEBI LODR Regulations, Secretarial Standard - 
2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India and MCA Circulars, the Members are provided 
with the facility to cast their vote electronically 
through remote e-voting (prior to AGM) and e-voting 
(during the AGM) services provided by NSDL on all 
resolutions set forth in this Notice.
	
Only those Members who will be present in the AGM 
through VC / OAVM facility and have not cast their 
vote on the resolutions through remote e-voting 
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall 
be eligible to vote through e-voting system during 
the AGM.
	
The instructions for joining the AGM through VC / 
OAVM, remote e-voting and e-voting during the AGM 
are provided in the Notice of AGM under Note No. 27.
26.	 SEBI vide circular nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD1/P/
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on 
December 20, 2023) and  SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_
IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 4, 2023 read 
with master circular no. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-
1/P/CIR/2023/145 dated August 11, 2023, had issued 
guidelines towards an additional mechanism for 
investors to resolve their grievances by way of Online 
Dispute Resolution (‘ODR’) through a common ODR 
portal. Pursuant to above-mentioned circulars, post 
exhausting the option to resolve their grievance with 
the Company/its RTA directly and through existing 
SCORES platform, the investors can initiate dispute 
resolution through the ODR Portal (https://smartodr.
in/login) and the same can also be accessed 
through our website at https://varunbeverages.com/
investorcontacts/. Members can access the SEBI 
Circulars on the website of SEBI at https://www.
sebi.gov.in/ and the same are also available on the 
website of the Company at https://varunbeverages.
com/investorcontacts/.
27.	 INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR 
E-VOTING 
AND 
JOINING THE AGM ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A.	
INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING PRIOR 
TO THE AGM
	
i.	
The remote e-voting period begins on Monday, 
March 31, 2025 at (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on 
Wednesday, April 2, 2025 at (5:00 p.m. IST). 
The remote e-voting module shall be disabled 
by NSDL for voting thereafter.
	
ii.	
The Members, whose name appears in the 
Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as on 
Thursday, March 27, 2025 (i.e. cut-off date), may 
cast their vote electronically.
	
iii.	
The voting right of Members shall be in 
proportion to their shares in the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off 
date. A person who is not a Member as on cut-
off date should treat this Notice for information 
purpose only.
	
iv.	
The details of the process and manner for 
remote e-voting are explained herein below:
	
	
Step 1: Log-in to NSDL e-voting system at 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
	
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL 
e-voting system
	
	
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:
	
	
I.	
Login method for e-voting and joining 
AGM for individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode
	
	
	
Pursuant 
to 
SEBI 
Circular 
no. 
SEBI/ 
HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 
dated 
December 9, 2020 on ‘e-voting facility 
provided by Listed Companies’ read with 
SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD2/CIR/P/0155 
dated 
November 
11, 
2024, e-voting process has been enabled 
to 
all 
the 
individual 
demat 
account 
holders by way of single login credential, 
through their demat accounts/websites 
of Depositories/ Depository Participants 
to increase the efficiency of the voting 
process. Individual demat account holders 
would be able to cast their vote without 
having to register again with the e-voting 
service provider (‘ESP’) thereby not only 
facilitating seamless authentication but also 
ease and convenience of participating in 
e-voting process. Shareholders are advised 
to update their mobile number and email ID 
with their DPs to access e-voting facility.
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
05
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat mode with NSDL
1.	
Users already registered for IDeAS facility:
	
(i)	
Visit e-services website of NSDL viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com
	
(ii)	 Click on the ‘Beneficial Owner’ icon under ‘Login’ available under ‘IDeAS’ section.
	
(iii)	 Enter User ID and Password. After successful authentication, click on ‘Access to 
e-Voting’ appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting services and you will be 
able to see e-voting page.
	
(iv)	 Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL. You will be 
re-directed to e-voting website of NSDL to cast your vote during the remote 
e-voting period or joining AGM & vote during the AGM.
2.	
User not registered for IDeAS facility:
	
(i) 	 Click on link: https://eservices.nsdl.com and select ‘Register Online for IDeAS 
Portal’
	
	
OR
	
	
Click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
	
(ii)	 Proceed with completing the required fields.
	
(iii)	 Follow steps mentioned in point no. 1 above.
3.	
Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-voting website of NSDL:
	
(i) 	 Visit e-voting website of NSDL viz. https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
	
(ii) 	 Click on the icon ‘Login’ available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
(iii) 	On the Login page, enter your User ID (i.e. your 16 characters demat account 
number held with NSDL), Password/ OTP and a verification code as shown on the 
screen.
	
(iv) 	After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL website wherein 
you can see e-voting page. Click on Company name or e-voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL. You will be re-directed to e-voting website of NSDL to cast your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period or joining AGM & vote during the AGM.
4.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App ‘NSDL Speede’ facility 
by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
06
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat mode with CDSL
1. 	
User already registered for Easi/Easiest:
	
(i) 	 Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Home/Login
	
	
OR
	
	
www.cdslindia.com and click on ‘Login’ and select ‘New System Myeasi’
	
(ii) 	 Enter your User ID and Password.
	
(iii)	 After successful authentication, the user will be able to see the e-voting menu 
having link of e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL. Click on NSDL to cast your 
vote.
2. 	
User not registered for Easi/Easiest:
	
(i) 	 Click on link: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/
EasiRegistration
	
(ii) 	 Proceed with completing the required fields.
	
(iii) 	Follow steps mentioned in point no. 1 above.
3. 	
Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL:
	
(i) 	 Visit www.cdslindia.com and select ‘E Voting’.
	
(ii) 	 Enter your demat account number and PAN.
	
(iii) 	System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile No. & 
Email ID as recorded in the demat account.
	
(iv)	 After successful authentication, user will be provided link for the e-voting 
service provider i.e. NSDL where the e-voting is in progress.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode) 
login 
through 
their 
Depository Participant 
(DP)
1. 	
You can login using the credentials of your demat account through the website of 
your DP registered with NSDL/CDSL, for remote e-Voting.
2. 	
Once logged-in, you will be able to see ‘e-Voting’ option. Once you click on ‘e-Voting’ 
option and after successful authentication, you will be re-directed to e-voting module 
of NSDL/CDSL wherein you can see e-Voting feature.
3. 	
Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-voting website of NSDL to cast your vote 
during the remote e-voting period or join AGM & vote during the AGM.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at respective website.
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
07
Helpdesk details for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with NSDL
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com 
or call at toll free no.: 022-4886 7000 or 022-2499 7000
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode with CDSL
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@
cdslindia.com or contact at  1800 22 55 33
	
6.	
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, 
then you can use your existing password to 
login and cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for 
the first time, you will need to retrieve the 
‘initial password’ which was communicated 
to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial 
password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you to 
change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered in your 
demat account or with the Company, 
your ‘initial password’ is communicated 
to you on your email ID. Trace the 
email sent to you from NSDL from your 
mailbox. Open the email and open the 
attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the 
.pdf file. The password to open the 
.pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for 
NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID 
for CDSL account or folio number for 
shares held in physical form. The .pdf 
file contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
(ii)	 If your email ID is not registered, please 
follow steps mentioned below in 
‘Process for those Shareholders whose 
email address are not registered’.
	
7.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received 
the “initial password” or have forgotten your 
password:
	
	
a)	
Click on ‘Forgot User Details/Password?’(If 
you are holding shares in your demat 
account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	
Click on ‘Physical User Reset Password?’ (If 
you are holding shares in physical mode) 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password 
by aforesaid two options, you can send a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning 
your demat account number/folio number, 
PAN, name and registered address. 
II. 	
Login Method for e-voting and joining AGM for 
shareholders other than Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders 
holding securities in physical mode.
	
1.	
Visit 
the 
e-Voting 
website 
of 
NSDL. 
Open web browser by clicking the URL: 
https:// www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
personal computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is 
launched, click on the icon ‘Login’ which is 
available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter 
your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification 
code as shown on the screen.
	
4.	
Alternatively, 
if 
you 
are 
registered 
for 
NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at 
https:// eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing 
IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices 
after using your log-in credentials, click on 
e-voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast 
your vote electronically.
	
5.	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) 
or Physical
 Your User ID is:
a) 	For Members 
who hold 
shares in 
demat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 
8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID 
is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is 
IN300***12******.
b) 	For Members 
who hold 
shares in 
demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary 
ID is 12************** then your 
user ID is 12**************
c) 	For Members 
holding shares 
in Physical 
Form.
EVEN Number followed by 
Folio Number registered with 
the company
For example if folio number 
is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 
then user ID is 101456001***
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
08
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes 
on the e-voting system of NSDL.
	
8.	
After entering your password, click on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the 
check box.
	
9.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
10.	 After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join AGM 
on NSDL e-Voting system.
	
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies ‘EVEN’ in which you 
are holding shares and whose voting cycle and 
General Meeting is in active status.
	
2.	
Select ‘EVEN’ of the Company to cast your vote 
during the remote e-voting period or to cast 
your vote during the AGM. For joining AGM, you 
need to click on ‘VC/OAVM’ link placed under 
‘Join General Meeting’.
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-voting as the Voting 
page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number 
of shares for which you wish to cast your vote 
and click on ‘Submit’ and also ‘Confirm’ when 
prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message ‘Vote cast 
successfully’ will be displayed.
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for Shareholders
1.	
Institutional / Corporate shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the 
relevant Board Resolution/Authority letter etc. with 
attested specimen signature of the duly authorized 
signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the 
Scrutinizer by email at sanjaygrover7@gmail.com 
with 
a 
copy 
marked 
to 
evoting@nsdl.com. 
Institutional / Corporate shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their 
Board Resolution/ Authority Letter etc. by clicking 
on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter” 
displayed under “e-voting” tab in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five 
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. 
In such an event, you will need to go through the 
‘Forgot User Details/Password?’ or ‘Physical User 
Reset Password?’ option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password.
3.	
In case of any query, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and 
e-voting user manual for Shareholders available 
at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com 
or call on toll free no. 022-4886 7000 and 
022-2499 7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com 
or at 4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Trade World, Kamala Mills 
Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai- 400 013.
Process for those shareholders whose email address are 
not registered with the Depositories for procuring user 
id and password and registration of email address for 
e-voting on the resolutions set out in this Notice
1.	
Physical 
Holding: 
Send 
a 
request 
to 
KFin 
Technologies Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent at einward.ris@kfintech.com providing your 
name, folio no., scanned copy of the share certificate 
(front and back), self-attested scanned copy of PAN 
card and self-attested scanned copy of Aadhaar 
Card, for registering email address.
2.	
Demat Holding: Please contact your DP and register 
your email address in your demat account, as per the 
process advised by your DP.
	
If you are an individual shareholder holding securities 
in demat mode, you are requested to refer to the 
login method explained at Step 1 i.e. Login method for 
e-voting and joining AGM for Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively shareholders may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and 
password for e-voting by providing above mentioned 
documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ 
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on 
‘e-voting facility provided by Listed Companies’ read 
with SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/
CIR/P/0155 dated November 11, 2024, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode 
are allowed to vote through their demat account 
maintained 
with 
Depositories 
and 
Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are required to update 
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
09
their mobile number and email ID correctly in their 
demat account in order to access e-Voting facility.
B. 	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR E-VOTING DURING THE AGM
	
1.	
The procedure for e-voting during the AGM is 
same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-voting.
	
2.	
Only those Members/Shareholders, who have 
not casted their vote on the resolutions through 
remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred 
from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through 
e-voting system during the AGM.
	
3.	
Members who have voted through remote 
e-voting will be eligible to attend the AGM, 
however, they will not be eligible to vote during 
the AGM.
	
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility 
for e-voting during the AGM shall be the same 
as mentioned for remote e-voting.
C. 	 INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR 
ATTENDING 
THE 
AGM 
THROUGH VC/OAVM 
	
1.	
Members will be able to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM facility provided by NSDL at 
https:// www.evoting.nsdl.com by following the 
steps mentioned above at Step 1. After successful 
login, click on the link of ‘VC/OAVM’ placed under 
‘Join General meeting’ menu against Company 
name available in Shareholder/ Member login 
where EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
	
	
Members who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-voting or have forgotten the 
User ID and Password may retrieve the same 
by following the remote e-voting instructions 
mentioned in the Notice.
	
2.	
Facility of joining the AGM through VC / OAVM 
shall be available 30 minutes before and after the 
scheduled time of the commencement of AGM by 
following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. 
The facility of participation at the AGM through 
VC/OAVM will be made available for 3,000 
Members on first come first served basis (except 
Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding, 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel, Chairpersons of the 
Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Auditors 
etc. whose presence is mandatorily required 
under the provisions of the Act & SEBI LODR 
Regulations, who are allowed to attend the AGM 
without restriction on account of first come first 
served basis).
	
3.	
Members joining through Laptops / Mobile 
devices are recommended to use stable Wi-Fi 
or LAN connection for better experience.
	
4.	
Members who need assistance for attending or 
voting during the AGM, can contact NSDL at 
022-4886 7000 / 022-2499 7000 or contact 
Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, NSDL at 
evoting@nsdl.com.
	
5.	
Any person who acquire shares and become 
Member of the Company after the date of 
dispatch of this Notice and holding shares as 
on the cut-off date, may obtain the login ID 
and password by following the instructions as 
mentioned in the Notice or sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com.
Other Instructions
1.	
The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Kapil Dev Taneja 
(CP No. 22944), Partner or failing him,  Mr. Neeraj 
Arora (CP No. 16186), Partner of  M/s. Sanjay Grover 
& Associates, Company Secretaries, New Delhi as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process during 
the AGM and remote e-voting process in a fair and 
transparent manner and they have communicated 
their willingness to be appointed.
2.	
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion 
of e-voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast 
during the AGM, thereafter unblock the votes cast 
through remote e-voting and make, not later than 
2 working days or 3 days, whichever is earlier from 
the conclusion of AGM, a Consolidated Scrutinizer’s 
Report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if 
any, to the Chairman or a person authorised by him 
in writing, who shall countersign the same.
3.	
The results of voting will be declared not later than 2 
working days or 3 days, whichever is earlier, from the 
conclusion of AGM and the result declared alongwith 
the Consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed 
on the Company’s website i.e. www.varunbeverages. 
com and on the website of NSDL https://www. 
evoting.nsdl.com immediately. The Company shall 
simultaneously forward the results to National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited, where 
the shares of the Company are listed.
4.	
The resolutions, if passed by requisite majority, shall 
be deemed to have been passed on the date of the 
AGM i.e. April 3, 2025.
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
10
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
ITEM NO. 5
Pursuant to the amended provisions of Regulation 24A 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘SEBI LODR Regulations’) vide SEBI Notification 
dated December 12, 2024 and provisions of Section 
204 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and Rule 9 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Audit, Risk 
Management and Ethics Committee and the Board of 
Directors at their respective meetings held on February 10, 
2025 have approved and recommended the appointment 
of M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Peer Reviewed Firm 
of Company Secretaries in Practice (Firm Registration 
Number: P2001DE052900) as Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company for a term of upto 5(Five) consecutive years 
to hold office from the conclusion of this Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) till the conclusion of 35th (Thirty Fifth) 
AGM of the Company to be held in the Year 2030 on 
following terms and conditions:
a.	
Term of appointment: Upto 5(Five) consecutive years 
from the conclusion of this AGM till the conclusion of 
35th AGM.
b.	
Proposed Fees: Upto ` 3,50,000/- (Rupees Three 
Lakh Fifty Thousand only) plus applicable taxes 
and other out-of-pocket expenses in connection 
with the secretarial audit for Financial Year ending 
December 31, 2025 and for subsequent year(s) of 
their term, such fee as determined by the Board, on 
recommendation of Audit, Risk Management and 
Ethics Committee.
	
The proposed fees is based on knowledge, expertise, 
industry experience, time and efforts required to 
be put in by them, which is in line with the industry 
benchmark. The fees for services in the nature of 
certifications and other professional work will be in 
addition to the secretarial audit fee as above and 
will be determined by the Board in consultation 
with the Secretarial Auditors and as per the 
recommendations of the Audit, Risk Management 
and Ethics Committee.
c.	
Basis of recommendations: The recommendations 
are based on the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria & 
qualification prescribed under the Act & Rules made 
thereunder and SEBI LODR Regulations with regard 
to the full time partners, secretarial audit, experience 
of the firm, capability, independent assessment, 
audit experience and also based on the evaluation of 
the quality of audit work done by them in the past.
d.	
Credentials: M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates (Firm 
Registration Number: P2001DE052900) (‘Secretarial 
Audit Firm’), established in the year 2001, is a reputed 
firm of Company Secretaries in Practice specialized 
in Secretarial Audit and other corporate law matters. 
The firm is registered with the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India and has an experience of more than 
24 years in providing various corporate law services. 
The Firm also holds a valid Peer Review Certificate.
	
M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates have given their 
consent to act as Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
and confirmed that their aforesaid appointment (if 
made) would be within the prescribed limits under 
the Act & Rules made thereunder and SEBI LODR 
Regulations. They have also confirmed that they 
are not disqualified to be appointed as Secretarial 
Auditors in terms of provisions of the Act & Rules 
made thereunder and SEBI LODR Regulations.
	
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company / their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, 
in the resolution except to the extent of their 
shareholding, if any, in the Company.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company recommends 
the resolution set out at Item No. 5 for approval of 
the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
By Order of the Board
For Varun Beverages Limited
Ravi Batra
Chief Risk Officer &
Group Company Secretary
Membership No. F-5746
Place: Gurugram 	
Address: F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area,
Date: February 10, 2025	
Phase – I, New Delhi - 110 020
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
11
ANNEXURE
Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the 
following information is furnished about the Directors proposed to be appointed / re-appointed:
Name of Director
Mr. Varun Jaipuria 
(DIN: 02465412)
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga 
(DIN: 08440479)
i) 	
Date of Birth/Age
November 10, 1987 / 37 years
July 5, 1963 / 61 years
ii) 	 Qualifications
He attended Bachelor’s degree program 
in international business from the Regent’s 
University, London. He is a Harvard Alumni 
and had attended Program for Leadership 
Development (PLD), 2018-2019 batch from 
Harvard Business School, Boston.
Master’s Degree in Mechanical Engineering 
from 
Indian 
Institute 
of 
Technology, 
Kanpur.
iii) 	 Experience
Mr. 
Varun 
Jaipuria 
is 
the 
Promoter 
& 
Executive 
Vice 
Chairman 
of 
the 
Company. He has been actively working 
with the Company since 2009 and has 
been 
instrumental 
in 
comprehensive 
development 
of 
Company’s 
business 
including acquisitions and integration of 
acquired territories.
Under his leadership, Varun Beverages 
was awarded PepsiCo’s International 
Bottler of the Year in 2023 and Best 
Bottler 
in 
AMESA 
(Africa, 
Middle 
East and South Asia) sector in 2021 in 
recognition of Company’s operational 
excellence, governance practices and 
sustainability initiatives.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga is presently 
working as Whole-time Director of the 
Company. He has been associated with 
the Company since 1996 and is currently 
heading technical operations since 2003. 
He has an experience of 28 years with the 
Company in managing technical operations 
and execution of projects. Prior to this, he 
was associated with Eveready Industries 
India Limited for approximately 10 years 
and was last working in the capacity as 
production manager.
iv)	 Terms 
 
and 
conditions 
of 
appointment 
/ 
re-
appointment
Mr. Varun Jaipuria is a Whole-time Director 
of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga is a Whole-
time Director of the Company, liable to 
retire by rotation.
v) 	 Details 
of 
remuneration 
sought to be paid 
Not applicable
Not applicable
vi) 	 Last remuneration drawn 
(Per Annum)
` 72.02 Million 
` 61.56 Million
vii)	 Date of first appointment 
on the Board
January 1, 2009
May 2, 2019
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
12
Name of Director
Mr. Varun Jaipuria 
(DIN: 02465412)
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga 
(DIN: 08440479)
viii)	No. of shares held in the 
Company (including as a 
beneficial owner)
52,08,59,870
14,59,685
ix) 	 Relationship 
with 
other 
Directors, 
Manager 
and 
other 
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel of the Company
Mr. Varun Jaipuria is the son of Mr. Ravi 
Jaipuria (Non-Executive Chairman)
None
x) 	 No. 
of Board Meetings 
attended / held during 
Financial Year 2024
7/8
7/8
xi) 	 Directorships held in other 
companies 
1. 	
Devyani International Limited
2. 	 Dreamweaver 
Investment 
and 
Business Solutions Private Limited
3. 	 Empire Stocks Private Limited
4.	
KV Retail Private Limited
5.	
RJ Corp Limited
1.	
Alisha Torrent Closures (India) Private 
Limited
2.	
Lunarmech 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
xii)	 Chairman/ Member of the 
Committee of the Board of 
Directors of the Company
1. 	
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Committee – Member
2.	
Share Allotment Committee – Member
3.	
Environment, Social and Governance 
Committee – Chairman
1. 	
Investment and Borrowing Committee 
- Member
2.	
Environment, Social and Governance 
Committee – Member
xiii)	Committees position held 
in other Companies
1. 	
RJ Corp Limited
	
a)	
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee – Member
	
b)	 Investment 
and 
Borrowing 
Committee – Member
2. 	 Devyani International Limited
	
a)	
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee – Member
None
xiv)	Resignation 
from 
listed 
entities in the past three 
years
None
None
NOTICE
Varun Beverages Limited
13
Annual Report 2024
WHAT’S INSIDE
03	 Future-ready. Eco-steady.
06	 A Step Ahead Already
08	 Chairman’s Message: Future-
ready with Sustainable and 
Consistent Growth
12	
Sipping Success at Every 
Step of Our Journey
14	
Curating a Future-ready 
Product Line
18	
Pouring Refreshments across 
Borders, Expansion in a 
World of Refreshment
20	 Pioneers of Delivering 
Refreshment Sustainably, 
One Sip at a Time
26	 Subsidiaries, Associates and 
Joint Ventures
28	 Driving Consistent Results 
Year after Year
32	
Our Board: Enriched by 
Diversity, Focused on Value
36	 About the ESG Report 
38	 Promoter, Executive Vice-
Chairman and WTD’s 
Message: Building a Future 
that’s Ready and Steady
40	 Shaping a Future-ready, 
Value-driven Path
42	 Focusing More on 
Empowering Our Pillars
44	 Prioritizing What Matters
48	 ESG at a Glance
50	 Leading the Charge for a 
Sustainable Tomorrow
Environment
54	 Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
56	 Water Conservation
58	 Rejuvenation of Water Bodies 
(RWB) - A New Initiative
60	 Water Bodies: Impact 
Assessment
66	 Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
CHAIRMAN’S 
MESSAGE
COMMITTED TO A 
CLEANER, GREENER 
TOMORROW
Corporate Overview
Driving Sustainable 
Growth, Steadily
PAGE 08
PAGE 54
226	 Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
332	 Standalone Financial 
Statements
437	BRSR Assurance Statement
441	 GRI Assurance Statement
70	 Enhancing Energy 
Performance
72	
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
76	 VBL’s Commitment to 
Sustainability and Carbon 
Reduction
78	
Sourcing with Care
Social Initiatives
84	 Future-ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
93	 Employee Health and Safety
97	 Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
99	 Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
Governance
104	 Embedding ESG in our 
Corporate DNA
112	 Information System and 
VBL Code of Conduct
114	 CSR Initiatives: Making 
a Sustainable Difference
117	 Risk and Opportunities 
Management
122	 Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering our ESG 
Commitment
128	 Growing Stronger in the 
International Business
137	 Awards and Recognition
138	 Corporate Information
139	 GRI Index
150	 Management Discussion & 
Analysis Report
159	 Board’s Report
176	 Corporate Governance Report
197	 Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report	
FUTURE-READY 
WORKFORCE SHAPING 
OUR FUTURE
EMBEDDING ESG IN 
OUR CORPORATE  
DNA
INTERNATIONAL 
TERRITORIES
International 
Territories
Statutory Reports 
Financial Statements 
Assurance Statements 
PAGE 84
PAGE 104
PAGE 126
Read or download  
the report at:
www.varunbeverages.com
Varun Beverages Limited
02
FUTURE-READY. 
ECO-STEADY.
Imagine a future where every sip quenches more than thirst – it 
sustains life, preserves the planet, and inspires change. At Varun 
Beverages Limited (VBL), India’s leading PepsiCo franchisee, the 
act of serving a drink has evolved into a profound responsibility 
– one of fueling lives, driving innovation, and safeguarding the 
planet. For over three decades, we have refreshed millions while 
steadily redefining what it means to be a responsible industry 
leader. From crowded cities to remote rural markets, each bottle 
we deliver carries not only the promise of refreshment but also 
our commitment to a greener and more sustainable future.
Our operations delivered robust growth across key markets, with consolidated 
revenues rising by 24.7% in CY 2024. We also made significant strides in 
expanding our global and domestic footprint. The acquisition of South Africa 
based Beverage Company (BevCo) and its subsidiaries has strengthened our 
international footprint and marks a key milestone in expanding our presence in 
the African market. Domestically, we commissioned three greenfield facilities 
in Supa (Maharashtra), Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), and Khordha (Odisha), 
boosting production capacity in India. Additionally, our Kinshasa facility in the 
DRC now operates at full capacity on a three-shift basis. 
These key milestones along with our commitment to net-zero GHG emissions 
by 2050, enhanced efficiency through backward integration across 17 
production plants and a strong focus on water stewardship, circular economy 
through plastic waste management, and the adoption of renewable energy, 
reinforce our Future Ready growth strategy. 
As we grow, we continue to push boundaries – expanding our reach across 
continents, embracing innovations that lower environmental footprints, and 
nurturing communities through sustainable practices.
With a future-ready portfolio and an eco-steady approach, we are not just 
meeting today’s demands but shaping a resilient and sustainable tomorrow.
AT VBL, THE FUTURE IS NOT JUST 
SOMETHING WE ANTICIPATE – IT’S 
SOMETHING WE BUILD. AND WE 
ARE READY.
Annual Report 2024
03
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CORPORATE 
OVERVIEW
A STEP AHEAD ALREADY
Financial
` 200,077 
Million
Revenue
` 47,111 Million
EBITDA
` 26,343 
Million
Net Profit
` ~45,000 
Million
Capex
Varun Beverages Limited
06
^ Steady state WUR was 1.54 times in 2023 and 1.50 times in 2024, the differential is on account of stabilization of 
2 new greenfield plants in 2023 and 3 new greenfield plants in 2024.
Operational
1,124 Million
Cases sold in CY 2024
48
State-of-the-art production 
facilities around the globe
1.56^
 Times 
Water usage ratio
~7,300 MT
rPet recycled plastic used 
Pepsi Zero and Sting
Annual Report 2024
07
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Chairman’s Message
Future-ready with Sustainable 
and Consistent Growth
Dear Stakeholders,
It gives me immense 
pleasure to present the  
30th Annual Report of  
Varun Beverages Limited 
(VBL).
Ravi Jaipuria
Promoter & Non-Executive Chairman
Overview of the year
We are delighted to share that CY 2024 has been a 
year of healthy operational and financial performance 
for VBL. Our revenue growth was supported by 
organic volume expansion, improved product mix, and 
contributions from recent acquisitions. India volumes 
grew 11.4%, reflecting the strength of our distribution 
network and operational execution during a dynamic 
market environment. Our international business also 
maintained strong momentum, with particularly 
encouraging results from the African markets following 
the successful integration of BevCo in South Africa 
and the commissioning of our Democratic Republic of 
Congo (DRC) facility. Consolidated volumes increased 
by 23.2%, largely led by new territories resulting in 
consolidated revenues increase by 24.7%, EBITDA 
growth of 30.5%, and PAT growth of 25.3% for the year.
Throughout the year, we focused on expanding our 
manufacturing footprint and improving our on-ground  
execution capabilities. The commissioning of multiple 
greenfield facilities across India and Africa, along 
with strategic partnerships to diversify our portfolio 
into snacks and value-added beverages, reflects our 
commitment to capitalizing on emerging consumer 
trends. Additionally, we took steps to further 
strengthen our international presence by signing share 
purchase agreements to acquire PepsiCo’s business in 
Varun Beverages Limited
08
Tanzania and Ghana, subject to regulatory and other 
approvals. Integration of these acquisitions, along with 
our operations in South Africa, shall strengthen our 
presence in key international markets.
Strengthening growth capabilities
CY 2024 was marked by significant progress in 
expanding our manufacturing footprint to meet growing 
demand across key markets. In India, we commissioned 
three new greenfield facilities in Supa (Maharashtra), 
Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), and Khordha (Odisha). 
These state-of-the-art plants have enhanced our 
capacity to cater to the increasing demand in under-
penetrated markets.
Internationally, our Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) 
facility became operational and rapidly scaled to 100% 
utilization within months. This remarkable performance 
has reinforced our belief in the untapped potential of 
the region, and we are now preparing for backward 
integration and the commissioning of a second facility to 
strengthen our operations further. 
Furthermore, a key aspect of our growth strategy 
is the continuous expansion and enhancement of 
our distribution network and chilling infrastructure. 
Strengthening these areas is crucial for deepening our 
presence in both established and under-penetrated 
markets. These strategic investments reflect our 
proactive approach to capturing growth opportunities 
and ensuring we are well-prepared to meet 
future demand.
Expanding partnership with PepsiCo
During the year, we deepened our collaboration with 
PepsiCo, venturing into new segments and geographies 
to diversify and grow our product portfolio. In CY 2024, 
we entered into an Exclusive Snacks Appointment 
Agreement to manufacture and package Cheetos in 
Morocco by May 2025. Building on this momentum, 
we signed another exclusive snacks franchising 
appointment for “Simba Munchiez” in Zimbabwe and 
Zambia, with distribution starting in February 2025, and 
manufacturing set to commence by October 2025 and 
April 2026, respectively. Our expansion into the snacks 
market in these three countries marks a key milestone in 
enhancing our portfolio and leveraging synergies with 
our existing infrastructure.
Accelerating growth in international markets
CY 2024 was a year of remarkable progress in 
strengthening our presence in the African market. A 
key milestone was the successful integration of The 
Beverage Company Proprietary Limited (BevCo) in 
South Africa, enhancing our operational capabilities 
and accelerating growth across the continent. This 
acquisition enabled the Company to consolidate its 
presence in franchised territories in South Africa, 
Lesotho, and Eswatini, while also securing distribution 
rights in Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique, and 
Madagascar. Building on this momentum, we further 
expanded our footprint through strategic acquisitions in 
key African regions.
We also entered into share purchase agreements to 
acquire PepsiCo’s business in Tanzania and Ghana, 
subject to regulatory and other approvals. This includes 
100% stake in SBC Beverages Tanzania Limited (SBCT), 
a market leader with five manufacturing facilities. SBCT’s 
strong operational infrastructure and diverse product 
portfolio, including PepsiCo brands and its own energy 
drink, Supa Komando, position us to effectively address 
the growing consumer demand in East Africa.
Similarly, our acquisition of SBC Beverages Ghana Limited 
(SBCG) will solidify our footprint in West Africa.
CY 2024 was marked by significant 
progress in expanding our 
manufacturing footprint to meet 
growing demand across key 
markets. In India, we commissioned 
three new greenfield facilities in 
Supa (Maharashtra), Gorakhpur 
(Uttar Pradesh), and Khordha 
(Odisha). These state-of-the-art 
plants have enhanced our capacity 
to cater to the increasing demand 
in under-penetrated markets.
Annual Report 2024
09
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At VBL, sustainability is a cornerstone of our strategy. This year, 
we furthered our commitment to environmental stewardship 
by broadening the scope of initiatives like PET recycling, PET 
light-weighting, energy-efficient manufacturing, increasing 
renewable energy contribution and water conservation. A key 
focus is achieving a “net positive” water balance by replenishing 
more water than we use through conservation, recycling, 
and groundwater recharge projects.
Sustainability Initiatives
At VBL, sustainability is a cornerstone of our 
strategy. This year, we furthered our commitment to 
environmental stewardship by broadening the scope 
of initiatives like PET recycling, PET light-weighting, 
energy-efficient manufacturing, increasing renewable 
energy contribution and water conservation. A key 
focus is achieving a “net positive” water balance 
by replenishing more water than we use through 
conservation, recycling, and groundwater recharge 
projects, thereby ensuring a positive impact on water 
resources. These efforts align with PepsiCo’s global 
PEP+ objectives, reinforcing our shared commitment to 
a sustainable future.
Through these strategic initiatives, we have established 
a clear roadmap for long-term sustainability. As part 
of this commitment, we have set ambitious Net-Zero 
targets, officially validated by the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi), aiming to achieve net-zero greenhouse 
gas emissions across our entire value chain by 2050.
Additionally, our dedication to environmental 
stewardship has earned us a spot on the prestigious  
CDP A List based on the 2024 CDP scores:
• A for Climate
• A- for Water Security
This recognition underscores our commitment to 
sustainable practices and our ongoing efforts to 
drive meaningful change. We continue to integrate 
environmentally responsible practices across our 
operations, minimizing our footprint while delivering 
value to stakeholders. Sustainability remains central to 
our growth, enabling us to make a lasting impact in the 
communities and regions we serve.	
QIP issue
In November 2024, we successfully raised ` 75,000 
Million through a Qualified Institutional Placement 
(QIP). Over 13.27 crore equity shares were allotted 
at an issue price of ` 565 per share. This significant 
capital raise demonstrates the trust and confidence 
of investors in the Company’s strategic direction and 
long-term potential.
The proceeds from this QIP have strengthened our 
financial position and provided the flexibility to 
pursue our ambitious growth plans. These funds will 
support our expansion into new geographies, strategic 
acquisitions, and further investment in enhancing our 
operational capabilities. 
Dividend & share-split 
At VBL, managing our business efficiently for the benefit 
of all stakeholders is a cornerstone of our philosophy. 
A critical element in delivering value to our shareholders 
and securing their long-term confidence is through a 
consistent and transparent return of capital. In alignment 
with this approach, our Board of Directors established 
a formal dividend distribution policy following the 
Company’s listing in November 2016.
To broaden our shareholder base and increase the 
accessibility of our shares to a diverse range of investors, 
we have sub-divided/split the existing equity shares of 
VBL. Each equity share, previously with a face value 
of ` 5 and fully paid-up, was sub-divided/split into two 
equity shares each having a new face value of ` 2.
During the year under review, the Board of Directors in 
their meeting held on July 30, 2024 declared an interim 
dividend of ` 1.25 per Equity Share (face value of ` 5/- 
Varun Beverages Limited
10
per Equity Share) to the eligible equity shareholders 
of the Company. Further, the Board of Directors have 
also recommended a final dividend of ` 0.50 per Equity 
Share (face value of ` 2/- per Equity Share) for the 
Current Year 2024. 
Message to stakeholders
As we reflect on another year of significant 
achievements, I extend my heartfelt gratitude to all our 
stakeholders for their trust and support. Your confidence 
in VBL has been instrumental in driving our success.
As we move forward, we remain focused on 
strengthening our market position, leveraging growth 
opportunities in both domestic and international 
markets, and maintaining our commitment to 
sustainable practices. Our dedication to innovation, 
strategic expansion, and sustainability continues to 
guide our journey.
As we navigate dynamic market environments, we stay 
focused on delivering sustainable growth and value while 
upholding our standards of excellence. We look forward 
to a future of continued success and shared prosperity.
Vote of thanks
We express our deepest appreciation to our 
shareholders, investors, bankers, and creditors for 
their support and belief in our vision. A special thanks 
to our dedicated employees, whose tireless efforts 
and commitment have been instrumental in our 
achievements. We are also immensely grateful to our 
Board of Directors for their guidance and strategic 
insights, helping steer the Company towards new 
opportunities and sustained growth. Your collective 
contributions have been invaluable in our journey, and 
we look forward to your continued partnership. 
Warm regards,
Ravi Jaipuria
Promoter & Non-Executive Chairman
Annual Report 2024
11
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our Journey
Sipping Success at Every Step 
of Our Journey
Since our inception in the 1990s, we have been a leading name in the industry, 
pouring our efforts into sustained growth and strong stakeholder relationships. 
Over three decades, we’ve evolved with every milestone, creating value and 
fostering inclusive, sustainable progress – one sip at a time
1991
Received licensing 
agreement from 
PepsiCo through 
a group Company 
for trademark and 
bottling
1996
Commenced 
operations in 
Jaipur
2004
Devyani 
Beverages 
Limited merged 
with VBL in 
2004
2012
• Consolidated the sub-
territories of Goa, three 
districts of Maharashtra 
and North-East India 
subsequent to merger of 
a group company 
• Three companies having 
the territories of Nepal, 
Sri Lanka and Morocco 
became Subsidiaries 
• PepsiCo sold 26% stake 
in VBL to VBIL
2014 & 
2015
Capital infusion of 
` 4,500 Million by 
promoter group
1995
Incorporated as 
a public limited 
company
1998
PepsiCo 
acquired 26% 
stake in Varun 
Beverages 
Limited
2011 & 
2012
Investment made 
by Standard 
Chartered PE in 
Varun Beverages 
(International) 
Limited (VBIL)* 
(*Merged with 
VBL in 2012)
2013
Acquired the 
Delhi sub-territory 
(remaining parts)
2015
• Received 
investment from 
AION Investment
• Acquired sub-
territories (Parts 
of Uttar Pradesh 
and Haryana, 
along with 
Uttarakhand, 
Himachal Pradesh, 
Punjab and the 
Union Territory of 
Chandigarh)
Varun Beverages Limited
12
2016
• Acquired 60% 
shareholding in 
Varun Beverages 
(Zambia) Limited 
• Got listed on NSE 
and BSE
2018
• Acquired sub-
territories in the 
State of Jharkhand, 
Chhattisgarh and 
Bihar
• Granted sales and 
distribution rights 
of Tropicana and 
Gatorade
• Set up a Greenfield 
production facility in 
Nepal and Zimbabwe
2023
• Incorporated new subsidiary 
- VBL Mozambique, SA, South 
Africa, to carry on the business 
of distribution
2024
• Acquired BevCo along with its 
wholly-owned subsidiaries
• Entered into binding 
agreements to acquire 100% 
stake inTanzania and Ghana, 
further enhancing its African 
market presence
• Secured exclusive snacks 
franchising rights for PepsiCo’s 
brands in Morocco, Zimbabwe, 
and Zambia
2017
• Acquired sub-
territories across 
the States of 
Madhya Pradesh 
(certain parts) and 
Odisha 
• Acquired the 
incremental 30% 
shareholding in 
Varun Beverages 
(Zambia) Limited
2019
• Acquired subterritories 
in the parts of 
Maharashtra (14 
districts), parts of 
Karnataka (13 districts) 
and parts of Madhya 
Pradesh (3 districts)
• Acquired sub territories 
across seven States*
2022
• Entered into an 
agreement to distribute 
and sell Lays, Doritos 
and Cheetos for PepsiCo 
in the territory of 
Morocco
• Commenced commercial 
production of Kurkure 
Puffcorn at the 
manufacturing plant in 
Kosi, Uttar Pradesh for 
PepsiCo
* Gujarat, parts of Maharashtra, parts of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and parts 
of Andhra Pradesh and five union territories of Daman & Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Puducherry (except Yanam), Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep
Annual Report 2024
13
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Product portfolio
Curating a Future-ready 
Product Line
We are focused on expanding our portfolio 
with high-growth products. By aligning with 
emerging consumer preferences and trends, 
we are strategically positioning both global and 
regional brands for significant scalability.
Carbonated 
soft drinks
Juice
Water
Share of Segment-wise Sales Volume
74%
6%
20%
Varun Beverages Limited
14
Annual Report 2024
15
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Brands Licensed by PepsiCo
Carbonated Soft Drinks
Energy Drinks
Fruit Pulp / Juice-based Drinks
Pepsi
Mountain Dew
Pepsi Zero
Mirinda
7UP
Sting
Rockstar
Tropicana
Club Soda
Evervess
Nimbooz
Tropicana 
Delight
Duke’s
Slice
Sports Drinks
Carbonated Juice  
Based Drinks
Packaged Drinking Water
Ice Tea
Gatorade 
Blue Bolt
Gatorade 
Lemon
Gatorade 
Orange
Aquafina
Lipton  
Ice Tea
7UP Nimbooz 
Masala Soda
Aquavess
Varun Beverages Limited
16
Snacks#
Own Brands^
FritoLay
Doritos
Cheetos
Simba
Kurkure
Refreshhh
Coo-ee
Jive
Refreshhh 
Aquaclear
Reboost Energy
Cream Bell
TM
# Manufacturing of Cheetos (underway) & Distribution of Frito Lay, Doritos and Cheetos in Morocco; Manufacturing (underway) & 
Distribution of Simba Munchiez in Zambia and Zimbabwe; Co-manufacturing of Kurkure Puffcorn in India.
^ Manufacturing & Distribution of own brands is restricted in select territories.
* “CreamBell” trademark has been licensed to be used by VBL for ambient temperature value added dairy based beverages.
Carbonated Soft Drinks
Energy Drink
Value-added Dairy-based Beverages*
Packaged Drinking Water
Mango 
Shake
Belgian 
Choco
Kesar 
Badam
Cold 
Coffee
Elaichi
Rose
Butter 
Scotch
Vanilla
Annual Report 2024
17
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our Presence
Pouring Refreshments across Borders, 
Expansion in a World of Refreshment
Over the years, we have strengthened our global presence to become one of 
the foremost franchisee of PepsiCo, with India as our primary revenue driver. 
Beyond India, our operations now span international markets, including Nepal, 
Sri Lanka, Morocco, Zambia, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Lesotho, Eswatini, the 
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique & 
Madagascar.
Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only.
Nepal
Sri Lanka
VBL India Sub-territories
VBL International territories
Other Franchised Sub-territories
WIP territories
Continental Presence
South Asia
Africa
We successfully completed the 
acquisition of South Africa-based 
Beverage Company (BevCo) and 
its wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
strengthening our global portfolio. 
Simultaneously, we advanced domestic 
growth by commissioning three 
greenfield production facilities in 
India – located in Supa (Maharashtra), 
Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), and 
Khordha (Odisha) — demonstrating 
our commitment to high-growth 
opportunities. Our greenfield facility 
in Kinshasa, DRC, has achieved 100% 
utilization on a three-shift basis, with 
further expansion planned. We also 
hold the franchise for various PepsiCo 
products in these markets, along with 
distribution rights in Namibia, Botswana, 
Mozambique, and Madagascar, 
reinforcing our position as a key player 
in the global beverage industry.
India
Nepal
Mozambique*
Madagascar*
Sri Lanka
Morocco
Zambia
Zimbabwe
DRC
South Africa
Eswatini
Lesotho
Namibia*
Botswana*
Note: *Distribution rights
Morocco
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Namibia
Botswana
South Africa
Mozambique
Tanzania
Lesotho
Eswatini
Madagascar
DRC
Ghana
Varun Beverages Limited
18
International
•	 Nepal I
•	 Nepal II
•	 Sri Lanka
•	 Morocco
•	 Zambia
•	 Zimbabwe
•	 South Africa – 
Johannesburg
•	 South Africa – 
Johannesburg 2
India
Manufacturing Facilities
•	 Pathankot
•	 Phillaur
•	 Nuh
•	 Panipat
•	 Greater Noida I
•	 Greater Noida II
•	 Jainpur
•	 Bazpur
•	 Sathariya
•	 Sathariya II
•	 Kosi
•	 Sandila
•	 Jodhpur
•	 Bhiwadi
•	 Mandideep
•	 Jamshedpur
•	 Cuttack
•	 Kolkata
•	 Guwahati  
Unit I & II
•	 Goa
•	 Tirunelveli
•	 Dharwad
•	 Bharuch
•	 Begusarai
•	 Aurangabad
•	 Mahul#
•	 Nelamangala
•	 Palakkad
•	 Mamandur
•	 Sangareddy
•	 Sri City
•	 Bundi
•	 Jabalpur
•	 Supa
•	 Gorakhpur
•	 Khordha
#For land & building, 
company has short-term 
leasehold rights
Map not to scale. 
For illustrative purposes only.
VBL India Sub-territories
VBL International territories
Other Franchised Sub-territories
WIP territories
VBL Manufacturing facilities
Presence Across Sub-territories
•	 Punjab
•	 Himachal Pradesh
•	 Uttarakhand
•	 Delhi
•	 Haryana
•	 Rajasthan
•	 Arunachal Pradesh
•	 Assam
•	 Meghalaya
•	 Manipur
•	 Mizoram
•	 Nagaland
•	 Tripura
•	 Uttar Pradesh
•	 West Bengal
•	 Maharashtra
•	 Goa
•	 Chandigarh
•	 Madhya Pradesh
•	 Odisha
•	 Chhattisgarh
•	 Jharkhand
•	 Bihar
•	 Gujarat
•	 Karnataka
•	 Kerala
•	 Tamil Nadu
•	 Telangana
•	 Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
and Daman & Diu
•	 Puducherry  
(except Yanam)
•	 Andaman & Nicobar 
Islands
•	 Lakshadweep
•	 South Africa – 
Durban
•	 South Africa –  
East London
•	 South Africa –  
Cape Town
•	 Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC)
Annual Report 2024
19
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Who we are
Pioneers of Delivering Refreshment 
Sustainably, One Sip at a Time
At Varun Beverages Limited (‘VBL’ or ‘We’ or ‘Our’), we are committed 
to revitalizing lives by quenching thirst, holding a prestigious position 
as one of PepsiCo's largest franchisees and a leading force in the 
beverage industry.
In association with
PEPSI
With over three decades of 
partnership, we are a key player 
globally and the second-largest 
PepsiCo franchisee (outside the US). 
We produce and distribute an 
extensive range of carbonated 
and non-carbonated beverages 
under PepsiCo trademarks, steadily 
expanding our footprint and product 
offerings year-on-year.
Varun Beverages Limited
20
CO
• 	 Production facilities 
• 	 Sales and distribution – GTM 
and logistics 
• 	 In-outlet management –  
visi-coolers 
• 	 Consumer push management  
(BTL) - Market share gains
VBL
 - Demand delivery
• 	 Trademarks 
• 	 Formulation through 
concentrate 
• 	 Product and packaging 
innovation through investment 
in R&D 
• 	 Consumer pull management 
(ATL) - Brand development
PepsiCo 
 - Demand creation
Symbiotic Relationship
To be the most admired 
beverage company in all 
our markets
Community 
responsibility 
engagement
Partnership and 
collaboration
Customer  
satisfaction
Employee 
empowerment	
Social 
responsibility	
Environmental 
responsibility	
Integrity and 
transparency	
Ethical business 
practices
Inclusivity and 
diversity	
VISION
VALUES
Annual Report 2024
21
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Who we are
Map not to scale
India  
- The primary zone
International  
- The evolving zone
72% of our net
operational revenues 
in CY 2024.
We hold franchises across
26 states and  
6 union territories,
with India contributing approximately
4 countries with
distribution rights
Our international operations span
9 countries with  
franchise rights,
Nepal, Sri Lanka, Morocco, Zambia, Zimbabwe, 
South Africa, Lesotho, Eswatini & DRC
for Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique and 
Madagascar
Building on this momentum, we signed a share purchase 
agreement with Tanzania Bottling Company SA and 
Ghana Bottling Company Limited to acquire 100% share 
capital of SBC Tanzania Limited and SBC Beverages 
Ghana Limited respectively, subject to regulatory and 
other approvals, including but not limited to PepsiCo Inc.
Our expansion goes beyond beverages, as we deepen 
our presence in the snacks segment. Varun Beverages 
Morocco SA, a wholly-owned subsidiary, has been 
appointed the exclusive manufacturer and packager 
of Cheetos in Morocco, complementing our existing 
distribution of Lay’s, Cheetos, and Doritos.
Furthering this growth, Varun Zimbabwe and Varun 
Zambia have partnered with Premier Nutrition Trading 
LLC, Dubai (a subsidiary of PepsiCo Inc.) to manufacture, 
distribute, and sell Simba Munchiez in Zimbabwe and 
Zambia, where distribution has already begun.
As part of our strategic growth in Africa, we have strengthened our 
presence by acquiring a 100% stake in The Beverage Company Proprietary 
Limited (BevCo), South Africa, for manufacturing and distribution. 
Varun Beverages Limited
22
Numbers that define our legacy
India
International
Share of revenue
33+ Years
Of business association 
with PepsiCo 
90%+
Accountability of 
sales volumes of 
PepsiCo in India 
Key player in the global beverage industry 
and the second-largest franchisee of 
PepsiCo in the world (outside US)
1.4+ Billion
Target consumers
4.0+ Million
Retail outlets catered
16,000+
Employees
14 Countries
Geographical presence
28%
72%
Annual Report 2024
23
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Every initiative we undertake is aligned with fostering inclusive growth, benefiting both our 
organization and the communities we serve. This holistic approach ensures that our growth 
as a business is responsible and contributes to broader societal well-being. Our philosophy of 
collective prosperity drives us to balance business success with our environmental and social 
responsibilities, ensuring long-term value creation for all stakeholders.
We are embedding sustainability at the core of our operations and growth 
strategy. As a company, we prioritize sustainable practices that extend beyond 
the business we do on a day-to-day basis, positively impacting the environment 
and society around us. 
our focus remains committed to sustainability.
Throughout our long-standing 
partnership as
PEPSICO’S 2ND LARGEST 
FRANCHISEE OUTSIDE USA
Who we are
Varun Beverages Limited
24
Stakeholders impacted
Consumers
Delivering wide range 
of carbonated and non-
carbonated beverages to 
cater the dynamic demands
Employees
Providing growth  
opportunities to become  
the future leader
Investors
Providing best-in-class 
returns on investment 
to maintain the 
ecosystem of trust
Communities
Supporting initiatives that 
enhance local livelihoods, 
promote education, and 
foster social development
Business partners
Fostering an inclusive 
growth culture for 
all-round benefit
Environment
Adhered to prudent  
water management 
methodologies to offset 
the environment footprint
Water 
stewardship
Human capital 
management
Energy 
efficiency
People and 
community
Waste 
management
Corporate 
governance
Our pillars of 
sustainability
Refer to 56 pg
Refer to 70 pg
Refer to 114 pg
Refer to 104 pg
Refer to 66 pg
Refer to 84 pg
Annual Report 2024
25
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Subsidiaries, Associates & Joint Ventures
Subsidiaries, Associates and 
Joint Ventures
Subsidiary
Joint Venture
Associate
IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
Shares Held
50%
Varun Foods (Zimbabwe)
(Private) Limited
Shares Held
100%
The Beverage Company 
Bidco Proprietary Limited
Shares Held
100%
Little Green Beverages 
Proprietary Limited
Softbev Proprietary 
Limited
Shares Held
100%
Shares Held
100%
Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited 
Shares Held
100%
Ole Spring Bottlers 
(Private) Limited
Shares Held
100%
Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
Shares Held
100%
Varun Beverages 
Morocco SA
Shares Held
100%
Clean Max Tav Private 
Limited
Shares Held
26%
Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
Shares Held
26.34%
Varun Beverages  
RDC SAS
Shares Held
99.9%
Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited 
Shares Held
100%
Varun Beverages 
(Zambia) Limited 
Shares Held
90%
Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
Shares Held
85%
Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
Shares Held
Varun Beverages South 
Africa (PTY) Ltd.
Shares Held
100%
VBL Mozambique, SA 
Shares Held
99%
The Beverage Company 
Proprietary Limited
Shares Held
95%
100%
Varun Beverages Limited
26
Membership Associations & Business Relationships
Federation of Indian Chambers	
National 
of Commerce and Industry
PHD Chamber of Commerce	
National 
and Industry
The Associated Chambers of	
National 
Commerce and Industry of India
Action Alliance for Recycling	
National 
Beverage Cartons
Confederation of Indian Industry	
National
Name of the Trade & Industry 
Chambers/Associations
Reach of Trade & Industry 
Chambers/Associations 
(State/National)
Annual Report 2024
27
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Profit and loss indicators 
Net revenue
EBITDA  
(` in Million)
(` in Million)
2020
64,501
2019
71,296
2021
88,232
2022
131,731
2023
160,426
2024
200,077
47,111
2020
12,019
2019
14,477
2021
16,546
2022
27,881
2023
36,095
2024
Financial
6-year CAGR: 22.9%
Y-o-Y: 24.7%
6-year CAGR: 26.6%
Y-o-Y: 30.5%
We have shown strong performance, driven by strategic growth initiatives and 
operational excellence. Our expanded distribution, market penetration, and 
product offerings have fueled robust results. This performance positions us well 
for continued growth and value creation moving forward.
Performance Highlights
Driving Consistent Results Year after Year
EBITDA margin  
(%)
Y-o-Y: 105 bps
23.5
2020
18.6
2019
20.3
2021
18.8
2022
21.2
2023
22.5
2024
Varun Beverages Limited
28
2020
3,573
2019
4,722
2021
7,461
2022
15,501
2023
21,018
2024
26,343
13.2
2020
5.5
2019
6.6
2021
8.5
2022
11.8
2023
13.1
2024
PAT
(` in Million)
6-year CAGR: 41%
Y-o-Y: 25.3%
PAT margin 
(%)
Y-o-Y: 6 bps
Net worth 
(` in Million)
6-year CAGR: 37.9%
167,396
2020
35,888
2019
33,591
2021
41,967
2022
52,155
2023
70,847
2024
Annual Report 2024
29
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Business developments for CY 2024
•	 The Company raised ~ ` 75,000 Million through 
fresh issue of 132,743,362 equity shares 
Qualified Institutions Placement  
(QIP) Issue:
•	 On March 26, 2024, VBL consummated the 
acquisition of The Beverage Company Proprietary 
Limited, South Africa along with its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries ("BevCo"). Accordingly, BevCo 
became the subsidiary of the Company
•	 This acquisition allowed the Company to 
consolidate its presence in franchised territories 
in South Africa, Lesotho, and Eswatini, as well 
as territories with distribution rights in Namibia, 
Botswana, Mozambique, and Madagascar
Acquisition of South Africa and  
neighbouring territories: 
•	 On November 13, 2024, your Company entered 
into share purchase agreements with Tanzania 
Bottling Company SA and Ghana Bottling 
Company Limited to acquire 100% share capital 
of SBC Tanzania Limited and SBC Beverages 
Ghana Limited respectively, subject to regulatory 
and other approvals, including but not limited to 
PepsiCo Inc. at an Equity value of ~ USD 154.50 mn 
for Tanzania and ~ USD 15.06 mn for Ghana
Acquisition of Tanzania and  
Ghana territories:
•	 Varun Beverages Morocco SA (a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Company) entered into an 
Exclusive Snacks Appointment Agreement to 
manufacture and package Cheetos in the territory 
of Morocco. This appointment is in addition to 
the existing distribution agreement for PepsiCo’s 
snacks portfolio consisting of Lays, Cheetos, 
Doritos in the territory of Morocco
•	 Varun Zimbabwe and Varun Zambia (subsidiaries 
of the Company) entered into an Exclusive Snacks 
Exclusive Snacks Franchising Appointment with PepsiCo for  
Morocco, Zimbabwe and Zambia:
Franchising Appointment with Premier Nutrition 
Trading LLC, Dubai (subsidiary of PepsiCo Inc.) to 
manufacture, distribute, and sell “Simba Munchiez” 
in the territory of Zimbabwe & Zambia
•	 Distribution in Zimbabwe and Zambia has started 
w.e.f. February 1, 2025. Manufacturing facilities 
are expected to be operational for Morocco on 
or before May 1, 2025, Zimbabwe on or before 
October 1, 2025 and for Zambia on or before 
April 1, 2026
Varun Beverages Limited
30
Details of Business Activities (Accounting for More Than 90% of the Turnover)
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of The Entity
Manufacturing of Beverages 
Manufacturing of carbonated, Non-carbonated 
beverages and packaged drinking water
99.2%*
Economic Value Generated
CY 2024
CY 2023
Direct Economic Value Generated
(Refer note 1)
2,00,076.5
1,60,425.8
Economic Value Distributed
1,76,166.6
1,41,083.4
Employee Wages and Benefits
18,850.3
14,465.9
Operating Costs (Refer note 2)
1,43,271.5
1,16,504.7
Payments to providers of capital (Refer note 3)
7,752.4
4,954.5
Payments to Governments (Refer note 4)
5,974.5
4,988.9
Community Investments (CSR)
317.9
169.4
Economic Value Retained =
Direct Economic Value Generated Less
Economic Value Distributed
23,909.9
19,342.4
Note:	1 	 Revenue generated net of excise duty excluding other income
	
2. 	Operating cost includes Raw material consumed, Purchase of finished goods, increase/decrease in WIP, depreciation & other 
expenses excluding CSR
	
3.	 Payment to providers of capital includes finance cost paid and dividend paid to shareholders
	
4.	 Payments to government includes Corporate tax (excluding Interest u/s 234A/234B/234C) for the financial year
*on consolidated basis
Annual Report 2024
31
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
He is the Promoter & Executive Vice Chairman of the Company. He has 
been actively working with the Company since 2009 and has been 
instrumental in comprehensive development of Company’s business 
including acquisitions and integration of acquired territories. Under his 
leadership, Varun Beverages was awarded PepsiCo’s International Bottler 
of the Year in 2023 and Best Bottler in AMESA (Africa, Middle East and 
South Asia) sector in 2021 in recognition of Company’s operational 
excellence, governance practices and sustainability initiatives. He 
attended Bachelor’s degree program in international business from the 
Regent’s University, London. He is a Harvard Alumni and had attended 
Program for Leadership Development (PLD), 2018-2019 batch from 
Harvard Business School, Boston.
He is a Graduate from King George Medical College and a renowned 
Cardiothoracic Surgeon by the American Board of Thoracic Surgery. He has 
trained & practised at New York University Medical Center at Manhattan 
USA from July 1, 1971 to June 30, 1975 and is an honorary fellow at the 
Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. He has received many prestigious 
awards, including the Padma Bhushan Award, presented by the Government 
of India. He is a Diplomate from the American Board of Surgery and the 
American Board of Cardiothoracic Surgery and has around 50 years of 
vast experience.
Dr. Naresh Trehan
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director 
He holds a master’s degree in mechanical engineering from the Indian 
Institute of Technology, Kanpur. He has been associated with the 
Company since 1996 and is currently heading technical operations since 
2003. He has an experience of 28 years with the Company in managing 
technical operations and execution of projects. Prior to this, he was 
associated with Eveready Industries India Limited for approximately 
10 years and was last working in the capacity as their production manager.
Rajinder Jeet 
Singh Bagga
Whole-time Director
Our Board: Enriched by Diversity, Focused 
on Value
Varun Jaipuria 
Promoter, Executive 
Vice-Chairman and 
Whole-time Director
He is a Chartered Accountant of 1980 batch. He also participated in a 
residential management program on Venture Capital and Private Equity at 
Harvard Business School. Out of his experience of 44 years, 32 years are 
with the current group namely RJ Corp. As a member of its core team, he 
is on the Board and several committees of NSE & BSE listed entities namely 
Varun Beverages Limited and Devyani International Limited. Being a Whole 
Time Director, he is instrumental in formulating company’s growth strategy. 
He oversees M&As, expansion and diversification activities of the Group. 
He spearheaded the public listing of Group’s two companies. He enjoys 
longstanding relationship with institutional investors and lenders and meets 
FIIs on regular basis as a part of investor relations.
Raj Gandhi
Whole-time Director
He is the Promoter & Chairman of the Company and has over four decades 
of experience in conceptualizing, executing, developing and expanding 
food, beverages and dairy business in South Asia and Africa. He has 
an established reputation as an entrepreneur and business leader and 
is the only Indian Company’s promoter to receive PepsiCo’s award for 
International Bottler of the Year, awarded in 1997. He was also awarded 
the ‘Distinguished Entrepreneurship Award’ at the PHD Chamber Annual 
Awards for Excellence 2018.
Ravi Jaipuria 
Promoter & Non-
Executive Chairman
Varun Beverages Limited
32
He holds a Bachelor’s degree and a Master’s degree in commerce from 
the University of Delhi. He also holds a Bachelor’s degree in law from the 
University of Delhi, a diploma in labor law from the Indian Law Institute, a 
Master’s degree in business administration from the Faculty of Management 
Studies, University of Delhi and a doctorate in philosophy for his thesis 
on ‘Country Risk Analysis in Investment Financing Decision Making’ from 
the University of Delhi. He was employed as an Associate Professor in the 
commerce department of Shri Ram College of Commerce, University of 
Delhi. He was appointed by the Government of India as a member of the 
committee constituted for simplification of Income Tax Act. He was also 
nominated by the government to the Central Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. He is Founder and President of Tax Law 
Educare Society, a non-profit making voluntary organization, with the main 
objective to educate general public and professionals on Taxation, Law and 
Allied Matters for last 16 years.
Dr. Ravi Gupta
Independent Director
She holds a bachelor’s degree in Arts from the University of Delhi and is a 
practising advocate at the Calcutta High Court since 1978. She is also the 
chairperson of a non-profit organization called Prayatn which provides 
education to underprivileged children. She has also worked in several 
leading firms in India including Khaitan & Co, Calcutta and Delhi, Mulla & 
Mulla, Mumbai and also in the Philippines.
Rashmi Dhariwal
Independent Director
He is a graduate in Economics from Delhi University and Masters in 
Management Studies from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute, Bombay University 
with specialization in marketing. He is the Managing Director of Aquagri 
since 2008 that is focused on promoting Aqua Agriculture through 
self-help groups amongst the coastal communities. He started his career 
with Hindustan Lever Limited in 1975 where he worked in the Sales and 
Marketing function and then moved on to the MGF group, where he looked 
after the industrial gases business. Since 1993, he was the Executive 
Director – Exports and External Affairs for PepsiCo India and in 2001, at 
PepsiCo he took on additional responsibility of driving the sustainability 
agenda and external affairs.
Abhiram Seth
Independent Director
She holds Bachelor’s of Arts degree from St. Stephen’s College and LLB 
from the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi and is enrolled with the Bar 
Council of Delhi. She practices in the areas of corporate, contract and 
commercial laws since 1992. She has been involved in providing advice on 
a wide range of issues from company formation, corporate governance 
and regulatory compliance to mergers and acquisitions, corporate 
restructuring, joint ventures, foreign investments, exchange control 
regulations and securities laws. She has acted as India legal advisor to 
major players in the civil aviation sector including international commercial 
airlines, MRO organizations and ground handling operators in respect of 
their operations in India. 
Sita Khosla
Independent Director
He is B.Tech from IIT Delhi and Master of Business Administration from 
Faculty of Management Studies, Delhi University. He has more than 45 
years experience in the areas of Projects, Manufacturing & Technical 
operations of process industry. He has worked as Director – Projects, 
Director – Quality & Food Safety for PepsiCo India Holdings Pvt. Ltd., 
Chief of Technical Operations & Supply Chain for NourishCo Beverages 
Pvt. Ltd. (Tata PepsiCo JV) and Vice President – Operations of Safe Water 
Network. During the early years of career, he worked for manufacturing 
as well as projects for heavy chemicals like Acids, Oleums, Caustic Soda, 
Chlorine, Edible Oils, Fats and Calcium Carbide with Shriram Industrial 
Enterprises Limited.
Anil Kumar Sondhi
Independent Director
Annual Report 2024
33
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sustainability is firmly rooted in our business, driving 
impactful practices and global partnerships for a 
greener future. This year, our strengthened efforts 
further improved energy and water efficiency while 
advancing plastic waste recycling, reinforcing our 
commitment to carbon positivity.
DRIVING 
SUSTAINABLE 
GROWTH, 
STEADILY
About the 
ESG Report
Varun Beverages Limited
36
Content of the report
We have identified 10 specific areas in which our ESG 
issues can be classified. These are Water Management, 
Carbon Footprint & Emissions, Product Safety & Quality, 
Consumer Health & Nutrition, Corporate Citizenship, 
Employee Health & Safety, Packaging Lifecycle 
Management, Business Performance, Corporate 
Governance, and Business Ethics.
Reporting guidelines and principles
This report discloses the sustainability initiatives taken 
by Varun Beverages Limited across the identified 
material topics and captures their impact on our 
stakeholders. Our performance against such initiatives 
have also been measured and recorded. We have also 
gathered comprehensive data on the measures followed 
by us as a responsible corporate citizen, a trusted 
beverage business, a people-centric organization, and a 
sustainability advocate.
We have also made disclosures of our data and 
processes in line with SEBI’s new mandate through 
our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
exclusive of our ESG report.
Details of it can be found in our Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report.
Reporting reference
This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI 
reporting standard. The foundation of this report rests 
on the principles of transparency, consistency, reliability, 
completeness, and materiality as outlined by the GRI 
reporting standards.
Additionally, the report aligns with the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) 
recommendations. In compliance with SEBI’s 
new mandate, our Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report disclosed, is distinct from our ESG 
sustainability report.
In presenting this information, we aim for 
comprehensive transparency, relying on the integrity 
and robustness of the disclosed data to provide 
consolidated insights. This report showcases our 
progress in communicating various sustainability 
initiatives to our stakeholders, symbolizing the 
collaborative efforts within our organization to advance 
our sustainability goals. As we continue this journey, 
our team, in collaboration with leadership, has carefully 
reflected and consolidated our commitment and efforts 
toward sustainability.
For detailed disclosure mapping, please refer 
to the GRI index in the report’s appendix. 
The report is also available on our Company’s 
website: www.varunbeverages.com. We value our 
stakeholders and the relationship we share.
Please direct your concerns and feedback on this report 
to complianceofficer@rjcorp.in
This report serves as a platform to showcase our 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives 
and accomplishments for the reporting year, along with 
outlining our future roadmap.
ESG: Our approach
Being a responsible corporate citizen, we understand 
the long-term impact that diverse aspects may have 
on our business and the communities that we operate 
in as well as recognize the need to manage such issues 
for delivering higher value to our consumers. To achieve 
this, we actively engage with our consumers, employees, 
communities, government, and other stakeholders, 
enabling suitable handling of the issues and taking 
sustainable action.
Refer to Page 42 for more information on how we 
engage with our stakeholders.
Scope and boundary of reporting and its 
period
The Report covers financial and non-financial 
information and activities of subsidiaries of Varun 
Beverages Limited for the period January 1, 2024 to 
December 31, 2024. This Annual Report 2024 with GRI 
Index is externally assured by an independent assurer, 
Deutsch Quality Systems (DQS) India) Pvt. Ltd in 
accordance with: 
ISAE 3000 (Revised): 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(Assurance on Non-Financial Information)
ISO 14064:2019 Part 3:
Specification with guidance for the verification and 
validation of greenhouse gas statements.
The financial information has been audited by M/s. 
J.C. Bhalla & Co and M/s. O.P. Bagla & Co LLP, our joint 
statutory auditors.
The reporting scope and boundary for our disclosures, 
unless otherwise stated, covers the operations of Varun 
Beverages Limited.
Geographies covered
Our entire operations in India and International markets.
Annual Report 2024
37
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Promoter, Executive Vice-Chairman and WTD’s Message
Building a Future that’s Ready and Steady
The world around us is changing rapidly. Consumers 
today demand more than just refreshing beverages. 
They actually seek for responsible brands that stand for 
environmental stewardship, social progress, and ethical 
governance. At VBL, we recognize this shift and remain 
persistent in our ESG commitments, ensuring that our 
business scales sustainably while leaving a positive 
impact on society. 
Growing responsibly, sustaining progress
In CY 2024, we reinforced our footprint across global 
markets, expanding operations into South Africa and 
securing distribution rights in Namibia, Botswana, 
Mozambique, and Madagascar. Our entry into the 
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), along with 
pending acquisitions in Tanzania and Ghana, marks 
another stride toward becoming a stronger global 
player. In India, we deepened our distribution network, 
added new Greenfield facilities, and strengthened last-
mile reach, all while embedding sustainability into our 
growth model. 
Our ESG focus remains consistent. This year, we 
accelerated our sustainability efforts with a clear 
emphasis on optimizing our carbon footprint, advancing 
water positivity, and enhancing our renewable energy 
mix. In alignment with our sustainability roadmap, we 
continued integrating responsible sourcing, increasing 
PET bottle recycling rates, and fostering social equity 
through workforce inclusion and community initiatives.
Demonstrating our commitment to 
environmental stewardship
We took significant strides in reducing our ecological 
footprint. We continued our efforts to integrate 
renewable energy into our operations, with 16% of 
our total energy consumption now derived from 
sustainable sources, reinforcing our dedication to 
clean energy adoption. Water conservation remained 
a key priority, and through targeted initiatives, we 
achieved a 19% reduction in water usage per liter 
of beverage production compared to the base year 
2020 further strengthening our position as a water-
positive organization. Our approach to plastic waste 
management also saw substantial progress as we moved 
closer to our goal of 100% PET bottle recycling by 2025, 
achieving 88% recycling in CY 2024 – an improvement of 
2% points over the previous year. 
Dear Stakeholders,
At Varun Beverages, sustainability 
is not a choice; it is an imperative 
that underpins how we operate and 
grow. As one of the world’s leading 
beverage manufacturers, our role 
extends beyond quenching thirst. 
We ensure that every step of our 
value chain contributes positively 
to the planet, our people, and the 
communities we serve. 
Varun Jaipuria
Promoter, Executive Vice-Chairman and 
Whole-time Director
Varun Beverages Limited
38
Additionally, our focused measures on energy efficiency, 
sustainable sourcing, and operational improvements 
have reinforced our commitment to climate action. Our 
collaborations with sustainability partners, including GEM 
Enviro Management Ltd. and Deutsch Quality Systems, 
have played a vital role in monitoring and enhancing 
our waste management systems, carbon footprint 
tracking, and water conservation efforts. These collective 
initiatives reaffirm our pledge to balance business growth 
with environmental responsibility, ensuring that we 
operate in a manner that is both resource-efficient and 
future-focused.
Upholding social responsibility
People remain at the heart of our sustainability journey. 
We promised to shape a safe, inclusive, and empowering 
environment for our employees and the communities 
we serve. Workplace safety remained a top priority, and 
through our collaboration with DuPont Safety Solutions, 
we further strengthened best practices across our 
manufacturing plants, ensuring a safer and more secure 
work environment. 
In our continued efforts to align business growth with 
responsible employment practices, we introduced 
structured ESG-linked incentive programs, motivating 
our employees to actively contribute to our sustainability 
goals. Diversity and inclusion remained key focus 
areas, as we worked towards building a workforce that 
promotes gender equity, fosters innovation, and enables 
holistic professional growth. 
Beyond our organization, we continued to create 
meaningful social impact through targeted community 
development initiatives. Our collaboration with Shiksha 
Kendra School enabled access to quality education for 
over ~34,000 underprivileged students till now, while 
our AARU Clinics provided essential healthcare services 
to more than 3,40,000+ individuals across India and 
Nepal. Additionally, our skill development initiative, 
Pravah, empowered over 17,000+ young individuals 
with the tools and training needed to secure sustainable 
livelihood opportunities. By prioritizing the well-being of 
our employees and the broader community, we remain 
committed to creating a future that is both ready for 
change and steady in its focus on social progress.
Strengthening governance and ethical 
leadership
Governance remains a cornerstone of our sustainability 
philosophy. We continued to strengthen our governance 
framework to ensure transparency, accountability, and 
ethical business conduct. By expanding ESG-centric 
policies across our supply chain, we have reinforced 
our commitment to responsible sourcing and supplier 
engagement. Our focus on regulatory compliance and 
risk management remains unwavering, ensuring that we 
uphold the highest standards of corporate responsibility.
Future-ready, eco-steady
Looking ahead, we remain committed to driving 
impactful change through our sustainability agenda. 
Our journey towards becoming a net-zero organization 
will be shaped by continuous innovation, responsible 
resource management, and collaboration with 
stakeholders who share our vision. By 2025, we aim to 
achieve 100% PET bottle recycling and further accelerate 
our efforts in water positivity and renewable energy 
adoption. 
As we move forward into yet another transformative 
year, we stay true to our promise to grow responsibly, 
act decisively, and build a future that is not only 
prosperous but also sustainable. 
Warm Regards,
Varun Jaipuria
Promoter, Executive Vice-Chairman &  
Whole-time Director
Our near-term targets, validated 
by the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi), set a clear path 
to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions by 60% by 2033 
from a 2023 baseline, alongside a 
60% reduction in absolute Scope 3 
emissions. Furthermore, we are 
committed to reaching net-zero 
emissions across our value chain 
by 2050. Our efforts have been 
recognized with a strong CDP 
score, reflecting our transparency 
and dedication to sustainability. 
This validation reinforces our 
ambition to drive meaningful 
change and lead the industry 
towards a lower-carbon future.
Annual Report 2024
39
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Value creation model 
Shaping a Future-ready, Value-driven Path
What we depend on
The process
Contributing to our 
SDG Goals
Financial capital
Raised ` 75,000 Million by 
issuance of equity shares 
through QIP
Intellectual capital
Consumer insights, 
technology, know-how and 
R&D capabilities
Social and  
relationship capital
Spent nearly  
` 317.9 Million on CSR
Manufacturing capital
48 state-of-the-art 
production facilities. 36 in 
India and 12 in International 
territories
Human capital
16,000+ talented employees 
across our operating 
locations
Natural capital
New installments towards 
climate positively 
What we do
We manufacture, distribute, and sell a wide range of beverages 
and value-added products under PepsiCo’s iconic trademarks. Our 
portfolio includes carbonated soft drinks (CSDs), non-carbonated 
beverages (NCBs), packaged drinking water, and snacks, all 
designed to cater to the diverse preferences of our consumers.
Why we do it
Built on our values
Inclusivity and 
diversity
Community 
responsibility 
engagement
Customer 
satisfaction
Vision
We will be the 
most admired 
beverage company 
in all our markets.
ESG mission
While refreshing billions of consumers 
with a vast portfolio of beverages 
touching all age groups, we shall ensure 
a suitable ecosystem with a positive 
impact on our planet and well being.
Ethical business 
practices
Partnership and 
collaboration
Employee 
empowerment
Social  
responsibility
Environmental 
responsibility
Integrity and 
transparency
Varun Beverages Limited
40
At the heart of our value creation model is a commitment to shaping a 
sustainable future while driving steady growth. We focus on innovation, prioritize 
eco-conscious practices, and build strong partnerships to deliver lasting value for 
all our stakeholders.
The value we created 
The impact we delivered
Financial capital
Strong growth in revenue, profit and 
cashflow
Intellectual capital
Customer satisfaction
Social and  
relationship capital
Making a difference by helping the 
communities around us with health, 
nutrition, sustainable living.
Manufacturing capital
Operational efficiencies through 
reduced production overheads
Human capital
We are proud to be recognized as a 
Great Place to Work.
Natural capital
Increasing renewable energy
Supporting our customers 
in creating availability, 
accessibility and 
consistency of our products 
with improved nutrition and 
functionality while ensuring 
a better impact for the 
planet.
Business focus areas
Manufacturing
Distribution and 
warehousing
Customer 
management
In-market 
execution
Cost 
efficiencies
Cash 
management
Consumers
We deliver a diverse range 
of carbonated and non-
carbonated beverages to 
meet the ever-evolving 
preferences of our 
customers.
Investors
We ensure exceptional 
returns on investment, 
fostering a reliable and 
trust-driven ecosystem.
Business Partners
We nurture an inclusive 
growth culture, creating 
opportunities for mutual 
success and all-around 
benefits.
Employees
We provide ample growth 
opportunities, empowering 
our workforce to become 
future leaders.
Environment
We are committed to 
sustainable practices, 
implementing effective 
water management 
strategies to minimize our 
environmental footprint.
Beneficiaries
Growth levers
Solid 
infrastructure
Robust supply 
chain
Demand 
delivery
Market share 
gains
Margin 
expansion
ROE 
expansion
Annual Report 2024
41
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Stakeholder communications
Focusing More on 
Empowering Our Pillars
At Varun Beverages, we believe that the foundation of our success lies in the 
strength of our relationships with key stakeholders. By maintaining open and 
ongoing dialogues, we ensure our strategies align with their evolving needs, 
driving mutual growth and sustainability. Our responsbility to safeguarding their 
interests and creating lasting value is reflected in how we engage with internal 
and external stakeholders, fostering trust, transparency, and collaboration to build 
a more sustainable future together.
Key stakeholder groups
Internal stakeholders
Management
External stakeholders
Retailers/consumers
Industry association
Conduct a materiality 
analysis to identify and 
prioritize key issues
Implement 
standardized 
reporting 
frameworks to 
measure and 
communicate 
impact
Set clear, 
achievable, and 
measurable 
goals using 
industry-standard 
frameworks
Align the 
sustainability 
strategy with overall 
business objectives
Engage and 
empower teams 
to make decisions 
that support the 
sustainability 
strategy
Stakeholder 
engagement 
process
Employees
Suppliers
Varun Beverages Limited
42
Stakeholder
Engagement Pattern
Key Concerns
Frequency of 
Engagement
Management
Interviews, Board meetings
Business Performance 
Quarterly
Business Ethics
Supply Chain Management
Carbon Footprint & Emissions
Energy Management 
Waste Management
Resource Use & Conservation
Employees
Facilitated discussions, 
Surveys, Townhall meetings, 
Leadership meetings, Email 
communications, Employee 
engagement activities, 
Webinars
Occupational Health & Safety
Need-based
Freedom of Association
Diversity & Inclusion 
Talent Management 
Community Engagement
Employee Engagement & Development 
Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices
Suppliers
Individual and broad-based 
communications, Supplier 
trainings, assessments, and 
remediation processes
Product Safety & Quality
Need-based
Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices
Responsible Sourcing
Sustainable Agriculture 
Packaging Lifecycle Management
Regulation & Taxation
Environmental Stewardship
Diversity & Inclusion
Retailers/
Consumers
Surveys, Corporate websites, 
Marketing activities & 
communication, Social media
Product Labelling
Need-based
Responsible Marketing 
Consumer Health & Nutrition
Corporate Citizenship 
Product Safety & Quality
Industry 
Association
Surveys, Annual & 
Sustainability Reports, 
Ratings, rankings and other 
indices, Social media
Business Performance
Annually
Innovation and R&D
Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 
Sustainable Initiatives
Product Safety & Quality
How we engaged with our pillars 
Annual Report 2024
43
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Materiality
Prioritizing What Matters
To drive our sustainability efforts and align with our business goals, we 
conducted a materiality assessment aimed at identifying key aspects critical 
to our performance and impact. This assessment, guided by GRI principles 
and in collaboration with Deutsch Quality Systems (DQS), helps us focus on 
the most relevant Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) areas for 
long-term growth.
Consistent re-evaluation
As the business environment 
evolves, so do the priorities and 
concerns of our stakeholders. 
To ensure we stay aligned with 
changing industry demands and 
corporate goals, we commit to 
regularly re-evaluating the material 
aspects through ongoing dialogues 
with stakeholders.
Finalizing material aspects: 
The process
In collaboration with DQS, we 
adopted a two-pronged approach 
to determine our material aspects: 
stakeholder engagement and 
impact assessment. After identifying 
five key stakeholder groups, we 
engaged them through surveys 
and discussions, identifying 29 
metrics of high importance. These 
metrics will evolve based on internal 
and external factors, ensuring our 
strategies remain adaptable.
About DQS
DQS India, a subsidiary of DQS 
Holding GmbH, is a globally 
recognized expert in management 
system certification, assessment, 
and training, bringing invaluable 
insight to our materiality assessment 
process. 
Key goal
Our goal was to identify and 
prioritize the economic, social, and 
environmental aspects that are most 
material to the company's long-term 
success.
STEP 1
Identifying key 
stakeholders
STEP 2
Crafting 
engagement 
techniques
STEP 3
Brainstorming 
material aspects
STEP 4
Evaluating the impact 
of each aspect
STEP 5
Finalizing priority 
topics for goal-
setting and 
strategic alignment
Assessment  
steps
Varun Beverages Limited
44
The material aspects we identified 
are grouped into five core 
categories, aligned with the GRI 
and United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). At VBL, 
we refer to them as the '5 Pillars of 
Material Aspects’, which include:
1.	 Environmental
2.	 Social Capital
3.	 Human Capital
4.	Business Model & Innovation
5.	 Leadership & Governance
Through a comprehensive review 
of materiality assessments within 
the beverages industry, these 
pillars were carefully chosen to 
guide our strategic focus and drive 
sustainable growth.
The 5 pillars of material aspects: Our ESG focus areas
•	 Water management
•	 Carbon footprint
•	 Energy management
•	 Waste management
•	 Ecological impact
Environmental
UNSDG's Catered to: 
•	 Product safety and quality
•	 Consumer health and 
nutrition
•	 Corporate citizenship
•	 Human rights and fair labor 
practices
•	 Product labelling
•	 Responsible marketing
•	 Sanitation and hygiene
•	 Data privacy and 
information security
•	 Rural livelihood and 
generation
Social Capital
UNSDG's Catered to: 
•	 Packaging lifestyle 
management
•	 Business performance
•	 Responsible sourcing
•	 Supply chain management
•	 Innovation and R&D
•	 Sustainable agriculture
•	 Resource use and 
conservation
Business Model & Innovation
UNSDG's Catered to: 
•	 Employee health and safety
•	 Diversity, equity and 
inclusion
•	 Employee engagement and 
development
•	 Talent recruitment and 
retention
Human Capital
UNSDG's Catered to: 
•	 Corporate governance
•	 Business ethics
•	 Regulation and taxation
•	 Advocacy and public 
policy
Leadership and Governance
UNSDG's Catered to: 
Annual Report 2024
45
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Materiality Matrix
Rural Livelihood 
Generation 
Advocacy &  
Public Policy
Sanitation & 
Hygiene
Data Privacy & 
Information  
Security
Talent Recruitment & 
Retention
Ecological 
Impact
Innovation & R&D
Resource Use & 
Conservation
Responsible 
Marketing
Supply Chain 
Management
Human Rights &  
Fair Labor Practices
Responsible 
Sourcing
Business 
Performance
Employee Engagement & 
Development
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Waste Management
Energy 
Management
Regulation & 
Taxation
Business 
Ethics
Employee Health & Safety
Corporate Governance
Carbon Footprint & 
Emissions
Consumer Health & 
Nutrition
Corporate 
Citizenship
Water 
Management
Packaging Lifecycle
Management
Product Safety & Quality
Product Labeling
Sustainable Agriculture
Internal Relevance
Low
High
High
External Relevance (Stakeholder Priorities)
Ranking
Pillar
Material Aspects
Ranking
Environment
Water Management
1
Carbon Footprint & Emissions
2
Social Capital
Product Safety & Quality
4
Consumer Health & Nutrition
5
Corporate Citizenship
9
Human Capital
Employee Health & Safety
6
Business Model and Innovation
Packaging Lifecycle Management
3
Business Performance
10
Leadership & Governance
Corporate Governance
7
Business Ethics
8
 Environment   Social Capital   Human Capital   Business Model and Innovation   Leadership & Governance
Varun Beverages Limited
46
Annual Report 2024
47
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ESG at a Glance
At VBL, sustainability forms the core of our business ethos, driving us to embed 
environmentally and socially responsible practices across our diverse operations. 
Over the years, we have cultivated a robust ESG framework, seamlessly 
integrating sustainable principles into our strategies, processes, and partnerships. 
By improving energy and water efficiency, recycling plastic waste, and working 
towards carbon positivity, we actively contribute to a sustainable economy 
and society.
Our proactive approach ensures 
we stay ahead of emerging 
environmental and social trends 
while upholding human rights 
and mitigating risks tied to public 
policies and regulations. Guided by 
a strong commitment to creating 
long-term value, we strive to align 
our goals with the expectations 
of stakeholders and the larger 
community. 
ESG Mission
While refreshing billions of 
consumers with a vast portfolio of 
beverages touching all age groups, 
we shall ensure a sustainable 
ecosystem with a positive impact on 
our planet and well-being. 
ESG Vision 
At VBL, we are committed to 
achieving net-zero emissions while 
driving sustainable growth through 
environmental responsibility, social 
equity, and strong governance, 
creating long-term value for our 
stakeholders and the planet.
Key ESG priorities 
ENVIRONMENT
Water stewardship
Waste management
Renewable energy
Carbon emission reduction
SOCIAL
Human capital management  
and diversity
Health and safety
Community engagement
Nutrition and product safety risk
GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance
Code of conduct, Anti-bribery, 
FCPA and POSH
Transparency, responsibility  
and accountability
Risk management
Varun Beverages Limited
48
The ESG way of doing business
Integrating ESG priorities into our everyday operations and policies remains central to our mission of fostering 
a sustainable ecosystem for all stakeholders. Building on the significant progress we made in 2023, we are now 
focused on achieving key milestones in CY 2024. Our ambitious goals for this year include further reducing plastic 
waste, advancing our journey towards water positivity, and taking bold steps to lower our carbon footprint while 
ramping up renewable energy adoption. These initiatives lay the foundation for our long-term sustainability vision, 
with 2030 targets in sight.
Key ESG milestones for 2024
19%
Reduction in water used per 
liter of beverage production 
from base year CY 2020
88%
Recycling of used PET 
bottles (2% points 
increase over 2023)
Net-Zero
by 2050, Net-Zero targets, officially 
validated by the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi).
~16%
Renewable Energy Mix in 2024 
(3% points increase over 2023)
Aspirational goals for tomorrow
Water  
positivity
Sustaining Water 
Recharge of more than 
2.00x by 2025
Reducing Water Usage 
Ratio from 1.92x in 2020 
to 1.40x by 2025
Plastic waste 
management
100% recycling of used 
PET bottles by 2025 
(66% in 2020)
Carbon footprint 
reduction
Committed to reaching 
net-zero greenhouse 
gas emissions across 
the value chain by 
2050.
Enhancing 
renewable energy
Increasing contribution 
from Renewable Energy 
to 30% by 2030  
(Vs 7% in 2020)
CDP A List 2024 
 • A for Climate  
 • A- for Water Security
Annual Report 2024
49
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ESG team
Leading the Charge for a 
Sustainable Tomorrow
At VBL, ESG is more than a commitment; it is integral to how we operate. 
Guided by a dedicated ESG Committee constituted by the Board, and a Steering 
Committee comprising experts from diverse business functions, we ensure a 
comprehensive and strategic approach to sustainability.
The ESG Committee identifies risks, 
opportunities, and aligns VBL’s ESG 
efforts with global standards. Under 
the leadership of Vice-Chairman 
Mr. Varun Jaipuria, the Board-
level committee steers initiatives 
like water stewardship, water 
management, energy efficiency, 
waste management, health & safety, 
and diversity, ensuring alignment 
with broader environmental and 
social objectives.
The Steering Committee assumes 
a pivotal role in executing and 
monitoring the water stewardship, 
improving energy efficiency, waste 
management, diversity and health 
& safety strategy.  Their efforts 
are bolstered by ongoing reviews 
to address system gaps, improve 
processes, and enhance data 
transparency.
Together, the Board and Steering 
Committees uphold VBL’s 
commitment to sustainable 
practices, fostering accountability 
and innovation to meet the evolving 
expectations of stakeholders and 
regulatory demands.
Team structure
Advisors
Independent Professional 
(Advisors to both ESG 
Committee & Steering 
Committee)
Steering Committee
ESG Head  
Technical Head  
(Board Member) 
HR Head
Board Level ESG 
Committee
Executive Vice Chairman 
2 Whole-time Directors
Overall 
Management: 
ESG Head and 
Investor Relations 
Head
Varun Beverages Limited
50
Functional 
Leads
Functional 
Team
Lead Plant Managers  
(North/East/South/West)
Head of  
Industrial Relations
AVP - ESG Quality 
Head Packaging 
Head
CFO
Taxation 
Head
Chief Risk Officer &  
Group Company Secretary
Annual Audit  
DQS
Best Practices DuPont 
(H&S)
Best Corporate 
Governance Practices 
Award under Star of the 
Industry Awards
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
Central HR 
Team
Plant  
HRs
Our team 
comprise 
members 
from
Compliance
Packaging and  
RM sourcing
Quality
Human resources
Plant manufacturing
Industrial relations
Investor relations
Sales
Finance and taxation
Market equipment 
management (Visi-coolers)
Annual Report 2024
51
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ENVIRONMENT
About our environment
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
At VBL, environmental preservation 
is a core priority. We are steadfast in 
our commitment to maintaining the 
highest environmental standards and 
best practices across all our activities. 
This dedication includes vigilant 
monitoring, transparent reporting of 
our environmental performance, and 
conducting regular environmental 
audits.
Key focus areas
Support biodiversity 
conservation and 
protect ecosystems 
within our sphere of 
influence
Reduce 
Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Emissions
Improve energy 
efficiency
Implement water conservation 
measures and reduce water 
consumption
Minimize plastic 
waste generation and 
increase recycling 
rates
Our proactive engagement with stakeholders reflects 
our commitment to building trust and collaborating on 
environmental issues. We are dedicated to minimizing 
our environmental footprint while maintaining 
operational excellence. To achieve this, we have 
implemented a variety of initiatives and mitigation 
strategies that underscore our commitment to 
environmental sustainability.
Varun Beverages Limited
54
Regular environmental performance reports are prepared by the ESG Committee and presented to the Board of 
Directors. These reports include progress toward achieving environmental objectives, key performance indicators, 
and other relevant metrics.
Replenishing earth
Water is vital for existence. Unarguably, one of the 
most precious gifts on Earth, it demands responsible 
management and preservation.
India receives adequate rainfall every year. Most of 
the rainwater freely flows back into the ocean without 
adding much to the Earth’s groundwater level. Being an 
environmental steward, Varun Beverages takes assorted 
measures to harvest rainwater and replenish the 
groundwater table. 
It has been our constant endeavor to recharge double 
the water than we consume in producing our beverages, 
nurturing sustainable balance in Earth’s underground 
reservoirs. 
We remain committed to enhance the water recharge 
levels in proportion to our growth in volume. It will 
be steered through key emphasis on reducing the 
water usage ratio, adding to the water bodies and 
strengthening our portfolio of ponds for rejuvenating, 
maintenance and upkeep. 
Initiatives undertaken
Details of the initiative
Outcome of the initiative
Engaged Gem Enviro Management Ltd. 
for phased implementation (up to 100%) 
recycling of used plastic waste from  
end users
Recycling of plastic waste
Plastic waste 
management
Engaged DQS which verifies water mass 
balance. We also undertook several other 
initiatives towards water conservation 
and water recharge
Reduction in wastage of water 
and recharge of water
Water conservation
Packaging innovations introduced by 
PepsiCo India Holding in India through 
Global R&D and best practices 
Reduction in plastic usage
Reduced Grammage 
of Plastic Closures and 
Preforms (used for PET 
Bottles) Over the Years
We are proactive in adopting new 
technologies that use cleaner fuels of 
energy. Commissioned a solar power 
at our manufacturing plant at Nuh and 
Greater Noida and redesigned the power 
generation units at many locations
Reduction in Greenhouse Gases
Use of Fuels like Biomass 
for Steam Generation, 
Usage of Solar Energy
Plants have installed online monitoring 
systems in Effluent Treatment Plant 
as well as Boiler emissions for all time 
compliance which is being monitored by 
CPCB on a real-time basis
Effluents are treated and discharged 
under prescribed limits thereby 
remaining well within the prescribed 
norms and consent conditions
Installation of Effluent 
Treatment Plant
What we achieved
15.54 bn liters
Of water recharged in CY 2024 
against 7.27 Billion liters consumed
Our target
2:1
Sustain 2 times water 
recharge vs water 
consumed
Annual Report 2024
55
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Water Conservation
Global water levels are depleting due to factors like population growth, rapid 
economic development, urbanization, and climate change, creating a strain on 
natural water resources. As a beverage company committed to the fundamental 
right to water, we prioritize optimizing water efficiency, treating waste water 
responsibly, restoring fresh water sources, and replenishing more water than we 
consume in our beverage manufacturing processes.
Key highlights 2024
Of water per 1 liter 
of final product for 
beverage production
1.56^ Liters 
Water recharge ratio
Liters of water 
replenished in 2024
2.14 times 
15.54 Billion
Water bodies adopted 
and maintained
192
Key focus areas
Focused initiatives for water stewardship
We have identified four core areas to realize our 
water conservation goals. They are:
Reduce. Reuse. Recycle.
Our comprehensive Reduce, Reuse, Recycle strategy 
remains central to VBL’s water management efforts. 
Key initiatives in CY 2024 include:
•	
Reducing water use per liter of beverage produced 
and minimizing wastage at every stage of 
operations.
•	
Enhancing water efficiency through advanced 
technologies, reuse practices, and multiple process 
optimizations.
•	
Replenishing groundwater via extensive rainwater 
harvesting programs to promote sustainability.
Rainwater 
harvesting
Wastewater 
management
Adoption and 
maintenance of ponds 
& check dams
Process  
improvements
We continue to proactively address water challenges 
in regions with persistent water scarcity by minimizing 
reliance on underground reserves while ensuring minimal 
environmental impact.
Staying water positive
Sustainable water management lies at the heart of our 
strategy. In 2024, we remain committed to replenishing 
more water than we consume, reinforcing our position 
as a water-positive company. For every liter of water 
consumed in production, we replenished significantly 
more, ensuring sustainable reserves for future generations.
The right to clean water 
Access to clean water is essential for all forms of 
life. VBL is dedicated to using water responsibly and 
fostering resilience in our value chain. For CY 2024, we 
are intensifying efforts to:
•	
Reduce overall water consumption.
•	
Enhance operational efficiency to ensure responsible 
water use.
•	
Strengthen initiatives to safeguard clean water access 
for local ecosystems and communities.
Wastewater management
Ensuring the safe return of water to the environment is 
a priority for VBL. In 2024, we reaffirm our commitment 
to treating 100% of wastewater generated across all 
manufacturing facilities in India through advanced 
effluent treatment plants. This guarantees that 
the water discharged back into ecosystems meets 
stringent quality standards, minimizing any potential 
environmental impact.
^Steady state WUR was 1.54 times in 2023 and 1.50 times in 2024, the differential is on account of stabilization of 2 new 
greenfield plants in 2023 and 3 new greenfield plants in 2024.
Varun Beverages Limited
56
Manufacturing Plants certified safe for use of surface 
water by Central Ground Water Authority of India
23
Plants are categorized 
as ‘Semi-Critical’
6
Plants categorized 
as ‘Critical’ or ‘Over 
exploited’
7 
Contribution made to overall production
Out of the 36 plants in India, 7 plants fall 
in “over-exploited” / “critical” category of 
Central Ground Water Authority of India which 
contributed only ~14% of total production in 
CY 2024. The balance 29 plants contributed 
~86% of the total production in CY 2024. 
Water Audit
To monitor our water footprint and validate our efforts and outcome towards water stewardship, water audit is 
regularly conducted by DQS India. All our manufacturing plants in India are covered under the scope of this audit.
Strategic drivers for achieving water sustainability in 2024
Audit Report Key Findings
CY
Water 
consumption  
(In Billion Liters)
Beverage 
production  
(In Billion Liters)
Water usage 
ration
Water recharge  
(In Billion Liters)
Water 
recharge ratio
No. of water 
bodies 
adopted
2019
4.12
2.12
1.94 times
7.22
1.75 times
103
2020
3.74
1.95
1.92 times
10.19
2.72 times
108
2021
4.86
2.57
1.89 times
11.10
2.28 times
110
2022
6.32
3.72
1.70 times
12.79
2.02 times
116
2023
6.50
4.14
1.57^ times
12.95
2.00 times
124
2024
7.27
4.65
1.56^ times
15.54
2.14 times
192
Positive water 
recharge
•	 Adopted 192 water bodies 
including ponds, check 
dams, lakes and recharge 
wells
•	 40% water bodies 
rejuvenated in water-
stressed zones
Reducing water 
usage
•	 Implemented 150+ process improvements
•	 Connected all filters (ACF / PSF) for water recovery
•	 Optimized drainage timing at ACF / PSF
•	 Bottle washer recovery in glass lines
•	 Reuse ETP water in utilities
•	 Improved RO efficiency wherever RO recovery is less 
than designed recovery
•	 Sensors / Foot operated taps for hand wash at plants
Water Recharge Ratio*
Water Usage Ratio*
Target 2025 Sustaining above 2.00
Target 2025 1.40x
*Water recharged per liter of water consumed
*Liters of water consumed per liter 
of beverage produced
2.14 times
1.56^
^ Steady state WUR was 1.54 times in 2023 and 1.50 times in 2024, the differential is on account of stabilization of 2 new greenfield 
plants in 2023 and 3 new greenfield plants in 2024.
CDP 
A- for Water Security
based on the 2024 scores
Annual Report 2024
57
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Rejuvenation of Water Bodies (RWB) -  
a New Initiative
In association with IIT-IIT, a non-profit foundation we launched the Community-
Led Rejuvenation of Water Bodies (RWB) program in 2024 across four key 
locations: Parner (Maharashtra), Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Nelamangala (Karnataka), 
and Sangareddy (Telangana).
This initiative follows a community-led approach, where we support the desilting of water bodies to restore their 
capacity while enabling farmers to apply the nutrient-rich silt to their fields. The outcomes have been far-reaching, 
adding 0.6 Billion liters of water capture capacity, enriching 2,600+ acres of farmland while engaging 790 farmers.
Extending water security in Rajasthan
In Kishanpur Gram Panchayat, Jodhpur, water scarcity 
was a daily struggle, especially for women and young 
girls who walked over 1.5 km, multiple times a day 
to fetch water, often carrying 10 liters per trip. In 
summer, water bodies dried up and they solely depend 
on government water tankers supply. Noticing the 
rejuvenation work of Kherali Nadi in a neighbouring 
village, local community member Mangna Ram 
approached our implementation partner to revive Peepli 
Nadi of Kishanpur. Today, thanks to this intervention, 
the water body holds water for 11 months, significantly 
reducing summer hardships and minimizing the 
community’s reliance on government water tankers.
Reviving hope in Maharashtra
In Parner, Jamgaon Gram Panchayat, where farmers 
primarily grow Kharif crops like onion, green gram, 
and maize since access to water was limited. The 
rejuvenation of Pan Mala Talao gave them a renewed 
sense of hope, as they could now plan for a second 
(Rabi) crop season and shift to other high-value crops 
like Sugarcane. This milestone was met with a Jal Pooja 
celebration, where over 200 community members, 
including women, children, and senior citizens, came 
together to mark this transformative moment.
Strengthening livelihoods in Karnataka
In Basavapatna, Shivangage Gram Panchayat (Nelamangala), the rejuvenation of the local water body has 
significantly improved water retention, increasing availability from six months to over a year. Water levels in wells 
have risen by 200 feet, enabling a 10% increase in livestock and growing interest in fisheries. Farmers have benefited 
from reduced water and fertilizer use by 50%, with 25% shifting to high-value crops. Inspired by these gains, the 
community is now planning to expand storage to 50 Million liters, involve 50+ farmers, and form a women-inclusive 
management committee, ensuring long-term sustainability.
Varun Beverages Limited
58
Varun Beverages Limited
58
Beyond water: A holistic impact
Through the RWB program, we have not only 
restored water bodies but also unlocked new 
opportunities for the communities we serve. With 
improved water availability, farmers can now cultivate 
a second crop, while the application of nutrient-
rich silt has enhanced soil quality, leading to a 30% 
average increase in yield. Additionally, silt application 
has reduced irrigation water usage by 10% and 
fertilizer dependency by 20%, making farming more 
sustainable. Improved access to water has enhanced 
sanitation and hygiene, while reducing the time and 
effort women spend fetching water, allowing them to 
engage in other productive activities. The program 
has also started paving the way for water-based 
livelihoods, such as fisheries and livestock farming, 
further strengthening rural economies.
Scaling up: Our commitment for 2025 and 
beyond
As we move forward, we are committed to expanding 
the RWB program to four new locations – Kota, 
Begusarai, Gorakhpur, and Prayagraj – creating an 
additional 2.6 Billion liters of water capture capacity, 
engaging over 2,500 farmers and enhancing over 
7,000 acres of farmland.
Further strengthening our role in water stewardship, 
VBL has taken on the responsibility of Basin Leader 
for the Yamuna Basin under the India River Basins 
Collective Action Program (UNCEO Water Mandate). 
This step reflects our commitment to not just water 
conservation but also to long-term, collaborative 
action for sustainable water management.
Tech-enabled national water program
To enhance the efficiency and impact of our water programs, we leverage the IIT-IIT technology platform 
(GIS-based) that provides real-time visual management of VBL’s water initiatives and assets. At the water body 
level, it enables accurate measurement of water capture and assessment, while a survey app allows on-demand 
status updates of any water body. This data-driven approach strengthens decision-making, ensuring targeted 
interventions and long-term sustainability.
Empowering communities in Telangana
In Kalkur and Nalla Cheruvu water bodies, Machireddypalli Gram Panchayat (Sangareddy), water retention has 
doubled from four to eight months, and water coverage has expanded from 25% to 50%. Water levels in wells have 
risen by 50-100 feet, giving women better access to water for household needs and sparking interest in fisheries 
and dairy-based livelihoods. For farmers, silt application has rejuvenated fields, enabling the cultivation of 30 acres 
of previously fallow land. Building on this progress, the community is now focused on expanding water storage, 
engaging more farmers, and forming an inclusive management committee with active participation from women, 
ensuring long-term sustainability and collective ownership.
Annual Report 2024
59
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024
59
Water Bodies: Impact Assessment
As part of our ongoing water conservation initiatives, we have undertaken the 
maintenance and rejuvenation of 192 water bodies. This report evaluates the 
current state of these ponds and examines the impact of the Water Rejuvenation 
Project on local communities, including its influence on their lives and livelihoods 
at our manufacturing plant in Sandila.
Framework
The IRECS Framework (Inclusiveness, Relevance, Expectation, Convergence and Service Delivery) was 
implemented for impact assessment.
The Process
Interactions held 
with more than 
180 households 
for ascertaining 
the project’s 
holistic impact on 
the community. 
Deeper insights on 
socio-economic 
and environmental 
impact were gained 
through unstructured 
interviews and FGDs.
Survey CTO app, a 
digital data collection 
tool with features 
such as offline 
data collection, 
image capturing 
and geo-tagging, 
was deployed for 
efficiency and 
data was collected 
from the relevant 
stakeholders.
A detailed survey 
questionnaire was 
prepared based on 
interactions with 
the VBL team and 
secondary references.
A primary household 
survey was 
conducted in nearby 
villages. It aimed to 
assess the impact of 
the intervention at 
socio-economic and 
environmental levels.
Step 1: Survey
Step 2: Questionnaire 
Step 3: Data collection 
Step 4: Extensive sampling 
The impact
The construction, deepening, and maintenance of ponds by VBL have had a profound socio-economic and 
environmental impact. These efforts have significantly improved community well-being, provided sustained livelihood 
opportunities, and contributed to agricultural resilience. Additionally, they have enhanced biodiversity and helped 
replenish natural water reserves.
In agrarian communities like ours, ponds play a vital role in irrigation, directly supporting farmers’ livelihoods. Beyond 
agriculture, they aid in groundwater recharge and foster biodiversity, strengthening the region’s ecological balance.
•	 Better access to irrigation 
facilities
•	 Increase in crop productivity
•	 Enhanced crop diversification
•	 Increased area under irrigation
1. Socio-economic impact
Efforts towards construction and maintenance of ponds led  to –
•	 Better land productivity and soil 
fertility
•	 Increase in green cover and 
biodiversity
•	 Increase in water storage and 
conservation
•	 Increase in level of ground water 
and surface water level
•	 Increase in livestock productivity 
and product yield
•	 Increase in income and savings of 
the household
Varun Beverages Limited
60
Sustained management 
of natural resources 
Climate change 
mitigation
Improved quality  
of life
Boost to sustainable 
livelihoods
Impact
Key metric reflecting improved quality of life
Experienced personal 
development
Mental well-being
Material well-being
Improved inter-personal 
relations
Physical well-being
3%
31%
52%
17%
95%
Small and marginal farmers 
reaped multiple benefits
Ability to take up water-
intensive crop
Ability to take-up crops 
in multiple seasons
Increase in variety of 
crops in same season
Increase in household 
consumption of crops
68%
93%
87%
28%
Savings
Child education
Social & family functions
Purchase of household 
assets
Investment in additional 
income generation activities
Family health &  
well-being
Better food & household 
consumption 
19%
63%
56%
31%
19%
60%
10%
Greater earnings. Enriched living
With the additional income generated, communities invested in enhancing their livelihoods, improving their quality 
of life, and accessing better education and healthcare. This financial stability also fostered stronger interpersonal 
relationships while increasing savings and asset-building efforts for a more secure future.
Improved crop yield
Change in cropping pattern
52%
21%
19%
3% 5%
Up to 20%
21% to 40%
41% to 60%
61% to 80%
More than 81%
Before
After
Spices
13% 
16%
Oilseeds
54%
57%
Flowers
3%
2%
Fruits
4%
9%
Vegetables
37%
49%
Commercial
21%
22%
Pulses
54%
56%
Cereals
100%
100%
Several farmers took 
up the practice of 
cultivating cash crops in 
pre-monsoon
Several households took 
up subsistence farming 
of fruits and vegetables
Several farmers adopted 
farming of commercial 
crops such as maize and 
peppermint
Key takeaways
Annual Report 2024
61
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Ponds provide vital habitats for diverse aquatic species, supporting biodiversity and maintaining ecological balance. 
Our pond rejuvenation efforts have also led to a notable increase in green cover, improved groundwater levels, 
reduced soil erosion and sedimentation, and enhanced the local microclimate.
2. Environmental impact
•	 Increase in birds and insects
•	 Increase in riverine/aquatic 
animals
Efforts towards construction and maintenance of ponds led to –
•	 Increase in terrestrial animals
•	 Increase in types of flowers 
•	 Increase in green cover
•	 Increase in tree/plant species
Improved access 
to water in ponds
Decrease in efforts 
to access water from 
handpumps
Increase in water 
levels in well across 
the year
Lesser time required 
for irrigation from 
borewells
Impact
Improvement in groundwater level
Nominal increase
Substantial increase
Minimal increase
37%
5%
58%
Sources showing increase in water level (in %)
Hand pump
61
Water body
50
Farm pond
31
Dug well
55
Borewell
81
Sustained water supply throughout the year reaped multiple benefits for farmers
Farmers took up cropping 
in lean season
Families stopped 
migration
Enjoyed higher cost-
efficiency on irrigation
Experienced an increase 
of up to ` 50,000 on 
income
18%
44%
43%
Households increased 
area under irrigation
66%
Farmers enjoyed reduced 
cost of irrigation
66%
65%
Varun Beverages Limited
62
Positive environmental impact – Key metrics (% response on survey)
Improved aesthetic  
beauty
Improvement in  
micro-climatic condition
38%
17%
Improvement in fertility 
and quality of soil
Increase in groundwater 
level
46%
93%
Water conservation
9%
Resilience to water 
logging/floods during rain
Increase in level of 
surface water sources
9%
91%
Key metrics (% response on survey)
A thriving ecosystem is crucial for health, food security, climate regulation, economic stability, and sustaining 
life. Our pond rejuvenation initiatives aim to preserve the delicate balance of Earth’s interconnected systems, 
fostering biodiversity and promoting the well-being of both the planet and its people.
Increase in birds and 
insects
Increase in livestock
Increase in riverine/
aquatic animals
Increase in terrestrial 
animals
Increase in green cover
39%
72%
15%
Increase in types of 
flowers
Increase in tree/plant 
species
31%
91%
50%
90%
Annual Report 2024
63
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Annual Report 2024
63
Our impact assessment of water ponds and biodiversity was conducted using a structured and data-driven 
approach, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of the socio-economic and environmental benefits of our 
interventions.
Framework implementation
•	 To guide our assessment, we adopted the IRECS 
Framework (Inclusiveness, Relevance, Expectation, 
Convergence, and Service Delivery) as the 
foundation of our study. 
•	 A primary household survey was conducted to 
evaluate the impact of our initiatives on villages 
located near our operations.
Digital data collection tools
•	 To enhance efficiency and accuracy, we developed 
a detailed survey questionnaire in collaboration with 
our team and secondary references. 
•	 The Survey CTO app was selected as our primary 
data collection tool due to its advanced features, 
including offline data collection, image capturing, 
and geo-tagging.
Impact assessment of water ponds and biodiversity: Methodology and sample approach
Pilots and data collection
•	 Before the full-scale survey, we conducted multiple 
validation rounds and test surveys in August 2022 to 
refine the data collection tool. 
•	 The final household survey commenced on 
September 1, 2022, utilizing the Survey CTO app. 
Additionally, Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) and  
In-Depth Interviews (IDIs) were conducted with 
relevant stakeholders to gather deeper insights.
Sampling methodology
•	 The primary survey engaged with over 180 
households, ensuring a robust and representative 
dataset. 
•	 To further explore the socio-economic and 
environmental impact, we incorporated unstructured 
interviews and FGDs. The study was focused on 
Sandila in Hardoi District, Uttar Pradesh.
Varun Beverages Limited
64
At Varun Beverages, we recognize that access to clean 
water is a fundamental human right and an essential 
pillar of thriving biodiversity. With this understanding, 
we embrace our responsibility to conserve, reuse, and 
recycle water across our operations. Our commitment 
goes beyond regulatory compliance – we strive to ensure 
that our water management practices contribute to 
long-term environmental well-being and the prosperity 
of future generations.
To strengthen our water conservation efforts, we have 
collaborated with DQS India to obtain water footprint 
assurance certification, a rigorous validation process 
that assesses the effectiveness of our initiatives in water 
conservation and recharge. This comprehensive audit, 
Promoting water resilience
covering all our manufacturing plants in India, reinforces 
our dedication to responsible water stewardship. 
In previous years, our water management practices 
were audited by TÜV India Pvt. Ltd., reaffirming our 
long-standing commitment to transparency and 
accountability in sustainability.
Engaging with globally recognized certification 
bodies underscores our focus on measurable impact, 
ensuring that our efforts in water sustainability are 
not only effective but also aligned with international 
best practices. Through these strategic initiatives, we 
continue to play an active role in securing access to 
clean water, reducing our environmental footprint, and 
preserving biodiversity – laying the groundwork for a 
more sustainable future.
Data analysis
•	 A rigorous analytical approach was employed, 
combining statistical tools and qualitative analysis 
methods to derive meaningful insights. 
•	 The data was meticulously examined to ensure 
accurate interpretation and conclusive results.
Reporting and recommendations
•	 The findings were compiled into a comprehensive 
report, integrating survey results, FGDs, and IDIs. 
•	 Actionable recommendations were formulated based 
on the research outcomes, aligned with the IRECS 
Framework, to guide future interventions and enhance 
the impact of our initiatives.
Annual Report 2024
65
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Plastic Waste Management and Recycling
Effective plastic waste management is crucial for building a sustainable and 
livable future for generations to come. Committed to minimizing plastic waste, we 
focus on retaining its value through responsible handling and circular economy 
solutions. By integrating the principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle, along with 
innovative engineering and sustainable practices, we strive to extend the lifespan 
of plastic and lessen its environmental impact.
Fulfilling our strategic priorities – Key enablers
Weight reduction 
of preforms
Manufacturing  
of r-PET
Recycling of 
plastic waste
1.	 Key Enabler: Weight reduction
	
Reduction in weight of pre-forms translates to 
reduction in material consumption and lower 
energy requirements, contributing to a long-
term impact on sustainability.
Key contributions
Weight reduction of pre-forms (Grams) in packs of 
600 ml to 2.25 liters (2010-2024)
10-20% 
Weight reduction of closures (Grams) in packs of 
CSD/Juices/Waters (2010-2024)
20-25% 
Weight Reduction of Preforms (In grams)
Pack size
2010-14
2015-19
2020-24
Net reduction (%)
600 ML
25.5
22.2
22.2
12.9
750 ML
34.7
30.7
27.1
21.9
1.0 L
21.0
21.0
19.0
9.5
1.25 L
36.0
34.7
32.5
9.7
2.25 L
52.5
50.7
47.0
10.5
Weight Reduction of Closures (In grams)
Pack size
2010-14
2015-19
2020-24
Net reduction (%)
1.25 L
3.15
2.75
2.35
25.4
2.25 L
1.70
1.50
1.35
20.6
* in selected products
* in selected products
Varun Beverages Limited
66
Our progress to CY 2024
•	 Recycled 5.86 lakh MT of used PET bottles till 
CY 2024 since 2019
•	 Implementing 100% phased recycling of used 
PET bottles and collection from end-users
2.	 Key enabler: Manufacturing of r-PET
	
Our commitment to global sustainability takes 
a significant leap forward with the integration 
of responsible sourcing practices into our 
packaging operations – an essential element 
of our identity as a beverage company. By 
embedding sustainability into large-scale 
processes, we reinforce our dedication to 
environmental stewardship. To further this goal, 
we have set a target to incorporate 30% r-PET in 
our total PET packaging by 2025 through a joint 
venture with Indorama. Additionally, we have 
introduced 100% recycled PET bottles for Pepsi 
Black in select sub-territories, marking a key 
milestone in our sustainable packaging journey.
3.	 Key enabler: Recycling of plastic waste
	
We view plastic waste recycling as a 
fundamental environmental responsibility, which 
is why we go beyond compliance by actively 
collaborating with specialized pollution-control 
organizations and government authorities on 
various initiatives.
To be utilized in total PET 
packaging by 2025
30% r-PET
Products and packaging reclaimed at end-of-life products
Input material
CY 2023
CY 2024
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
disposed*
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
disposed*
Plastics (in metric tons)
–
150,982 (86%)
–
–
181,887 (88%)
–
Hazardous waste - Sludge
–
–
1,426
–
–
1,640
*Safely disposed through authorized vendors.
Recycling process of plastic waste
Used PET bottles 
are collected and 
cleansed
PET bottles are 
sliced into small 
flakes
They are  
then converted  
into fiber
The fiber  
is converted  
into yarn
Fabric is made 
out of the 
recycled yarn
The fabric is finally 
stitched into 
various  
products
Category of plastic recycled
Category
CY 2023
CY 2024
Resin
119,830
164,922
Shrink
10,442
13,931
Label
5,214
7,118
Closure
12,416
17,397
Tetra
3,080
3,315
Annual Report 2024
67
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Limited
68
Placed dustbins 
on direct vending 
machines
Enabled direct 
collection from 
institutions
Plastic Recycling Initiatives taken
Best out of waste with GEM Enviro Management
Our partnership with GEM Enviro Management Ltd. 
advances our goal of achieving 100% recycling of used 
PET bottles in a phased approach. GEM Enviro, a CPCB-
recognized Producer Responsibility Organization (PRO) 
based in Delhi, specializes in the collection and recycling 
of packaging waste. The company also promotes 
recycled green products, transforming used PET bottles 
Recycling plastic waste: Our progress
In CY 2024, we successfully recycled 88% of the total 
PET bottles consumed, exceeding the requirements 
set by the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
regulations of the CPCB. During the year, 206,682 MT 
PET bottles were consumed, with 181,887 MT being 
recycled within the same period, reinforcing our 
commitment to sustainable waste management
Plastic waste recycling
(%)
2020
66
2021
70
2022
80
2023
86
2024
88
*Target 2025 100%
*Plastic waste recycled per Kg of PET sold in finished products. 
Plastic waste includes PET, shrink film, plastic closures, labels 
and laminates post consumption
Impact
•	 Awareness created for 300+ Ragpickers in CY 2024
•	 2,100+ General public sensitized through awareness 
programs
•	 Higher waste collection through incentives for 
ragpickers
•	 Increased income for ragpickers by establishing 
seamless connect with buyers requiring recyclable 
waste 
•	 Safe, clean and plastic-free environment
VBL & GEM: Driving sustainability together
Together with GEM, we have undertaken the following 
initiatives to ensure sustained waste management:
•	 Direct waste collection: Waste was collected from 
end users through reverse vending machines, 
strategically placed dustbins, and direct pickups 
from institutions such as hotels, banquet halls, and 
exhibitions.
•	 Plastic waste disposal awareness campaign: We 
engaged 2,900+ participants from Nagar Nigam, 
sanitation staff, ragpickers, and their families across 
Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Haryana. The campaign 
included activities like the Swacchta Abhiyan, 
informative talks, slogan-writing contests, displays, 
distribution of recycled PET products, and creative 
programs to promote responsible plastic disposal.
•	 Ragpickers’ awareness and support program: We 
ensured healthier working conditions and provided 
fair compensation to ragpickers, fostering sustainable 
livelihoods and improving their quality of life.
•	 General awareness initiatives: We launched 
awareness drives on the importance of proper 
plastic waste disposal, clean cities, and a greener 
environment.
•	 Skill development programs: Training sessions were 
conducted to enhance skills, creating long-term 
opportunities for waste management participants.
•	 Distribution of recycled merchandize: Recycled 
products such as T-shirts, masks, safety kits, and 
food items were distributed to encourage recycling 
practices and showcase the value of waste.
•	 Bottle crushing machine installation: Bottle crushing 
machines were set up to streamline the recycling 
process and reduce plastic waste.
Spread awareness 
through government 
agencies
Collaborated with 
IDVB Recycling 
Operations Pvt. Ltd. 
for recycling of used 
PET bottles
and other waste materials into items like T-shirts and 
bags. This collaboration strengthens our commitment to 
sustainable waste management and circular economy 
solutions.
Annual Report 2024
69
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Enhancing Energy Performance
Energy consumption impacts both our environment and sustainability goals. 
Aligned with our net-zero commitment, we are increasing the share of renewable 
energy in VBL’s total consumption and expanding our renewable energy portfolio. 
We are continuously improving energy efficiency across our offices, warehouses, 
and manufacturing facilities in India, driven by innovation and process 
enhancements to reduce our environmental footprint.
1.	 Energy Savings through Frequency Drives: Use of 
frequency drives in ammonia and air compressors for 
enhanced energy efficiency.
2.	 Boiler Efficiency: Integration of frequency drives in 
the ID and FD fans of the boiler system to reduce 
energy consumption.
3.	 Heat Recovery: Recovery of heat from hot 
compressed gases for water heating applications.
4.	 Syrup Transfer System: Recovery of treated hot 
water from the three-stage syrup transfer Plate Heat 
Exchanger (PHE).
5.	 Power Savings in Beverage Filling: Beverage filling at 
ambient temperatures, resulting in significant power 
savings in refrigeration.
6.	 Lighting Efficiency: Replacing CFL/FTL lamps with 
energy-efficient LED lamps.
Key enablers for solar / wind energy
Installing rooftop 
for solar panels
Open access  
RE contracts
Latest technology 
energy-efficient 
machines
Process 
improvements
Progression in 2024
Generated ~79 Million Units of electricity through 
renewable sources – this is equivalent to annual power 
consumption of 14,000+* households
Planted ~128,000 tree saplings in 2024 vs 
~108,000 saplings in 2023
*As per company estimates
*As per company estimates
7.	 Pump Efficiency: Upgrading from low-efficiency 
pumps to high-energy-efficient models.
8.	 Optimizing Resources: Improving the efficiency 
of critical resources like water and energy 
through water recovery and energy optimization 
strategies.
9.	 Automation for Resource Optimization: Using 
automation and controls to optimize resource 
consumption and minimize waste.
10.	Steam Condensate Recovery: Installation of 
Steam Operated Pump Traps (SOPT) to improve 
steam condensate recovery across all units.
11.	 Direct Coupled High-Pressure Compressors: 
Implementation of direct-coupled high-
pressure compressors (eliminating the need for 
gearboxes).
Boosting energy efficiency through innovation and process optimization
Varun Beverages Limited
70
12.	 Efficient Motor Technology: Adoption of IE5 
permanent magnet motors for improved energy 
efficiency.
13.	 Adiabatic Cooling: Installation of adiabatic cooling 
towers for more efficient temperature control.
14.	Boiler Efficiency Improvement: Enhanced 
condensate recovery through the installation 
of SOPT and advanced technology equipment, 
boosting boiler efficiency.
15.	 Heat Recovery from Compressors: Recovery of heat 
from high-pressure air compressors and ammonia 
refrigeration compressors for energy savings.
16.	De-superheater Installation: Use of de-superheaters 
to enhance thermal management.
17.	 Optimization of Preform Blow Moulding: Installation 
of Godrej Control Air-IFC to optimize high-
pressure requirements for preform blow moulding 
machines and Cold CIP operations, eliminating heat 
requirements during their operation.
Energy-efficient beverage distribution
To enhance energy efficiency throughout our value chain, we are building a fleet of over 2,000 electric vehicles in 
collaboration with our distributors. These investments are focused on enabling sustainable last-mile delivery of our 
beverages, helping us reduce our carbon footprint.
Energy consumption: An overview
Renewable and Non-Renewable Sources
Electricity consumption
Fuel consumption (Briquette, 
Firewood, LPG, PNG)
RENEWABLE SOURCES
Electricity consumption
Fuel consumption (HSD Diesel)
NON-RENEWABLE SOURCES
58 mn kWh
64 mn Kg
CY 2023
382 mn kWh
4.4 mn Liters
79 mn kWh
58 mn Kg
CY 2024
424 mn kWh
3.4 mn Liters
2022
21
2023
58
2024
79
Renewable Energy Generated
(in Million kWh)
2022
18
2023
52
2024
65
Increase in Renewable Power
(in MW)
Annual Report 2024
71
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon Footprint
As climate change continues to impact our planet and its ecosystems, we remain 
steadfast in our commitment to create a positive environmental impact through 
sustained climate action. Our diverse initiatives in energy efficiency, innovation, 
process optimization, technology adoption, and operational improvements are 
consistently driving resource conservation and reducing our carbon footprint.
company
vehicles
transpor-
tation and 
distribution
waste
generated in
operations
SCOPE 3
INDIRECT
SCOPE 3
INDIRECT
SCOPE 2
INDIRECT
SCOPE 1
DIRECT
leased
assets
capital
goods
employee
commuting
investments
franchises
leased
assets
end-of-life treatment  
of sold products
use of sold
products
processing of
sold products
transpor-
tation and 
distribution
company
facilities
business
travel
fuel and
energy related
activities
purchased
goods and
services
purchased
electricity,
steam, 
heating &
 cooling for
own use
DOWNSTREAM ACTIVITIES
UPSTREAM ACTIVITIES 
REPORTING COMPANY 
CO2
CH4
HFCs
PFCs
SF6
NF3
N2O
GHG Emissions: Snapshot
As part of our commitment to sustainability, we undertook a comprehensive carbon footprint assessment for all our 
manufacturing facilities across India and International geographies, in partnership with Deutsche Quality Systems 
(India) Pvt. Ltd. (DQS India). The assessment was conducted in strict adherence to the GHG Protocol and ISO 14064-
3:2019 standards.
Varun Beverages Limited
72
Operational boundaries across different scopes
Target
Figures in grams of CO2e/liter
SCOPE 1
SCOPE 2
(Includes direct emissions from fuels and gases 
consumed by sources owned or controlled by VBL)
17.93 
2023
18.97
2024
21.67 
2022
(Includes indirect emissions associated with  
purchase of electricity)
73.66 
2023
75.87
2024
83.21
2022
SCOPE 3
TOTAL
(Includes energy consumption, refrigerant emission of  
visi-coolers placed with retailers and fuel consumption 
from employee commuting, business travel by air, rail and 
road, and upstream and downstream transportation)
626.46 
2023
671.02
2024
668.17
2022
(Total GHG Emissions from Scope 1, 2 & 3)
718.05 
2023
765.87
2024
773.06 
2022
Intensity of GHG emissions per liter production of beverage - Key observations
0.77 KgCO2e/Liter
2022
0.72 KgCO2e/Liter
2023
0.77 KgCO2e/Liter
2024
Net Zero 
by 2050
Increase in  
Renewable  
Energy share: 
~25% Renewable Energy  
Mix by 2030
Note:
1.	
We have adopted the SBTi methodology for calculating GHG emissions starting from CY 2024. Consequently, the GHG emissions 
for CY 2022 and CY 2023 have been restated using this approach.
2. 	 The increase in GHG emissions is attributed to inorganic acquisitions in CY 2024.
Annual Report 2024
73
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goal Enablers
A four-pronged approach is instrumental in achieving our 2030 goal of reducing the absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emission by 50% and increasing the renewable energy share in electricity by 25%.
Through these strategic actions, VBL aims to achieve a significant reduction in energy consumption while reinforcing 
our commitment to sustainability and responsible resource management.
1.	 Higher renewable energy share
•		 Expanding the share of renewable energy 
through rooftop solar installations and open 
access Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs).
•		 Lowering emissions by enhancing energy 
efficiency with advanced, energy-efficient 
machinery and process improvements that 
reduce electricity consumption.
•		 Implementing energy-saving best practices, such 
as optimizing chillers, air compressors, high-
efficiency motors and drives, and LED lighting.
2.	 Optimized downstream transportation
•		 Optimizing network route: Enhancing service 
efficiency by reducing miles driven, resulting in 
lower fuel consumption.
•		 Optimizing existing fleet: Improving 
performance through reduced static weight, 
better aerodynamics, and regular maintenance.
•		 Using alternative fuels: Transitioning to lower-
carbon fuels and adopting electrification with 
renewable energy sources. Over 2,000 EVs 
have been deployed for last-mile delivery
4.	 Tree Plantation
	
Planting saplings plays a crucial role in climate 
mitigation by reducing our carbon footprint. 
Beyond this, the initiative demonstrates our 
ongoing commitment to biodiversity, environmental 
resilience, and overall well-being.
Y-o-Y increase in sapling plantations*
3.	 Vending and Cooling
•		 Since 2023, we have transitioned to energy-
efficient visi-coolers using R290 refrigerant.
•		 Expediting the rollout of visi-coolers with inverter-
based technology, enhanced insulation, and green 
refrigerants.
•		 Implementing tracking systems to monitor and 
optimize cooler usage.
•		 Exploring and introducing renewable energy-
powered visi-coolers.
Increasing the use 
of renewable energy
Optimizing product 
transportation
Vending and 
cooling
Tree  
plantation
~29,000
Saplings 
planted in 2020
~32,000
Saplings 
planted in 2021
~80,000
Saplings 
planted in 2022
~1,08,000
Saplings 
planted in 2023
~1,28,000
Saplings 
planted in 2024
*Total plantation till date is ~377,000 negating the carbon emissions 9,400+ MT
Varun Beverages Limited
74
Global recognition
Through these strategic initiatives, we have established a clear roadmap for our long-term sustainability journey. 
As part of this commitment, we have set ambitious Net-Zero targets, which have been officially validated by 
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our goal is to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions across our 
entire value chain by 2050.
Additionally, we are proud to have been recognized for our efforts in environmental stewardship, securing 
a position on the prestigious CDP A List based on the 2024 CDP scores for Climate and Water Security. 
This acknowledgment underscores our dedication to sustainable practices and our ongoing efforts to drive 
meaningful change.
Annual Report 2024
75
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Towards Carbon Reduction
VBL is dedicated to minimizing its environmental 
impact through a comprehensive environmental action 
plan that addresses both direct and indirect emissions. 
Recognizing the need to contribute to a low-carbon 
economy, we are actively implementing measures to 
reduce our carbon footprint. These efforts align with 
our broader sustainability commitments and our role 
in combating climate change. By integrating strategic 
initiatives and sustainable practices, we aim to foster a 
greener and more resilient future.
Our commitment to reducing carbon emissions 
underscores our dedication to environmental 
stewardship and responsible corporate operations.
VBL’s Commitment to Sustainability  
and Carbon Reduction
Varun Beverages Limited
76
Reduction of Energy Consumption (Scope 1 
and Scope 2: Emission Reduction Strategy)
Understanding the importance of reducing energy 
consumption at the source, we are actively implementing 
various energy efficiency measures, including:
Energy Efficiency in Buildings and Plant-level 
Projects:
Enhancing energy efficiency across our infrastructure to 
optimize consumption.
Detailed Energy Audits: 
Conducting comprehensive energy audits to identify 
high-consumption areas and implement targeted 
improvements.
Electrical Safety Audits: 
Assessing electrical systems to detect and mitigate 
energy leakages, ensuring both safety and efficiency.
Adoption of Green Industry Practices: 
Integrating sustainable and eco-friendly processes into 
our operations to curb emissions related to business 
growth.
Knowledge Exchange, Training, and Awareness 
Campaigns: 
Promoting a culture of energy efficiency through 
employee training and awareness initiatives.
Replacement of Outdated Equipment: 
Upgrading old equipment with modern, energy-efficient 
technologies to enhance operational efficiency and 
reduce energy use.
Use of Renewable Energy (Scope 2: Emission 
Reduction Strategy)
To mitigate Scope 2 emissions, we are adopting a 
combination of strategies that enhance the use of low-
carbon and non-carbon energy sources, including:
Installation of Renewable Energy Sources: We are 
investing in solar panel installations and other renewable 
energy solutions across our sites to generate clean and 
sustainable energy.
Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with Renewable 
Energy Providers: We are securing PPAs with renewable 
energy suppliers through open-access arrangements, 
ensuring a significant portion of our energy consumption 
is derived from sustainable sources.
Reduction of Energy Consumption (Scope 3: 
Emission Reduction Strategy)
Optimized Downstream Transportation:
Optimizing Network Route: 
Enhancing service efficiency by reducing miles driven, 
leading to lower fuel consumption.
Optimizing Existing Fleet: 
Improving performance through reduced static weight, 
better aerodynamics, and regular maintenance.
Using Alternative Fuels: Transitioning to lower-carbon 
fuels and adopting electrification using renewable 
energy sources.
Vending and Cooling:
Since 2023, we have switched to efficient visi-coolers 
using R290 refrigerant. 
Accelerating the deployment of energy-efficient visi-
coolers with inverter-based technology, better insulation, 
and green refrigerants.
Establishing tracking mechanisms to monitor and 
optimize cooler utilization.
Exploring and implementing renewable energy-based 
visi-coolers.
Tree Plantation:
Planting saplings as a key climate mitigation strategy to 
reduce the carbon footprint.
Contributing to biodiversity, environmental resilience, 
and long-term sustainability.
EV’s deployed for last-mile delivery.
2,100+
saplings planted since 2020
3,77,000
Through these strategic actions, VBL aims to achieve 
a significant reduction in energy consumption while 
reinforcing our commitment to sustainability and 
responsible resource management.
Annual Report 2024
77
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sourcing with Care
We prioritize responsible sourcing to achieve our sustainability goals. VBL’s raw 
materials are sourced from suppliers who follow strict sustainability practices, 
reducing our ecological footprint and supporting local communities. Our 
suppliers are committed to water and energy efficiency, waste management, 
and transitioning to net-zero, driving long-term growth and positive impact.
We closely track the progress 
of our responsible sourcing 
goals with key raw material 
and packaging suppliers, who 
account for over 90% of our 
overall purchases. This enables 
us to align their practices with 
our sustainability objectives 
moving forward.
Supplier Code of Conduct
Ethical and responsible sourcing of raw materials is 
a core aspect of our supply chain management. To 
support this, we have implemented PepsiCo’s Global 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which applies rigorously 
to all suppliers, agents, consultants, vendors, and 
contractors as a condition for doing business with 
PepsiCo and its affiliates.
Environmental impact assessment
Our suppliers, aligned with the Supplier Code of 
Conduct, are continuously innovating to source high-
quality raw materials in environmentally responsible 
ways. They prioritize sustainability by adhering to strict 
guidelines, ensuring compliance with waste disposal 
and pollution control regulations. Key initiatives include 
enhancing energy efficiency, transitioning to renewable 
energy through solar and wind power, and replacing 
conventional fuels with eco-friendly briquettes. In 
addition, we promote ongoing plantation efforts for a 
greener future and fulfill water requirements through 
third-party suppliers or, where available, groundwater.
Supplier Code of 
Conduct sets the 
ground rules in 
areas of:
Business integrity and 
anti-corruption
Health and  
safety
Labor 
practices
Environmental 
management
Value chain partners assessed for environmental and social impact 
Raw material 
suppliers
90%+
Capex 
suppliers
90%+
Varun Beverages Limited
78
Key initiatives on responsible sourcing by suppliers
Electricity generation 
from renewable 
energy sources like 
solar power and  
wind power
Installation of 
energy-efficient 
types of machinery 
in production lines
Installation of water 
treatment plant
Implementing 
Pressurized Jet 
Sprays for cleaning 
purposes instead of 
direct water usage
Use of treated water 
for gardening and 
sanitation purposes
Adoption of ponds 
in nearby villages 
and recharging 
groundwater 
Tree plantation 
drives to maintain 
green belts around 
manufacturing units
Rainwater harvesting 
to improve 
groundwater level 
Using bagasse cane 
residue as biofuel 
for generating 
steam through 
boilers
Proper recycling of 
all kinds of waste 
like plastic waste, 
e-waste, hazardous 
waste
Annual Report 2024
79
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Supplier
Material Supplied
Initiatives Taken
PepsiCo India
Concentrate
PepsiCo has taken various initiatives on environment, social and 
sustainable practices including:
•	 Reduction in energy consumption
•	 Reduction in water usage 
•	 Developing rainwater harvesting pits and ponds
•	 Manure machine for recycling of food waste
Reliance Industries 
Limited
PET Resin
As a part of the Net Zero and New Energy plans, Reliance has 
committed to establishing 20 GW of solar energy generation 
capacity by 2025, which will be entirely consumed for our captive 
needs of round-the-clock (RTC) power and intermittent energy 
for Green Hydrogen.
DCM Shriram
Sugar
•	 Sets rotary dryer for bagasse drying, utilizing waste flue gas 
from boilers. Fresh bagasse’s moisture content of 48% to 50% 
is reduced to 12% with more efficient utilization of bagasse 
biofuel. This is a unique, one-of-its-kind initiative to reduce fuel 
consumption. 
•	 Owns Bio-Lab which produces bio-fungicides and bio-
pesticides instead of chemical fungicides and pesticides used 
by farmers for cane crop.
•	 Awarded Best Energy Efficient Plant in sugar sector by 
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), for being the lowest power 
consumption per ton cane.
Triveni Engineering
Sugar 
Diverts B-category heavy molasses to distillery for ethanol 
blending in petroleum products.
Tetra Pak
Packaging material 
Procures 100% paper board from Forest Stewardship Council 
certified supplier and 100% Aluminum foil from Aluminum 
Stewardship Initiative member supplier.
Tasa Foods
Fruit pulp
Uses dried mango seeds as biofuel and decomposing fruit waste 
into manure provided to farmers.
SIDEL Blowing  
Services S.A.S.
Manufacturing lines
•	 Committed to ISO 14001 environmental certification to 
reduce impact on the environment and promote sustainability 
development. It is committed to recycling PET (notably with 
the development of PET recycling line: rPET). 
•	 Uses 100% Green energy for all processes. It has taken 
measures to make energy-efficient equipment to help in 
reduction of energy consumption. For example, Blowers 
with 45% energy saving, AQflex conveyors with 70% saving, 
Shrinkwrapper with 52% saving.
HUSKY Injection 
Molding Systems SA
Packaging Lines
•	 Supports use of bio-resins in hot runner applications. 
Optimized hot runner systems to reliably run bio-resins and 
accommodate challenges arising in production. 
•	 Launched UltraMelt platform to lower the risk of melt 
degradation, oxidation and discoloration; a highly effective 
solution to meet processing needs of bio-resins consistently.
Varun Beverages Limited
80
Social impact assessment
Our suppliers adhere to stringent policies and take 
firm measures in line with human rights to facilitate a 
safe, non-discriminatory, and employee-friendly work 
environment. Few measures adopted to ensure these 
include:
•	 Rigorous compliance to policies related to Freedom 
of Association and Rights to Collective Bargaining, 
Child and Forced Labor, Gender Equality and Non-
discrimination
•	 Provision of clean, hygienic and friendly work 
environment
•	 Maintenance of Occupational Health & Safety 
Standards
•	 Well-defined SOP’s and policies with easy access to 
employees
•	 Limiting the maximum number of working hours as 
per the Government norms of 48 hours per week 
(with overtime reimbursement, if required, under 
special circumstances)
•	 Quarterly/half-yearly/regular trainings for 
employees on company policies such as POSH, 
OHAS and Industrial Hygiene
•	 Provision of Occupational Health and Safety (OHAS) 
Management System to ISO 45001:2018 certified 
suppliers (as specified)
•	 Support and guidance on prevention of work-related 
injury and ill health
A few other initiatives taken by suppliers include regular 
health check-up of employees, providing easy access 
to dispensary and mobile vans, safety drills to check 
emergency preparedness in case of mishappening and a 
special taskforce for employee grievance resolution.
Annual Report 2024
81
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SOCIAL 
INITIATIVES
Employees
At Varun Beverages, our people are improving with every initiative we have 
undertaken. We prioritized building a healthy, empowered, and future-ready 
workforce through welfare programs, skill development, career growth 
opportunities, and an inclusive culture. By investing in their well-being and 
growth, we drive sustainable success for our organization and industry.
Integrating ESG with employee performance
At VBL, ESG principles are not just values but are 
integral to our operations and decision-making. To align 
our ESG goals with employee performance, we have 
implemented a strategic framework that incorporates 
sustainability into business practices. Recognizing the 
critical role employees play in advancing ESG objectives, 
the Board has approved a policy to establish an ESG-
linked incentive framework. This policy applies to 
all employees, including KMPs and Board members, 
underscoring our focus on integrating sustainability into 
every aspect of our organization.
ESG-linked 
incentive 
framework -
How it 
works? 
Identification of 
ESG-related key 
issues
Formulation 
of issue-wise 
improvement 
targets 
All steps are 
aligned with global 
benchmarks and 
PepsiCo’s best 
practices
According due 
weightage to 
achievement of 
respective targets 
Rolling out issue-
based targets in an 
integrated manner 
for ESG-related 
aspects
Periodic review of 
achievements vis-à-
vis ESG targets
Performance-
based decision 
on incentives, 
increments and 
growth
TM
Future-ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Varun Beverages Limited
84
Nurturing a culture of growth and positivity
Our inclusive culture prioritizes growth, learning, and 
well-being, fostering an environment that inspires trust, 
respect, and transparency. Open communication enables 
constructive feedback, while our holistic approach to 
employee empowerment attracts top talent, boosts 
satisfaction, and drives unparalleled success.
100%
Return to work and retention rate for permanent 
employees and workers that took maternity leaves
Continuous training and development
We invest in building a learning culture through robust 
training programs. By upskilling and reskilling our 
employees, we help them achieve career growth while 
positioning ourselves for accelerated business success.
(in manhours)
CY 2023
CY 2024
Health & Safety
217,102
238,813 
Skill Upgradation
81,413
89,555 
Others (includes training related 
to Environment and Governance)
244,240
268,664 
Total
542,755
597,032
CY 2023
CY 2024
Employees covered for Career 
development
100%
100%
Career development and training metrics
CY 2022
CY 2023
CY 2024
Permanent employees
Male
20%
19%
20%
Female
18%
15%
20%
Others
Nil
Nil
9%
Permanent workers
Male
5%
4%
8%
Female
3%
Nil
3%
Others
Nil
Nil
Nil
Turnover rate (%)
Diversity
CY 2023
CY 2024
Permanent 
5.4%
6.2%
Other than permanent
7.3%
7.7%
Overall
6.6%
7.2%
Inclusion and diversity
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is anchored 
by ESG-linked targets, enhancing innovation and 
creativity. We focus on hiring across genders and 
differently-abled individuals, benefiting from diverse 
perspectives and enriched experiences.
Targeting
10%
Diversity mix by 2025
Induction of Graduate Engineer Trainees
Annual Report 2024
85
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Performance Evaluation
Category
CY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
CY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Employees
Male
6,838
6,838
100%
6,260
6,260
100%
Female
627
627
100%
488
488
100%
Others
22
22
100%
14
14
100%
Total
7,487
7,487
100%
6,762
6,762
100%
Workers
Male
3,521
3,521
100%
3,175
3,175
100%
Female
33
33
100%
36
36
100%
Total
3,554
3,554
100%
3,211
3,211
100%
Category
CY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
CY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total  
(A)
Equal to 
minimum wages
More than 
minimum wages
Total  
(A)
Equal to 
minimum wages
More than 
minimum wages
No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
Permanent
Male
6,838
0
0.00%
6,838
100.00%
6,260
0
0.00%
6,260
100.00%
Female
627
0
0.00%
627
100.00%
488
0
0.00%
488
100.00%
Other
22
0
0.00%
22
100.00%
14
0
0.00%
14
100.00%
Other than Permanent
Male
7,091
0
0.00%
7,091
100.00%
6,867
0
0.00%
6,867
100.00%
Female
250
0
0.00%
250
100.00%
146
0
0.00%
146
100.00%
Workers
Permanent
Male
3,521
0
0.00%
3,521
100.00%
3,175
0
0.00%
3,175
100.00%
Female
33
0
0.00%
33
100.00%
36
0
0.00%
36
100.00%
Other than Permanent
Male
10,249
5,670
55.32%
4,579
44.68%
9,006
4,956
55.03%
4,050
44.97%
Female
883
485
54.93%
385
45.07%
826
455
55.08%
371
44.92%
Other
26
0
0.00%
26
100.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
(` in Million)
Male
Female
Others
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages of 
respective category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of respective 
category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of respective 
category
Board of Directors 
(BOD)
3
67.18
-
 - 
0
0
Key Managerial 
Personnel
2
11.79
-
 - 
0
0
Employees other 
than BOD and KMP 
6,833
 0.47 
627
 0.40 
22
 0.36 
Workers
3,521
 0.33 
33
 0.26 
0
0
Note: Since Independent Directors received no remuneration, except sitting fee for attending Board/Committee meetings, the 
required details are not applicable. Further, for the purpose of calculation of median remuneration of KMP, remuneration paid to 
Mr. Lalit Malik has not been considered due to cessation as KMP with effect from May 13, 2024.
Varun Beverages Limited
86
Employee wellness experience
At VBL, we focus on building a workplace that prioritizes 
employee well-being and growth. We have introduced 
full-body medical check-ups and doctor consultations to 
support physical health, along with the Visit Health App, 
making healthcare easily accessible to all employees. 
To address mental well-being, we provide coaching 
and wellness programs aimed at fostering a healthy 
and supportive environment. Additionally, we ensure 
compliance with safety regulations by covering all 
workers under the Factories and Food Safety Acts. 
These initiatives reflect our commitment to the health, 
safety, and overall experience of our employees, enabling 
them to perform and grow effectively.
1) 	 Comprehensive medical check-ups and 
consultations
	
•	
Introduced full-body medical check-ups 
to promote preventive healthcare among 
employees.
	
•	
Enabled regular access to doctor 
consultations, ensuring support for health 
concerns and overall well-being.
2) 	Visit health app for seamless healthcare access
	
•	
Launched the Visit Health App, providing 
employees with a convenient platform to 
book medical check-ups and consultations.
	
•	
Leveraged technology to enhance healthcare 
accessibility and prioritize employee 
wellness.
3) 	Mental health and wellness programs
	
•	
Acknowledged the significance of mental 
health and introduced coaching programs 
for emotional well-being.
	
•	
Designed initiatives to address mental health 
concerns, fostering a holistic approach to 
employee wellness.
4) 	Compliance with Factories and Food Safety Acts
	
•	
Ensured all workers are covered under the 
Factories and Food Safety Acts to uphold 
regulatory standards.
	
•	
Reinforced our commitment to workplace 
safety and the well-being of the workforce.
Key enablers
VBL’s first all female distribution centre
Annual Report 2024
87
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Employees
Benefits gained
Provident fund coverage:
•	
All employees are entitled to Provident Fund benefits 
under the EPF & Miscellaneous Provisions Act.
•	
Compliance with statutory regulations ensures 
employees receive mandated benefits.
Employee State Insurance (ESI):
•	
Employees are covered under the Employee State 
Insurance Act, providing additional social security 
benefits.
•	
We adhere to all statutory requirements to support 
the well-being of our workforce.
Defined benefit gratuity plan:
•	
A defined benefit gratuity plan is governed by the 
Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.
•	
A Gratuity Trust has been established, with 
contributions and an insurance policy in place to 
meet gratuity obligations.
Accumulated leave:
•	
Accumulated leave expected to be used within 
12 months is treated as a short-term benefit.
•	
Leave policies are aligned with standards to support 
employee efficiency and well-being.
Insurance for gratuity payments:
•	
An insurance policy is secured to cover gratuity 
payments for employees.
•	
Annual funding valuations by the insurance provider 
ensure any deficits are addressed.
Trade union for non-permanent employees:
•	
Non-permanent employees, including contractual 
workers, have the right to form trade unions.
•	
This fosters a fair and inclusive workplace by 
providing a collective voice for non-permanent staff.
Short-term employee benefits:
•	
Benefits payable within 12 months of service, 
including salaries, wages, and bonuses, are classified 
as short-term benefits.
•	
These are recorded in the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss during the period the service is 
rendered.
Company contributions to retirement plans:
•	
Contributions to defined benefit and retirement plans 
may reach up to 12% of an employee's annual basic 
salary, depending on the plan.
•	
Certain plans also allow employees to contribute a 
percentage of their annual basic salary.
Health and accidental insurance:
•	
All employees and workers are provided with health 
and accidental insurance coverage.
•	
This comprehensive coverage highlights our 
commitment to their well-being and financial 
security.
100%
Of female employees are covered 
under the maternity scheme.
Category
CY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
CY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
Association(s) or 
Union (B)
%  
(B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
Association(s) or 
Union (B)
%  
(B/A)
Total Permanent Employees
Male
6,838
0
0.00%
6,260
0
0.00%
Female
627
0
0.00%
488
0
0.00%
Others
22
0
0.00%
14
0
0.00%
7,487
0
0.00%
6,762
0
0.00%
Total Permanent Workers
Male
3,521
1,514
43.00%
3,175
1,586
49.95%
Female
33
14
42.42%
36
14
38.89%
Others
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
3,554
1,528
42.99%
3,211
1,600
49.95
Total
11,041
1,528
13.84%
9,973
1,600
16.04
Varun Beverages Limited
88
Awareness and capacity building
Our workforce is central to our success, and we 
prioritize continuous learning through upskilling and 
reskilling initiatives. By fostering a culture of ongoing 
development, we enhance performance, adaptability, 
and overall business growth.
Our comprehensive training programs focus on 
technical, behavioral, and functional skills, preparing 
employees for both current roles and future challenges. 
Employees have shown a remarkable 100% participation 
rate in critical policy training sessions covering POSH, 
Code of Conduct, Insider Trading Regulations, Whistle 
blower Policies, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA). These sessions follow a ‘train the trainer’ 
model, ensuring uniform knowledge dissemination 
across our operations.
Varun Beverages competency framework: Key aspects
Category
CY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
CY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Remarks
Total 
(A)
On Health & 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total  
(A)
On Health & 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Number  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number  
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Employees
Male
6,838
6,066
88.71%
5,498
80.40%
6,260
2,886
46.10%
5,607
89.57%
-
Female
627
627 100.00%
627
100.00%
488
221
45.29%
330
67.62%
-
Others
22
22 100.00%
22
100.00%
14
4
28.57%
1
7.14%
-
Total
7,487
6,715
89.69%
6,147
82.10%
6,762
3,111
46.01%
5,938
87.81%
-
Workers
Male
3,521
3,370
95.71%
3,100
88.04%
3,175
3,146
99.09%
2,856
89.95%
-
Female
33
33 100.00%
33
100.00%
36
34
94.44%
36
100.00%
-
3,554
3,403
95.75%
3,133
88.15%
3,211
3,180
99.03%
2,892
90.07%
-
Total
11,041
10,118
91.64%
9,280
84.05%
9,973
6,291
63.08%
8,830
88.54%
-
Nurturing leaders of tomorrow
Annual Report 2024
89
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Employees
Emphasis on talent management
Placing the right people with the right skills in the 
right roles is key to achieving our business goals. Our 
talent management strategy ensures this by:
•	 Assessing employees' strengths and performance
•	 Identifying their developmental needs
•	 Enhancing their potential through targeted 
training
•	 Mapping career opportunities for future growth
Performance management
Our robust performance management framework 
provides a structured approach to evaluating and 
enhancing employee performance. It enables teams 
to adapt swiftly to evolving consumer and business 
needs while identifying growth opportunities. This 
framework helps leaders set goal-based priorities 
and gain performance insights, facilitating regular 
feedback sessions for continuous improvement.
Average hours of training per employee 
category-wise
Total number of employees that participated in training
Average hours of training
53
Average female/
others training 
hours
54
Average male 
training hours
Hiring from transgender (TG) community
We are committed to building a diverse and inclusive 
workplace by creating meaningful employment 
opportunities for the transgender community. Our 
journey began in 2023 with a pilot plant in Mahul, 
Mumbai, hiring eight transgender employees. 
Encouraged by its success, we expanded to Greater 
Noida and Nelamangala, growing our team to 20+ 
members.
To foster inclusivity, we carefully selected plant 
locations, built gender-neutral facilities, and 
conducted sensitization workshops for all employees. 
Beyond employment, we provide onboarding support 
and sponsor gender-affirming surgeries. As we move 
forward, we aim to extend these efforts across more 
locations and functions in 2025.
CY 2024
11,041
CY 2023
9,973
CY 2022
8,636
CY 2024
54
CY 2023
54
CY 2022
57
Varun Beverages Limited
90
DEI Commitments: 
We are committed to 
promoting equal opportunities 
for all employees, ensuring fair 
treatment and actively working 
to eliminate discrimination 
and barriers to career 
advancement.
Equal  
opportunities
We foster a culture that 
respects and values the rights 
and unique contributions of 
each individual, recognizing 
and appreciating the diversity 
they bring to the organization.
Respect for  
differences
Our employment decisions 
are rooted in merit, focusing 
on an individual’s skills, 
qualifications, and capabilities, 
rather than irrelevant factors.
Merit-based  
employment
Senior leadership and 
managers at all levels are 
accountable for upholding 
and implementing these 
DEI policies, ensuring their 
seamless integration into daily 
operations.
Leadership  
accountability
Development and promotion 
opportunities are based 
on individual performance, 
capability, and potential, 
aligning with business needs 
and objectives.
Performance-based 
opportunities
We adopt a zero-tolerance 
approach to violations of our 
PoSH and Diversity & Inclusion 
policies, addressing any 
misconduct with the utmost 
seriousness and subjecting it 
to disciplinary action when 
necessary.
Zero  
tolerance
Workforce ratio for CY 2024
•	 The basic salary and remuneration ratio of 
women to men stands at 0.85:1 for employees.
•	 For workers, the ratio is 0.79:1.
These figures underscore our commitment to 
gender pay equity and reflect our ongoing efforts 
to foster an inclusive and fair workplace. We 
remain dedicated to building a diverse culture 
where every individual can thrive and contribute 
to our collective success.
Annual Report 2024
91
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Employees
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Differently abled employees and workers:
Nurturing internal talent
We prioritize the growth and development of our 
internal talent by offering opportunities for career 
advancement. Through structured talent management 
programs, we identify strengths, assess development 
needs, and create pathways for future growth, ensuring 
a dynamic and skilled workforce.
Our talent management programs
Understanding our people
We analyze employees’ strengths, skills, and potential to 
gain deeper workforce insights, enabling informed talent 
development strategies.
Assessing development needs
Through structured evaluations, we identify key 
areas for growth, aligning individual aspirations with 
organizational goals.
Actionable growth plans
We create dynamic, personalized action plans to foster 
continuous employee development and career progression.
New hires in CY 2024
Particulars
Male Female
Others
Total
Age <30 years
1,346
205
8
1,559
30-50 years
1,248
67
3
1,318
>50 years
13
1
-
14
Total
2,607
273
11
2,891
Category
CY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
CY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total  
(A)
No. of Employees/ 
Workers Covered 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Total  
(A)
No. of Employees/ 
Workers Covered 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Employees
Permanent
7,487
7,487
100%
 6,762 
 3,111 
46%
Other than Permanent
 7,341 
5,139
70%
 7,013 
 3,013 
43%
Total Employees
14,828
12,626
85%
 13,775 
 6,124 
44%
Workers
Permanent
 3,554 
3,554
100%
 3,211 
 3,180 
99%
Other than Permanent
 11,158 
7,253
65%
 9,832 
 5,113 
52%
Total Workers
 14,712 
10,807
73%
 13,043 
 8,293 
64%
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policies of the entity
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
Others
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (E)
 7,487 
 6,838 
91.33%
 627 
8.37%
22
0.29%
2
Other than Permanent (F)
 7,341 
 7,091 
96.59%
 250 
3.41%
0
0.00%
3
Total Employees (E+F)
 14,828 
 13,929 
93.94%
 877 
5.91%
22
0.15%
Workers
4
Permanent (G)
 3,554 
 3,521 
99.07%
 33 
0.93%
0
0.00%
5
Other than Permanent (H)
 11,158 
 10,249 
91.85%
 883 
7.91%
26
0.23%
6
Total workers (G+H)
 14,712
 13,770 
93.60%
 916 
6.23%
26
0.18%
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
Others
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (E)
2
2
100.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
2
Other than Permanent (F)
27
26
96.30%
 1 
3.70%
0
0.00%
3
Total Differently Abled 
Employees (E+F)
 29 
 28 
96.55%
 1 
3.45%
0
0.00%
Differently Abled Workers
4
Permanent (G)
0
0
0.00%
0%
0.00%
0
0.00%
5
Other than Permanent (H)
267
247
92.51%
20
7.49%
0
0.00%
6
Total Differently abled Workers 
(G+H)
 267 
 247 
92.51%
 20 
7.49%
0
0.00%
Varun Beverages Limited
92
Employee Health and Safety
At Varun Beverages, creating a safe 
and healthy workplace is a top priority. 
Our strong governance framework, 
including Steering Committees and 
Corporate Sub-Committees, ensures 
the effective implementation of safety 
initiatives.
36
Plants employees/
contractors participated 
in the Safety Perception 
Survey.
Zero 
Fatalities
Key Safety Highlights
Every plant has a 
Primary Healthcare 
Center
Subjected to all 
industry-related 
audits and surveys 
to ensure 100% 
compliance
Access to non-
occupational 
health and medical 
healthcare services
Processes to 
identify work-
related hazards and 
assess risks
Periodic inspections 
conducted by audit 
organization to 
meet international 
standards
Key  
initiatives
Safety: Our top priority
We aim for zero workplace injuries 
and fatalities, ensuring everyone 
returns home safely every day. 
Our approach includes:
•	 Building a culture of safety 
leadership.
•	 Implementing comprehensive 
safety strategies.
•	 Conducting continuous training 
programs.
Annual Report 2024
93
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Employees
How do we do it
Conducting 
frequent Safety 
Awareness 
programs
Specialized 
training program 
for Operations/
Technicians
Formation 
of Safety 
Committee
Safety audit 
by Internal/
Government 
officials
Periodic check 
of equipment
Work at height and general 
safety rules
The safety guidelines for working 
at heights (1.8 meters or more) 
are designed to mitigate potential 
hazards. These include reporting 
safety hazards, injuries, incidents, 
emergency preparedness, handling 
hazardous materials and chemicals, 
following special procedures, and 
maintaining good housekeeping. 
The system also addresses hazard 
identification, risk assessment, 
planning and preparation, use of 
protective equipment, training 
and certification, inspections, 
and compliance with specific 
requirements.
Incident management system
To ensure an injury-free workplace, 
nominated members from each 
plant undergo training in the 
Incident Management System. 
This system outlines injury types, 
a communication matrix for 
information sharing, incident 
investigation procedures, roles, and 
timelines for resolving incidents.
Safety interaction system
The Safety Management System 
standard was successfully 
implemented with comprehensive 
training for nominated members 
from each plant. It establishes a 
process for leadership engagement 
with employees and contractors 
on safety matters. Additionally, the 
schedule and frequency for safety 
discussions on the shop floor, along 
with tracking and trend analysis of 
observations, were finalized.
Employee passport 
and contractor safety 
management
The Employee Passport and 
Contractor Safety Management 
system helps track and ensure 
the completion of safety training 
for contractors. This structured 
approach aims to reduce risks 
associated with contractor safety. 
It covers processes for contractor 
selection, contract preparation and 
award, orientation and training, work 
coordination, auditing, and contract 
evaluation.
Major achievements in safety
•	 Conducted Leadership Workshop 
on Leading Safety Efforts for 
Senior Leaders
•	 Set up governance structure for 
Steering Committee, Corporate 
Sub-Committees, and Plant APEX 
Committees
•	 Ensured control measures 
by implementing Incident 
Management and Safety 
Interaction Systems
•	 Driving Work at Height and 
General Safety Rules for basic 
safety improvements at all plants
•	 Implemented Employee Passport 
System to track and improve 
training needs for contractors and 
employees
•	 Enabled structured approach for 
reducing risks associated with 
Contractor Safety Management
•	 A Safety Perception Survey was 
carried out among employees 
and contractors, revealing that 24 
out of 29 perceptions have shown 
improvement.
Varun Beverages Limited
94
For Sub-Committees
•	 Approved charters and deliverables for each 
sub-committee
•	 Action plan made for functioning of all  
sub-committees
•	 Finalized standards for Incident 
Management, Safety Interactions, General 
Safety Rules, Work at Height, Document 
Control, Contractor Safety Management
•	 Completed training on Incident 
Management
•	 Completed 2-day training on Safety 
Interaction
For APEX Committees
•	 Finalized charters for all plant committees
•	 Conducted plant/cluster leadership 
workshops for 150+ employees in 6 plants
•	 Ensured functioning of all committees with 
action items
Safety Incident/Number
Category
CY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
CY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one Million person hours worked)
Employees
0.12
0
Workers
0.096
 0.003 
Total Recordable work-related injuries
Employees
2
1
Workers
3
1
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
2
High consequence work-related injury or 
ill health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Annual Report 2024
95
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We have implemented a structured approach to minimize risks associated with contractor safety and ensure a 
safe working environment, aligned with our ESG goals. This approach includes the careful selection of contractors, 
preparation of contracts that outline safety performance expectations, awarding contracts after thorough due 
diligence, providing orientation and training for contractor employees, overseeing contract work, and conducting 
evaluations to ensure compliance and safety standards are met.
Employees
Contractor Selection
Contractor selection is a process of 
screening the available and known 
source through a process of evaluation 
of his technical, financial, quality 
background and equal safety records. 
Contract Preparation
The tender bid package should 
be developed to include safety 
performance expectations and 
conditions for execution of the work.
Contract Award
The contract administrator shall confirm 
that the contractor’s proposal meets the 
bid package’s mandatory requirements. 
Confirmation shall include collection 
and review of the contractor’s health 
and safety documents.
Orientation and Training
Before contracted work begins, it is 
important for VBL to provide a health 
and safety orientation to familiarize 
contractor employees with essential 
health and safety information and to 
communicate hazards posed by VBL 
operations. 
Work Coordination and Auditing
The contract administrator 
shall establish a process so that 
contractor work is administered 
to meet the contract’s mandatory 
health and safety requirements.
Contract Evaluation
Plant shall establish a process for 
consistently evaluating contractor 
safety performance. The process 
should identify which contracted 
work activities should be evaluated 
and at what frequency.
Varun Beverages Limited
96
Augmenting Product Safety and Quality
Refreshing billions of people worldwide comes with the great responsibility of 
ensuring top-notch product quality that is safe to consume. We strive to achieve 
this through comprehensive management systems and policies marked to highest 
global standards.
Responsible sourcing and manufacturing
Ensuring quality during sourcing of raw materials and 
manufacturing of beverages is fundamental to our 
sustainability goals. Responsible sourcing through 
PepsiCo approved suppliers, who successfully undergo 
comprehensive screening and certification by PepsiCo, is 
a key enabler in achieving this. 
Constant efforts are also made towards enhancing 
VBL’s food safety capability and improving processes 
and quality system across the supply chain. Risk-based 
controls systems also play a significant role in mitigating 
potential hazards and risks in the manufacturing 
and support processes and complying with our food 
management standards.
A promise for superior quality
Our promise for food safety and quality is fulfilled 
through extensive measures taken by internal and 
external quality teams across all manufacturing and 
logistics centers. These include:
•	 Maintenance of own food safety manufacturing 
system at every site. This must conform to PepsiCo’s 
global standards and regulatory requirements in India
•	 Strict adherence to PepsiCo’s Global Food Safety 
Policy within all VBL’s production facilities. The policy 
covers raw material sourcing, manufacturing process, 
storage, shelf life, etc.
•	 Daily incorporation of food safety principles into 
manufacturing processes across all manufacturing 
sites
•	 Regular Food Safety Audits by third party
•	 Regular internal Food Safety Audits
Product labelling
Labelling is an integral part of fostering consumer 
awareness, building trust and loyalty amongst them, 
and ensuring regulatory compliance for the Company. 
We strive to continually improve our labelling standards 
and provide clear and accurate information about the 
product. We also aim to provide essential information 
about the nutritional value of our product and look 
forward for more opportunities to educate our 
customers, in collaboration with industry, governments, 
and other stakeholders.
PepsiCo’s Global Labelling Policy, FSSAI guidelines, 
and other applicable laws and regulations for labelling 
within India are duly followed for all products at Varun 
Beverages.
Key enablers
Responsible 
sourcing and 
manufacturing
Quality 
assurance
Stringent 
labelling  
standards
Sustainable 
marketing & 
sales
Annual Report 2024
97
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
VBL’s labelling policy
Our products provide on the 
side or back of our packaging 
nutrition information on the 
amount of energy (as calories, 
kilocalories or kilojoules), 
protein, carbohydrate, total 
sugars, total fat, saturated fat 
and sodium per 100g/ml or per 
serving. Additionally, we will 
include nutrition information for 
nutrients for which a health or 
nutrition claim is made. 
We provide the percentage 
of the official Guideline Daily 
Amounts, Daily Values or 
equivalents for energy, total fat, 
saturated fat, sodium/salt and 
total sugars on either the front, 
side or back of pack in countries 
where such values are available. 
Our products include 
information on energy  
(as calories, kilocalories or 
kilojoules) per 100g/ml or 
per serving. 
Sustainable marketing and 
sales
Our commitment extends beyond 
manufacturing tasty and refreshing 
beverages; it encompasses our 
responsibility to spread awareness 
about our products and promote 
responsible consumption, helping 
our consumers to make healthy and 
informed choices. To ensure this, we:
•	 Adhere to PepsiCo’s Policy on 
Responsible Advertising and 
Marketing to Children
•	 Adhere to PepsiCo’s Global Policy 
on the Sale of Beverages to 
Schools
•	 Adhere to all relevant laws and 
regulations in India 
•	 Conduct employee trainings to 
ensure compliance with these 
laws and policies
As per the franchise agreement 
with PepsiCo, above the line (ATL) 
marketing activities are PepsiCo’s 
responsibility.
With the objective to encourage 
consumption of healthy food 
and beverage amongst global 
audience under 13, PepsiCo 
exclusively advertises products 
that meet the International Food 
and Beverage Alliance (IFBA) 
Common Nutrition Criteria
Children are special and any 
product needs to be advertised 
to them with care. Considering 
them as special audience, PepsiCo 
takes special care in developing 
advertisements for children under 
13 years of age
No products, regardless of 
its nutritional profile, will be 
advertised by PepsiCo to children 
under the age of 6
Additionally, only plain water, 
fruit or vegetable juice, and 
dairy-based beverages may be 
marketed, consistent with the 
International Council of Beverages 
Associations (ICBA) Marketing to 
Children Guidelines
PepsiCo’s 
advertising 
and marketing 
strategy
Varun Beverages Limited
98
Consumer Health and Nutrition
Today’s consumers seek nutrient-rich food and beverages, and Varun Beverages 
is well-equipped to meet their evolving preferences. With a well-balanced 
portfolio, we offer products that cater to both taste and nutrition, supporting 
global consumers in their refreshment and wellness goals. Our commitment to 
transparent labeling and clear nutritional information strengthens trust among 
billions across 14 countries.
Key enablers
Evolving to meet consumer 
expectations
Tastes and nutritional needs of 
consumers are ever changing. As 
a global beverage company, we 
recognize the need to evolve with 
the changing preferences and 
continually align our products to 
scale, grow and satisfy consumer 
expectations.
Assorted nutrient-rich 
portfolio mix
A beverage for every mood, 
age and nutritional need. 
Choose from our assorted 
health-based, fruit-pulp and 
juice-based drinks, energy 
and sports drinks, dairy-based 
beverages as well as packaged 
and purified drinking water.
Nutrition information
Providing clear nutrient 
information about our products 
help consumers to make 
informed and right choices, 
relevant to their health 
requirements.
1. Cutting back on sugar
By optimizing sugar content in our products, we are keeping pace with the changing health preferences of our 
aspirational consumers. 
Low Sugar (LS) Products
LS/NS Volume Mix %
No Sugar (NS) Products
Sting
Gatorade 
Mirinda
Lipton
7up  
zero
Pepsi 
Black
Gatorade 
zero
Tropicana 
100% 
Evervess
Aquafina
CY 2024
Consolidated
53%
India
44%
100%
100%
89%
69%
65%
29%
South Africa 
w.e.f. 27 Mar 2024
DRC 
w.e.f. 31 Aug 2024
Morocco
Sri Lanka
Zimbabwe
Zambia
4%
Nepal
Annual Report 2024
99
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.	Prioritizing nutrition
	
To deliver higher nutrient value across our product categories, PepsiCo is guided by the PepsiCo Nutrition Criteria 
(PNC), which is also followed by Varun Beverages. 
	
PNC enables our products to maintain a high nutrition value by guiding the Company on (a) standards of nutrients 
to limit, (b) standards for food groups to encourage, and (c) standards for nutrients to encourage.
Standards for Nutrients  
to Limit
Nutrients that have been well-
established as dietary factors that 
can contribute to the risk of certain 
non-communicable diseases, when 
consumed in excess.
For nutrients to limit, the criteria 
is based on a model diet of 2,000 
kcal per day, with saturated fat 
and added sugars at or below 
10% of total energy, sodium at 
or below 2,000 mg per day, and 
no industrially produced partially 
hydrogenated oils (PHOs).
Standards for Food  
Groups to Encourage 
Food groups that have been  
well-established as contributing 
to healthier diets.
Standards for Nutrients  
to Encourage 
Nutrients that have been 
identified as being commonly 
under-consumed in a given 
population. They can vary by 
market or region, and are often 
called “shortfall nutrients” 
contributing to healthier diets.
PepsiCo Nutrition Criteria (PNC)
2.	Prioritizing nutrition
	
To deliver higher nutrient value across our product categories, PepsiCo is guided by the PepsiCo Nutrition Criteria 
(PNC), which is also followed by Varun Beverages. 
	
PNC enables our products to maintain a high nutrition value by guiding the Company on (a) standards of nutrients 
to limit, (b) standards for food groups to encourage, and (c) standards for nutrients to encourage.
Standards for Nutrients  
to Limit
Nutrients that have been well-
established as dietary factors that 
can contribute to the risk of certain 
non-communicable diseases, when 
consumed in excess.
For nutrients to limit, the criteria 
is based on a model diet of 2,000 
kcal per day, with saturated fat 
and added sugars at or below 
10% of total energy, sodium at 
or below 2,000 mg per day, and 
no industrially produced partially 
hydrogenated oils (PHOs).
Standards for Food  
Groups to Encourage 
Food groups that have been  
well-established as contributing 
to healthier diets.
Standards for Nutrients  
to Encourage 
Nutrients that have been 
identified as being commonly 
under-consumed in a given 
population. They can vary by 
market or region, and are often 
called “shortfall nutrients” 
contributing to healthier diets.
PepsiCo Nutrition Criteria (PNC)
Guidelines on Sugar Content:
1.	 WHO - 10% of total energy contribution.
2.	 The Healthy Choice Standards - Less than 4.5g/100g.
3.	 Beverages category for PepsiCo - 1g-7g/100 ml  
(assuming 1cc liquid weighs 1g) 
https://www.pepsico.com/docs/default-source/policies/
pepsico-nutrition-criteria.pdf?sfvrsn=54fa599a_3
Varun Beverages Limited
100
Customer Satisfaction and GRM
We are committed to prioritizing consumer 
satisfaction through our Consumer Response Program. 
This program is designed to swiftly address and 
resolve consumer concerns and grievances, ensuring 
a courteous and timely response. The mechanism 
employed by us fosters a consumer-centric approach, 
establishing a top down commitment to building trust 
and enhancing transparency in addressing queries 
and concerns.
Consumers can lodge their complaints through the 
Toll-Free number available on product labels and 
crowns. The PepsiCo Consumer Response System 
(CRS) representative manages and organizes these 
complaints, forwarding them to us through the Wilke 
portal. Our Plant team, along with the Consumer Care/
Complaint Management System (CCMS) coordinator, 
reviews the auto-generated email containing 
relevant complaint details. The investigation involves 
collaboration between our Plant team, Regional 
Quality Coordinator (RQC), and CCMS coordinator. 
Customer Relationship Executives (CRE) promptly 
address the concerns reported.
A detailed analysis of each reported complaint is 
conducted by all plants, leading to root cause analysis. 
Corrective and preventive actions are implemented 
by the plant team, initiating an improvement plan to 
prevent the reoccurrence of concerns and ensuring 
consumer satisfaction. This comprehensive approach 
reflects our commitment to continuous improvement 
and responsiveness to consumer feedback.
Feedback:
Feedback is sent to PepsiCo CRS team by CCMS 
coordinator, and Pepsi International (PI) Team connects 
and responds to consumers, subsequently on SOS 
basis. The complaints are tracked and reviewed monthly 
on the basis of its nature, flavour, category and plant.
No. of Complaints Received Through  
PepsiCo Customer Care
1,223
17
CY 2023
Received during 
the year
Pending resolution at 
the end of year
1,084
7
CY 2024
Received during 
the year
Pending resolution at 
the end of year
We have registered no incidents 
of data loss, leaks or thefts of 
customer data in CY 2024
Annual Report 2024
101
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GOVERNANCE
Governance
Embedding ESG in our Corporate DNA
At VBL, strong corporate governance continues to serve as the foundation for 
achieving our evolving ESG goals. Guided by a culture of integrity, accountability, 
and ethical practices, we remain committed to driving sustainability across 
our value chain. Under the visionary guidance of our leadership team, we are 
positively shaping the environmental and social landscapes in which we operate.
Corporate governance awards
PepsiCo’s International Bottler 
of the Year 2022  
PepsiCo’s Best Bottler in  
the Africa-Middle East-South 
Asia region 2022
PepsiCo’s ‘Better’  
category award 2023
Best Corporate Governance 
Practices - Varun Beverages 
Limited Award under Business 
Brand Awards 2023
Business Excellence 
(Corporate Governance) of 
The Year 2022 Award by 
Prime Time Research Media 
Pvt. Ltd. 
Business Leader of the Year 
Awards for Best Corporate 
Governance Practices (FMCG) 
- 2022
Pep+ Leadership on Overall 
Sustainability Culture in 2024
Amesa Bottler Conference 
2024 Pep+ Climate Award
Best Corporate Governance 
Practices Award - 2024
Business Brand Award  
for Best Corporate 
Governance Practices - 2022
A blend of top-down leadership and bottom-up innovation has been instrumental in embedding ESG into every 
aspect of our governance framework. This balanced approach ensures alignment with organizational goals, fosters 
adaptability, and provides deeper insights into on-ground challenges, helping us deliver impactful results.
Varun Beverages Limited
104
Golden Peacock National 
Quality Award - 2022
CFI.CO (UK) for Best FMCG 
Corporate Governance (India) 
2022
India Achievers’  
Award 2022 for Best 
Corporate Governance
Responsible Business 
Award for Best Corporate 
Governance (FMCG) - 2022
PepsiCo’s Best Bottler in 
AMESA Sector for the  
year 2021
CFI.CO (UK for Best FMCG 
Corporate Governance (India) 
- 2021
Golden Peacock Award for 
Excellence in Corporate 
Governance - 2021
Award for Achievement  
in Continuous  
Improvement - 2021
Global Best  
Employer - 2020
PepsiCo’s Best Bottler  
in AMESA Sector for the year 
2020
PepsiCo’s Best Bottler  
of the year - 2019
PepsiCo’s Best Bottler  
of the year - 2014
Annual Report 2024
105
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key managerial personnel
Sr. No.
Name
Designation
1
Raj Gandhi
Whole-time Director
2
Rajesh Chawla
Chief Financial Officer
3
Ravi Batra
Chief Risk Officer and Group Company 
Secretary
Training for Board of Directors in CY 2024
Name
Attendance
Code of Conduct, Insider Trading, FCPA, POSH, Anti-bribery, regulatory changes/updates, 
sustainability initiatives, review of policies, confirmation of statutory filings on time & other 
important matters.
100%
Leadership
L
Strategic Planning
S
Global Business
G
Finance & Legal
F
Corporate Governance
C
Audit, Risk Management 
and Ethics Committee
Investment and 
Borrowing Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Environment, Social and 
Governance Committee
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee
Share Allotment 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
C
Chairperson
M
Member
Industry
I
Board Skills and Expertise
Member
Icons of Committee they are members of
Area of Expertise
Ravi Jaipuria
Promoter & Non-Executive Chairman
Varun Jaipuria
Promoter, Executive Vice Chairman & 
Whole-time Director
Raj Gandhi
Whole-time Director
Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
Whole-time Director
Dr. Naresh Trehan  
Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director
Abhiram Seth
Independent Director
Dr. Ravi Gupta
Independent Director
Anil Kumar Sondhi
Independent Director
Rashmi Dhariwal
Independent Director
Sita Khosla
Independent Director
C
M
M
M
C
M
M
M
M
M
C
M
M
M
C
C
M
M
C
C
M
M
L
S
G
F
C
I
L
S
G
C
I
L
S
G
F
C
I
L
S
G
C
I
L
S
C
I
L
S
F
C
L
S
F
C
L
S
F
C
L
S
G
C
I
–
–
–
–
L
S
G
F
C
Varun Beverages Limited
106
Board Committees
Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee
•	 Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process, examination of the financial statement and 
the auditors’ report thereon and the disclosure of 
its financial information to ensure that its financial 
statements are correct, sufficient and credible.
•	 Recommendation for appointment, re-appointment 
and replacement, remuneration and terms of 
appointment of auditors of the Company and 
approval of payment for any other services rendered 
by the statutory auditors of the Company.
•	 Reviewing with the Management the quarterly/annual 
results and annual financial statements and Auditors’ 
Report thereon before submission to the Board for 
approval. This would, inter-alia, include reviewing 
changes in the accounting policies and reasons for 
the same, major accounting entries estimates based 
on exercise of judgement by Management, significant 
adjustments made in the financial statements.
•	 Review the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations.
•	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.
•	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems.
•	 Reviewing the functioning of the whistle blower/vigil 
mechanism.
•	 Formulate a detailed risk management policy which 
shall include:
•	 Framework for identification of internal and external 
risks.
•	 Measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks.
•	 Business continuity plan.
•	 Evaluate and review the risk management plan, the 
risk management system, including risk policy, risk 
process (risk identification, assessment, mitigation 
and monitoring), cyber security processes and risk 
registers laid down by the Management.
•	 Recommendation for appointment, removal and 
terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
To consider and resolve the grievances of 
securityholders of the Company including but not 
limited to complaints related to transfer / transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of 
declared dividends and review of services rendered by 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
•	 Formulating the criteria for determining the 
qualifications, positive attributes, and independence 
of a director and recommendations to the Board 
of Directors a policy relating to the remuneration 
of directors, key managerial personnel, and 
other employees, as well as the evaluation of the 
performance of independent directors and the Board 
of Directors;
•	 Devising a policy on diversity of the Board of 
Directors;
•	 Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid 
down, recommending to the Board of Directors their 
appointment and removal, and specify the manner 
for effective evaluation of performance of Board, its 
committees and individual Directors and review its 
implementation and compliance;
•	 Determine whether to extend or continue the term 
of appointment of the independent directors on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors; and
•	 Framing suitable policies and systems to ensure that 
there is no violation by an employee as well as by the 
Company of any applicable laws in India or overseas, 
including:
	
(i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
and
	
(ii) The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to the Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003.
CSR Committee
To formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy which shall indicate 
the activities to be undertaken by the Company as 
specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, 
recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred 
on the CSR activities and monitor the CSR Policy of the 
Company from time to time.
Environment, Social and Governance Committee
•	 Approve the Company’s ESG strategy including 
related targets and incentives;
•	 Provide oversight of the execution of the ESG 
Strategy and the Company’s progress on its long-term 
ESG commitments and targets;
•	 Provide oversight of the key policies and programs 
required to implement the ESG Strategy;
•	 Provide advice and direction to the Company’s 
management on implementation of the Company’s 
ESG Strategy;
•	 To identify opportunities and risks to the Company’s 
operations, its reputation and its corporate 
responsibility. 
Annual Report 2024
107
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our Policies 
This Policy includes, inter-alia, the criteria for 
determining qualifications, positive attributes, 
independence of a Director, appointment and 
remuneration of Directors, KMPs, Senior Management 
Personnel and other employees of the Company.
This policy applies to all individuals, whether employed 
directly or indirectly, on various employment terms 
working at any VBL location. It addresses sexual 
harassment occurring both within and outside 
the company premises in connection with their 
employment including during work-related travel or 
stay arrangements provided by the company.
Officials are prohibited from giving or receiving bribes 
to any Government Officials or any other person or 
entity, including any person or entity in the private or 
commercial sector, if the payment is intended to induce 
the recipient to misuse his or her position and thereby 
give an unfair advantage to VBL.
The Company has a robust Risk Management Policy 
which identifies and evaluates business risks and 
opportunities. The Company recognizes that these 
risks needs to be managed and mitigated to protect 
the interest of the stakeholders and to achieve 
business objectives. The risk management framework 
is aimed at effectively mitigating the Company’s 
various business and operational risks through 
strategic actions.
This Policy deals with the retention and archival of 
corporate records of the Company in compliance 
with the provisions of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
The Company has adopted a Vigil Mechanism/
Whistle Blower Policy to provide a platform to the 
Directors and Employees of the Company to raise 
concerns regarding any irregularity, misconduct or 
unethical matters/dealings within the Company. The 
Policy provides for adequate safeguards against 
victimization of Directors and Employees who avail 
of the vigil mechanism and also provides a direct 
access to the Vigilance Officer or the Chairperson of 
the Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee, in 
exceptional cases.
The Company recognizes the benefits of diversity 
on the Board and believes that a diverse Board can 
make significant contribution towards achievement of 
Company’s strategic and commercial objectives more 
efficiently and effectively. The Company believes that 
Board with diverse representation is better equipped 
to leverage benefits emerging through members 
with diverse thoughts, perspective, knowledge, 
experience and gender and is well equipped to 
perform its functions and give strategic guidance to 
the Company. The Company remains committed to 
ensuring that a transparent nomination process is 
followed where appointments will be made on merits in 
order to strengthen the corporate governance, achieve 
business results, ensure sustainable development for 
benefit of all stakeholders and enhance the reputation 
of the Company.
Remuneration Policy
Anti-Bribery Policy
Risk Management Policy
Vigil Mechanism Policy
Policy on Diversity of the Board of Directors
POSH Policy
Archival Policy
Varun Beverages Limited
108
Ethical Business Conduct and Other Policies
To comply with the provisions of Regulation 17(5) 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, we have adopted 
“Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior 
Management”. Code is available on the website of the 
Company at https://varunbeverages.com/wp- content/
uploads/2023/03/19-Code-Of-Conduct- For-Board-
Of-Directors-and-Senior-Management- Revised.pdf
On the basis of declarations received from Board 
Members and Senior Management Personnel, the 
Executive Vice Chairman & Whole-time Directors 
have given a declaration that the Members of the 
Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel 
have affirmed compliance with the Code during the 
CY 2024.
At VBL, we promote diversity, inclusiveness, and 
treating all employees with respect. Encouraging an 
environment where every individual can develop, we 
steadfastly pledge to provide a workplace free from 
discrimination, harassment, and abuse.
In 2024, we are pleased to announce that none of 
our suppliers were involved in any instances of forced 
or child labour. We are dedicated to procuring raw 
ingredients and packaging materials exclusively from 
PepsiCo’s approved suppliers. PepsiCo conducts a 
rigorous certification process for all of our suppliers, 
and we are no exception.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024
109
Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery
We consistently monitor and communicate with 
our employees to raise awareness about avoiding 
involvement in any corrupt practices. These 
communications are regularly disseminated through 
internal channels and are also published on our 
official website as part of our policies. The policy 
commitments extend to all organizational activities 
and are communicated to stakeholders via email and 
the official website.
While we do not offer transition assistance programs 
for continued employability post-retirement or 
termination, we invest in training sessions for senior 
and middle-level employees. These individuals play a 
crucial role in developing processes and procedures to 
prevent corrupt practices within the organization.
To fortify our commitment against corruption, we have 
established anti-corruption policies and procedures, 
which are effectively communicated to our business 
partners. In our risk assessment, 100% of operations 
are thoroughly evaluated for corruption-related risks, 
and the assessment did not identify any significant 
risks. Our unwavering commitment to ethical business 
practices and compliance with relevant laws and 
regulations is further ensured through the following 
practices:
Communication and Transparency
Effectively communicating our anti-corruption policies 
and procedures to all business partners, including 
suppliers and third parties, is a pivotal measure in 
cultivating a culture of transparency and integrity. 
By making these policies publicly accessible on our 
website, we underscore our unwavering commitment 
to transparency in our operations.
Non-disclosure Agreements (NDAs)
Requiring third parties to sign Non-disclosure 
Agreements (NDAs) that mandate compliance with 
our anti-corruption policies is a prudent and proactive 
measure to safeguard our organization against 
potential corruption risks. These NDAs serve as legally 
binding agreements, providing a robust framework to 
reinforce our expectations for ethical behavior.
Due Diligence
It is crucial to undertake thorough due diligence on our 
business partners, particularly those operating in high- 
risk areas or industries. This diligent approach ensures 
that our partners align with and uphold our steadfast 
commitment to anti-corruption measures and ethical 
business practices. By rigorously assessing and vetting 
our business partners, we strengthen the foundation 
of integrity and reinforce our dedication to fostering a 
business environment built on ethical conduct. 
Varun Beverages Limited
110
Fostering inclusion and diversity
We aspire to build a culture that brings together people 
of all ages, gender and capacities on one common 
platform and empowers them to unleash their full 
potential. Gender, age and differently abled therefore 
comprise our core priority to foster an inclusive and 
diverse workforce.
Constant efforts are also being made to empower 
women employees with special emphasis on 
incorporating their ideas and perspectives across our 
business processes and strategies.
•	 To maintain awareness and comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations of the countries of operation
•	 To maintain confidentiality of all PepsiCo’s and its 
partners information
•	 To compete fairly for PepsiCo’s business and conduct 
all such business on behalf of PepsiCo in a lawful 
manner
•	 To encourage a diverse workforce and provide a 
workplace free from discrimination, harassment or any 
other form of abuse
•	 To treat employees fairly, including with respect to 
wages, working hours and benefits
•	 To prohibit all forms of forced or compulsory labor
•	 To prohibit use of child labor
•	 To respect employees’ right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining Principles of Business 
Conduct of PepsiCo
•	 To provide safe and healthy working conditions
•	 To carry out operations with care for the environment 
and to comply with all applicable environmental laws 
and regulations
•	 To maintain accurate financial books and business 
records
•	 To deliver products and services meeting applicable 
quality and food safety standards
•	 To support compliance with Supplier Code of 
Conduct
•	 To observe policies regarding gifts and entertainment 
and conflicts of interest
•	 To ensure that all land acquisitions meet IFC 
Performance Standards
•	 To report suspected violations of the Code
Business continuity plan
Considering the highly volatile and unpredictable nature 
of environmental and ecological disasters, Business 
continuity is one of the utmost priorities for any 
organization in the event of occurrence of any natural 
disaster, pandemic, or any other likely event.
In case of any high risk event, to ensure there is no 
disruption in the major business operations including 
sales, production and financial related functions, we 
have a detailed Business Continuity Plan in place to 
implement the mitigation plan immediately, restore the 
impacted operations within the defined time limits and 
ensure all functions are operating well like back-up IT 
servers, office facilities, raw material suppliers, etc.
Crisis Management teams are formed which will be in 
immediate action at the time of any disaster.
Regular training is provided to them to ensure the clarity 
of roles and responsibilities of all the teams for quick 
response. Also, mock drills are conducted to check the 
preparedness to tackle such situations.
We have formulated a detailed risk management 
policy which includes:
•	 Framework for identification of internal and external 
risks
•	 Measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks
•	 Business continuity plan
•	 Evaluate and review the risk management plan, the 
risk management system, including risk policy, risk 
process (risk identification, assessment, mitigation 
and monitoring), cyber security processes and risk 
registers laid down by the management
•	 Recommendation for appointment, removal and 
terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer
Annual Report 2024
111
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Information System and 
VBL Code of Conduct
Aligned with industry best practices, our framework 
encompasses the intricate interplay of business 
processes, human resources, and technology. It 
operates under the guidance of meticulous policies and 
procedures, ensuring robust governance and adherence 
to the highest standards in the industry. By integrating 
industry best practices, we fortify our information 
security framework, making it a dynamic and resilient 
safeguard against evolving threats.
It’s noteworthy that our commitment to information 
security has resulted in zero complaints from external 
entities, attesting to our proactive approach to 
safeguarding data privacy and cyber security. This 
achievement is not only a testament to our dedication 
but also positions us as a leader in adopting industry-
best practices for securing sensitive information.
In our unwavering commitment to information security, we have strategically 
implemented an Information Security framework designed to establish, execute, 
monitor, and continually enhance our organization’s information security posture. 
This comprehensive framework not only sets explicit objectives but also provides 
a holistic direction for action. It reflects our management’s resolute commitment 
to information security, carefully considering business requirements, legal and 
regulatory implications, and contractual obligations.
Varun Beverages Limited
112
Information, a precious asset for VBL, holds intrinsic 
value, regardless of its origin or nature. The triad of 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability forms the 
bedrock of trust and confidence, pivotal for both 
our customers and the informed decision-making 
process. In a steadfast commitment to safeguarding 
our information and information systems, we have 
instituted an Information Security Management System 
(ISMS) in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001, meticulously 
documented in our Information Security Manual.
The overarching objective of our ISMS is intricately 
aligned with the broader business objectives of the 
organization. We ensure that our SMART (Specific, 
Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Time-bound) 
objectives for ISMS are clearly defined, providing a 
roadmap for success. Regular reviews and adjustments 
to these objectives are conducted as necessary, 
reflecting our commitment to adaptability and 
continuous improvement.
By adhering to international standards and maintaining a 
dynamic ISMS, we have not only secured our information 
but also aligned our information security practices 
with the strategic goals of the organization, fostering 
a resilient and adaptive approach to safeguarding our 
invaluable information assets.
When an individual violates the established rules and 
regulations, disciplinary action can be implemented to 
ensure accountability and maintain a productive and 
ethical environment. The specific disciplinary actions at 
VBL are determined based on the nature and severity of 
the violation.
Code of conduct 
encourages
employees to
Code of conduct refrain
employees from
	 Respect employees’ 
right to freedom 
of association and 
collective bargaining
	 Maintain accurate 
financial books and 
business records
	 Deliver products and 
services meeting 
applicable quality and 
food safety standards
	 Practicing any sort of 
bribery
	 Violation of any 
provision of the Code
Disciplinary Action
When an individual violates the established 
rules and regulations, disciplinary action 
is implemented to ensure accountability 
and maintain a productive and ethical 
environment. The specific disciplinary actions 
at VBL are determined based on the nature 
and severity of the violation.
Information Security Organization Structure
Information Security Governance Committee (ISGC)
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
Information Security Manager (ISM)
Head of Applications
Implementer
Head of IT Infra
Implementer
Annual Report 2024
113
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
Imparting knowledge  
	
with Shiksha Kendra
We collaborated with Shishka 
Kendra School, a social initiative 
by the Delhi Public School 
(Gurgaon) to impart education 
to the underprivileged children. 
The objective of the initiative is 
to help them become confident, 
knowledgeable and responsible 
citizens of India and fetch a 
better standard of living for 
themselves and their families. The 
beneficiaries under this initiative 
are entitled to avail the benefits 
of DPS infrastructure and its other 
resources including books, uniform 
and transportation.
CSR Initiatives:  
Making a Sustainable Difference
We are committed to uplift the less privileged communities through focused 
CSR initiatives in the areas of education, environmental sustainability and rural 
development.
~34,000
Students availed free  
education since 2003
Sponsored evening 
schools at Delhi Public 
Society for economically 
weaker sections
Vision 
To predominantly offer free 
healthcare support to the 
underprivileged and economically 
weaker sections of the society 
by providing easy access 
to medical care.
Mission
To provide free access to medical 
assistance i.e., access to medical 
consultation, essential medicines, 
pathology and diagnostic tests 
to people in the community and 
villages close to the plants, with an 
aim to improve the overall health 
index of the communities.
Varun Beverages Limited
114
11
Operational clinics in India (6 in Uttar 
Pradesh, 2 in Rajasthan and 1 each in 
Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Assam)
3,40,000+
Patients benefited in CY 2024
Access to sustainable healthcare 
is a fundamental need, yet many 
marginalized communities in 
India face significant challenges 
in receiving essential medical 
services. Committed to making a 
meaningful impact, we support 
the AARU Care initiative by RJ 
Foundation, which provides 
quality healthcare to economically 
weaker sections in rural areas. 
Through AARU Clinics, we offer 
free consultations, medicines, and 
diagnostic tests, ensuring accessible 
and holistic care. Till 2024 we 
have served over 3.4 lakh patients, 
addressing critical healthcare 
needs and improving community 
well-being. Our efforts reflect 
a deep commitment to 
inclusive healthcare and social 
responsibility.
Sustainable healthcare through AARU clinic
VBL Water Distribution Programme –  
A Drop of Hope
In the heart of drought-affected regions, where 
parched lands and dry wells tell a story of 
struggle, VBL stepped forward with a mission—
ensuring access to clean drinking water for those 
in need.
As intense heatwaves swept across the country, 
thousands of families found themselves battling 
severe water scarcity. With lakes drying up and 
handpumps running empty, the necessity of 
water became an urgent crisis. Recognizing this 
dire need, VBL, through RJ Foundation, launched 
an extensive Drinking Water Distribution Drive, 
reaffirming its commitment to community service 
and sustainability.
Annual Report 2024
115
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Courses offered by Pravah Skill Development Centre
Unemployment of youth is a grave 
challenge that India faces, having 
far-reaching socio-economic impact. 
Pravah Skill Development Centre, 
by upliftment of unemployed youth 
in the marginalized sections of the 
society, is an attempt to mitigate 
this challenge.
Its structured, sustainable and 
scalable framework enables skill 
development and facilitates an 
enriching learning experience 
to the underprivileged youth. 
With an objective to bring them 
into mainstream, Pravah aspires 
to become a leading skill 
development center. The 
initiative is aligned with center’s 
mission to train maximum skilled 
workforce to meet domestic 
regional requirements of a 
growing economy.
Pravah: Building skills for a sustainable future
To acquaint students with basic 
knowledge of computers
Computer Course
To make students learn to stitch all 
types of garments related to men, 
women and children
Fashion Designing
To give women an opportunity to 
pursue their interests
Beauty Care
To help participants understand 
various aspects of communication 
and refresh their communication 
skills
The Tally ERP course is designed 
to help students understand the 
principles.
English Communication Skills
Tally
To help students get placed in 
respective jobs through assistance 
in job placement
In a graphic design course, 
students learn how to use 
design software such as Adobe 
Photoshop.
Job Assistance
Graphic Designing Course
17,000+
Upliftment of Unemployed Youth
5.7Million Liters  
Drinking water distributed
150,000  
Families benefitted
Through a well-coordinated effort, over 5.7 million liters 
of clean drinking water were distributed across 10 states, 
reaching 150 villages and positively impacting more than 
150,000 families. The initiative brought not only relief 
but also a renewed sense of hope to those struggling to 
access this basic necessity.
VBL employees played a crucial role in the execution of 
this drive. From identifying the most affected regions 
to ensuring seamless distribution, their dedication was 
evident. As expressed by team members, witnessing 
the smiles on the faces of villagers was an immensely 
fulfilling experience.
Varun Beverages Limited
116
Components of Risk Management 
Framework
•	 Risk identification
•	 Risk analysis
•	 Measure and monitor risk
•	 Risk controls and mitigation
Risk and Opportunities Management
Risks are inherent in business, emphasizing the need for a robust risk assessment 
and mitigation policy. At Varun Beverages, a reliable risk management process is 
constantly engaged in identifying, evaluating and managing potential and actual 
business risks. 
Our risk management process is operational across all 
our functions (production and distribution), facilities 
and countries we operate in. Early assessment of risk 
and their seamless management drives better decision-
making and fosters preventive measures for impact 
control, ensuring business continuity and sustained 
growth.
Develop a comprehensive reporting system to 
proactively identify potential risks.
Gather insights from stakeholders, incorporating 
historical data and industry benchmarks.
Systematically classify key risks and analyze their 
root causes.
Align risk assessment targets with business 
objectives, identifying potential opportunities and 
threats.
Risk Identification
Risk Assessment
Implement control measures to mitigate identified 
risks effectively.
Establish clear action plans to address risks while 
optimizing resource allocation.
Continuously monitor risks and refine mitigation 
strategies based on performance.
Regularly update and share risk reports to ensure 
transparency and informed decision-making.
Risk Controls and Mitigation
Monitoring and Reporting
Annual Report 2024
117
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key risks and mitigation plan
Risk
Description
Mitigation Plan
Demand Risk
The risk of slowdown in the 
Company’s target markets and 
adverse impact on its sales 
velocity caused by a cyclical 
downturn.
Varun Beverages strategic approach to provide the right 
brand featuring right products at the right price and through 
the right channels, has enabled the Company to grow 
consistently in its sales volumes. An extensive portfolio, 
comprising a wide range of products, helps it to cater to 
the varying tastes and preferences of diverse consumer 
segments. Steady growth is also attributed to presence 
in relatively underpenetrated markets with favorable 
demographics, growing population, and advantageous 
climate.
Business 
Agreement Risk
The Company relies on 
strategic relationships and 
agreements with PepsiCo. 
Termination of agreements 
or less favorable renewal 
terms could adversely affect 
profitability.
Varun Beverages has steadily strengthened its partnership 
with PepsiCo over the past three decades, solidifying its 
market ties, expanding its territories and sub-territories, 
and diversifying its production and distribution capabilities 
across a broader array of PepsiCo beverages. These factors, 
along with the Company’s focus on adding multiple SKUs 
into the portfolio and developing a stronger distribution 
network, has helped it to win a larger market share for 
PepsiCo, garnering its trust and continued patronage. The 
bottling appointment and trademark license agreement 
for India with PepsiCo India has been extended till April 
30, 2039, from October 2, 2022, earlier, signifying strong 
partnership, built on the foundation of mutual trust and 
support. Collaborating as active development partners, 
investing in joint projects and business planning on strategic 
issues ensures a close and mutual beneficial relationship 
between the Company and PepsiCo.
Regulatory Risk
Regulatory risks to the 
Company include new and 
evolving regulations on 
consumer health. Business 
is also at the risk of 
adverse impact on account 
of Company’s products being 
targeted for discriminatory tax 
and packaging waste recovery.
Sustainability is at the core of all business decisions and 
operations within Varun Beverages. Along with PepsiCo, 
the Company takes proactive steps to collaborate with the 
government and other regulatory authorities to ensure clear 
understanding of the facts and prevent unfair singling out 
of its products. VBL, along with the NGO’s, communities it 
operates in, and other stakeholders, is continuously focused 
on establishing and implementing sustainability solutions 
in the areas of environment, social and governance. Eco-
friendly manufacturing practices are consistently adhered to 
and strong emphasis is placed on addressing issues related 
to packaging waste recovery / recycling, water management 
and greenhouse gases emissions. As a part of its 
sustainability commitment and for phased implementation 
of 100% recycling of used PET bottles, VBL has collaborated 
with GEM Enviro Management Ltd. Measurement and 
improvement in the Company’s carbon footprint and water 
footprint assurance is further achieved through alliance 
with Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited. The 
Company also aligns with PepsiCo’s strategy of introducing 
healthier and “zero sugar” variant of products, solidifying its 
position as a responsible brand that cares for its consumers. 
Varun Beverages Limited
118
Risk
Description
Mitigation Plan
Business 
Viability Risk
Business viability risk amounts 
to the financial and/or 
performance risk stemming 
from Company’s inability to 
integrate the operations of 
newly acquired territories 
and sub-territories or derive 
potential operating and cost 
efficiencies from them.
VBL’s straightforward strategic approach and financial need 
ensures that any future acquisitions or partnerships comply 
with the Board’s acquisition guideline and bring value to 
the Company. Performance of the newly acquired territories 
and business viability is ensured by the Company through 
concentrated efforts and initiatives. This includes significant 
financial investment and considerable time spent by the 
management to develop local market strategies that are 
capable of mitigating possible cultural and language barriers 
as well as incorporating existing business practices into new 
activities.
Consumer 
Preference Risk
Inability to adjust with the 
evolving consumer health 
trends and failure in clarifying 
misunderstandings about the 
health impacts of consuming 
soft drinks could harm 
demand.
Close collaboration with PepsiCo enables the Company to 
regularly evaluate the evolving habits of its consumers and 
align its product innovation with the changing demand, 
therefore augmenting its range of products and remaining 
relevant in the competitive business landscape. PepsiCo’s 
new and healthy product plan with greater focus on zero / 
limited calorie content and sugar content also augurs well 
for VBL.
Raw Material 
Risk
An interruption in the supply or 
significant increase in the price 
of raw materials or packaging 
materials may adversely 
affect the Company’s business 
prospects, results of operations 
and financial condition.
A series of initiatives and programs are implemented at VBL 
to optimize cost and operational efficiencies. Concentrated 
efforts, including backward integration and consolidated 
procurement of raw materials, are constantly made to reduce 
the cost of goods sold and increase the Company’s cash 
flows. The Company also enjoys a good bargaining power 
with its suppliers owing to its scale of operation, resulting 
in better work-ing capital management. Other than this, the 
Company is consistently committed to optimize its asset 
management and utilization, leading to higher operating 
efficiency and amortization of overheads costs on a wider 
case. Innovative solutions further augment VBL’s process 
efficiency ensuring consolidated operational data from 
production, scheduled sourcing, and superior monitoring 
of the supply of goods from manufacturers to the retail 
point of sale.
Sustainable 
packaging costs 
and market 
availability
The cost of recyclable 
materials, such as recycled 
PET (rPET) and aluminum, 
can affect packaging costs. 
Increased prices may impact 
our sustainability efforts, 
especially if these materials 
are essential for eco-friendly 
packaging. In areas with 
high plastic consumption, 
inadequate collection and 
recycling infrastructure can be 
a challenge. This may affect 
our ability to source recycled 
materials or manage our 
packaging waste effectively. 
Supply constraints or high 
costs can pose challenges to 
access to high quality recycled 
materials (like rPET) at 
reasonable prices
We are making substantial progress toward achieving our 
Mission 2025 commitment of 100% recycling rates. This 
includes efforts to increase the overall packaging collection 
rate, indicating a commitment to responsible waste 
management. Additionally, we are focused on increasing the 
use of recycled PET in our PET bottle packs, emphasizing 
a shift towards more sustainable packaging materials. 
Our target is to achieve 30% usage of r-PET in our total 
plastic consumption. We are working with GEM Enviro 
Management Ltd for recycling plastic waste, conducting 
awareness programmes for communities, uplifting the lives 
of ragpickers, etc.
Annual Report 2024
119
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Risk
Description
Mitigation Plan
Water 
usage and 
replenishment
Managing packaging-related 
emissions and waste is vital 
for achieving sustainability 
commitments, such as Net 
Zero. To maintain a positive 
brand image and meet 
customer expectations as 
consumer preferences are 
increasingly leaning towards 
environmentally friendly 
products and packaging. 
Identifying regions and areas 
that are experiencing water 
scarcity due to factors like 
population growth, climate 
change, and over¬extraction 
of water resources. Analyzing 
the impact of climate change 
on water availability, including 
changes in precipitation 
patterns and the frequency 
of droughts and floods. 
Recognizing the importance of 
maintaining water availability 
for local communities’ 
water requirements in 
overexploited and critical 
zones as per CWGB. Increased 
concentrations of greenhouse 
gases in the atmosphere 
trap heat, resulting in global 
warming.
Exploring and implementing 150+ process improvements 
and solutions for efficient water usage. We have set 
the target to reduce our usage ratio 1.40x by 2025. We 
have to meet regulatory requirements related to water 
replenishment, ensuring they contribute to overall water 
resource conservation. However, we are very much ahead of 
the regulations. We have adopted 192 water bodies in the 
vicinity of our manufacturing plants which help to replenish 
groundwater reserves. We are committed to keeping our 
groundwater recharge twice the total water we use for our 
beverage production. Industries may implement sustainable 
sourcing practices to reduce their water footprint and use 
resources more efficiently. 
Carbon 
Footprint
Management
Climate change driven by 
carbon emissions can disrupt 
ecosystems and threaten 
biodiversity. Governments 
may use carbon footprint 
assessments to set emission 
reduction targets, implement 
regulations, and incentivise 
greener practice. Changing 
perceptions of community 
about greenwashing.
Aligning our future business growth targets with our carbon 
footprint initiatives. Increasing sustainable packaging 
mix to reduce usage of future requirements. Engaging 
with stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, and 
communities, is often a crucial part of successfully 
implementing carbon footprint commitments.
We have set our target to achieve Net Zero by 2050 over 
base year 2023 under our strategic sustainability approach.
Varun Beverages Limited
120
Transition risks
Climate risks and opportunities
Risk
Description
Mitigation plan
Temperature
Higher temperatures can lower 
manufacturing efficiency, increase 
cooling costs, and pose heat stress 
risks, impacting worker health and 
productivity.
Invest in energy-efficient cooling 
systems and insulation to combat 
rising temperatures. Protect workforce 
health by creating heat-resistant work 
environments, offering flexible hours, 
providing hydration and electrolytes, 
and conducting heat stress assessments. 
High-stress jobs can be managed with 
frequent job rotations to ensure safety 
and maintain productivity.
Water availability
Water availability challenges include 
droughts, which can lead to water 
scarcity and disrupt production 
dependent on significant water usage. 
Groundwater depletion also poses 
risks, particularly for sites reliant on 
it, potentially increasing water costs. 
Additionally, floods caused by excessive 
rainfall can damage infrastructure, 
disrupt operations, and impact supply 
chains.
To address water challenges, companies 
can implement advanced water 
management systems focused on 
recycling and conservation to use water 
more efficiently. Additionally, investing 
in technologies that tap into alternative 
water sources, such as desalination and 
rainwater harvesting, can further ensure 
sustainable water availability.
Weather events
The rising frequency and intensity of 
cyclones and storms can disrupt supply 
chains, damage infrastructure and cause 
operational shutdowns.
To mitigate risks, strengthen 
infrastructure to endure extreme 
weather with resilient designs and 
backup power systems. Additionally, 
diversify supply chains to lessen 
dependence on regions vulnerable to 
extreme weather events.
Water sources
Glacial melt can alter water availability, 
impacting regions that rely on glacialfed 
water sources.
To address glacial melt, improve 
water efficiency to reduce reliance 
on glacialfed sources and implement 
monitoring systems to anticipate and 
adapt to changes in water availability.
Land degradation
Desertification, leading to the loss of 
arable land, can disrupt agricultural 
supply chains and drive up raw material 
costs.
To mitigate the impact of desertification, 
companies can source raw materials 
from regions less vulnerable to it and 
invest in land restoration projects to 
combat soil degradation, ensuring 
continued agricultural productivity.
Annual Report 2024
121
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering our ESG Commitment
Tax compliance and implementing sustainable tax practices has been central 
to our business priorities. Adhering to tax regulatory compliances reflects our 
commitment to ESG and corporate governance.
Compliance
VBL strictly adheres to all tax regulatory compliances, 
periodical filings, and reporting for all the applicable tax 
laws. We express zero-tolerance to any non-compliance, 
supported by our efficient compliance tracking tool that 
features a pre-defined escalation matrix for instant  
flag off. 
Accounting and governance
Taxes on all fronts – input, output, corporate and 
withholding taxes are properly accounted for in 
alignment with applicable laws and accounting standard 
through a dedicated team of tax experts. In case of 
any change in existing tax laws, our internal team of 
tax experts evaluate the changes and its implications 
on our business transactions. An updated SOP is then 
circulated to implement the changes amongst relevant 
stakeholders.
Tax planning with business rationale
A transparent process of tax risk assessment and 
management, integral to tax planning at VBL, is 
implemented. In compliance with our zero-tolerance for 
non-compliance of tax regulations or tax evasions, we 
refrain from taking any aggressive tax positions. Only 
those tax incentives, that are aligned with our overall 
business objective are availed in respective jurisdictions.
Engagement with tax authorities
We strive to stand out as ‘the most trusted and tax 
compliant company’ in our operational areas. To ensure 
this, we provide full support and actively engage with 
the tax authorities to understand the business model 
and tax positions.
Risk management
Risks within VBL across the key risk areas are constantly 
monitored and mitigated. An internal risk control 
process continually identifies, measures, analyzes and 
manages such risks. A comprehensive review mechanism 
is also set up to keep all transactions tax compliant and 
ensure that they fall within no risk or low risk categories. 
The responsibility for such review is vested with the 
Audit, Risk Management & Ethics Committee, Internal 
Auditors and Statutory Auditors.
Key heads for 
tax spectrum  
at VBL
Compliance
Accounting and 
Governance
Tax Planning with 
Business Rationale
Engagement with 
Tax Authorities
Risk Management
Tax Technology
High Level of Ethics 
and Integrity
Varun Beverages Limited
122
Vendor Management
Identification and 
recording in 
correct ledger
System generated Sale 
Invoices, E-invoices and 
E-way bills
GST portal reporting
Strong vendor 
management process 
with robust KYC 
documentation & 
verification of historical 
compliances under GST 
laws
Powerful SAP-based 
identification process 
enabling issuance of PO 
using correct HSN/SAC 
and tax code
VBL SAP is integrated 
with the E-invoicing 
portal and E-way bill 
portal of the government
Filing of GST returns for 
all outward supplies basis 
system-generated sales 
register
Vendor mapping with 
correct HSN/SAC 
code and GST rates
System-based transaction 
identification by an 
internal team
System configuration 
restricts invoice gen-
eration without an 
E-invoice and E-way bill 
(as prescribed under the 
GST laws)
This ensures that all 
the recorded outward 
supplies get reported 
along with the correct tax 
liability
Vendor mapping with 
correct withholding 
tax codes for proper 
deduction of withholding 
tax while recording 
transactions
Controlling of the 
input tax entitlement 
through the system to 
ensure that the input 
tax credit is not availed 
wrongly (not permitted as 
per GST laws)
Tax technologies
Digital recording and reporting of all tax transactions is becoming a norm with the advancement in online 
governance and tax technology. VBL has made adequate investments towards this to ensure accurate and faster 
reporting.
Annual Report 2024
123
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` Million)
Description
FY 2020
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2024
Corporate Tax  
(Excluding Interest u/s 234A/234B/234C)
934.5
347.2
1,383.9
 4,988.9
5,974.5
TDS on Employees 
(As per Tax Audit Report)
430.1
454.9
561.0
769.0 
750.4
TDS on Others 
(As per Tax Audit Report)
310.6
245.7
484.7
770.1
857.5
TCS 
(As per Tax Audit Report)
2.6
29.6
72.2
 118.1
130.0
Dividend Distribution Tax
91.7
-
-
-
-
Capital Gains Tax (Including in Corporate  
Tax mentioned above)
0.1
1.2
0.1
2.2
1.0
Tax trends in the last five years:
Integrity and ethical conduct
Ethical conduct and integrity is upheld across the 
organization and supported by strong and transparent 
accounting principles. Unethical behavior by any of our 
employees and/or third-party working in or behalf of the 
company is not tolerated and strict policy measures are 
implemented against them. The company has a zero-
tolerance policy on integrity in place, which is applicable 
for all VBL’s dealings with vendors, customers, third-
party consultants and government authorities.
Tax Contribution
Contribution to Exchequer
Corporate 
Tax
TDS  
Employees
TDS  
Others
Capital 
Gains Tax
TCS
Direct Tax
Indirect Tax
GST
Corporate Taxes, TDS, TCS, Capital Gains Tax 
and Dividend Distribution Tax
Over the years, VBL has made a significant contribution 
to the exchequer by way of Corporate Tax, TDS on 
Employees, TDS on others, TCS, Capital Gains and 
the Dividend Distribution Tax. Given an increase in 
turnover in the last five years, its Corporate Income Tax 
has increased – from ` 934.5 Million in FY 2019-20 to 
5,974.5 Million in FY 2023-24.
Note: For taxation purpose, FY refers to Financial Year defined as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 i.e. April 1 to March 31.
Varun Beverages Limited
124
Indirect Tax - GST
The key product of VBL is taxable at a higher rate of 28% GST with 12% cess. In the last five years, the total payment 
of Gross GST on outward supplies stands at ` 163,646.8 Million. This has increased from ` 23,280.4 Million in 
Financial Year 2019-20 to ` 53,970.1 Million in Financial Year 2023-24.
(` in Million)
Financial Year
Gross Tax 
Payable (`)
Paid through 
Cash (`)
Paid through 
ITC (`)
2019-20
23,280.4
12,024.5
11,255.9
2020-21
24,690.8
12,309.6
12,384.1
2021-22
31,918.9
15,639.0
16,276.9
2022-23
53,067.0 
26,194.6
26,872.4
2023-24
53,970.1
28,708.3
25,261.8
Tax trends in the last five years:
Annual Report 2024
125
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INTERNATIONAL 
TERRITORIES
Growing Stronger in the 
International Business
Crossing boundaries to create the right ESG impact, our ESG strategy drives 
meaningful action and global growth. We champion sustainability through 
inclusive practices that create lasting impact. By integrating environmental 
stewardship, social responsibility, and strong governance, we foster positive 
change across our operations and communities, reinforcing our commitment to 
a better future.
Varun Beverages South Africa
Electricity consumed  
in 2024
0.25 kWh/case 
Water consumed per liter of 
beverage production in 2024
1.81 Liters 
•	 Reduction in PET blowing pressure
•	 Implementation of post-blowing air recovery systems across all plants
•	 Assessment of steam traps and optimization of condensate return 
recovery
•	 Exploration of solar power adoption across all plants
•	 Installation of flow meters in key areas across all plants
•	 Installation of water recovery systems on the blender in all plants
•	 Optimization of CIP water usage
•	 Implementation of cut-off switches for hand wash stations
•	 Partnership with regional recycling companies for the collection of used 
PET bottles
Environment
Governance awards and achievement 
Compliance
•	 Ensuring strict adherence to 
corporate policies and applicable 
laws.
•	 Conducting regular audits to uphold 
the highest standards of ethical 
conduct.
Training
Conducted various compliance training 
programs.
•	 Social media campaign for Women’s Month
•	 Launch of Reboost Pink in affiliation with Women’s Month gatherings
•	 Collaborative initiatives with Bethany House to support women affected 
by domestic violence
•	 Updated contractor management system
•	 Enhanced Permit to Work system with a special focus on improving 
frontline awareness of risk mitigation
Social
Diversity in CY 2024
28%
Varun Beverages Limited
128
Varun Beverages Morocco
(~13% reduced from 2023)
Electricity consumed in 2024
Rooftop solar power capacity
0.27 kWh/case 
1.6 MW
Water consumed per liter of 
beverage production in 2024
Renewable Energy Mix
1.99 Liters 
11%
•	 Installed flow meters for precise water usage 
monitoring and optimization.
•	 Enhanced RO efficiency in areas where recovery 
rates were below the designed capacity.
•	 Implementing solar power panels to minimize 
reliance on conventional energy sources.
Environment
Governance awards and achievement 
Training
Conducted various compliance training programs
Diversity in CY 2024
7.2% 
By EFE Morocco in 2024
Employer of the year
•	 Promoting gender diversity by integrating women 
into the workforce to foster inclusion within the 
organization.
•	 Supporting employee well-being and engagement 
through initiatives like pilgrimage programs, sports 
activities, summer camps, and team-building events.
•	 Contributed social aid to earthquake victims in the 
Al Haouz region.
Social
•	 Launched recruitment campaigns in rural areas to 
create livelihood opportunities for local residents.
Annual Report 2024
129
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(~13% reduced from 2023)
Electricity used in 2024
0.32 kWh/case 
(~10% reduced from 2023)
Water utilized for per liter of 
beverage production in 2024
1.60 Liters 
Rooftop solar power capacity
Renewable Energy Mix ~10%
3.5 MW 
Trees planted in 2024
1,600+
•	 Installed a water treatment plant to minimize water 
wastage
•	 Set up solar power plants to reduce reliance on 
conventional energy sources
•	 Lowered carbon emissions by reducing coal usage 
with lighter grammage per 8 oz
•	 Participated in National Tree Planting Day in 
collaboration with NMB Bank and the City of Harare
•	 Replaced diesel/petrol forklifts with electric vehicles 
(EVs)
•	 Introduced EVs for last-mile delivery to further reduce 
environmental impact
Environment
Varun Beverages Zimbabwe
Varun Beverages Limited
130
•	 Empowering marginalized women, including those 
from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, 
individuals with special needs, and war widows, by 
providing sustainable livelihood opportunities.
•	 Supporting education for underprivileged students 
through sponsorship programs.
•	 Contributing to community well-being by extending 
aid and support during the Cholera outbreak.
Social
Deployed to create employment for women in rural,  
semi-urban, and urban areas, with an initiative launched  
by the President of Zimbabwe
6,700 push carts 
Diversity in CY 2024
18%
For higher education  
in India
Sponsored first PHD 
student program 
From underprivileged 
backgrounds
Sponsored several 
school children
In Zimbabwe
Most socially 
responsible and  
society friendly 
company 
Governance awards and achievement 
Compliance
Varun Beverages Zimbabwe operates in full 
compliance with applicable laws, policies, and 
regulations.
Training
Conducted various compliance 
training programs.
Annual Report 2024
131
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Nepal
(2% reduced from 2023)
Electricity consumed in 2024
0.45 kWh/case 
(3% reduced from 2023)
Water consumed per liter of 
beverage production in 2024
1.59 Liters 
•	 Established a 2MW solar power plant at the 
manufacturing facility.
•	 Installing active harmonic filters at plants to reduce 
power consumption.
•	 Partnering with NGOs and local organizations to plant 
trees within the plants and surrounding parks.
•	 Enhancing the water recovery system for bottle 
washing operations to improve efficiency.
•	 Installing bag filters at manufacturing sites to reduce 
carbon and other gas emissions.
•	 Phased transition from diesel forklifts and staff buses 
to electric vehicles.
•	 Exploring plastic waste collection and recycling 
initiatives with third-party vendors.
Environment
Varun Beverages Limited
132
Diversity in CY 2024
20%
•	 Promoting diversity and inclusion across our 
workforce and supply chain.
•	 Committed to fair labor practices and prioritizing the 
well-being of our employees.
•	 Supporting education and community initiatives to 
create a positive societal impact.
•	 Undertaking CSR efforts in healthcare, community 
development, and collaborations with local law 
enforcement.
•	 Established the AARU Clinic in Kathmandu for 
healthcare access.
Social
•	 Offering free medical checkups for the community.
•	 Contributing to the Birat Eye Clinic to support eye 
care.
•	 Constructing a temple in Ramgram, near 
Navalparasi, Nepal.
•	 Ensured employee engagement through various 
team-building programs.
Governance awards and achievement 
Compliance
•	 Ensuring strict adherence to corporate policies 
and applicable laws.
•	 Conducting regular audits to uphold the highest 
standards of ethical conduct.
Training
Conducted various compliance training 
programs.
Annual Report 2024
133
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Zambia
(~16% reduced from 2023)
Electricity used in 2024
0.27 kWh/case 
(~15% reduced from 2023)
Water utilized for per liter of 
beverage production in 2024
2.03 Liters 
Diversity in CY 2024
27% 
•	 Implemented initiatives like CIP conservation, RO 
water recovery, and equipment optimization to 
enhance water savings.
•	 Optimized energy use through automation, solar and 
LED lighting, and photo sensor installations.
•	 Exploring plastic waste collection and recycling in 
partnership with third-party vendors.
Environment
•	 Collaborated with World Vision to implement various 
CSR initiatives.
•	 Partnered with Project Concern Zambia (PCZ) for 
reforestation, safe drinking water access, and the 
Strong Zambia Project empowering young girls.
Social
•	 Conducted multiple employee training and 
recognition programs.
Varun Beverages Limited
134
Governance awards and achievement 
Compliance
•	 Varun Beverages Zambia ensures compliance 
with applicable regulations through 
dedicated legal teams, regular audits, and 
employee training programs.
•	 Committed to ethical business practices, 
strengthening its reputation as a responsible 
corporate entity while mitigating legal risks 
for sustainable growth.
Training
Conducted various compliance 
training programs.
Annual Report 2024
135
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Diversity in CY 2024
7% 
•	 Promoted paddy field cultivation to support farmers’ 
growth and uplift the community.
•	 Provided on-the-job training to enhance employees’ 
operational skills and situational awareness.
Social
Governance awards and achievement 
Compliance
Varun Beverages Sri Lanka ensures compliance with 
applicable regulations through dedicated legal teams, regular 
audits, and employee training programs.
• Committed to ethical business practices, strengthening its 
reputation as a responsible corporate entity while mitigating 
legal risks for sustainable growth.
Training
Conducted various compliance
training programs
Varun Beverages Sri Lanka
•	 Installed timers to automatically stop the ammonia 
compressor pump after use.
•	 Replaced CFL and FTL lamps with energy-efficient 
LED lighting.
•	 Repaired LP air leakage points and established an 
SMT for weekly audits and corrective actions.
•	 Installed water flow meters at key consumption 
points for accurate monitoring and control.
•	 Repurposed rejected RO water for JAR washing, 
enhancing resource efficiency and reducing waste.
•	 Launched the “Clean Green Sri Lanka” initiative to 
tackle PET plastic waste by collecting and recycling 
used plastic through dedicated collection bins.
Environment
Electricity used in 2024
0.62 kWh/case 
(~5% reduced from 2023)
Water utilized for per liter of beverage production in 2024
1.75 Liters 
Varun Beverages Limited
136
Awards and Recognition
We are honored to be recognized with awards and accolades for our commitment 
to excellent corporate governance, strong business processes, and sustainable 
growth. These achievements reflect our dedication to meeting both our business 
objectives and our social and environmental sustainability goals.
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria, the only Indian 
Company’s promoter to have 
received PepsiCo’s International 
Bottler of the Year Award in 1997
•	 Varun Beverages Limited – 
Bottler of the Year 2019 by 
PepsiCo in South Asia Region
•	 Winner of Best FMCG 
Corporate Governance India 
2019 awarded by Capital 
Finance International (UK)
•	 Varun Beverages Limited – 
Global Best Employer Award
•	 PepsiCo’s Best Bottler in the Africa-
Middle East-South Asia region
•	 Golden Peacock National Quality 
Award
•	 Golden Peacock award for 
Excellence in Corporate 
Governance
•	 CFI.CO (UK) for the 4th 
Consecutive Year for Best FMCG 
Corporate Governance (India)
•	 Business Brand Award for Best 
Corporate Governance Practices
•	 CNBC TV18 - Incredible Brands of 
India Awards for Best Corporate 
Governance of the Year
•	 Best Corporate Governance Practices 
Award, Pep+ Sustainability award, ABC 
2024 Pep+ Climate Award
•	 PepsiCo’s ‘Better’ category award 
for our sustainability endeavors
•	 PepsiCo’s International Bottler of the 
Year 2022
•	 PepsiCo’s Best Bottler in the Africa-
Middle East-South Asia region
•	 Business Excellence (Corporate 
Governance) of The Year 2022 
2024
2023
2022
•	 Winner of Best FMCG
	
Corporate Governance India 
2021 awarded by Capital 
Finance International (UK) (third 
successive year)
2021
•	 National Best Employer Award 
by ET Now, in collaboration 
with World HRD Congress
•	 Distinguished Entrepreneurship 
Award in the PHD Annual 
Awards for Excellence 2018 to 
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria
2018
•	 Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private 
Limited – Best Unit of the Year
•	 Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) 
Limited – Donald M Kendall 
Award by PepsiCo for Small 
Developed Markets
•	 VBL Sonarpur Plant – Best Plant 
of the Year
•	 VBL Sonarpur Plant – CII Award 
for Food Safety
2017
1997
•	 Winner of Best FMCG
	
Corporate Governance India 
2020 awarded by Capital Finance 
International (UK)
•	 Winner of Bottler of the Year, 
2019 by PepsiCo in AMESA sector 
(Africa, Middle East and South 
Asia) received in 2020
2020
2019
•	 VBL India – FOBO Unit of 
the Year
•	 Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited – FOBO 
Country of the Year
2016
Award by Prime Time Research  
Media Pvt. Ltd. 
•	 Best Corporate Governance 
Practices - Varun Beverages 
Limited Award under Business 
Brand Awards
Annual Report 2024
137
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024
137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Corporate Information 
Board of Directors
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
Chief Risk Officer &  
Group Company Secretary
Mr. Ravi Batra
Joint Statutory Auditors
M/s. J.C. Bhalla & Co
Chartered Accountants,
New Delhi
M/s. O.P. Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants,
New Delhi
Corporate Office
RJ Corp House, Plot No. 31,
Institutional Area, Sector-44,
Gurugram - 122 002
Registered Office
F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-I
New Delhi - 110 020
Category
Name of Directors
Non-Executive Chairman
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria*
Executive Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director
Mr. Varun Jaipuria*
Executive / Whole-time Directors
Mr. Raj Gandhi
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
Dr. Naresh Trehan
Non-Executive, Independent Directors
Dr. Ravi Gupta
Mr. Abhiram Seth
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal
Ms. Sita Khosla
*Mr. Ravi Jaipuria and Mr. Varun Jaipuria are Promoters of the Company.
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally Mandal, 
Hyderabad – 500 032 
Toll Free No. : 1800 309 4001 
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com 
Website: www.kfintech.com 
SEBI Registration No.: INR000000221
List of Bankers
1 	
Axis Bank Limited
2 	
HDFC Bank Limited
3 	 IndusInd Bank Limited
4 	 ICICI Bank Limited
5 	 JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
6 	 YES Bank Limited
7 	
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
8 	 The Federal Bank Limited
9 	 Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
10 	 RBL Bank Limited
11 	 IDFC FIRST Bank Limited
12 	 Standard Chartered Bank
13 	 DBS Bank India Limited
Varun Beverages Limited
138
GRI Index
GRI content index
Statement of use 
VBL has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period 
January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 in accordance with the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details
03-07
Future Ready, Eco-steady. A 
Step Ahead Already
Varun Beverages Limited (VBL) 
a public listed company having 
its headquarters in India.
Country of Operations: Pouring 
Refreshments across Borders, 
Expansion in a World of 
Refreshment Refer page (18-19)
2-2 Entities included in the 
organization’s sustainability 
reporting
18-19
Pouring refreshments across 
borders, Expanding a world 
of refreshment
2-3 Reporting period, 
frequency and contact point
36-37
About the ESG Report
2-4 Restatements of 
information
36-37
About the ESG Report
Page 72-73: The company 
adopted the SBTi methodology 
for calculating GHG emissions 
starting from CY 2024. 
Consequently, the GHG 
emissions for CY 2022 and 
CY 2023 have been restated 
using this approach.
2-5 External assurance
36-37
About the ESG Report
2-6 Activities, value chain  
and other business  
relationships
78-81
Sourcing with Care
2-7 Employees
84-91
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
2-8 Workers who are not 
employees
84-91
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
2-9 Governance structure and 
composition
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-10 Nomination and selection 
of the highest governance 
body
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-11 Chair of the highest 
governance body
104-111
 32-33
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Our Board: Enriched by 
diversity, focused on value
2-12 Role of the highest 
governance body in 
overseeing the management 
of impacts
104-111
 32-33
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Our Board: Enriched by 
diversity, focused on value
Annual Report 2024
139
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
2-13 Delegation of 
responsibility for managing 
impacts
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-14 Role of the highest 
governance body in 
sustainability reporting
38-39
50-51
Message from Executive 
Vice Chairman: Building a 
Future That’s Ready and 
Steady
Leading the charge for a 
sustainable tomorrow
2-15 Conflicts of interest
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
There have been no complaints 
of conflict of interest.
2-16 Communication of critical 
concerns
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
The Vigil Mechanism 
encourages directors and 
employees to report genuine 
concerns regarding unethical 
behavior, fraud, leakage of 
sensitive information, or policy 
violations. The company 
upholds the highest ethical and 
legal standards and assures 
protection to those reporting 
misconduct. It also allows 
access to the Chairperson of 
the Audit and Risk Management 
Committee in exceptional cases. 
However, it doesn’t excuse 
breaches of confidentiality or 
false allegations.
2-17 Collective knowledge of 
the highest governance body
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-18 Evaluation of the 
performance of the highest 
governance body
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
ESG-linked Incentive 
Policy under Sustaining an 
Empowered Workforce
2-19 Remuneration policies
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
ESG-linked Incentive 
Policy under Sustaining an 
Empowered Workforce
2-20 Process to determine 
remuneration
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-21 Annual total 
compensation ratio
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-22 Statement on sustainable 
development strategy
38-39
Message from Executive 
Vice Chairman
2-23 Policy commitments
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-24 Embedding policy 
commitments
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-25 Processes to remediate 
negative impacts
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Varun Beverages Limited
140
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking 
advice and raising concerns
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-27 Compliance with laws 
and regulations
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
2-28 Membership associations
27
List of the top trade and 
industry chambers and 
associations provided
2-29 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
42-43
44-46
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
2-30 Collective bargaining 
agreements
104-111
84-91
Embedding ESG in  
Our Corporate DNA
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Material topics
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine 
material topics
44-46
Prioritizing what Matters
3-2 List of material topics
44-46
Prioritizing what Matters
Our materiality matrix includes 
all our material issues, and 
they are integrated within 
the different sections of the 
Sustainability Report
Economic 
performance
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
44-46
Prioritizing what Matters
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed
28-31
Driving Consistent Results 
Year after Year
201-2 Financial implications 
and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate 
change
117-121
Risk and Opportunities 
Management
201-3 Defined benefit 
plan obligations and other 
retirement plans
84-91
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
201-4 Financial assistance 
received from government
28-31
Driving Consistent Results 
Year after Year
No share of any government in 
the shareholding structure
Market presence
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
108
84-91
Diversity policy under 
Embedding ESG in  
Our Corporate DNA  
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016
202-1 Ratios of standard 
entry level wage by gender 
compared to local minimum 
wage
108
84-91
Diversity policy under 
Embedding ESG in  
Our Corporate DNA  
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
202-2 Proportion of senior 
management hired from the 
local community
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
All the senior management of 
the company are hired from the 
local community
Indirect economic impacts
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-46
Focusing more on 
empowering our pillars 
Prioritizing what matters
Annual Report 2024
141
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and services 
supported
28-31
 114-116
Driving Consistent Results 
Year after Year
CSR Initiatives: Making a 
Sustainable Difference
203-2 Significant indirect 
economic impacts
28-31
114-116
Driving Consistent Results 
Year after Year
CSR Initiatives: Making a 
Sustainable Difference
Procurement 
practices
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
78-81
Sourcing with care
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending 
on local suppliers
78-81
Sourcing with care
Anti-corruption
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
104-111
84-92
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for 
risks related to corruption
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
205-2 Communication and 
training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
205-3 Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions taken
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Anti-competitive behavior
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
104-111
Whistleblower/Vigil Policy, 
Anti-bribery and corruption 
policy under Embedding 
ESG in Our Corporate DNA
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti-
trust, and monopoly practices
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Tax
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
122-125
Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering Our ESG 
Commitment
Varun Beverages Limited
142
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
GRI 207: Tax 
2019
207-1 Approach to tax
122-125
Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering Our ESG 
Commitment
207-2 Tax governance, control, 
and risk management
117-121
122-125
 104-111
Risk and Opportunities 
Management
Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering our ESG 
commitment
Vigil mechanism policy
207-3 Stakeholder 
engagement and management 
of concerns related to tax
117-121
122-125
 104-111
Risk and Opportunities 
Management
Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering our ESG 
commitment
Vigil mechanism policy
207-4 Country-by-country 
reporting
122-125
Sustainable Tax Practice: 
Furthering Our ESG 
Commitment
We will report country by 
country taxation in next 
sustainability report
Materials
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55,
66-69
42-43
117-121
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow 
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Risk and Opportunities 
Management 
GRI 301: 
Materials 2016
301-1 Materials used by weight 
or volume
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
301-2 Recycled input materials 
used
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
301-3 Reclaimed products and 
their packaging materials
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
Energy
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55,
70-77
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
Enhancing Energy 
Performance
GRI 302: Energy 
2016
302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organization
70-77
Enhancing Energy 
Performance
302-2 Energy consumption 
outside of the organization
70-77
Enhancing Energy 
Performance
302-3 Energy intensity
70-77
Enhancing Energy 
Performance
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
70-77
Enhancing Energy 
Performance
302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of products and 
services
70-77
Enhancing Energy 
Performance
Annual Report 2024
143
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
Water and effluents
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55
56-65
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
Water Conservation 
Rejuvenation of Water 
Bodies (RWB) - A New 
Initiative, Water Bodies: 
Impact Assessment
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018
303-1 Interactions with water 
as a shared resource
56-65
Water Conservation 
Rejuvenation of Water 
Bodies (RWB) - A New 
Initiative Water Bodies: 
Impact Assessment
303-2 Management of water 
discharge-related impacts
56-65
Water Conservation 
Rejuvenation of Water 
Bodies (RWB) - A New 
Initiative Water Bodies: 
Impact Assessment
303-3 Water withdrawal
56-65
Water Conservation 
Rejuvenation of Water 
Bodies (RWB) - A New 
InitiativeWater Bodies: 
Impact Assessment
303-4 Water discharge
56-65
Water Conservation 
Rejuvenation of Water 
Bodies (RWB) - A New 
InitiativeWater Bodies: 
Impact Assessment
303-5 Water consumption
56-65
Water Conservation 
Rejuvenation of Water 
Bodies (RWB) - A New 
InitiativeWater Bodies: 
Impact Assessment
Biodiversity
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55
60-65
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
Water Bodies: Impact 
Assessment
304-3 Habitats protected or 
restored
60-65
Water Bodies: Impact 
Assessment
Emissions
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55
72-77
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
Varun Beverages Limited
144
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 
emissions
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 
2) GHG emissions
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 
3) GHG emissions
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
305-4 GHG emissions 
intensity
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
305-5 Reduction of GHG 
emissions
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
305-6 Emissions of ozone-
depleting substances (ODS)
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
sulfur oxides (SOx), and other 
significant air emissions
72-77
Sustained Climate Action: 
Reducing our Carbon 
Footprint
Waste
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55
66-69
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
GRI 306: Waste 
2020
306-1 Waste generation and 
significant waste-related 
impacts
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
306-2 Management of 
significant waste-related 
impacts
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
306-3 Waste generated
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
306-4 Waste diverted from 
disposal
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
306-5 Waste directed to 
disposal
66-69
Plastic Waste Management 
and Recycling
Supplier environmental assessment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
54-55
78-81
Committed to a Cleaner, 
Greener Tomorrow
Sourcing with Care
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using environmental 
criteria
78-81
Sourcing with Care
All our suppliers are screened 
through a comprehensive 
certification process suggested 
by PepsiCo and we are 
committed to sourcing raw 
materials as well as packaging 
materials only from the 
suppliers which are following 
sustainable practices.
308-2 Negative environmental 
impacts in the supply chain 
and actions taken
78-81
Sourcing with Care
Annual Report 2024
145
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
Employment
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
84-92
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnover
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
401-2 Benefits provided to 
full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or 
part-time employees
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
401-3 Parental leave
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Labor/management relations
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
84-92
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
GRI 402: Labor/
Management 
Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods 
regarding operational changes
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Notice period are provided into 
three categories i.e. 30 days, 
60 days and 90 days as per 
the employee grade defined 
also notice period related 
to corrective bargaining are 
included in the agreements
Occupational health and safety
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
93-96
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
Employee Health & Safety
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and 
safety management system
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and incident 
investigation
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-3 Occupational health 
services
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health and safety
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and safety
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker 
health
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-7 Prevention and 
mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business 
relationships
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-8 Workers covered by 
an occupational health and 
safety management system
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
403-10 Work-related ill health
93-96
Employee Health & Safety
Varun Beverages Limited
146
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
Training and education
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
84-92
104-111
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016
404-1 Average hours 
of training per year per 
employee
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programs
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviews
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
84-92
104-111
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
405-2 Ratio of basic salary 
and remuneration of women 
to men
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Non-discrimination
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
84-92
104-111
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars
Prioritizing What Matters
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 
2016
406-1 Incidents of 
discrimination and corrective 
actions taken
84-92
104-111
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
There is no incident of 
discrimination reported during 
the year
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
84-92
104-111
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and 
suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be 
at risk
84-92
104-111
78-81
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future  
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Sourcing with Care
Annual Report 2024
147
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
Child labor
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
84-92
104-111
78-81
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future  
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Sourcing with Care
GRI 408: Child 
Labor 2016
408-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child labor
84-92
104-111
78-81
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future  
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Sourcing with Care
There is no incident of child 
labor reported during the year
Forced or compulsory labor
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
84-92
104-111
78-81
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future  
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Sourcing with Care
GRI 409: Forced 
or Compulsory 
Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and 
suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
84-92
104-111
78-81
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future  
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Sourcing with Care
There is no incident of forced 
or compulsory labor reported 
during the year
Security practices
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
GRI 410: Security 
Practices 2016
410-1 Security personnel 
trained in human rights 
policies or procedures
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Rights of indigenous peoples
GRI 411: Rights 
of Indigenous 
Peoples 2016
411-1 Incidents of violations 
involving rights of indigenous 
peoples
84-92
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future
No such incidents reported 
relating to violations involving 
the rights of indigenous peoples 
during the reporting period.
Local communities
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
2016
413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programs
84-92
114-116
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future 
CSR Initiatives: Making a 
Sustainable Difference
We give priority to hire the 
candidate at all levels from 
the locations of operations 
to capture local community 
talent who are well aware of the 
situations of these areas and 
can easily get onboarded and 
serve the organization.
413-2 Operations with 
significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on 
local communities
84-92
114-116
Future-Ready Workforce 
Shaping our Future 
CSR Initiatives: Making a 
Sustainable Difference
Supplier social assessment
Varun Beverages Limited
148
GRI Standard/  
Other Source
Disclosure
Page 
Number Location
Explanation
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
78-81
Sourcing with care
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria
78-81
Sourcing with care
414-2 Negative social impacts 
in the supply chain and 
actions taken
78-81
Sourcing with care
Public policy
GRI 415: Public 
Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions
104-111
Embedding ESG in Our 
Corporate DNA
Customer health and safety
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
97-98
99-101
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars 
Prioritizing What Matters
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
GRI 416: 
Customer Health 
and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health 
and safety impacts of product 
and service categories
97-98
99-101
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
416-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of 
products and services
97-98
99-101
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
There is no such incident 
reported during the year
Marketing and labeling
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
42-43
44-47
97-98
99-101
Focusing More on 
Empowering our Pillars 
Prioritizing What Matters
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016
417-1 Requirements for 
product and service 
information and labeling
97-98
99-101
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
417-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
product and service 
information and labeling
97-98
99-101
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
417-3 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
marketing communications
97-98
99-101
Augmenting Product Safety 
and Quality
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
Customer privacy
GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021
3-3 Management of material 
topics
99-101
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated 
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy 
and losses of customer data
99-101
Consumer Health and 
Nutrition
Annual Report 2024
149
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Limited
150
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
Economic Overview & Outlook
Indian Economy
In 2024, India continued to demonstrate strong 
economic performance, maintaining its position as one 
of the world’s fastest-growing major economies. The 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) maintained India’s 
GDP growth forecast at 6.5% for both FY2026 and 
FY2027, reflecting confidence in the nation’s economic 
trajectory. This stable outlook is supported by strong 
private consumption, particularly in rural areas, and 
substantial public infrastructure investments.
Despite 
global 
economic 
challenges, 
including 
geopolitical tensions and inflationary pressures, India’s 
economic outlook remains positive. India is poised to 
sustain its growth trajectory, supported by structural 
reforms and advancements in technology. While certain 
sectors face hurdles such as high inflation and slowing 
consumption, these challenges create opportunities for 
policy interventions to stimulate demand and ensure 
inclusive growth. The government’s proactive measures 
in fiscal policy and infrastructure development are 
expected to mitigate these issues, fostering a resilient 
and dynamic economic environment.
Source: IMF – World Economic Outlook
Soft Drinks Market Overview & Outlook
The Indian soft drinks industry navigated a challenging 
landscape in 2024. Despite being a traditionally high-
growth market driven by increasing urbanization, a 
growing middle class, and evolving consumer preferences, 
demand 
remained 
subdued 
due 
to 
unexpected 
weather patterns and weakened consumption trends. 
The unseasonal rains in several parts of the country 
significantly impacted sales, particularly during the peak 
summer months, a critical period for the sector.
On the supply side, while the industry displayed resilience 
with robust distribution networks and innovative product 
launches, the benefits were limited by the macroeconomic 
environment. Brands attempted to mitigate challenges 
by offering value-for-money packs, introducing new 
flavors, and leveraging digital platforms for marketing. 
However, these efforts could not fully offset the dip in 
overall volumes.
Looking ahead, the industry remains cautiously optimistic. 
The upcoming summer season, coupled with strategic 
marketing campaigns and an expanding portfolio of 
products, is expected to drive growth in the Indian soft 
drinks market. The adoption of sustainable packaging 
and the introduction of low-sugar and no-sugar variants 
continue to align with evolving consumer preferences, 
creating a strong foundation for long-term growth.
Improved infrastructure has enhanced cold storage 
and distribution capabilities, which are essential for the 
beverage industry. The increasing deployment of Visi 
Coolers in under-penetrated regions has played a key 
role in improving product availability and market reach. 
These advancements have facilitated access to chilled 
beverages in emerging markets, driving consumption 
and positioning the industry to tap into new growth 
opportunities.
Soft 
Drinks 
– 
Key 
Growth 
Drivers 
and 
Opportunities
The soft drinks market in India is poised for substantial 
growth, driven by several key factors:
Urban Growth and Increasing Spending Power: Rapid 
urbanization and a growing middle class have driven 
higher consumption of convenience foods and beverages, 
including soft drinks. With higher disposable incomes, 
consumers are increasingly spending on-the-go beverage 
options, enhancing demand for a diverse range of 
products. Additionally, growing participation of women 
joining the workforce is contributing to higher household 
incomes, further enhancing consumer spending capacity.
Youth Demographic: India’s large young population is 
a significant driver of demand for trendy and innovative 
beverages. Young consumers are more inclined to 
experiment with new flavors, limited-edition variants, and 
international brands, making this demographic critical for 
industry growth.
Unlocking Growth in Rural India: Rural India presents 
significant opportunities for growth, offering a vast, 
untapped market. Strengthening last-mile distribution 
networks, introducing smaller and more affordable 
SKUs, and launching localized marketing campaigns are 
strategies that can drive deeper penetration and unlock 
new growth avenues. Additionally, expanding chilling 
infrastructure, such as Visi Coolers, to underserved 
locations remains crucial. Improved access to cold 
storage ensures better availability of chilled beverages, 
enabling brands to cater effectively to consumer 
demand in rural and remote areas while driving 
consistent growth.
151
Annual Report 2024
Location: India’s diverse climatic conditions, with a 
significant portion of the population living in regions 
characterized by hot, dry, or moderate weather, create 
a natural demand for refreshing beverages. The rising 
temperatures and prolonged summer seasons in many 
parts of the country are expected to drive higher 
consumption of soft drinks.
Innovative Products: Indian market has a large young 
population that has been driving the demand for new 
and unique flavors. To meet this trend, the industry is 
continuously focusing on expanding its product offerings 
and introducing innovative options, such as new and 
creative flavors and packaging solutions.
Health Trends Shaping Demand: The growing focus 
on health is driving demand for low-sugar, zero-calorie, 
and functional beverages enriched with vitamins and 
probiotics. Brands are innovating with organic and 
natural ingredient-based drinks to cater to these evolving 
consumer preferences. 
Business Overview – A Key Player in the 
Beverage Industry
VBL’s Presence
Varun Beverages Limited (“VBL” or the “Company”) is a 
key player in India’s beverage industry and the second 
largest franchisee of PepsiCo in the world (outside US) with 
operations spanning across 10 countries with franchise 
rights and additional 4 countries with distribution rights. 
India is the largest market and contributed ~72% of 
revenues from operations (net) in Fiscal 2024. 
Symbiotic Relationship with PepsiCo
VBL continues to enjoy a longstanding, collaborative, and 
highly synergistic partnership with PepsiCo, a relationship 
that spans over three decades since PepsiCo’s entry into 
the Indian market. The Company accounts for more than 
90% of PepsiCo’s sales volumes in India, highlighting 
the significance of this collaboration. Leveraging an 
extensive manufacturing infrastructure and a well-
established distribution network, VBL produces, markets, 
and distributes a diverse range of PepsiCo products, 
including carbonated soft drinks, carbonated juice-based 
beverages, juice-based beverages, energy drinks, sports 
drinks, and packaged drinking water.
The portfolio of PepsiCo CSD brands produced and sold 
by VBL include Pepsi, Pepsi Zero, Mountain Dew, Sting, 
Seven-Up, Mirinda, Seven-Up Nimbooz Masala Soda 
and Evervess. PepsiCo NCB brands produced and sold 
by the Company include Slice, Tropicana Juices (100% 
and Delight), Seven-Up Nimbooz, Gatorade as well as 
packaged drinking water under the brand Aquafina.
The Company has built a strong sales team that 
collaborate closely with PepsiCo on local advertising 
and marketing campaigns. Additionally, the Company 
has also been granted franchise rights for several 
PepsiCo products in India’s 26 States and 6 Union 
Territories, as well as Nepal, Sri Lanka, Morocco, Zambia, 
Zimbabwe, South Africa, Lesotho, Eswatini & DRC and 
distribution rights for Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique 
and Madagascar.
The partnership has expanded into new avenues with the 
growing snacks business, further strengthening VBL’s 
role within PepsiCo’s ecosystem. The exclusive rights to 
manufacture and distribute PepsiCo snack brands, such 
as Cheetos in Morocco, Zimbabwe, and Zambia, mark a 
significant step in enriching VBL’s portfolio and leveraging 
synergies with its existing infrastructure. 
	 Production Facilities
	 Sales & Distribution - GTM & 
Logistics
	 In-outlet Management - 
Visi-Coolers
	 Consumer Push 
Management (BTL) -  
Market Share Gains
	 Trademarks
	 Formulations through 
Concentrate
	 Product & Packaging 
innovation through 
investment in R&D
	 Consumer Pull 
Management (ATL) - 
Brand Development
Demand Delivery
Demand Creation
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Limited
152
Business Model
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide 
range of carbonated soft drinks (“CSD”), as well as a 
large selection of non-carbonated beverages (“NCB”), 
including packaged drinking water. With its end-to-end 
execution capabilities, VBL oversees every aspect of 
the value chain – from manufacturing and distribution 
to warehousing, customer management, cash flow 
optimization, and driving future growth. PepsiCo provides 
brands, concentrates, and marketing support, while VBL 
manages manufacturing, supply chain processes, and 
capital allocation strategies, ensuring market share gains 
and cost efficiencies. 
VBL’s extensive experience in the beverage industry 
includes 
navigating 
the 
complexities 
of 
logistics 
and packaging across diverse territories. While the 
operational 
framework 
remains 
consistent 
across 
markets, each region presents unique challenges such as 
electricity reliability, refrigeration, logistics infrastructure, 
demographic diversity, and socioeconomic conditions. 
VBL addresses these challenges with tailored strategies 
to ensure operational efficiency and responsiveness.
The Company’s well-established distribution network 
spans urban, semi-urban, and rural markets, enabling 
it to meet the demands of a wide consumer base. 
Strategically located distribution centers maximize 
market penetration across licensed territories in India and 
international markets. VBL’s solid production capabilities 
and distribution network enable it to effectively respond 
to competitive pressures, market demand and evolving 
consumer preferences across targeted territories. 
As of December 31, 2024, the Company has 48 state-
of-the-art manufacturing facilities (36 in India & 12 in 
international territories). Further, it has a robust supply 
chain with 130+ depots, 2,600+ owned vehicles, 2,800+ 
primary distributors and presently installed 1.15 Million+ 
visi-coolers across various markets. These assets ensure 
seamless product availability and enhanced market reach, 
particularly in under-penetrated regions.
Over the years, VBL has grown its operations through 
both organic and inorganic expansions. Inorganic growth 
has been achieved through the acquisition of additional 
territories directly from PepsiCo as well as previously 
franchised territories. Supported by a dedicated and 
skilled sales team, the Company remains focused on 
driving growth and increasing market share across 
categories within its licensed territories. VBL employs a 
range of customer-focused strategies, including localized 
promotions, in-store activations, customer relationship 
management, 
merchandising, 
personalized 
account 
management, and identifying high-demand areas for the 
strategic placement of vending machines and visi-coolers. 
To enhance operational excellence, VBL has implemented 
backward integration initiatives and centralized raw 
material sourcing. The Company has established in-house 
production facilities for preforms, crowns, plastic closures, 
corrugated boxes, corrugated pads, plastic crates, and 
shrink-wrap films. These initiatives ensure consistent 
quality standards, operational efficiency, and cost 
optimization, further strengthening VBL’s competitive 
edge in the beverage industry.
Key Business Developments – 2024
Acquisition of South Africa and neighboring territories: 
	
On March 26, 2024, VBL consummated the 
acquisition of The Beverage Company Proprietary 
Limited, South Africa along with its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries (“BevCo”). Accordingly, Bevco became 
the subsidiary of the Company
	
This acquisition allowed the Company to consolidate 
its presence in franchised territories in South 
Africa, Lesotho, and Eswatini, as well as territories 
with distribution rights in Namibia, Botswana, 
Mozambique, and Madagascar
Acquisition of Tanzania and Ghana territories:
	
On November 13, 2024, your Company entered into 
share purchase agreements with Tanzania Bottling 
Company SA and Ghana Bottling Company Limited 
to acquire 100% share capital of SBC Tanzania Limited 
and SBC Beverages Ghana Limited respectively, 
subject to regulatory and other approvals, including 
but not limited to PepsiCo Inc. at an Equity value of 
~ USD 154.50 Million for Tanzania and ~ USD 15.06 
Million for Ghana
Exclusive Snacks Franchising Appointment with 
PepsiCo for Morocco, Zimbabwe and Zambia:
	
Varun Beverages Morocco SA (a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Company) entered into an Exclusive 
Snacks Appointment Agreement to manufacture and 
package Cheetos in the territory of Morocco. This 
appointment is in addition to the existing distribution 
agreement for PepsiCo’s snacks portfolio consisting 
of Lays, Cheetos, Doritos in the territory of Morocco
	
Varun Zimbabwe and Varun Zambia (subsidiaries 
of the Company) entered into an Exclusive Snacks 
Franchising Appointment with Premier Nutrition 
Trading LLC, Dubai (subsidiary of PepsiCo Inc.) to 
manufacture, distribute, and sell “Simba Munchiez” 
in the territory of Zimbabwe & Zambia
	
Distribution in Zimbabwe and Zambia has started 
w.e.f. February 1, 2025. Manufacturing facilities are 
expected to be operational for Morocco on or before 
May 1, 2025, Zimbabwe on or before October 1, 2025 
and for Zambia on or before April 1, 2026
153
Annual Report 2024
Commencement 
of 
Commercial 
Production 
at 
4 Greenfield facilities:
	
For CY 2024 season, the Company commissioned 3 
new greenfield production facilities with backward 
integration in India at Supa, Maharashtra; Gorakhpur, 
Uttar Pradesh; and Khordha, Odisha and 1 new 
greenfield production facility in Kinshasa, Democratic 
Republic of Congo
	
Further, VBL set up and expanded backward 
integration facilities at the Guwahati plant in India, as 
well as at plants in Morocco, Zambia, and Zimbabwe 
in international regions
Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP) Issue:
	
The Company raised ~ ` 75,000 Million through fresh 
issue of 132,743,362 equity shares
	
The utilization of QIP proceeds (net of issue 
expenses) is primarily towards repayment of debt as 
well as acquisitions
Sub-division/split of existing equity shares of the 
Company:
	
The Company on September 12, 2024 (“Record 
Date”), sub-divided/split of existing Equity Shares of 
the Company from 1 (one) equity share having face 
value of ` 5 each, fully paid-up, into such number 
of equity shares having face value of ` 2 each fully 
paid-up
Dividend:
	
The Company’s Board of Directors formalized 
a dividend strategy in line with good corporate 
governance practices with the Company’s listing in 
November 2016.
Salient Features – 
	
Endeavor to maintain a dividend payout in the range 
of 10-30% of annual profit after tax on standalone 
financials.
	
Consider financial parameters like earnings outlook, 
future capex requirements, organic growth plans, 
capital restructuring, debt reduction, cash flows, etc.
	
Consider external parameters like macro-economic 
environment, regulatory changes, technological 
changes, statutory and contractual restrictions, etc.
	
For a detailed perspective, please refer to the 
Company’s website at www.varunbeverages.com/
	
Furing the year under review, the Board of Directors 
in their meeting held on July 30, 2024 declared an 
interim dividend of ` 1.25 per Equity Share (face 
value of ` 5/- per Equity Share) to the eligible equity 
shareholders of the Company. Further, the Board of 
Directors have also recommended a final dividend 
of ` 0.50 per Equity Share (face value of ` 2/- per 
Equity Share) for the Current Year 2024.
Financial Summary
P&L
Particulars (` in Million)
31-Dec-24
31-Dec-23
YoY (%)
1.	
Income
	
(a)	 Revenue from operations
204,813.28
163,210.63
25.5%
	
(b)	 Excise Duty
4,736.78
2,784.82
70.1%
Net Revenues
200,076.50
160,425.81
24.7%
	
(c)	 Other income
1,212.68
793.59
52.8%
2.	
Expenses
	
(a)	 Cost of materials consumed
82,937.43
70,264.61
18.0%
	
(b) 	 Purchase of stock-in-trade
6,859.21
4,626.96
48.2%
	
(c) 	 Changes in inventories of FG, WIP and stock-in-trade
(749.40)
(842.69)
11.1%
	
(d) 	 Employee benefits expense
18,850.26
14,465.87
30.3%
	
(e) 	 Finance costs
4,503.86
2,680.99
68.0%
	
(f) 	 Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense
9,473.86
6,809.06
39.1%
	
(g) 	 Other expenses
45,068.29
35,816.21
25.8%
Total expenses
166,943.51
133,821.01
24.8%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Limited
154
Balance Sheet
Particulars (` in Million)
31-Dec-24 31-Dec-23
Equity and liabilities
Equity
(a)	Equity share capital
6,763.02
6,496.07
(b)	Other equity
159,335.27
62,868.91
(c)	Non-controlling interest
1,298.07
1,481.55
Total equity
167,396.36 70,846.53
Liabilities
 
Non-current liabilities
 
(a)	Financial liabilities
 
 
i. 
Borrowings
8,406.89
31,889.38
 
ii. Other financial liabilities
3,570.86
1,978.85
(b)	Provisions
1,894.34
2,126.44
(c)	Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
4,879.09
3,430.11
(d)	Other non-current liabilities
47.31
68.40
Total non-current liabilities
18,798.49
39,493.18
Current liabilities
(a)	Financial liabilities
 
i. 
Borrowings
15,235.76 20,054.49
 
 
ia. Lease liabilities
1,049.03
390.38
 
ii. Trade payables
15,604.27
7,582.48
 
iii. Other financial liabilities
7,043.41
7,638.39
(b)	Other current liabilities
4,916.55
4,650.93
(c)	Provisions
739.00
825.43
(d)	Current tax liability (Net)
656.23
390.02
Total current liabilities
45,244.25
41,532.12
Total liabilities
64,042.74
81.025.30
Total equity and liabilities
231,439.10
151,871.83
Particulars (` in Million)
31-Dec-24
31-Dec-23
Assets
Non-current assets
(a)	Property, plant and equipment
106,225.51
68,031.32
(b)	Capital work in progress
11,623.43
19,222.22
(c)	Right of Use of Assets
13,631.22
10,347.07
(d)	Goodwill
3,009.37
242.30
(e)	Other intangible assets
11,151.26
5,471.00
(f)	Intangible assets under 
development
     43.69 
-
(g)	Investment in associates 
and Joint Venture
534.47
179.32
(h)	Financial assets
  1,266.68 
654.18
(i)	 Deferred Tax Assets (Net)
        196.31 
-
(j)	 Other non-current assets
5,117.42
5,368.12
Total non-current assets
152,799.36 109,515.53
Current assets
 
(a) Inventories
27,912.34
21,505.33
(b)	Financial assets
	
i. 
Trade receivables
8,458.42
3,593.85
	
ii. Cash and cash equivalents
22,662.83
2,422.12
	
iii. Other bank balances
1,837.71
2,176.50
	
iv. Others
8,356.16
7,388.23
(c)	Current tax assets (Net)
      48.72 
3.11
(d)	Other current assets
9,363.56
5,267.16
Total current assets
78,639.74
42,356.30
Total assets
231,439.10
151,871.83
Particulars (` in Million)
31-Dec-24
31-Dec-23
YoY (%)
EBITDA
47,110.71
36,094.85
30.5%
3. 	
Profit before share of loss of associate and joint venture (1-2)
34,345.67
27,398.39
25.4%
4. 	
Share of loss of associate and joint venture
(14.78)
(4.79)
-208.6%
5. 	
Profit before tax (3+4)
34,330.89
27,393.60
25.3%
6. 	
Tax expense
7,988.04
6,375.47
25.3%
7. 	
Net profit after tax (5-6)
26,342.85
21,018.13
25.3%
155
Annual Report 2024
303
821
Varun Beverages reports its financials on a calendar yearly 
basis. Given that the soft drinks business is in season, with 
the bulk of sales occurring during the summer season, it 
is best to track the Company’s performance on an annual 
basis. Revenues and profits follow a bell-curve with a 
significant portion accruing in the April-June quarter.
In CY 2024, VBL delivered a robust performance, driven by 
a combination of organic volume expansion, an improved 
product mix, and contributions from recent acquisitions. 
Consolidated sales volume increased by 23.2%, while the 
net realization per case rose by 1.3%, leading to revenue 
growth of 24.7% and PAT growth of 25.3%.
Net revenue from operations reached ` 200,076.5 Million 
in CY 2024, surpassing ` 160,425.8 Million recorded 
in CY 2023. Total sales volumes for CY 2024 stood at 
1,124.4 Million cases, up from 912.9 Million cases in the 
previous year. The company registered double-digit 
growth in both Indian and international operations, with 
India growing by 11.4% and consolidated volumes rising by 
23.2%. However, organic volume growth in international 
markets stood at 6.3%, impacted by the transition to a 
zero-sugar portfolio following the implementation of a 
sugar tax in Zimbabwe. In CY 2024, CSD accounted for 
74.2% of total sales volumes, JBD at 6.2%, and Packaged 
Drinking Water at 19.6%. Realization per case increased 
by 1.3% to ` 177.9 for the year.
During the fiscal year, gross margins improved by 
165 basis points to 55.5%, compared to 53.8% in the 
previous year. This expansion was primarily driven by 
the strategic procurement and storage of PET chips to 
avail price benefits, along with efforts to reduce sugar 
content and increased backward integration. As a result, 
EBITDA increased by 30.5% to ` 47,110.7 Million, with 
EBITDA margins improving by 105 basis points to 23.5% 
in CY 2024. However, this was partially offset by the 
consolidation of the South African market and the fixed 
costs associated with new capital expenditures, which 
are yet to be fully utilized.
Depreciation recorded a 39.1% increase in CY 2024, 
while finance costs rose by 68.0%, primarily due to the 
acquisition of BevCo and the establishment of four new 
production facilities in India and the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo (DRC). PAT saw a notable increase of 25.3%, 
reaching ` 26,342.8 Million in CY 2024, compared to 
` 21,018.1 Million in CY 2023, driven by volume growth and 
improved margins.
As of the end of CY 2024, the company’s net capital 
expenditure stood at approximately ` 45,000 Million, 
with ` 24,000 Million spent in CY 2023. Of the total capex, 
` 32,000 Million was allocated for the establishment 
of four greenfield production facilities, distributed as 
follows: Supa (Maharashtra) ~` 10,000 Million, Gorakhpur 
(Uttar Pradesh) ~` 11,000 Million, Khordha (Odisha) 
~` 5,000 Million, and DRC ~` 6,000 Million. An additional 
` 8,000 Million was invested in international markets, 
including backward integration. The remaining capex 
was for future years, including visi-coolers, glass bottles, 
pallets, vehicles, etc.
Investments made over the past two years have 
significantly expanded production capacity in India, the 
annual production capacity in India increased during the 
season of CY 2024 by ~45% over the capacity of season 
CY 2022. This expansion strengthens the company’s 
ability to meet growing demand and drive future growth.
As of December 31, 2024, capital work-in-progress 
(CWIP) and capital advances stood at approximately 
` 16,500 Million, primarily for new greenfield facilities in 
Prayagraj, Damtal, Buxar, and Meghalaya. An estimated 
` 16,000 Million in additional capital expenditure is 
required, with the balance earmarked for the following 
year. This includes investments in the snacks segment in 
international markets and brownfield expansions in India 
(Sricity), rPET facilities in India and expansion in DRC.
During the year, VBL became net debt-free following the 
repayment of loans using proceeds from the QIP issue. 
While the company’s financial position has strengthened, 
efforts to enhance operational efficiencies remain 
ongoing. Despite inorganic expansion into new markets, 
including South Africa and DRC, working capital days 
improved to approximately 31 days as of December 31, 
2024, compared to 34 days in the previous year.
Sales Volume 
Total Sales Volumes (Mn Cases*)
India
International
*A unit case is equal to 5.678 liters of beverage divided in 24 bottles of ~ 237 ml each
CAGR (2019-2024) ~17.9% 
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
89
404
88
337
115
454
149
653
176
737
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Limited
156
VBL is well-positioned to sustain its growth trajectory, 
driven by its comprehensive business model, robust 
operational infrastructure, and strategic alignment 
with PepsiCo. The Company’s end-to-end execution 
capabilities, from manufacturing to distribution, ensure 
seamless operations across diverse and complex markets. 
VBL continues to enhance its portfolio with innovative 
product offerings and localized strategies, enabling it 
to address evolving consumer preferences and capture 
emerging demand across its licensed territories.
The Company’s recent expansion into international 
markets, including the integration of The The Beverage 
Company Proprietary Limited (BevCo) in South Africa 
and acquisitions in Tanzania and Ghana, has further 
strengthened its global footprint. These developments 
underscore VBL’s commitment to broadening its 
footprint and the expansion into African territories 
Threats, Risks, and Concerns
The risks and opportunities inherent to  all corporations are 
inseparable elements. The directors and management of 
the Company make constructive decisions to protect the 
interests of stakeholders. The Company has implemented 
a Risk Management Policy which is continuously 
provides the Company with new opportunities to 
drive long-term growth and solidify its position in key 
international markets. 
In India, VBL is well-placed to leverage favorable 
demographic trends and the growing spending power of its 
expanding middle class. Investments in infrastructure, such 
as Visi Coolers in under-penetrated rural regions, enhance 
the Company’s ability to reach a broader consumer base 
and ensure consistent product availability. Additionally, 
VBL’s focus on backward integration, centralized sourcing, 
and sustainability initiatives ensures operational excellence 
and cost efficiencies. Complemented by the growing 
snacks business under exclusive PepsiCo partnerships, 
VBL is poised to deliver sustainable value to stakeholders 
and capitalize on growth opportunities in both domestic 
and international markets.
monitored and reviewed under the guidance of Audit, 
Risk Management and Ethics Committee. The Committee 
convenes periodically to identify processes exposed to 
risks, determine risk mitigation strategies, and oversee 
their implementation.
Growth Outlook
Volume  
Gains
Acquisitions
Strengthen 
Balance Sheet
Operating 
Leverage
Diversified 
Portfolio
	 Well-positioned 
to leverage 
PepsiCo brand to 
increase market 
penetration 
in licensed 
territories.
	 Consolidating 
existing 
distributors 
and increasing 
distribution in 
underpenetrated 
regions
	 Penetrate newer 
geographies.
	 Identify strategic 
consolidation 
opportunities 
in South Asia / 
Africa
	 Repayment of 
debt through 
strong cash 
generation
	 To enable 
significant 
interest cost 
savings
	 Contiguous 
territories/
markets offer 
better operating 
leverage and 
asset utilization 
- economies of 
scale.
	 Production 
and logistics 
optimization
	 Packaging 
synchronization 
and innovations
	 Technology use 
to improve sales 
and operations 
processes.
	 To periodically 
launch innovative 
products in select 
markets in line 
with changing 
consumer 
preferences.
	 Focus on non-
cola carbonated 
beverages and 
NCB’s.
	 Bottled water 
provides 
significant growth 
opportunity.
157
Annual Report 2024
Risk
Description
Mitigation
1.	
Demand Risk
A cyclical downturn can 
result in a slowdown in the 
Company’s target markets, 
affecting its sales velocity.
Over the years, the Company has demonstrated its ability to drive 
significant growth in sales volumes by focusing on delivering 
the right brand, the right price, the right product, and the right 
channel. Additionally, the business operates in relatively under-
penetrated markets with favorable demographics, climatic 
conditions and a growing population, indicating steady demand 
growth. Further, its wide range of product portfolio enables it to 
cater to diverse consumer segments.
2.	
Business Agreement 
Risk
The Company relies on 
strategic relationships and 
agreements with PepsiCo. 
Termination of agreements 
or less favorable renewal 
terms 
could 
adversely 
affect profitability.
Over the past thirty years, the Company has nurtured a strong 
partnership with PepsiCo, expanding market ties by venturing 
into new territories and sub-territories. This partnership 
involves an expanded production and distribution of a wider 
array of PepsiCo beverages, integrating multiple SKUs into 
our portfolio, and broadening our distribution network. The 
business has demonstrated its effectiveness in significantly 
boosting PepsiCo’s market share, establishing itself as a 
reliable partner. The collaborative relationship is symbiotic, 
with both entities actively engaged as development partners. 
Together, they invest in joint projects and business planning, 
with a primary focus on strategic issues. Notably, the bottling 
appointment and trademark license agreement for India with 
PepsiCo India, initially set to expire on October 2, 2022, has 
been extended until April 30, 2039, further strengthening this 
enduring partnership.
3.	
Regulatory Risk
Regulations 
regarding 
consumer health and the 
risk 
of 
the 
Company’s 
products being signed out 
for discriminatory tax and 
packaging waste recovery 
may 
adversely 
impact 
business.
The 
Company 
proactively 
works 
with 
PepsiCo, 
the 
Government and the regulatory authorities to ensure that 
the facts are clearly understood and that its products are not 
unfairly targeted. VBL adheres to sustainable manufacturing 
practices and emphasizes on environmental issues related to 
packaging waste recovery / recycling, water management 
and greenhouse gas emissions. It consistently engages with 
stakeholders to develop sustainability solutions that prioritize 
environmental protection, including partnerships with NGOs 
and the communities in which it operates. PepsiCo’s strategy 
of introducing healthier and zero sugar variant products also 
bodes well for the Company’s future. The Company has initiated 
various sustainability initiatives such as the engagement of 
GEM Enviro Management Ltd. for phased implementation 
of 100% recycling of used PET bottles and partnering with 
Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited for water 
footprint assurance and, for measurement and improvement of 
Company’s carbon footprint. 
4.	 Business Viability 
Risk
The inability to integrate 
the operations or leverage 
potential operating and 
cost efficiencies from the 
newly acquired territories 
and 
sub-territories 
may 
adversely 
affect 
the 
Company’s 
business 
and 
future 
financial 
performance.
VBL’s transparent strategy and financial planning ensure 
that any future acquisitions or collaborations are not only 
valuable but also align with the Board’s acquisition guidelines. 
The company dedicates substantial management time and 
financial resources to secure the success of newly acquired 
endeavors. This includes developing local market strategies, 
addressing potential cultural and language barriers, and 
integrating business practices to ensure the overall viability 
of the business.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Varun Beverages Limited
158
Risk
Description
Mitigation
5.	
Consumer 
Preference Risk
Failure 
to 
adapt 
to 
changing 
consumer 
health trends and address 
misconceptions 
about 
the health effects of soft 
drink consumption may 
adversely affect demand.
To stay relevant, VBL’s sales team works closely with PepsiCo 
to evaluate evolving consumer habits and consistently focuses 
on product innovation and expanding the product range. 
Furthermore, PepsiCo’s new product plan places greater 
emphasis on healthier products with zero / limited calorie and 
sugar content.
6.	
Raw Material Risk
An 
interruption 
in 
the 
supply 
or 
significant 
increase in the price of raw 
materials 
or 
packaging 
materials may adversely 
affect 
the 
Company’s 
business prospects, results 
of operations and financial 
condition.
An integral part of VBL’s strategy is to maximize cost efficiencies, 
the active reduction of cost of goods sold, minimizing 
operating expenses and increasing cash flows. To achieve these 
objectives, the business has undertaken significant programs, 
including backward integration and consolidated sourcing of 
materials. Leveraging its scale of operations, VBL negotiates 
with suppliers to enhance bargaining power, resulting in 
improved working capital management. The Company is 
dedicated to optimizing its assets to achieve higher operating 
efficiency and to amortize overheads costs across a wider 
case range. Additionally, VBL continues to invest in innovative 
solutions to enhance operational efficiencies and streamline 
work processes. These efforts include, ensuring consolidated 
operational data from production, scheduled sourcing, and 
superior monitoring of the supply of goods from manufacturers 
to the retail point of sale.
Human Resources
As of December 31, 2024, VBL employed over 
16,000 full-time team members worldwide, with 
more than 11,000 based in India and over 5,000 
across its international subsidiaries. Aligned with its 
overarching business strategy, the Company places a 
strong emphasis on nurturing talent as a key driver of 
future growth and success. VBL prioritizes employee 
development through extensive training programs, 
skill enhancement initiatives, and opportunities for 
career progression across all levels and functions. 
The Company also collaborates with PepsiCo on 
management 
and 
staff 
development 
programs, 
ensuring key employees benefit from global best 
practices while engaging in skill-building initiatives 
within India’s leading training frameworks.
Risk Management, Audit and Internal Control 
System
The Company has established robust and efficient internal 
control systems tailored to the scale of its operations and 
the complexities of the market it serves. These stringent 
and comprehensive controls ensure optimal utilization of 
resources, safeguarding the Company’s assets and interests. 
They also ensure that transactions are properly authorized, 
recorded, and reported, with reliable checks and balances 
to maintain the consistency and accuracy of accounting 
data. The Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee 
oversees a thorough system of internal audits and periodic 
assessments to ensure adherence to best practices. The 
Company has appointed M/s J.C. Bhalla & Co, Chartered 
Accountants, and M/s O.P. Bagla & Co LLP, Chartered 
Accountants, as Joint Statutory Auditors to oversee and 
report on the financial controls of the Company.
Dear Members,
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the 30th (Thirtieth) Annual Report on the  business and operations of your 
Company along with the Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024.
Financial Performance
The financial performance of your Company for the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024 is summarized below:
(` in Million)
Particulars 
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial 
Year ended 
December 31, 2024
Financial 
Year ended 
December 31, 2023
Financial 
Year ended 
December 31, 2024
Financial 
Year ended 
December 31, 2023
Total Revenue
147,025.35
127,789.68
206,025.96
164,004.22
Total Expenses
116,325.96
104,108.05
171,680.29
136,605.83
Profit before tax after 
exceptional items
30,699.39
23,681.63
     34,330.89 
27,393.60
Less: Tax Expenses
7,495.75
5,930.37
7,988.04
6,375.47
Profit after tax
23,203.64
17,751.26
25,946.33*
20,559.22*
Balance brought forward 
from last year
64,261.97
25,101.68
62,868.91
27,398.84
Balance carried over to 
Balance Sheet 
60,721.86
40,558.71
68,582.05
45,663.50
General Reserve
444.26
444.26
444.26
444.26
Other Reserves
97,657.91
23,259.02
90,308.95
16,761.15
Reserves & Surplus carried 
to Balance Sheet
158,824.03
64,261.97
159,335.27
62,868.91
*After adjustment on account of non-controlling interest.
Board’s Report
Consolidated Financial Statements
The Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company 
for the Financial Year 2024 are prepared in compliance 
with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’), Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) 
and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 [‘SEBI (LODR) Regulations’] which shall also be 
provided to the Members in their forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’).
State of the Company’s Affairs
Your Company has presence in 26 States and 6 Union 
Territories in India as well as in 9 other countries 
through franchise rights (viz. Nepal, Sri Lanka, Morocco, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe, Democratic Republic of Congo, 
South Africa, Lesotho & Eswatini). Additionally, the 
Company holds distribution rights in 4 countries (viz. 
Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique and Madagascar). 
As of December 31, 2024, the Company has 48 state-
of-the-art manufacturing facilities (36 in India and 12 in 
International Geographies) with more than 2,600 owned 
vehicles, more than 2,800 primary distributors and more 
than 130 depots. The Company continues to create long-
term value through different facets of its business and 
improve its presence, product mix and utilisation levels. 
With an increasing penetration on the back of a robust 
distribution network and diversifying product portfolio, 
the Company has created a sustainable operating 
efficiency at its manufacturing facilities.
Key Developments
On March 26, 2024, your Company consummated the 
acquisition of The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited, 
South Africa along-with its wholly-owned subsidiaries 
(‘BevCo’). Accordingly, Bevco became the subsidiary of 
the Company. This acquisition allowed the Company to 
consolidate its presence in franchised territories in South 
Africa, Lesotho, and Eswatini, as well as territories with 
distribution rights in Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique, 
and Madagascar.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
159
Annual Report 2024
On November 13, 2024, your Company entered into share 
purchase agreements with Tanzania Bottling Company 
SA and Ghana Bottling Company Limited to acquire 100% 
share capital of  SBC Tanzania Limited and SBC Beverages 
Ghana Limited respectively, subject to regulatory and 
other approvals, including but not limited to PepsiCo Inc.
Varun Beverages Morocco SA (a wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company) entered into an Exclusive Snacks 
Appointment Agreement to manufacture and package 
Cheetos in the territory of Morocco. This appointment 
is in addition to the existing distribution agreement for 
PepsiCo’s snacks portfolio consisting of Lays, Cheetos, 
Doritos in the territory of Morocco.
Varun Foods (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited and Varun 
Beverages 
(Zambia) 
Limited 
(subsidiaries 
of 
the 
Company) entered into an Exclusive Snacks Franchising 
Appointment with Premier Nutrition Trading LLC, Dubai 
(subsidiary of PepsiCo Inc.) to manufacture, distribute, 
and sell ‘Simba Munchiez’ in the territory of Zimbabwe 
& Zambia. 
Deposits
Your Company has not accepted any deposits during the 
year under review falling within the ambit of Section 73 
of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) 
Rules, 2014.
Transfer to General Reserve
Your Company has not transferred any amount to General 
Reserve for the Financial Year 2024.
Change in the Nature of Business, if any
During the year under review, there was no change in the 
nature of business of the Company.
Dividend Distribution Policy
The Board of Directors of the Company in their meeting 
held on August 9, 2017 approved and adopted a Policy on 
Distribution of Dividend to comply with Regulation 43A 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations and the same is uploaded on 
website of the Company at https://www.varunbeverages.
com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/10-Dividend-
Distribution-Policy.pdf
Dividend
During the year under review, the Board of Directors in 
their meeting held on July 30, 2024 declared an interim 
dividend of ` 1.25 per Equity Share (face value of ` 5/- 
per Equity Share) to the eligible equity shareholders of 
the Company. Further, the Board of Directors have also 
recommended a final dividend of ` 0.50 per Equity Share 
(face value of ` 2/- per Equity Share) for the Financial 
Year 2024. Total cash outflow for dividend payout would 
be ~` 3,315.06 million for the Financial Year 2024.
Your Company has transferred the unpaid/unclaimed 
dividend (interim and final) to the Unclaimed Dividend 
Accounts of the respective financial years and the details 
of the same are uploaded on website of the Company at 
https://varunbeverages.com/corporate-governance/ 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Act, 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(‘IEPF Rules’) read with relevant circulars and amendments 
thereto, amount of dividend which remains unpaid/
unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of 
transfer to the Company’s unpaid dividend account and 
corresponding shares on which the dividend remains 
unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more are required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (‘IEPF’) constituted by the Central Government. 
Accordingly, your Company had transferred ` 45,375/- to 
IEPF (being unpaid/unclaimed interim dividend amount 
for FY 2017) and also transferred 299 equity shares 
(on which interim dividend for FY 2017 remained unpaid/
unclaimed for seven consecutive years) to the designated 
demat account of IEPF Authority and the same can be 
claimed from IEPF Authority only after complying with 
prescribed procedure under IEPF Rules.
Acquisition Guidelines
Your Company applies stringent strategic and financial 
criteria to any potential acquisition or partnership and 
to enhance transparency, the Board of Directors of 
the Company have approved and adopted Acquisition 
Guidelines for Company’s M&A activities for viable 
acquisitions and the same is uploaded on website of the 
Company at https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/03/9-VBL-Guidelines-for-Acquisition-in-
India.pdf 
Sub-Division/Split of Equity Shares 
During the year under review, pursuant to the approval 
of Members through Postal Ballot on August 30, 2024, 
the Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Equity Share Capital 
existing on the Record Date (i.e. September 12, 2024) was 
sub-divided/split such that each Equity Share having face 
value of ` 5/- each fully paid-up, was sub-divided/split 
into such number of Equity Shares having face value of 
` 2/- each fully paid-up.
Varun Beverages Limited
160
Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP)
During the year under review, in compliance with the 
provisions of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2018, 
SEBI 
(LODR) 
Regulations and Sections 42 & 62 of the Act and Rules 
made thereunder, your Company has issued and allotted 
132,743,362 Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- each to 
the eligible Qualified Institutional Buyers at an issue price 
of ` 565/- per Equity Share i.e. at a premium of ` 563/- per 
Equity Share aggregating to ` 7,500 crore. Brief summary 
of utilization of funds are as follows:
S.  
No.
Particulars
Amount as 
per Placement 
Document 
(` in crore)
Amount Utilized 
as on 31.12.2024
(` in crore)
1.
Repayment/ Prepayment, in part or in full of certain outstanding 
borrowings availed by the company and /or one of its subsidiaries
5,600.00
5,047.55
2.
For general corporate purposes and inorganic acquisitions
1,839.00
385.85
3.
QIP Issue Expense
61.00
61.11*
Total
7,500.00
5,494.50
*incremental amount utilized through general corporate purposes allocated funds.
Share Capital
Pursuant to the approval of Members through Postal 
Ballot on August 30, 2024, the Authorized Share 
Capital of the Company stood sub-divided/ split from 
` 10,000,000,000/- (Rupees Ten Billion only) divided into 
2,000,000,000 (Two Billion) Equity Shares of face value 
of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each to ` 10,000,000,000/- 
(Rupees Ten Billion only) divided into 5,000,000,000 
(Five Billion) Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- (Rupees 
Two only) each.
During the year under review, the Issued, Subscribed 
and Paid-up Equity Share Capital of your Company was 
increased/changed from ` 6,496,074,880/- (Rupees Six 
Billion Four Hundred Ninety Six Million Seventy Four 
Thousand and Eight Hundred Eighty only) divided into 
1,299,214,976 (One Billion Two Hundred Ninety Nine 
Million Two Hundred Fourteen Thousand and Nine 
Hundred Seventy Six) Equity Shares of face value of 
`  5/- (Rupees Five only) each to `  6,763,020,034/- 
(Rupees Six Billion Seven Hundred Sixty Three Million 
Twenty Thousand and Thirty Four only) divided into 
3,381,510,017 (Three Billion Three Hundred Eighty One 
Million Five Hundred Ten Thousand and Seventeen) 
Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two only) 
each due to (i) sub-division/split of Equity Shares of 
the Company such that each Equity Share having face 
value of ` 5/- each fully paid-up, was sub-divided/split 
into such number of Equity Shares having face value of 
` 2/- each fully paid-up; (ii) allotment of 729,215 (Seven 
Hundred Twenty Nine Thousand and Two Hundred 
Fifteen) Equity Shares of the Company in aggregate 
upon exercise of stock options vested under Employees 
Stock Option Scheme 2016; (iii) allotment of 132,743,362 
(One Hundred Thirty Two  Million Seven Hundred Forty 
Three Thousand and Three Hundred Sixty Two) Equity 
Shares of face value of ` 2/- each pursuant to Qualified 
Institutions Placement. 
Employees Stock Option Scheme
Your Company has Employees Stock Option Scheme 2016 
(‘ESOP Scheme 2016’) i.e. in compliance with SEBI (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021, as amended from time to time (‘SEBI ESOP 
Regulations’) and there has been no material change to 
the ESOP Scheme 2016 during the year under review. 
Consequent to sub-division/split of Equity Shares, all the 
options granted under the ESOP Scheme 2016 have been 
adjusted for sub-divided/split shares.
Certificate from Secretarial Auditors of the Company that 
ESOP Scheme 2016 has been implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI ESOP Regulations and the resolution(s) 
passed by the Members of the Company will be uploaded 
on website viz. https://varunbeverages.com/agm/ for 
inspection by Members of the Company.
The statutory disclosures as mandated under the Act and 
SEBI ESOP Regulations are available on website of the 
Company at https://varunbeverages.com/agm/  
Credit Rating 
During the year under review, your Company’s credit 
ratings by CRISIL is as below:
Long Term Rating 
CRISIL AA+/Stable (Re-affirmed) 
Short Term Rating
CRISIL A1+ (Re-affirmed)
Related Party Transactions
To comply with the provisions of Sections 177 and 188 of 
the Act and Rules made thereunder read with Regulation 
23 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, your Company took 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
161
Annual Report 2024
necessary prior (including omnibus) approval of the 
Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee before 
entering into related party transactions. All contracts/
arrangements/transactions 
entered 
into 
by 
the 
Company during the Financial Year 2024 with related 
parties, as defined under the Act and SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, were in the ordinary course of business and 
on arm’s length basis.
During the year under review, your Company and/
or its subsidiaries have not entered into any contract/ 
arrangement/transaction with related parties which could 
be considered material in accordance with the Policy of 
the Company on Related Party Transactions.
None of the transactions with any of the related parties 
were in conflict with the interest of the Company rather, 
these were synchronized and synergized with the 
Company’s operations. Attention of Members is drawn to 
the disclosure of transactions with the related parties set 
out in Note No. 43 of the Standalone Financial Statements 
forming part of the Annual Report.
Your Company has framed a Policy on Related Party 
Transactions in accordance with the Act and SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations. The Policy intends to ensure that 
proper reporting, approval and disclosure processes are 
in place for all transactions between the Company and its 
related parties. The policy is uploaded on website of the 
Company at https://www.varunbeverages.com/policies/
policy-on-related-party-transactions.pdf 
Since all transactions which were entered into during the 
Financial Year 2024 were on arm’s length basis and in the 
ordinary course of business and there was no material 
related party transaction entered by the Company 
during the Financial Year 2024 as per Policy on Related 
Party Transactions, hence no detail is required to be 
provided in Form AOC-2 prescribed under Clause (h) of 
Sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments 
Details of Loans, Guarantees or Investments covered 
under the provisions of Section 186 of the Act are given in 
the Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements.
Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures
Your Company has following Subsidiaries, Associates and 
Joint Venture:
Subsidiaries
•	 Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited;
•	 Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited;
	
-  Ole Springs Bottlers (Private) Limited 
(step-down subsidiary);
•	 Varun Beverages Morocco SA;
•	 Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited;
•	 Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited; 
•	 Varun Beverages RDC SAS;
•	 Varun Beverages International DMCC;  
•	 Varun Beverages South Africa (Pty) Ltd; 
•	 VBL Mozambique, SA;
•	 The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited,  
South Africa (w.e.f. 26.03.2024);
	
-  The Beverage Company Bidco Proprietary Limited 
(w.e.f. 26.03.2024) (step-down subsidiary);
	
-  Little Green Beverages Proprietary Limited  
(w.e.f. 26.03.2024) (step-down subsidiary);
	
-  Softbev Proprietary Limited (w.e.f. 26.03.2024) 
(step-down subsidiary); 
•	 Varun Foods (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited  
(w.e.f. 22.05.2024); and 
•	 Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited  
(wholly owned subsidiary w.e.f. 16.12.2024).
Associates
•	 Clean Max Tav Private Limited; and 
•	 Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited 
Joint Venture
•	 IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited 
To comply with the provisions of Section 129 of the Act, a 
separate statement containing salient features of Financial 
Statements of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Venture 
of your Company (including their performance and 
financial position) in prescribed Form AOC-1 forms part 
of Consolidated Financial Statements and therefore not 
repeated here to avoid duplication. Further, contribution 
of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Venture to the 
overall performance of your Company is outlined in Note 
No. 58 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial Statements of the aforesaid Subsidiaries, 
Associates and Joint Venture companies are kept open 
for inspection by the Members at the Registered Office 
of your Company on all days except Saturday, Sunday 
and Public Holiday up to the date of AGM i.e. April 3, 
2025 between 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. as required under 
Section 136 of the Act. Any Member desirous of obtaining 
a copy of the said Financial Statements may write to the 
Company at its Registered Office or Corporate Office. 
The Financial Statements including the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and all other documents required 
Varun Beverages Limited
162
to be attached with this Report have been uploaded on 
website of the Company at https://varunbeverages.com/
annual-reports/  
To comply with the provisions of Regulation 16(c) 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Board of Directors 
of the Company have approved and adopted a 
Policy for determination of Material Subsidiary and 
Governance of Subsidiaries and as on December 31, 
2024, none of the subsidiary was a material subsidiary 
of the Company in terms of the said Policy. Policy for 
determination of Material Subsidiary and Governance of 
Subsidiaries is uploaded on website of the Company at 
https://www.varunbeverages.com/policies/policy-on-
material-subsidiary-VBL.pdf
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
Directors
To comply with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act 
and in terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, 
Mr. Varun Jaipuria (DIN: 02465412) and Mr. Rajinder Jeet 
Singh Bagga (DIN: 08440479), Whole-time Directors are 
liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing AGM and being 
eligible, seeks re-appointment. The Board of Directors, on 
the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (‘NRC’), recommended their re-appointment 
for consideration by the Members at the ensuing AGM.
Further, the re-appointment of Mr. Varun Jaipuria and 
Mr. Raj Gandhi (DIN: 00003649) w.e.f. November 1, 2024 
and Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga w.e.f. May 2, 2024 as 
Whole-time Directors for a further period of upto 5 (Five) 
years, liable to retire by rotation and the appointment of 
Dr. Naresh Trehan (DIN: 00012148) w.e.f. April 21, 2024 as a 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company, 
liable to retire by rotation were approved by Members of 
your Company at 29th AGM held on April 3, 2024. 
Company has received declarations from all the 
Independent Directors of the Company confirming that 
they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed both 
under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of 
the SEBI (LODR) Regulations and are in compliance with 
Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014. Further, the Independent 
Directors have also confirmed that they are not aware 
of any circumstance or situation, which exists or may be 
reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties as Independent Directors 
of the Company.
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent 
Directors of the Company possess requisite qualifications, 
experience and expertise and they hold highest standards 
of integrity (including the proficiency) and fulfils the 
conditions specified in the Act read with Rules made 
thereunder and SEBI (LODR) Regulations and are eligible 
& independent of the management.
None of the Directors of the Company are disqualified as 
per the provisions of Section 164 of the Act. The Directors 
of the Company have made necessary disclosures under 
Section 184 and other relevant provisions of the Act.
Brief resume and other details of the Directors being 
appointed/re-appointed at the ensuing AGM as stipulated 
under Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India and Regulation 36 of the 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, are separately disclosed in the 
Notice of ensuing AGM. 
Key Managerial Personnel
Mr. Rajesh Chawla was appointed as a Chief Financial 
Officer and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company w.e.f. 
May 14, 2024 in accordance with the provisions of Section 
203 of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
in place of Mr. Lalit Malik, who resigned as Chief Financial 
Officer and Key Managerial Personnel of your Company 
w.e.f. May 13, 2024. 
Further, Mr. Raj Gandhi, Whole-time Director and Mr. Ravi 
Batra, Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary, 
continued to be the Key Managerial Personnel of your 
Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 
203 of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Board Evaluation
To comply with the provisions of Section 134(3)(p) of 
the Act and Rules made thereunder and Regulation 
17(10) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Board has carried 
out the annual performance evaluation of the Directors 
individually 
including 
the 
Independent 
Directors 
(wherein the concerned Director being evaluated did not 
participate), Board as a whole and following Committees 
of the Board of Directors:
i)	
Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee;
ii)	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
iii)	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee; and 
iv)	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
The manner in which the annual performance evaluation 
has been carried out is explained in the Corporate 
Governance Report which forms part of this report. 
Board is responsible to monitor and review the 
evaluation framework. 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
163
Annual Report 2024
Further, to comply with Regulation 25(4) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, Independent Directors also evaluated the 
performance of Non-Independent Directors, Chairman 
and Board as a whole at a separate meeting of 
Independent Directors.
Board and Committees of the Board
The number of meetings of the Board and various 
Committees of the Board including composition are set 
out in the Corporate Governance Report which forms part 
of this report. The intervening gap between the meetings 
was within the period prescribed under the provisions of 
Section 173 of the Act and SEBI (LODR) Regulations.
Remuneration Policy
To comply with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act 
and Rules made thereunder and Regulation 19 of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, the Company’s Remuneration Policy 
for Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMP), Senior 
Management and other Employees of the Company is 
uploaded on website of the Company at https://www.
varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/12-
Remuneration-Policy.pdf. The Policy includes, inter-alia, 
the criteria for determining qualifications, positive 
attributes, independence of a Director, appointment and 
remuneration of Directors, KMPs, Senior Management 
Personnel and other employees of the Company.
Remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Particulars of Employees
The statement of remuneration under Section 197 of the 
Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
is attached to this report as Annexure – A.
Further, as per second proviso to Section 136(1) of the Act 
read with Rule 5 of the aforesaid Rules, the Board’s Report 
and Financial Statements are being sent to the Members 
of the Company excluding the statement of particulars of 
employees as required under Rule 5(2) of the aforesaid 
Rules. Any member interested in obtaining a copy of the 
said statement may write to the Compliance Officer at 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.in up to the date of AGM. The 
said statement is also available for inspection by the 
Members at the Registered Office of your Company on 
all days except Saturday, Sunday and Public Holiday up 
to the date of AGM i.e. April 3, 2025 between 11:00 a.m. 
to 5:00 p.m.
Statutory Auditors
The Shareholders of the Company in their 27th & 28th AGM 
held on April 7, 2022 and March 27, 2023 respectively 
appointed M/s. O P Bagla & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants 
(Firm Registration Number 000018N/N500091) and 
M/s. J C Bhalla & Co., Chartered Accountants (Firm 
Registration Number 001111N) as Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Company for a period of upto 5(Five) consecutive 
years to hold office till the conclusion of AGM to be held 
in the year 2027 and 2028 respectively. They have also 
confirmed that they are not disqualified from continuing 
as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Company.
The Statutory Auditors’ Report for the Financial Year 
2024 does not contain any qualification, reservation or 
adverse remark and forms part of the Annual Report. The 
Statutory Auditors have not reported any fraud under 
Section 143(12) of the Act.
Cost Audit 
In terms of Section 148 of the Act and the Companies 
(Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, Cost Audit is not 
applicable on the Company for the Financial Year 2024.
Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013
To comply with the provisions of Section 134 of the Act 
and Rules made thereunder, your Company has complied 
with the provisions relating to constitution of Internal 
Complaints Committee under the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013.
During the year under review, no complaint was received 
under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 177 of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Company 
has adopted a Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy to 
provide a platform to the Directors and Employees of the 
Company to raise concerns regarding any irregularity, 
misconduct or unethical matters/dealings within the 
Company. The same is detailed in the Corporate 
Governance Report which forms part of this report.
During the year under review, no complaint was received 
under the Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle Blower Policy of 
the Company.
Secretarial Auditors
Pursuant to the amended provisions of Regulation 24A 
of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations and Section 204 of the 
Act read with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the 
Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee and the 
Board of Directors have approved and recommended the 
appointment of M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Peer 
Reviewed Firm of Company Secretaries in Practice (Firm 
Registration Number: P2001DE052900) as Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company for a term of upto 5(Five) 
consecutive years to hold office from the conclusion 
Varun Beverages Limited
164
of ensuing AGM till the conclusion of 35th (Thirty Fifth) 
AGM of the Company to be held in the Year 2030, 
for approval of the Members at ensuing AGM of the 
Company. Brief resume and other details of M/s. Sanjay 
Grover & Associates, Company Secretaries in Practice, are 
separately disclosed in the Notice of ensuing AGM.
M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates have given their consent 
to act as Secretarial Auditors of the Company and 
confirmed that their aforesaid appointment (if made) 
would be within the prescribed limits under the Act & 
Rules made thereunder and SEBI (LODR) Regulations. 
They have also confirmed that they are not disqualified 
to be appointed as Secretarial Auditors in terms of 
provisions of the Act & Rules made thereunder and SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations.
The Secretarial Audit Report for the Financial Year 2024 
does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse 
remark and is attached to this report as Annexure – B. 
Further, the Secretarial Auditors have not reported any 
fraud under Section 143(12) of the Act.
Risk Management
The Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee of the 
Board of Directors inter-alia monitor and review the risk 
management plan and such other functions as assigned 
from time to time.
Your Company has a robust Risk Management Policy which 
identifies and evaluates business risks and opportunities. 
The Company recognizes that these risks needs to be 
managed and mitigated to protect the interest of the 
stakeholders and to achieve business objectives. The risk 
management framework is aimed at effectively mitigating 
the Company’s various business and operational risks 
through strategic actions. In line with the SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, cyber security risks are also covered under 
Risk Management Policy of the Company.
Internal Financial Controls 
Your Company has in place adequate Internal Financial 
Controls. The report on Internal Financial Controls issued 
by M/s. J C Bhalla & Co., Chartered Accountants and 
M/s. O P Bagla & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Company is annexed to the Audit 
Report on the Financial Statements of the Company and 
does not contain any reportable weakness in the Company.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Your Company has a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 
which is uploaded on website of the Company at https://
varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/24-
CSR-Policy-Clear-Version.pdf. This Policy includes inter-
alia the guiding principles for selection, implementation 
and monitoring of CSR activities of the Company.
Annual Report on CSR activities for the Financial Year 
2024 as required under Sections 134 and 135 of the Act 
read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and Rule 9 of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is attached to this 
report as Annexure - C.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) read with Section 134(5) of 
the Act, the Directors state that:
(a)	 in the preparation of the annual accounts for the 
Financial Year ended December 31, 2024, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
along with proper explanation relating to material 
departures;
(b)	 they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of your 
Company as at December 31, 2024 and of the profits 
of the Company for the period ended on that date;
(c)	 proper and sufficient care have been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of Act for safeguarding 
the assets of your Company and for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities;
(d)	 the annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
concern basis;
(e)	 proper internal financial controls laid down by the 
Directors were followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls were adequate and 
operating effectively; and
(f)	 proper systems to ensure compliance with the 
provisions of all applicable laws were in place and 
that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
Other Information
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
Management Discussion & Analysis Report for the Financial 
Year 2024 as stipulated under Regulation 34(2)(e) of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations forms part of the Annual Report.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’) 
for the Financial Year 2024 describing the initiatives 
taken by the Company from an Environment, Social and 
Governance perspective as stipulated under Regulation 
34(2)(f) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations forms part of the 
Annual Report.
Further, as per the new reporting requirements, your 
Company had taken reasonable assurance of the BRSR 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
165
Annual Report 2024
Core from third-party Independent Assurance provider 
and the same forms part of the Annual Report.
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and 
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The information on conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo 
as stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read 
with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is 
attached to this report as Annexure – D.
Corporate Governance Report
Your Company is committed to maintain the highest 
standards of Corporate Governance and adhere to the 
Corporate Governance requirements set out by Securities 
and Exchange Board of India. The report on Corporate 
Governance as stipulated under the SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations is attached to this report as Annexure – E. 
The certificate from M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries confirming compliance 
with the conditions of corporate governance is also 
attached to the Corporate Governance Report.
Listing 
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on the 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited. Both these stock exchanges have nation-wide 
trading terminals. Annual listing fee for the Financial Year 
2024-25 has been paid to the National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited.
Equity Shares of your Company have been admitted 
in Future & Options (F&O) segment with National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited with effect from 
November 29, 2024 and BSE Limited with effect from 
December 13, 2024.
Annual Return
Pursuant to Sections 92(3) and 134(3)(a) of the Act, 
the Annual Return of the Company is uploaded on 
website of the Company at https://varunbeverages.com/
annual-reports/ 
Research & Development 
During the year under review, no Research & Development 
was carried out.
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the Board’s Report and the Management 
Discussion & Analysis Report describing the Company’s 
objectives, expectations or forecasts may be forward 
looking within the meaning of applicable laws and 
regulations. Actual results may differ from those 
expressed in the statement.
General
Your Directors confirm that no disclosure or reporting is 
required in respect of the following items as there was no 
transaction on these items during the year under review:
1.	
Issue of equity shares with differential voting rights 
as to dividend, voting or otherwise.
2.	
The Whole-time Directors of the Company does not 
receive any remuneration or commission from any of 
its subsidiaries.
3.	
No significant or material orders were passed by 
the Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact 
the going concern status and Company’s operations 
in future.
4.	
Issue of Sweat Equity Shares.
5.	
No application made or any proceeding pending 
under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 as at 
the end of the Financial Year 2024.
6.	
No instance of one-time settlement with any bank or 
financial institution. 
The Company is in regular compliance of the applicable 
provisions of Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India. 
No material changes and commitments have occurred 
after the closure of the Financial Year 2024 till the date of 
this Report, which would affect the financial position of 
your Company.
Acknowledgement
Your 
Company’s 
organizational 
culture 
upholds 
professionalism, integrity and continuous improvement 
across all functions as well as efficient utilization of the 
Company’s resources for sustainable and profitable 
growth.
Your Directors wish to place on record their appreciation 
for the sincere services rendered by employees of the 
Company at all levels. Your Directors also wish to place on 
record their appreciation for the valuable co-operation and 
support received from various Government Authorities, 
Banks/Financial Institutions and other stakeholders such 
as members, customers and suppliers, among others. Your 
Directors also commend the continuing commitment and 
dedication of employees at all levels which has been vital 
for the Company’s success. Your Directors look forward 
to their continued support in future.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Varun Beverages Limited
Date: February 10, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Ravi Jaipuria 
Chairman
DIN: 00003668 
Varun Beverages Limited
166
Annexure – A
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014
(i)	
Ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of employees of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024 and the percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary during the Financial Year 2024:
(` in Million)
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director/KMP and 
Designation
Remuneration of 
Director/KMP for 
Financial Year 2024
% increase in 
Remuneration in 
Financial Year 2024
Ratio of Remuneration 
of Director to Median 
Remuneration of employees 
in Financial Year 2024
1.
Mr. Varun Jaipuria, 
Executive Vice-Chairman & 
Whole-time Director
72.02
33.32
175.66
2.
Mr. Raj Gandhi, 
Whole-time Director
67.18
7.57
163.85
3.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga, 
Whole-time Director
61.56
6.76
150.15
4.
Mr. Lalit Malik,
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
38.17*
Not Comparable@
Not Applicable
5.
Mr. Rajesh Chawla,
Chief Financial Officer
7.41
Not Comparable@
Not Applicable
6.
Mr. Ravi Batra, 
Chief Risk Officer & 
Group Company Secretary
16.18
8.96
Not Applicable
*Remuneration includes variable pay, leave encashment and ex-gratia.
@ Mr. Rajesh Chawla was appointed as CFO with effect from May 14, 2024 in place of Mr. Lalit Malik, who resigned as CFO with 
effect from May 13, 2024. 
	
Note: Since Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration except sitting fee (if any) for attending Board/
Committee meetings, the required details are not applicable.
(ii)	 Number of permanent employees as on December 31, 2024 were 11,041 and median remuneration was ` 0.41 Million 
annually. Median remuneration of employees (excluding above Directors and KMPs) in Financial Year 2024 has 
increased by 3.61%.
	
It is hereby affirmed that the above-mentioned remuneration is in accordance with the Remuneration Policy 
of the Company which is uploaded on website of the Company at https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/03/12-Remuneration-Policy.pdf 
(iii)	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than Managerial Personnel was 
10% and average percentile increase in the remuneration of Managerial Personnel was 15.29% vis-a-vis the last 
Financial Year.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Varun Beverages Limited
Date: February 10, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Ravi Jaipuria 
Chairman
DIN: 00003668 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
167
Annual Report 2024
Annexure – B
Secretarial Audit Report
For the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,	
Varun Beverages Limited 
(CIN: L74899DL1995PLC069839)
F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-I,
New Delhi-110020
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Varun Beverages Limited 
(the Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
We report that-
a)	
Maintenance 
of 
secretarial 
records 
are 
the 
responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
b)	
We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinion.
c)	
We 
have 
not 
verified 
the 
correctness 
and 
appropriateness of the financial statements of the 
Company.
d)	
Wherever 
required, 
we 
have 
obtained 
the 
management representation about the compliances 
of laws, rules and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
e)	
The compliance of the provisions of the corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards 
etc. is the responsibility of the management. Our 
examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on test basis.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its officers, agents 
and authorized representatives during the conduct of 
Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, 
the Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year started from January 1, 2024 and ended 
on December 31, 2024 (‘Audit Period’) complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper Board processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and 
subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on  December 
31, 2024 according to the provisions of:
(i) 	 The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii) 	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii) 	The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv) 	Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and 
the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings, 
wherever applicable;
(v) 	 The following Regulations prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(b) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015;
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
Varun Beverages Limited
168
	
(e) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021; {Not applicable during the 
Audit Period}
	
(f) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993 
regarding 
the 
Companies Act and dealing with client;
	
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; 
{Not applicable during the Audit Period}
	
(h) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; {Not 
applicable during the Audit Period} and
	
(i) 	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard 
on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings  (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India, with which the Company has generally 
complied with. The Company is generally regular in 
filing e-forms with Registrar of Companies under the 
provisions of the Act. 
	
During the audit period, we are of the opinion that 
the Company has complied with the provisions of 
the Act, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines to the 
extent applicable.
	
The Company is PepsiCo’s second largest global 
franchise (outside United States) and have a strategic 
association with PepsiCo since 1991. The Company is a 
trusted business partner to PepsiCo and possesses the 
rights to manufacture, distribute and sell carbonated 
soft drinks, fruit juice-based drinks, packaged drinking 
water and sports and energy drinks. As informed by 
the Management, following Laws are being specifically 
applicable to the Company:
	
i.	
Food Safety & Standards Act, 2006, Rules and 
Regulations made thereunder 
	
ii. 	
Legal Metrology Act, 2009
	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to explanations given to us, we believe 
that the Company is having systems in place to 
check the compliance of laws specifically applicable 
to the Company.
	
We further report that the Board of Directors 
of the Company is duly constituted with proper 
balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes 
in the composition of Board of Directors that took 
place during the audit period were carried out in 
compliance with the provisions of the Act.
	
Advance notice was given to all directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings; agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent in advance and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
	
As per the minutes, the decisions at the Board 
meetings were taken unanimously.
	
We further report that there are systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the 
size and operations of the Company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
	
We further report that during the Audit Period:
	
1.	
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on 
July 30, 2024 and Members of the Company 
through postal ballot on August 30, 2024 
approved the sub-division/ split of existing 
equity shares of the Company such that 
1(One) equity share having face value of ` 5/- 
(Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up, be 
sub-divided/split into such number of equity 
shares having face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two 
only) each fully paid-up on the Record Date 
(i.e. September 12, 2024). 
	
2.	
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on 
July 30, 2024 and Members of the Company 
through postal ballot on August 30, 2024 
approved the alteration of Capital Clause of the 
Memorandum of Association of the Company 
by deleting the existing Clause V of the 
Memorandum of Association of the Company 
and inserting the following new Clause V:
	
	
“V. The Authorized Share Capital of the Company 
is ` 1000,00,00,000/- (Rupees One Thousand 
Crore only) divided into 500,00,00,000 (Five 
Hundred Crore) Equity Shares of face value of 
` 2/- (Rupees Two only) each.”
	
3.	
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on 
October 9, 2024 and Members of the Company 
through postal ballot on November 8, 2024 
approved raising of funds by way of issuance 
of Equity Shares for an aggregate amount 
not exceeding ` 7,500 Crore (Rupees Seven 
Thousand Five Hundred Crore only), in one or 
more tranche(s), through Qualified Institutions 
Placement.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
Kapil Dev Taneja

Partner
Place: New Delhi
CP No.: 22944 / Mem. No. F4019
Date: February 10, 2025
UDIN.: F004019F003904498
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
169
Annual Report 2024
Annexure – C
Annual report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities  
for the Financial Year 2024
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company
	
Your Company has a CSR Policy which is uploaded on website of the Company at https://varunbeverages.com/
wp-content/uploads/2023/05/24-CSR-Policy-Clear-Version.pdf 
	
During the year under review, Company has spent ` 308.11 Million on promoting healthcare, education, vocational 
skills, regional equality, water conservation, eradicating hunger, environmental sustainability, animal welfare, rural 
development, etc. through RJ Foundation having Regn. No. CSR00006099. For more details, please refer page 
no. 114 of the Annual Report.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee
	
Composition of the CSR Committee and details of attendance during Financial Year 2024 are as under:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the Financial 
Year 2024
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the 
Financial Year 2024
1
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal*
Chairperson
(Independent Director)
2
2
2
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria
Member
(Non-executive Chairman)
2
2
3
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
Member
(Executive Vice Chairman & 
Whole-time Director)
2
0
4
Mr. Raj Gandhi
Member
(Whole-time Director)
2
2
	
*Chairperson w.e.f. February 5, 2024
	
Note: Video/Tele-conferencing facility is offered to facilitate Directors to participate in the meetings.
3.	
Web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board 
are disclosed on the website of the Company
	
Composition of CSR Committee: https://varunbeverages.com/composition-of-the-committees-of-the-board/ 
    	
CSR Policy: https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/24-CSR-Policy-Clear-Version.pdf 
    	
CSR Projects: https://www.varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/CSR-Projects-FY-24.pdf
4.	
Executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014, if applicable
	
The impact assessment of contribution made towards CSR projects on Aaru Clinics, Pravah Skill Development 
Programme and Shiksha Kendra Programme during FY 2023 were undertaken through an independent agency. 
Their report is available on website of the Company at https://varunbeverages.com/agm/.
5.	
(a)	 Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: ` 15,405.45 Million
	
(b)	 Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: ` 308.11 Million
	
(c) 	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: Nil
	
(d) 	Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: Nil
	
(e)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: ` 308.11 Million  
Varun Beverages Limited
170
6.	
(a)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ` 307.50  Million
	
(b)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ` 0.56 Million
	
(c) 	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: ` 0.05 Million
	
(d) 	Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: ` 308.11 Million  
	
(e) 	CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year 2024:
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year 
(in `)
Amount Unspent (in `)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
sub-section (6) of Section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso to 
sub-section (5) of Section 135
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of 
transfer
308.11 Million  
Nil
Not Applicable
None
Nil
Not Applicable
	
(f)	 Excess amount for set off, if any: Nil
Sl. No. Particular
Amount (in `)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of 
Section 135
Not Applicable
(ii)
Total amount spent for the financial year
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the 
previous Financial Years, if any
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding
Financial
Year(s)
Amount
transferred to
Unspent CSR
Account
under sub-
section
(6) of
Section 135
(in `)
Balance
Amount in
Unspent
CSR
Account
under sub-
section
(6) of
Section 135
(in `)
Amount
Spent in
the
Financial
Year  
(in `)
Amount transferred 
to a Fund as specified 
under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso 
to sub-section (5) of 
Section 135, if any
Amount
remaining 
to be
spent in
succeeding
Financial 
Years
(in `)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount
(in `)
Date of
Transfer
Nil
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the financial year:
	
 √ Yes	
	
	
	
No
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired: 1(One)
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
171
Annual Report 2024
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the financial year:
Sl. 
No.
Short 
particulars 
of the property or 
asset(s) [including 
complete 
address 
and location of the 
property]
Pincode of the 
property or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/
beneficiary of the registered owner
CSR 
Registration
Number, if
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
1.
Cost of construction 
incurred 
on 
Gaushala for animal 
welfare at Village 
Dautana, 
Tehsil 
Chhata, near Kosi 
Kalan
Mathura-281401, 
Uttar Pradesh
February 
20, 2024
` 0.98 
Million
CSR00006099
RJ
Foundation
F-2/7, Okhla 
Industrial 
Area, 
Phase-I, New 
Delhi-110020
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
sub-section (5) of Section 135: 
	
Not applicable. 
Date: February 10, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Ravi Jaipuria 
Member - CSR Committee
(Non-Executive Chairman)
DIN: 00003668
Rashmi Dhariwal
Chairperson - CSR Committee
(Independent Director)
      DIN:  00337814
Varun Beverages Limited
172
Annexure – D
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo 
required under the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
The details of conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo are as follows:
(a)	 Conservation of energy
(i)
Steps taken or impact on
conservation of energy
A multi-pronged and sustainable approach is deployed in most of our plants 
as well as products to infuse the concept of energy conservation. Some of the 
energy conservation measures adopted across the manufacturing units were:
1. 	
Use of frequency drive in ammonia and air compressor which saves 
electric energy.
2. 	
Use of frequency drive in boiler for ID and FD fan which saves electric 
energy.
3. 	
Heat recovery from hot compressed gases and used for heating water.
4. 	
Recovery of treated hot water from three stage syrup transfer PHE.
5. 	
Beverage filling at ambient temperature leading to huge power savings 
in refrigeration.
6. 	
Replacement of CFL/FTL lamps with LED lamps.
7. 	
Replacement of low efficiency pump with high energy efficient pump.
8. 	
Improving efficiency on critical resources like water and energy by doing 
water recoveries and optimizing energy consumption.
9.	
Optimizing the resource consumptions and minimizing wastages by 
automations and controls.
10.	 Installation of steam operated pump trap - SOPT for better steam 
condensate recovery across all units.
11.	
Direct Coupled HP Compressors (No gear Box).
12.	
IE 5 permanent magnet motor.
13.	
Adiabatic cooling tower.
14.	 Improving condensate recovery by installation of SOPT and better 
technology equipment which helped in improving boiler efficiency.
15.	
Heat recovery from High Pressure Air Compressors and Ammonia 
Refrigeration compressors. 
16.	 Installation of de-superheaters.
17.	
Installation of Godrej Control Air- IFC for optimizing HP requirements at 
preform blow moulding machines. 
18.	
Initiated Cold CIP which requires no heat during operation.
19.	 Blowing power reduction by compressors efficiency audit and 
standardization of HP pressure SKU wise.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
173
Annual Report 2024
(ii)
Steps taken by the Company 
for utilizing alternate sources 
of energy
1.	
The Company has successfully utilized the environment friendly fuels 
like biomass and PNG operated boiler for steam generation and installed 
solar panels in many plants to generate clean energy.
2.	
In our pursuit of creating a green future, we are proactively shifting to 
renewable energy sources to fulfil our energy needs, pledging to broaden 
our renewable energy portfolio. By utilizing solar and wind on-site, as 
well as adopting open access (group captive power) sourcing methods, 
we are augmenting our renewable energy capacity. We are steadfast in 
our commitment to increasing the adoption of renewable energy at all 
our manufacturing and office locations.
In our sustainability journey, the usage of renewable energy sources has 
resulted in the generation of 73 million kWh units in FY 2024 from ~58 
million kWh units in FY 2023. This accomplishment not only underscores 
our dedication to reducing our environmental footprint but has also directly 
contributed to a reduction in energy consumption sourced from the 
electricity grid.
(iii)
Capital 
investment 
on 
energy 
conservation 
equipments
1.	
Installation and commissioning of Solar Plant at Nuh and Greater Noida 
Plants. Further, all new upcoming plants are coming with solar panel 
installed at roof top like Sandila, Pathankot, Supa, Gorakhpur, Khordha etc.
2.	
Air recovery system in Blow Moulding Machine.
3. 	
Filling machines which are capable of filling beverage at ambient 
temperature with high speed running.
4.	
Green Oven for Bottle Blowing machine which consumes less energy as 
compared to the traditional ones.
5. 	
High energy efficient pumps.
6. 	
Steam condensate recovery system across all units.
7. 	
Investment is done in Godrej Control Air IFC.
8. 	
Installation of desuperheaters.
9. 	
Investment in modification of existing CIP system to enable cold CIP.  
(b)	Technology absorption
(i)
Efforts 
made 
towards 
technology absorption
The Company has been continuously improving on resource use efficiencies, 
especially that of common resources such as water, fuel and energy and 
reducing carbon footprint. The Company follows series of environment 
performance indicators for monitoring natural resources consumption on 
per case basis and continual improvement is being achieved and sustained. 
New technology and Capex requirements are in progress at leadership level in 
ESG to make provision accordingly.
(ii)
Benefits 
derived 
like 
product 
improvement, 
cost reduction, product 
development 
or 
import 
substitution
Over the past twelve years, Company has reduced water usage on per case 
basis and significant reduction of energy consumption on per case basis. 
Some of the factories have also received the Green Factory certification 
(Gold rating) from Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). Your Company 
also achieved significant reduction in weight of closure (from 1880 long 
height closure to 1881 short height closure) and preforms over years. This 
is implemented across all units resulting in to saving of resin consumption. 
Usage of nitrogen in packaged drinking water enables unit to reduce 10% of 
package weight. We also started metal cage for preform storage and handling 
to minimize recycling waste. Recently three of our units Sathariya, Sandila and 
Sricity received CII National award and noteworthy achievement for excellence 
in water management within the fence. Sandila unit additionally rewarded in 
'out of fence' category of water management excellence as recognized by CII. 
Our Begusarai plant has received CII National award for Excellence in Water 
Management in 2024.
Varun Beverages Limited
174
(iii)
In 
case 
of 
imported 
technology 
 
(imported 
during 
the 
last 
three 
years reckoned from the 
beginning of the financial
year)-
There is no imported technology involved in the operation of the Company.
(a)	 Details of technology 
imported
N.A.
(b)	 Year of import
N.A.
(c)	 Whether the 
technology been fully 
absorbed
N.A.
(d)	 If not fully absorbed, 
areas 
where 
absorption has not 
taken place, and the 
reasons thereof
N.A.
(iv)
Expenditure 
incurred 
on 
Research and Development
Due to the nature of its business, the Company need not to initiate specific 
research and development activities, however Company supports all the pilot 
projects feasibility and commercialization along with PepsiCo.
(c)	 Foreign Exchange Earnings & Outgo
(` in Million)
Sl. No
Particulars
As at 
December 31, 2024
As at 
December 31, 2023
(i)
Earnings in Foreign Currency
3,439.48
2,586.62
(ii)
Expenditure in Foreign Currency
13,243.72
13,685.96
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Varun Beverages Limited
Date: February 10, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Ravi Jaipuria 
Chairman
DIN: 00003668 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
175
Annual Report 2024
To comply with Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 [‘SEBI (LODR) Regulations’], the report containing 
details of Corporate Governance of Varun Beverages 
Limited (‘the Company’/ ‘VBL’) is as follows:
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance is creation and enhancing long 
term sustainable value for the stakeholders through 
ethically driven business process. At VBL, it is imperative 
that your Company affairs are being managed in a fair 
and transparent manner.
Corporate Governance is all about maintaining a valuable 
relationship and trust with all stakeholders. We consider 
stakeholders as partners in our success and we remain 
committed towards maximizing stakeholders’ value, be it 
shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, investors, 
communities or policy makers. This approach to value 
creation emanates from our belief that sound governance 
system, based on relationship and trust, is integral to 
creating enduring value for all.
We believe, Corporate Governance is not just a destination, 
but a journey to constantly improve sustainable value 
creation. It is an upward-moving target that we collectively 
strive towards achieving. Our multiple initiatives towards 
maintaining the highest standards of governance are 
detailed hereinafter.
The Corporate Governance framework of the Company is 
based on the following broad practices: 
(a)	 Engaging 
a 
diverse 
and 
highly 
professional, 
experienced and competent Board of Directors, with 
versatile expertise in industry, finance, management 
and law.
(b)	 Deploying well defined governance structures that 
establishes checks and balances and delegates 
decision making to appropriate levels in the 
organization.
 (c)	 Adoption and implementation of fair, transparent and 
robust systems, processes, policies and procedures.
 (d)	 Making high level of disclosures for dissemination of 
corporate, financial and operational information to 
all its stakeholders.
(e)	 Having strong systems and processes to ensure full 
and timely compliance with all legal and regulatory 
requirements and zero tolerance for non-compliance.
Annexure – E
Corporate Governance Report
Best Corporate Governance Practices
VBL maintains the highest standards of Corporate 
Governance. It is the Company’s constant endeavour to 
adopt the best Corporate Governance practices keeping 
in view the international codes of Corporate Governance 
and practices of well-known global companies. Some of 
the best implemented global governance norms include 
the following:
•	
All securities related material filings with Stock 
Exchanges and SEBI are reviewed by the Company’s 
Board of Directors.
•	
The Company has following Board Committees: 
Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee, 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee, 
Share 
Allotment 
Committee, Investment and Borrowing Committee 
and Environment, Social and Governance Committee.
•	
The Company also undergoes Secretarial Audit 
conducted by an independent firm of Practicing 
Company Secretaries. The Secretarial Audit Report 
is placed before the Board and forms part of the 
Annual Report.
•	
Observance and adherence of all applicable Laws 
including Secretarial Standards issued by The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Governance Policies
At VBL, we strive to conduct our business and strengthen 
our relationship in a manner that is dignified, distinctive 
and responsible. We adhere to ethical standards to 
ensure 
integrity, 
transparency, 
independence 
and 
accountability in dealing with all stakeholders. Therefore, 
we have adopted various codes and policies to carry out 
our duties in an ethical manner. Some of the codes and 
policies are as follows:
•	
Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior 
Management;
•	
Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading;
•	
Code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure 
of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information;
•	
Policy on Related Party Transactions;
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy;
•	
Policy for Determination of Material Subsidiary and 
Governance of Subsidiaries;
Varun Beverages Limited
176
•	
Policy for Determination of Materiality of Events /
Information;
•	
Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel, Members of Senior Management and 
other Employees of the Company;
•	
Familiarization Programme for Independent Directors;
•	
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy;
•	
Policy for Preservation of Documents;
•	
Policy on Diversity of the Board of Directors;
•	
Risk Management Policy;
•	
Dividend Distribution Policy;
•	
Archival Policy;
•	
Guidelines for Acquisition in India;
•	
Go Green Guidelines;
•	
Anti-Bribery Policy;
•	
Policy for Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of 
Sexual Harassment at Workplace;
•	
Policy on Incentives Linked to ESG Initiatives;
•	
Framework of  Environment, Social and Governance 
(ESG);
•	
Grievance Redressal Policy; and
•	
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2016.
Board of Directors
As at December 31, 2024, 5(Five) out of 10(Ten) Directors 
on the Board were Independent Directors. At VBL, it is 
our belief that an enlightened Board consciously creates 
a culture of leadership to provide a long-term vision and 
policy approach to improve the quality of governance. 
The Board’s actions and decisions are aligned with the 
Company’s best interests. The Board critically evaluates 
the Company’s strategic direction, management policies 
and their effectiveness.
Size and composition of the Board of Directors as at 
December 31, 2024 is given below:
Category
Name of Directors
Non-executive Chairman
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria*
Executive  Vice Chairman 
& Whole-time Director
Mr. Varun Jaipuria*
Executive / Whole-time 
Directors
Mr. Raj Gandhi
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
Non-executive,  
Non-Independent Director
Dr. Naresh Trehan
Non-executive, 
Independent Directors
Dr. Ravi Gupta 
Mr. Abhiram Seth
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal
Ms. Sita Khosla
*Mr. Ravi Jaipuria and Mr. Varun Jaipuria are Promoters of the 
Company.
Inter-se Relationship among Directors
Except Mr. Ravi Jaipuria and Mr. Varun Jaipuria, none of the 
Director is a relative of other Director(s). Mr. Varun Jaipuria, 
Executive Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director is son of 
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria, Non-executive Chairman of the Company.
Core Skills / Expertise / Competencies available 
with the Board
The Board comprises qualified Members who possess 
required skills, expertise and competencies that allow 
them to make effective contributions to the Board and 
its Committees.
The Matrix setting out the Skills, Expertise and Competencies available with the Board in context of business of the 
Company is as under:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Leadership /
Operations
Strategic 
Planning
Industry 
Experience, 
Technical, 
Research & 
Development and 
Innovation
Global 
Business
Finance & 
Legal
Corporate 
Governance, 
Compliance & 
Risk Management
1.
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria
√
√
√
√
√
√
2.
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
√
√
√
√
-
√
3.
Mr. Raj Gandhi
√
√
√
√
√
√
4.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet 
Singh Bagga
√
√
√
√
-
√
5.
Dr. Naresh Trehan
√
√
-
√
√
√
6.
Dr. Ravi Gupta
√
√
-
-
√
√
7.
Mr. Abhiram Seth
√
√
√
√
-
√
8.
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
√
√
√
-
-
√
9.
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal
√
√
-
-
√
√
10. Ms. Sita Khosla
√
√
-
-
√
√
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
177
Annual Report 2024
Selection of Independent Directors
Considering the requirement of skill sets on the Board, 
eminent people having an independent standing in their 
respective field / profession and who can effectively 
contribute to the Company’s business and policy decisions 
are considered by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee for appointment as an Independent Director 
on the Board. The Committee, inter-alia, considers criteria 
as prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) 
and SEBI (LODR) Regulations viz. positive attributes, area 
of expertise, number of directorships and memberships 
held in various committees of other companies by such 
persons in accordance with the Company’s Policy. The 
Board considers the Committee’s recommendation and 
takes appropriate decision.
A statement in connection with fulfilling the criteria 
of Independence and directorships as required under 
the provisions of the Act and SEBI (LODR) Regulations 
received from each of Independent Director is disclosed in 
the Board’s Report. Your Company had also issued formal 
appointment letters to all the Independent Directors in the 
manner provided under the Act. Terms and Conditions for 
appointment of Independent Directors are available on 
website of the Company at https://www.varunbeverages.
com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/1-2.-Terms-of-IDs.pdf 
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors 
fulfill the conditions as specified in the Act and SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations and are Independent of the 
management.
Independent 
Directors’ 
Induction 
and 
Familiarization
An appropriate induction programme for new Directors 
and ongoing training for existing Directors is a major 
contributor in maintaining the high Corporate Governance 
standards of the Company. The Whole-time Directors 
and the Company Secretary are jointly responsible for 
ensuring that such induction and training programmes 
are given to the Directors. The management provides 
such information and training either at the meeting 
of Board of Directors or otherwise. The details of such 
familiarization programme for Independent Directors 
are posted on website of the Company at https://
varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/2-1.-
Details-of-Familiariation-Programme-of-IDs.pdf
Board Evaluation
The Board of Directors of the Company ensures formation 
and monitoring of robust evaluation framework of the 
Individual Directors including Chairman of the Board, 
Board as a whole and various Committees thereof and 
carries out the evaluation of the Board, the Committees 
of the Board and Individual Directors, including the 
Chairman of the Board on an annual basis. A structured 
questionnaire is prepared and circulated to the Directors 
for each of the evaluation. 
Board Evaluation for the Financial Year ended December 
31, 2024 has been completed by the Company internally 
which included the evaluation of the performance of 
the Board as a whole, Board Committees and Directors 
individually including Chairman of the Board and results 
of the same were shared with the Board.
Internal Audit
As recommended by the Audit, Risk Management 
and Ethics Committee, the Board of Directors in their 
meeting held on February 5, 2024 appointed M/s. VGG 
& Co., Chartered Accountants as Internal Auditors of the 
Company for the Financial Year 2024 to conduct internal 
audit of the Company and their report on findings is 
submitted to the Audit, Risk Management and Ethics 
Committee on periodic basis.
Separate Meeting of Independent Directors
To comply with the provisions of Schedule IV of the Act 
read with Regulation 25 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the 
Independent Directors met once on November 28, 2024 
during the Financial Year 2024, without the presence 
of Non-Independent Directors and members of the 
management team and inter-alia reviewed:
•	
The performance of Non-Independent Directors and 
the Board as a whole;
•	
The performance of the Chairman of the Company, 
taking into account the views of Executive Directors 
and Non-executive Directors; and
•	
The quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the Company’s management 
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
In addition to formal meetings, interactions also took 
place between the Chairman and Independent Directors.
Board Meetings, Board Committee Meetings 
and Procedure
Board is the apex body constituted by shareholders for 
overseeing the Company’s overall functioning. The Board 
provides and evaluates the Company’s strategic direction, 
management policies, their effectiveness and ensures 
that shareholders’ long term interests are being served.
As on date of this report, the Board has 7(Seven) 
Committees, namely Audit, Risk Management and Ethics 
Committee, 
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Committee, 
Share 
Allotment 
Committee, Investment and Borrowing Committee, and 
Environment, Social and Governance Committee.
Varun Beverages Limited
178
The Company’s internal guidelines for Board/Board 
Committee meetings facilitate the decision making process 
at its meetings in an informed and efficient manner.
Board/Committee Meetings
The Board meets at regular intervals to discuss and 
decide on Company / business policies and strategies 
apart from other regular business matters. The Board/ 
Committee Meetings are pre-scheduled and a tentative 
annual calendar of the Board and Committee Meetings 
is circulated to all Directors well in advance to facilitate 
them to plan their schedule and to ensure meaningful 
participation in the meetings. The Board is updated on 
the discussions held at the Committee meetings and the 
recommendations made by various Committees.
Agenda of the Board/Committee Meetings is set by 
the Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary in 
consultation with the Whole-time Director(s) and the 
Chairman of the Company. The agenda is generally 
circulated a week prior to the date of the meeting and 
includes detailed notes on items to be discussed at the 
meeting to enable the Directors to take an informed 
decision. However, in case of urgency, the agenda 
is circulated along with shorter notice as per the 
provisions of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings of the 
Board of Directors issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India. Usually meetings of the Board are 
held at Corporate Office of the Company at Gurugram. 
Draft minutes of proceedings of the Board/Committee 
meetings are circulated for comments/suggestions 
and thereafter, final minutes are noted by the Board/
Committees at their next meeting. 
Board meets at least once in a quarter to review inter-alia 
the quarterly results, compliances and performance of the 
Company. Additional meetings are held on need basis.
The Company also provides facility to the Directors to 
attend meetings of the Board and its Committees through 
Video/Tele Conferencing mode. 
8 (Eight) Board meetings were held during the Financial 
Year 2024 on February 5, 2024, February 20, 2024, 
May 13, 2024, July 15, 2024, July 30, 2024, October 9, 
2024, October 22, 2024 and November 12, 2024. The 
gap between two Board meetings was within the limit 
prescribed under Section 173(1) of the Act and Regulation 
17(2) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations.
Board Business
The business of the Board inter-alia includes:
•	
Framing and overseeing progress of the Company’s 
annual plan and operating framework.
•	
Framing strategies for direction of the Company and 
for corporate resource allocation.
•	
Reviewing financial plans of the Company.
•	
Reviewing the quarterly and annual financial results 
of the Company.
•	
Reviewing the Annual Report including Audited 
Annual Financial Statements for adoption by the 
Members.
•	
Reviewing progress of various functions and business 
of the Company.
•	
Reviewing the functioning of the Board and its 
Committees.
•	
Reviewing the functioning of subsidiary companies.
•	
Consider 
and 
approve 
the 
declaration/ 
recommendation of dividend.
•	
Reviewing and resolving fatal or serious accidents 
or dangerous occurrences, any material significant 
effluent or pollution problems or significant labour 
issues, if any.
•	
Reviewing the details of significant development in 
human resources and industrial relations front.
•	
Reviewing details of foreign exchange exposure and 
steps taken by the management to limit the risks of 
adverse exchange rate movement.
•	
Reviewing compliance with all relevant legislations 
and regulations and litigation status, including 
important show cause, demand, prosecution and 
penalty notices, if any.
•	
Advising on corporate restructuring such as merger, 
acquisition, joint venture or disposals, if any.
•	
Appointing Directors on the Board and Key 
Managerial Personnel, if any.
•	
Reviewing various policies of the Company and 
monitoring implementation thereof.
•	
Reviewing details of risk evaluation and internal 
controls.
•	
Reviewing reports on progress made on the ongoing 
projects.
•	
Monitoring and reviewing board evaluation framework.
•	
Review 
report(s) 
on 
Environment, 
Social 
and 
Governance.
Board Support
The Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary is 
responsible for collation, review and distribution of all 
papers submitted to the Board and Committees thereof 
for consideration. He is also responsible for preparation of 
Agenda in consultation with the Whole-time Director(s) 
and the Chairman of the Company and convening of 
Board and Committee Meetings. The Chief Risk Officer & 
Group Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the 
Board and its Committees, advises and assures the Board 
on Compliance and Governance principles.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
179
Annual Report 2024
Recording Minutes of proceedings of Board and Committee meetings
The Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary ensures appropriate recording of minutes of proceedings of each 
Board and Committee Meeting. The minutes are entered in the Minutes Book within 30 (Thirty) days from the date of 
conclusion of the meetings as per the Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Post meeting follow-up mechanism
The guidelines for Board and Committee meetings facilitate an effective post meeting follow-up, review and reporting 
process for decisions taken by the Board and Committees thereof. Important decisions taken at Board/ Committee 
meetings are communicated promptly to the concerned departments/divisions. Action-taken report (if any) on 
decisions/minutes of the previous meeting(s) is placed at the succeeding meeting of the Board/ Committees for review.
Attendance of Directors at Board Meetings & last Annual General Meeting (AGM), number of other 
Directorships and Chairmanships / Memberships of Committees and Shareholding of each Director 
in the Company
Name and DIN
Designation & 
Category 
Attendance in 
Financial Year 
2024
Number of 
Directorships in 
other Companies$ 
as on December 
31, 2024
Committee Membership 
and Chairmanship in 
other Companies# as on 
December 31, 2024
Shareholding 
in the 
Company 
as on 
December 31, 
2024
Board 
Meetings
AGM
Private
Public
Chairman
ship
Member 
ship
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria
(00003668)
Promoter (Non-
executive Chairman)
8/8
Yes
1
5
Nil
1
564,736,222
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
(02465412)
Promoter (Executive 
Vice Chairman & 
Whole-time Director) 
7/8
Yes
3
2
Nil
Nil
520,859,870
Mr. Raj Gandhi
(00003649)
Whole-time Director
(Executive Director) 
8/8
Yes
2
6
Nil
3
6,561,122
Mr. Rajinder Jeet 
Singh Bagga 
(08440479)
Whole-time Director
(Executive Director)
7/8
Yes
1
1
Nil
Nil
1,459,685
Dr. Naresh Trehan
(00012148)&
Non-executive Non-
Independent Director
5/6
N.A.
2
6
Nil
Nil
Nil
Dr. Ravi Gupta
(00023487)
Non-executive   
Independent Director
8/8
Yes
9
5
4
7
Nil
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal 
(00337814)
Non-executive  
Independent Director
7/8
Yes
3
5
1
7
Nil
Ms. Sita Khosla 
(01001803)
Non-executive   
Independent Director
7/8
Yes
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. Abhiram Seth
(00176144)
Non-executive  
Independent Director
6/8
Yes
3
4
2
3
7,380
Mr. Anil Kumar 
Sondhi
(00696535) 
Non-executive 
Independent Director
8/8
Yes
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
$  Does not include directorship in foreign companies.
#  Includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in all public limited companies (whether listed or not) and 
excludes private limited companies, foreign companies and Section 8 companies.
& Appointed as a Non-executive Non-independent Director with effect from April 21, 2024.
Note: Video/Tele-conferencing facility is offered to facilitate Directors to participate in the meetings.
Varun Beverages Limited
180
Pursuant to Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, details of Directorship in other listed entity and 
category of Directorship as on December 31, 2024, are mentioned below:
Sl. No. Name of Director
Company
Category of Directorship
1.
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria
Devyani International Limited
Non-executive Non-Independent Director
Global Health Limited
Non-executive Non-Independent Director
2.
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
Devyani International Limited
Non-executive Non-Independent Director
3.
Mr. Raj Gandhi
Devyani International Limited
Non-executive Non-Independent Director
4.
Dr. Naresh Trehan
Global Health Limited
Executive Director
5.
Dr. Ravi Gupta
Devyani International Limited
Non-executive Independent Director
Epack Durable Limited
Non-executive Independent Director
Global Health Limited
Non-executive Independent Director
6
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal
Devyani International Limited
Non-executive Independent Director
Vindhya Telelinks Limited
Non-executive Independent Director
7.
Mr. Abhiram Seth 
LT Foods Limited
Non-executive Independent Director
Committees of the Board
The Board Committees play a vital role in strengthening 
the 
Corporate 
Governance 
practices. 
The 
Board 
Committees are set up under formal approval of the Board 
to carry out clearly defined roles which are considered 
to be performed by Members of the Board as a part of 
good governance practice. The Board supervise the 
execution of responsibilities by the Committee. Minutes 
of the proceedings of all the Committee meetings are 
circulated to the Board to take note of the same. The 
Board Committees may request special invitees to join 
the meeting, as appropriate.
As required under Schedule V (Annual Report) of the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, mandatory disclosure(s) related 
to the Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee, 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee are as follows:
(i)	 Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee
	
The terms of reference and composition of the Audit, 
Risk Management and Ethics Committee satisfy the 
requirements of Section 177 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014 and Regulations 18 and 21 of the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations.
	
The brief terms of reference of Audit, Risk 
Management and Ethics Committee are as under:
	
•	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process, examination of the financial statement 
and the auditors’ report thereon and the 
disclosure of its financial information to ensure 
that its financial statements are correct, 
sufficient and credible.
	
•	
Recommendation for appointment, re-appointment 
and replacement, remuneration and terms of 
appointment of auditors of the Company and 
approval of payment for any other services 
rendered by the auditors of the Company.
	
•	
Reviewing with the Management the quarterly/ 
annual results and annual financial statements 
and 
Auditors’ 
Report 
thereon 
before 
submission to the Board for approval. This 
would, inter-alia, include reviewing changes 
in the accounting policies and reasons for 
the same, major accounting entries involving 
estimates based on exercise of judgement by 
Management, significant adjustments made in 
the financial statements.
	
•	
Review the Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of financial condition and results of 
operations.
	
•	
Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans 
and 
investments.
	
•	
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems.
	
•	
Reviewing the functioning of the whistle blower/ 
vigil mechanism.
	
•	
Formulate a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
	
	
-	
Framework for identification of internal 
and external risks.
	
	
-	
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control 
of identified risks.
	
	
-	
Business continuity plan.
	
•	
Evaluate and review the risk management 
plan, the risk management system, including 
risk policy, risk process (risk identification, 
assessment, mitigation and monitoring), cyber 
security processes and risk registers laid down 
by the Management.
	
•	
Recommendation for appointment, removal and 
terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer.
The Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee met 
5(Five) times during the Financial Year 2024 on February 
5, 2024, May 13, 2024, July 30, 2024, October 22, 2024 
and November 12, 2024.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
181
Annual Report 2024
Composition of the Committee and attendance of the 
Members at the meetings held during the Financial 
Year 2024:
Sl. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
No. of
Meetings
Attended
1.
Dr. Ravi 
Gupta
Independent 
Director
Chairman
5/5
2.
Ms. Rashmi 
Dhariwal
Independent 
Director
Member
5/5
3.
Ms. Sita 
Khosla
Independent 
Director
Member
5/5
Note: Video/Tele-conferencing facility is offered to facilitate 
Directors to participate in the meetings.
The Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary acts 
as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk Management and 
Ethics Committee was present at the last AGM held on 
April 3, 2024.
(ii)	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	
The terms of reference and composition of the 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee satisfy the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 
20 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations.
	
The brief terms of reference of Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee are to consider and resolve 
the grievances of security holders of the Company 
including but not limited to complaints related 
to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends 
and review of services rendered by the Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent.
Composition of the Committee during the Financial 
Year 2024:
Sl. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
1.
Ms. Sita Khosla
Independent 
Director
Chairperson
2.
Ms. Rashmi 
Dhariwal
Independent 
Director
Member
3.
Mr. Raj Gandhi
Executive Director
Member
Note: Video/Tele-conferencing facility is offered to facilitate 
Directors to participate in the meetings.
The Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary acts 
as Secretary to the Committee and also designated as a 
Compliance Officer of the Company.
The Chairperson of the Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee was present at the last AGM held on 
April 3, 2024.
Investor Grievances / Complaints
The details of the Investor Complaints received and 
resolved during the Financial Year ended December 31, 
2024 are as follows:
Opening 
Balance
No. of 
complaints 
received
No. of 
complaints 
resolved
No. of
complaints
not solved
to the
satisfaction of
shareholders
No. of
complaints
pending
0
11
11
0
0
To enable investors to share their grievance or 
concern, Company has set up a dedicated e-mail ID 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.in.
(iii)	Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	
The terms of reference and composition of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee satisfy 
the requirements of Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 19 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations and SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021.
	
The brief terms of reference of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee are as under:
 
•	
Formulating 
the 
criteria 
for 
determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a director and recommending 
to the Board of Directors a policy relating to the 
remuneration of the directors, key managerial 
personnel 
and 
other 
employees 
and 
for 
evaluation of the performance of independent 
directors and the Board of Directors;
 
•	
Devising a policy on diversity of the Board of 
Directors;
 
•	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid 
down, recommending to the Board of Directors 
their appointment and removal, and specify the 
manner for effective evaluation of performance 
of Board, its committees and individual Directors 
and review its implementation and compliance;
 
•	
Determine whether to extend or continue the term 
of appointment of the independent directors on 
the basis of the report of performance evaluation 
of independent directors; and
 
•	
Framing suitable policies and systems to ensure 
that there is no violation by an employee as well 
as by the Company of any applicable laws in 
India or overseas, including:
Varun Beverages Limited
182
	
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015; and
	
	
(ii)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 
Practices relating to the Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee met 5 
(Five) times during the Financial Year 2024 on February 
5, 2024, March 7, 2024, May 13, 2024, September 16, 2024 
and September 27, 2024.
Composition of the Committee and attendance of the 
Members at the meetings held during the Financial 
Year 2024:
Sl. 
No.
Name
Category
Designation
No. of
Meetings
Attended
1.
Ms. Rashmi 
Dhariwal
Independent 
Director
Chairperson
3/5
2.
Dr. Ravi 
Gupta
Independent 
Director
Member
5/5
3.
Mr. Ravi 
Jaipuria
Non-executive 
Chairman
Member
4/5
Note: Video/Tele-conferencing facility is offered to facilitate 
Directors to participate in the meetings.
The Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary acts 
as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chairperson of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee was present at the last AGM held on 
April 3, 2024.
Performance evaluation criteria for Directors
The Remuneration Policy of the Company lays down 
the criteria of appointment and remuneration of 
Directors/Key Managerial Personnel including criteria 
for 
determining 
qualification, 
positive 
attributes, 
independence of Directors, criteria for performance 
evaluation of Executive and Non-executive Directors 
(including Independent Directors) and other matters as 
prescribed under the provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations. An indicative list of factors that may 
be evaluated including but not limited to participation 
and contribution by a Director, commitment, effective 
deployment of knowledge and expertise, effective 
management of relationship with stakeholders, integrity 
and maintenance of confidentiality and independence of 
behaviour and judgement.
Remuneration of Directors
Details of remuneration paid to Directors of the Company for the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024, are as follows:
(` in million)
Sl. 
No.
Name
Sitting Fee
Salary
Perquisite
Bonus/Incentive 
Total
1.
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
-
72.02
0.04
-
72.06
2.
Mr. Raj Gandhi
-
55.33
3.26
11.85
70.44
3.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
-
61.56
3.40
-
64.96
4.
Dr. Ravi Gupta
2.20
-
-
-
2.20
5.
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal
2.90
-
-
-
2.90
6.
Ms. Sita Khosla
1.70
-
-
-
1.70
7.
Mr. Abhiram Seth
0.60
-
-
-
0.60
8.
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
0.80
-
-
-
0.80
The details of specific service contracts, notice period 
and severance fees etc. are governed by the appointment 
letter issued to respective Director at the time of his/her 
appointment/re-appointment. 
During the Financial Year 2024, no loans and advances 
in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which 
directors are interested was given by the Company and 
its subsidiaries.
Criteria of making payments to Non-executive 
Directors including all pecuniary relationship or 
transactions of Non-executive Directors
The Independent Directors are not paid any remuneration 
other than the sitting fee for attending meetings of 
the Board and the Committees thereof as approved by 
the Board.
There has been no pecuniary relationship or transactions 
of the Non-executive Directors vis-à-vis the Company 
during the year except the sitting fee paid to them as 
detailed above.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
183
Annual Report 2024
Prohibition of Insider Trading
To comply with the provisions of Regulation 9 of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company has 
adopted a Code of Conduct for Prohibition of Insider 
Trading and the same is uploaded on website of the 
Company 
at 
https://www.varunbeverages.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/12/Insider-Trading-Code.pdf
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy
To comply with the provisions of Section 177 of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Company 
has adopted a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy for 
Directors and Employees of the Company. Under the Vigil 
Mechanism Policy, the protected disclosures can be made 
by a victim through an e-mail or a letter to the Chief Risk 
Officer & Group Company Secretary (‘Vigilance Officer’) 
or to the Chairperson of the Audit, Risk Management and 
Ethics Committee.
The Policy provides for adequate safeguards against 
victimization of Directors and Employees who avail of 
the vigil mechanism and also provides a direct access to 
the Vigilance Officer or the Chairperson of the Audit, Risk 
Management and Ethics Committee, in exceptional cases. 
No personnel of the Company has been denied access to 
the Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee.
The main objective of this policy is to provide a 
platform to Directors and Employees to raise concerns 
regarding any irregularity, misconduct or unethical 
matters/ dealings within the Company, which may have 
a negative bearing on the organization either financially 
or otherwise.
This policy provides an additional channel to the normal 
management hierarchy for employees to raise concerns 
about any breach of the Company’s values or instances of 
violations of the Company’s Code of Conduct. Therefore, 
it is in line with the Company’s commitment to open 
communication and to highlight any such matters which 
may not be getting addressed in a proper manner. 
During the year under review, no complaint was received 
under the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy of 
the Company. The Policy is uploaded on website of 
the 
Company 
at 
https://www.varunbeverages.com/
wp-content/uploads/2023/03/21-VIGIL-MECHANISM-
POLICY.pdf
Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP)
During the year under review, in compliance with the 
provisions of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2018, 
SEBI 
(LODR) 
Regulations and Sections 42 & 62 of the Act and Rules 
made thereunder, the Company has issued and allotted 
132,743,362 Equity Shares of face value of ` 2/- each to 
the eligible Qualified Institutional Buyers at an issue price 
of ` 565/- per Equity Share i.e. at a premium of ` 563/- 
per Equity Share aggregating to `  7,500/- crore. Brief 
summary of utilization of funds are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Amount as 
per Placement 
Document 
(` in crore)
Amount Utilized 
as on 31.12.2024
(` in crore)
1.
Repayment/ Prepayment, in part or in full of certain outstanding 
borrowings availed by the company and /or one of its subsidiaries
5,600.00
5,047.55
2.
For general corporate purposes and inorganic acquisitions
1,839.00
385.85
3.
QIP Issue Expense
61.00
61.11*
Total
7,500.00
5,494.50
* incremental amount utilized through general corporate purposes allocated funds.
Compliance with the Code of Conduct
To comply with the provisions of Regulation 17(5) of 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Company has adopted 
“Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior 
Management” (‘Code’). Code is available on website of the 
Company at https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/03/19-Code-Of-Conduct-For-Board-Of- 
Directors-and-Senior-Management-Revised.pdf
On the basis of declarations received from Board Members 
and Senior Management Personnel, the Executive Vice 
Chairman & Whole-time Director has given a declaration 
that the Members of the Board of Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with 
the Code during the Financial Year 2024. A copy of such 
declaration is also attached with this report.
Varun Beverages Limited
184
General Body Meetings
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meetings (‘AGM’) of the Company during the preceding three years were held at the following 
venue, date and time, wherein the following special resolutions were passed:
AGM Financial 
Year
Day, Date & 
Time
Venue/Mode
Brief description of Special Resolutions
29th
2023
Wednesday, 
April 3, 
2024 at 
11:00 a.m.
Meeting held 
through Video
Conferencing/ 
Other Audio 
Visual Means
Facility
Deemed Venue: 
Registered Office
• Re-appointment of Mr. Raj Gandhi (DIN: 00003649) as a 
Whole-time Director of the Company
• Appointment of Dr. Naresh Trehan (DIN: 00012148) as a 
Non-executive Non-Independent Director of the Company
28th 
2022
Monday, 
March 27, 
2023 at 
11:00 a.m.
Meeting held 
through Video
Conferencing / 
Other
Audio Visual 
Means
Facility
Deemed Venue: 
Registered Office
• Re-appointment of Ms. Sita Khosla (DIN: 01001803) as an 
Independent Director of the Company for a second term
• Re-appointment of Dr. Ravi Gupta (DIN: 00023487) as an 
Independent Director of the Company for a second term
• Re-appointment of Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal (DIN: 00337814) as an 
Independent Director of the Company for a second term
27th 
2021
Thursday, 
April 7, 2022 
at 11:00 a.m.
Meeting held 
through Video
Conferencing/ 
Other Audio 
Visual Means 
Facility
Deemed Venue: 
Registered Office
• Payment of profit related commission to Non-executive 
Directors
• Amendments in the ‘Employees Stock Option Scheme 2016’ of 
the Company
• Grant of stock options to the employees of holding, subsidiary, 
group or associate company(ies) of the Company under the 
‘Employees Stock Option Scheme 2016’ 
Extra-ordinary General Meeting
Apart from AGM, no other General Meeting was held 
during the Financial Year 2024. 
Postal Ballot
No special resolution is proposed to be conducted 
through postal ballot.
During the year under review, pursuant to Regulation 44 of 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations and Sections 108, 110 and other 
applicable provisions of the Act read with Rules made 
thereunder, Members of the Company approved following 
matters by way of special resolution through postal ballot 
dated October 9, 2024: 
Sl. 
No.
Type of 
Resolution
Brief description of Resolutions
1.
Special 
Resolution
Raising of funds by way of issuance 
of Equity Shares through Qualified 
Institutions Placement (QIP)
Procedure followed for postal ballot
1.	
In compliance with Regulation 44 of the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations and Sections 108, 110 and 
other applicable provisions of the Act read with 
the Rules made thereunder and General Circulars 
issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the postal 
ballot notice dated October 9, 2024 was dispatched 
on Wednesday, October 9, 2024 containing draft 
resolution together with the explanatory statement 
and remote e-voting instructions through electronic 
mode to all those Members whose e-mail address 
were 
registered 
with 
the 
Company/Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) or Depository/
Depository Participants and whose names appeared 
in the Register of Members of the Company or in 
the Register of Beneficial Owners maintained by 
the Depositories as on Friday, October 4, 2024. The 
Company also published notice in the newspapers 
declaring details of completion of dispatch on 
Thursday, October 10, 2024 as mandated under the 
Act and applicable rules.
2.	
Members were requested to cast their vote only 
through remote e-voting facility provided by 
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) 
between Thursday, October 10, 2024 (9:00 A.M. IST) 
and Friday, November 8, 2024 (5.00 P.M. IST) (both 
days inclusive) on the draft resolutions mentioned in 
the postal ballot notice.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
185
Annual Report 2024
3.	
The Scrutinizer, Mr. Kapil Dev Taneja, Partner of 
M/s. 
Sanjay 
Grover 
& 
Associates, 
Company 
Secretaries, New Delhi submitted his report on 
November 9, 2024, after completion of the scrutiny.
4.	
The result of the postal ballot was announced by 
Mr. Ravi Batra, Chief Risk Officer & Group Company 
Secretary on November 9, 2024. The last date of 
remote e-voting i.e. Friday, November 8, 2024, was 
taken as the date of passing the resolutions.
5.	
The result of the postal ballot along with the 
scrutinizer’s report was displayed at the registered 
office of the Company, hosted at the Company’s 
website at www.varunbeverages.com and on the 
website of NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com 
and was also communicated to the Stock Exchanges.
6.	
The consolidated summary of the result is as under:
Item
Net Valid 
Votes 
Cast (No. 
of Equity 
Shares)
Votes in 
favour of the 
Resolution 
(No. of 
Equity 
Shares and 
% of Net 
Valid Votes)
Votes 
against the 
Resolution 
(No. of 
Equity 
Shares 
and % of 
Net Valid 
Votes)
Special Resolution 
for raising of 
funds by way 
of issuance of 
Equity Shares 
through Qualified 
Institutions 
Placement (QIP)
2,83,48,57,439 2,82,85,92,815 
(99.78%) 
62,64,624 
(0.22%) 
Means of Communication
Information like Quarterly / Half Yearly / Annual Financial 
Results and press releases / presentations on significant 
developments in the Company that have been made 
available from time to time have been submitted with the 
Stock Exchanges to enable them to put on their websites 
and communicate the Members. The same is also made 
available to Institutional Investors or to the Analysts (if 
any) and are also hosted on the Company’s website at 
https://varunbeverages.com.
The Quarterly / Half Yearly / Annual Financial Results 
are published in English and Hindi language newspapers 
normally in Economic Times and Jansatta, respectively. 
Moreover, a report on Management Discussion & Analysis 
as well as Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report also forms part of the Annual Report. The Company 
is disseminating all reports / information including 
Quarterly Financial Results, Shareholding Pattern and 
Corporate Governance Report etc., electronically on NSE 
website viz. www.nseindia.com and on BSE website viz. 
www.bseindia.com.
General Shareholders Information
A)	 Annual General Meeting
	
Date: April 3, 2025 (Thursday)
	
Time: 11:00 a.m. (IST)
	
Venue/Mode: Through Video Conferencing / Other 
Audio Visual Means facility
B)	 Financial Year
	
The Financial Year of the Company starts from 
January 1 and ends on December 31 every year.
C)	
Financial Calendar 2025
	
First Quarter Results	
:	On or before May 15, 2025 
	
Second Quarter Results	:	On or before August 14, 
2025
	
Third Quarter Results	 :	On or before November 14, 
2025
	
Audited Annual Results  
	
for the year ending on  
	
December 31, 2025 	
:	On or before March 1, 2026 
D)	 Dividend and its Payment
	
The Shareholders of the Company at their Annual 
General Meeting held on April 3, 2024 approved 
Final dividend of ` 1.25 per Equity Share (face value 
of ` 5/- per Equity Share) for the Financial Year 2023 
to the eligible equity shareholders of the Company.
	
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
in their meeting held on July 30, 2024 declared an 
interim dividend of `  1.25 per Equity Share (face 
value of ` 5/- per Equity Share) to the eligible equity 
shareholders of the Company. Further, the Board of 
Directors have also recommended a final dividend 
of ` 0.50 per Equity Share (face value of ` 2/- per 
Equity Share) for the Financial Year 2024. Total cash 
outflow for dividend payout would be ~`  3,315.06 
million for the Financial Year 2024.
	
The Company has transferred the unpaid/unclaimed 
Dividend (Interim & Final) to the Unclaimed Dividend 
Account – Varun Beverages Limited and the details 
of previous unpaid and unclaimed dividend amount 
lying in the said Accounts are uploaded on website 
of the Company at https://varunbeverages.com/
corporate-governance/
Varun Beverages Limited
186
G)	 Market Price Data for the period January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
Month
BSE
NSE
High (`)
Low (`)
Volume (Nos.)
High (`)
Low (`)
Volume (Nos.)
Jan-24
1,309.00
1,196.20
45,79,708
1,309.95
1,196.40
4,15,10,281 
Feb-24
 1,560.30 
 1,260.65 
 20,45,399 
1,561.95
1,260.00
4,59,94,776
Mar-24
 1,494.95 
 1,354.50 
 26,74,158 
1,495.00
1,354.20 
3,76,48,378
Apr-24
 1,544.00 
 1,322.05 
 22,35,341 
1,544.95 
1,349.70 
4,05,20,708
May-24
 1,558.45 
 1,390.20 
 23,89,294 
1,559.00 
1,390.25 
4,82,55,801
Jun-24
 1,673.70
 1,321.00 
 18,94,069 
1,672.00 
1,320.05 
4,29,34,587 
Jul-24
 1,707.10 
 1,507.00 
 25,13,738 
1,702.80 
1,507.75 
4,90,51,994 
Aug-24
 1,610.00
 1,413.00 
 29,41,179 
1,609.45
1,412.50 
4,49,11,316 
Sep-24
 1,588.60 
 602.30 
 47,77,561 
1,589.30
602.25 
9,28,08,995 
Oct-24
 632.00 
 537.80 
 69,74,600 
631.20 
536.85 
15,16,83,542 
Nov-24
 639.55 
 565.00 
 57,47,765 
639.60
565.00 
10,71,58,689 
Dec-24
 661.70 
 600.00 
 37,11,522 
662.00 
598.80 
12,23,17,911 
	
Note: Share prices after September 11, 2024 (i.e. ex-Split date) reflects the impact of Stock Split i.e. 2 (Two) equity shares having 
face value of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up, was sub-divided/split into 5 (Five) equity shares having face value of 
` 2/- (Rupees Two only) each fully paid-up, on September 12, 2024.
	
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the Act, 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016 (‘IEPF Rules’) read with relevant circulars and 
amendments thereto, amount of dividend which 
remains unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven 
years from the date of transfer to the Company’s 
unpaid 
dividend 
account 
and 
corresponding 
shares on which the dividend remains unclaimed 
for seven consecutive years or more are required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection 
Fund 
(“IEPF”) 
constituted 
by 
the 
Central Government. Accordingly, your Company 
had transferred ` 45,375/- to IEPF (being unpaid/
unclaimed interim dividend amount for FY 2017) and 
also transferred 299 equity shares (on which interim 
dividend for FY 2017 remained unpaid/unclaimed for 
seven consecutive years) to the designated demat 
account of IEPF Authority and the same can be 
claimed from IEPF Authority only after complying 
with prescribed procedure under IEPF Rules. 
E)	
Listing of Shares on Stock Exchanges and Stock 
Code
Sl.
No.
Name and Address of the Stock 
Exchange
Stock 
code
1.
National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited, Exchange Plaza, Block G, C/1, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai – 400 051 
VBL
2.
BSE 
Limited, 
Phiroze 
Jeejeebhoy 
Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001 
540180
	
ISIN of the Company changed from “INE200M01021” 
to “INE200M01039” on account of sub-division/split 
of equity shares of the Company during the year 
under review.
	
Annual listing fee for the Financial Year 2024-25 has 
been paid to the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited.
F)	
Listing of Debt Instruments on Stock Exchanges 
and Codes: N.A.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
187
Annual Report 2024
Performance in comparison to broad - based indices
Performance on BSE
Comparison of share price of VBL with BSE Sensex.
Jan'24
Feb'24
Mar'24
Apr'24
May'24
Jun'24
Jul'24
Aug'24
Sep'24
Oct'24
Nov'24
Dec'24
VBL BSE
 103.52 
 113.91 
 113.06 
 119.61 
 115.28 
 131.80 
 127.59 
 121.38 
 122.56 
 120.93 
 125.55 
 129.08 
BSE Sensex
 99.32  100.36 
 101.95 
 103.10 
 102.38  109.40 
 113.15 
 114.02 
 116.69  109.90 
 110.47 
 108.17 
Performance on BSE (Indexed)
140.00
100.00
80.00
120.00
60.00
40.00
20.00
–
BSE Sensex
VBL BSE
Jan'24
Feb'24
Mar'24
Apr'24
May'24
Jun'24
Jul'24
Aug'24
Sep'24
Oct'24
Nov'24
Dec'24
VBL NSE
 103.52 
 113.87 
 113.07 
 119.61 
 115.35 
 131.74 
 127.53 
 121.34  122.54  120.82  125.56  129.05 
NSE Nifty
 99.97 
 101.16  102.74  104.02  103.68  110.49 
 114.82 
 116.13 
 118.77 
 111.38 
 111.04  108.80 
Performance on NSE
Comparison of share price of VBL with NSE Nifty.
Performance on NSE (Indexed)
150.00
100.00
50.00
–
Jan-24
Feb-24
NSE Nifty
VBL NSE
Dec-24
Nov-24
Oct-24
Sep-24
Aug-24
Jul-24
Jun-24
May-24
Apr-24
Mar-24
Jan-24
Feb-24
Dec-24
Nov-24
Oct-24
Sep-24
Aug-24
Jul-24
Jun-24
May-24
Apr-24
Mar-24
Varun Beverages Limited
188
H)	 Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
	
All the work relating to the shares held in physical 
form as well as the shares held in the electronic 
(demat) form is being done by KFin Technologies 
Limited, whose details are given below:
	
KFin Technologies Limited
	
Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot No. 31 & 32,
	
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
	
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana, India.
	
Toll Free No.: 1800 309 4001
	
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
Website: www.kfintech.com
	
SEBI Registration No.: INR000000221
	
CIN L72400TG2017PLC117649
I)	
Share Transfer System
	
3,381,501,802 (Three Billion Three Hundred Eighty 
One Million Five Hundred One Thousand Eight 
Hundred Two) equity shares of the Company were in 
dematerialized form and 8,215 (Eight Thousand Two 
Hundred Fifteen) equity shares were in physical form 
as on December 31, 2024.
	
Transfer of Equity Shares in dematerialized form are 
done through depositories with no involvement of 
the Company. In terms of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
securities of listed companies can only be transferred 
in dematerialized form including where the claim is 
lodged for transmission or transposition of shares. 
Company obtains a yearly certificate from a Company 
Secretary in Practice as required under Regulation 
40(9) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations and files copy of the 
said certificate with the Stock Exchanges.
	
Accordingly, to avail benefits of dematerialization, 
Members are advised to dematerialize the shares held 
by them in physical form.
J)	
Distribution of Shareholding (as on December 31, 2024)
(Nominal Value ` 2 per share)
Shareholding 
No. of Shareholders
Percentage
Amount (`)
Percentage
1 – 5000
757,472
98.72
196,495,690
2.90
5001 – 10000
4,461
0.58
31,570,742
0.47
10001 - 20000
2,233
0.29
31,645,952
0.47
20001 - 30000
719
0.09
17,694,918
0.26
30001 – 40000
344
0.05
11,905,722
0.18
40001 - 50000
239
0.03
10,813,504
0.16
50001 - 100000
483
0.06
34,210,020
0.50
100001 & Above
1,346
0.18
6,428,683,486
95.06
Total
767,297
100.00
6,763,020,034
100.00
K)	 Categories of Shareholders (as on December 31, 2024)
Sl. No. Description
No. of Equity Shares
Percentage
1.
Alternative Investment Fund
12,800,127
0.38
2.
Body Corporates
41,780,420
1.24
3.
Banks
1,788,255
0.05
4.
Central Government
87
0.00
5.
Clearing Members
100,925
0.00
6.
Directors and their Relatives (Other than Promoter Director)
8,028,037
0.25 
7.
Employees
3,360,043
0.10
8.
Foreign Institutional Investors
4,000
0.00
9.
Foreign Portfolio Investors – Corporates
854,259,385
25.26
10.
HUF
5,170,419
0.15
11.
IEPF
299
0.00
12.
Mutual Funds
138,104,378
4.08
13.
NBFC
76,099
0.00
14.
Non Resident Indians
6,823,296
0.20
15.
Non Resident Indian Non Repatriable
5,433,422
0.16
16.
Promoter Group
81,242,482
2.40
17.
Promoter (Company)
868,877,060
25.69
18.
Promoter (Individuals)
1,085,596,092
32.11
19.
Qualified Institutional Buyer
84,485,803
2.50
20.
Resident Individuals
183,316,108
5.42
21.
Trusts
263,280
0.01
 
Total
3,381,510,017
100.00
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
189
Annual Report 2024
L) 	 Dematerialization of Shares and Liquidity
	
As on December 31, 2024, 99.99% of the total paid-up 
equity shares were held in dematerialized form. The 
Company’s shares are actively traded on the stock 
exchanges. There was no instance of suspension of 
trading in the equity shares of the Company during 
the Financial Year 2024. 
	
The Company does not have any GDR’s/ADR’s/ 
Warrants or any Convertible instruments having any 
impact on equity.
M)	 Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk 
and hedging activities
	
The details for the same have been provided in the 
Notes to Financial Statements of the Company for 
the Financial Year 2024.
N) 	 Credit Rating 
	
During the year under review, your Company’s credit 
rating by CRISIL is as below:
Long Term Rating      CRISIL AA+/Stable (Re-affirmed)
Short Term Rating
CRISIL A1+ (Re-affirmed)
O) 	 Plant locations
	
The Plant locations have been provided at page no. 
19 of the Annual Report.
P) 	 Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit
	
The Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit is 
conducted by a Company Secretary in practice to 
reconcile the total admitted capital with National 
Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (‘Depositories’) and the 
total issued and listed capital. The audit confirms 
that the total issued/ paid-up capital is in agreement 
with the aggregate of the total number of shares 
in physical form and the total number of shares in 
dematerialized form (held with Depositories) and 
that the requests for dematerialization of shares 
are processed by the Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent within statutory period and uploaded with the 
concerned depositories.
Q) 	 Compliances under SEBI (LODR) Regulations
	
The Company is regularly complying with the 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations as stipulated therein. 
Information, reports, certificates and returns as 
required under the provisions of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations are sent to the stock exchanges within 
the prescribed time.
R)	 Certification under Regulation 17(8) of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations
	
To comply with Regulation 17(8) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, the Whole-time Director and the Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO) of the Company have given 
Compliance Certificate stating therein matters 
prescribed under Part B of Schedule II of the said 
Regulations which forms part of this Corporate 
Governance Report.
	
To comply with Regulation 33(2)(a) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, while placing the Quarterly Financial 
Results before the Board of Directors, the Whole-
time Director and CFO certifies that the Financial 
Results do not contain any false or misleading 
statement or figures or do not omit any material 
fact which may make the statements or figures 
contained therein misleading.
S)	
Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice 
regarding Non-disqualification of Directors
	
None of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company have been debarred or disqualified 
from appointment or continuing as Directors of 
companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other 
Statutory Authority, as stipulated under Regulation 
34 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations and certificate in 
this respect received from an Independent Firm of 
Practising Company Secretaries is annexed.
T) 	 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors
	
Total fees for all services paid by the Company and 
its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to Statutory 
Auditors of the Company and their other associated 
firms during the Financial Year ended December 31, 
2024, is as follows:
(` in Million)
Particulars
M/s. J C 
Bhalla & Co. 
M/s. O P Bagla & 
Co. LLP
Audit Fee
7.00
6.78*
Other Services
- 
4.76*
Reimbursement 
of Expenses
0.92
0.02
Total
7.92
11.56
	
*includes ` 0.41 million paid by Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited, Subsidiary Company.
Varun Beverages Limited
190
U) 	 Information on Deviation from Accounting 
Standards, if any
	
No deviations from Indian Accounting Standard 
(Ind AS) in preparation of annual accounts for the 
Financial Year 2024.
V)	 Investor Correspondence
Mr. Ravi Batra
Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary
Plot No. 31, Institutional Area, Sector - 44,
Gurugram 122 002 (Haryana)
Tel: +91 124 4643100
E-mail: complianceofficer@rjcorp.in 
W)	 Disclosure 
of 
Compliance 
with 
Corporate 
Governance requirements specified in Regulation 
17 to 27 and Regulation 46 of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations
	
The Company has complied with the applicable 
provisions of SEBI (LODR) Regulations including 
Regulations 17 to 27 and Regulation 46 of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations.
	
The Company submits a quarterly compliance 
report 
on 
Corporate 
Governance 
signed 
by 
Compliance Officer to the Stock Exchanges within 
prescribed timelines from the close of every 
quarter. Such quarterly compliance reports on 
Corporate Governance are also posted on website of 
the Company.
	
Compliance 
of 
the 
conditions 
of 
Corporate 
Governance have also been audited by an Independent 
Firm of Practising Company Secretaries and after 
being satisfied of the above compliances, they have 
issued a compliance certificate in this respect. The 
said certificate is annexed with this report and the 
same will be forwarded to the Stock Exchanges along 
with the Annual Report of the Company.
X)	 Information of Senior Management Personnel 
	
Details of Senior Management Personnel (including 
changes therein) as on December 31, 2024 as 
defined under Regulation 16(1)(d) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations are as follows: 
Sl. No. Name
Designation
1.
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
Executive Vice Chairman & Whole-time Director
2.
Mr. Raj Gandhi
Whole-time Director
3.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
Whole-time Director
4.
Mr. Vivek Gupta
Executive Director (Non-Board Member)
5.
Mr. Rajeshwar Tripathi*
Group Chief Human Resources Officer
6.
Mr. Vikas Bhatia
Group – Environment, Social & Governance Head
7.
Mr. Kamlesh Kumar Jain
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer (International)  
(Non-Board Member)
8.
Mr. Saurabh Agrawal
Chief Strategy Officer
9.
Ms. Devyani Kiran Khankhoje
President - Corporate Affairs
10.
Mr. Ravi Batra
Chief Risk Officer & Group Company Secretary 
11.
Mr. Manmohan Rupal Paul
Chief Operating Officer 
12.
Mr. Sumit Luthra
Chief Operating Officer 
13.
Mr. Vishwas Agarwal
Chief Operating Officer 
14.
Mr. Deepak Sharma
Chief Operating Officer 
15.
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Goyal
Regional Chief Financial Officer
16.
Mr. Rishi Kumar Agarwal
Regional Chief Financial Officer
17.
Mr. Deepak Dabas
Senior Vice President – Investor Relations
18.
Mr. Rajesh Chawla**
Chief Financial Officer 
19.
Mr. Rohit Vishal Gupta
Chief Human Resources Officer 
20.
Mr. Kamal Karnatak
Senior Vice President
21.
Mr. Sudin Kumar Gaunker
Chief Operating Officer
22.
Mr. Rajesh Kumar
Technical Head - India Operations
23.
Mr. Sanjay Mukherjee
Chief Supply Chain Officer
24.
Mr. Sharad Kumar Garg
Senior Vice President – Procurement 
25.
Mr. Ganesh Kumar Velu
Senior Vice President 
26.
Mr. Suresh Ramakrishnan Panicker
Senior Vice President & Head - Organized Trade
27.
Mr. M J Faridi
Market Unit General Manager
*appointed w.e.f. June 3, 2024.
**appointed w.e.f. May 14, 2024. 
	
During the year under review, Ms. Meeru G Gupta, Mr. Parag Prabhakar Paranjpe and Mr. Lalit Malik were 
disassociated from the Company w.e.f. March 16, 2024, March 31, 2024 and May 13, 2024 respectively.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
191
Annual Report 2024
Other Disclosures
(i)	
The Company has not entered into any material 
significant related party transaction which has 
potential conflict with the interests of the Company 
at large. The Board of Directors had approved a 
Policy on Related Party Transactions and the same 
is uploaded at https://www.varunbeverages.com/
policies/policy-on-related-party-transactions.pdf
(ii) 	 The Company has complied with the requirements 
of Stock Exchanges, SEBI and other statutory 
authorities on all matters relating to capital markets 
and there was no instance of non-compliance during 
the last three years and is compliant of all the 
applicable provisions of SEBI (LODR) Regulations.
(iii)	 Policy for Determination of Material Subsidiary and 
Governance of Subsidiaries can be accessed at 
https://www.varunbeverages.com/policies/policy-
on-material-subsidiary-VBL.pdf
	
Further, as on December 31, 2024, none of the 
subsidiary was a material subsidiary of the Company.
(iv)	 Disclosure in relation to the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 forms part of the Board’s 
Report.
(v)	 Company does not have any share in the demat 
suspense account or unclaimed suspense account as 
on December 31, 2024.
(vi)	 There are no agreement(s) with any party which 
would impact the management or control of the 
Company or impose any restriction or create any 
liability upon the Company.
Green Initiative
Pursuant to Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read with 
the 
Companies 
(Management 
and 
Administration) 
Rules, 2014 and Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and 
Regulation 36 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Company 
can send Notice of AGM, Financial Statements and other 
communication to the shareholders in electronic form.
Your Company is sending the Annual Report including 
the Notice of AGM, Audited Financial Statements, Board’s 
Report along with their annexure etc. for the Financial 
Year 2024 in electronic mode to the shareholders who 
have registered their e-mail addresses with the Company 
or their respective Depository Participants (DPs).
Shareholders who have not registered their e-mail 
addresses so far are requested to register their e-mail 
addresses. Those holding shares in demat form can 
register their e-mail addresses with their concerned 
DPs. Shareholders who hold shares in physical form are 
requested to register their e-mail addresses with the 
Company / RTA, by sending a letter, duly signed by the 
first/sole holder quoting details of Folio Number.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Varun Beverages Limited
Date: February 10, 2025 
Place: Gurugram
Ravi Jaipuria 
Chairman
DIN: 00003668 
Varun Beverages Limited
192
CODE OF CONDUCT
This is to certify that the Company has laid down a Code of Conduct (the Code) for all Board Members and 
Senior Management Personnel of the Company and a copy of the Code is available on website of the Company viz. 
www.varunbeverages.com.
It is further confirmed that all the Directors and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed their compliance with the 
Code for the Financial Year ended December 31, 2024.
Varun Jaipuria
Date: February 10, 2025
Executive Vice Chairman &
Place: Gurugram
 Whole-time Director 

DIN: 02465412
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
193
Annual Report 2024
CERTIFICATION UNDER REGULATION 17(8) OF SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS 
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To
The Board of Directors,
Varun Beverages Limited
We, Raj Gandhi, Whole-time Director and Rajesh Chawla, Chief Financial Officer of Varun Beverages Limited, pursuant 
to the requirement of Regulation 17(8) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and to the best of our knowledge and belief, hereby certify that:-
A)	
We have reviewed Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the Financial Year ended December 31, 
2024 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
(i)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain 
statements that might be misleading; and
	
(ii)	 these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with 
existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B)	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the 
Financial Year ended December 31, 2024 which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code 
of Conduct.
C)	
We accept the responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we 
have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and 
that we have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee, deficiencies in the 
design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose 
to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D)	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee:
	
(i)	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the Financial Year ended December 31, 
2024;
	
(ii)	 significant changes in accounting policies during the said Financial Year and that the same have been 
disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements; and
	
(iii)	 instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of 
the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over 
financial reporting.
 
Date: February 10, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Raj Gandhi
Whole-time Director
DIN: 00003649
Rajesh Chawla
 Chief Financial Officer
Varun Beverages Limited
194
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with Clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V to the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members
Varun Beverages Limited 
(CIN: L74899DL1995PLC069839)
F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase I, 
New Delhi - 110020 
1.	
The equity shares of Varun Beverages Limited (‘the Company’) are listed on National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited.
2.	
We have examined the relevant disclosures received from the Directors of the Company and registers, records, 
forms and returns maintained by the Company and produced before us by the Company for the purpose of 
issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
3.	
We have also done examination and verification of the disclosures under Sections 184, 189, 164 and 149 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) received from the Directors and Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their Shareholding under Section 170 of the Act and Director Identification Number (DIN) status of 
the Directors at MCA portal i.e. www.mca.gov.in. In our opinion and to the best of our knowledge and on the basis 
of information furnished to us by the Company and its officers, we certify that none of the below named Directors 
of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority as on 
December 31, 2024:
Sr. No. Name of Director
DIN
Date of Appointment
1.
Mr. Ravi Jaipuria
00003668
16/06/1995
2.
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
02465412
01/01/2009
3.
Mr. Raj Gandhi
00003649
21/10/2004
4.
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
08440479
02/05/2019
5.
Dr. Naresh Trehan
00012148
21/04/2024
6.
Dr. Ravi Gupta
00023487
19/03/2018
7.
Ms. Rashmi Dhariwal
00337814
19/03/2018
8.
Ms. Sita Khosla
01001803
16/02/2018
9.
Mr. Abhiram Seth
00176144
02/05/2023
10.
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
00696535
02/05/2023
4.	
Ensuring the eligibility of the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
5.	
This certificate is based on the information and records available as on December 31, 2024 and we have no 
responsibility to update this certificate for the events and circumstances occurring thereafter.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
Kapil Dev Taneja
Partner
Place: New Delhi
CP No.: 22944 /Mem. No. F4019
Date: February 10, 2025
UDIN.: F004019F003904729
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
195
Annual Report 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CERTIFICATE
To,
The Members
Varun Beverages Limited 
(CIN: L74899DL1995PLC069839)
F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase I, 
New Delhi - 110020  
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Varun Beverages Limited 
(‘the Company’), for the financial year ended on December 31, 2024 as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’). 
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company. 
Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the 
compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the 
Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency 
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6311/2024
Kapil Dev Taneja
Partner
Place: New Delhi
CP No.: 22944 /Mem. No. F4019
Date: February 10, 2025
UDIN.: F004019F003904663
Varun Beverages Limited
196
Section A: General Disclosures
S. 
No.
Particulars
Details
I.
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L74899DL1995PLC069839
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Varun Beverages Limited
3.
Year of incorporation
1995
4.
Registered office address
F- 2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase- I New Delhi - 110 020
5.
Corporate address
Plot No. 31, Sector 44, Institutional Area, Gurugram - 
122 002, Haryana 
6.
E-mail
complianceofficer@rjcorp.in
7.
Telephone
+91-124-4643100
8.
Website
www.varunbeverages.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
Current Financial Year - 2024
Previous Financial Year - 2023
Prior to Previous Financial year - 2022
FY 2024		
	
Start date	
	
	
End date	
01-01-2024	
	
	
31-12-2024
01-01-2023	
	
	
31-12-2023
01-01-2022	
	
	
31-12-2022
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited
11.
Paid-up Capital
` 6,763.02 Million
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report
Mr. Ravi Batra, Chief Risk Officer and Group Company 
Secretary 
+91-124-4643100 
ravi.batra@rjcorp.in
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together).
Standalone Basis
14
Whether the company has undertaken reasonable 
assurance of the BRSR Core?
Yes
15
Name of assurance provider
DEKRA (India) Pvt. Ltd.
16
Type of assurance obtained
Reasonable assurance for core KPIs and limited 
assurance on other indicators.
II.	
Products/services
17.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover): Year 2024
S. No. Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Manufacturing of Beverages  
(NIC Code - 1104)
Manufacturing of Carbonated, 
Non-carbonated beverages and 
packaged drinking water
97.85%
18.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover): Year 2024
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of Total Turnover Contributed
1
Carbonated, Non-carbonated 
beverages and packaged drinking water
1104
97.85%
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
197
Annual Report 2024
III.	 Operations
19.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated: As on 31 December 2024
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
36 plants for manufacturing of beverages and 
3 plants for backward integration
1 Registered office,  
1 Corporate office and 67 sales offices,  
depots and warehouses
108
International
serving through its subsidiaries
 - 
 - 
20.	 Markets served by the entity:
a. 	
Number of locations: Year 2024
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
26 states and 6 union territories
International (No. of Countries) (serving through its subsidiaries)
13
b. 	 What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
1.19% of total turnover (` 1,706.64 Million)
c. 	
A brief on types of customers	
	
	
	
End consumers are individuals serviced through Distributors, Retailers, Modern Trade, Hotels, Restaurants, etc.
IV.	 Employees
21. 	 Details : As on 31 December 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
a. 	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
Others
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (E)
 7,487 
 6,838 
91.33%
 627 
8.37%
22
0.29%
2
Other than Permanent (F)
 7,341 
 7,091 
96.59%
 250 
3.41%
0
0.00%
3
Total Employees (E+F)
 14,828 
 13,929 
93.94%
 877 
5.91%
22
0.15%
WORKERS
4
Permanent (G)
 3,554 
 3,521 
99.07%
 33 
0.93%
0
0.00%
5
Other than Permanent (H)
 11,158 
 10,249 
91.85%
 883 
7.91%
26
0.23%
6
Total workers (G+H)
14,712
13,770
93.60%
 916 
6.23%
26
0.18%
b. 	 Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. No. Particulars
Total
Male
Female
Others
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (E)
2
2
100.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
2
Other than Permanent (F)
27
26
96.30%
 1 
3.70%
0
0.00%
3
Total Differently Abled 
Employees (E+F)
 29 
 28 
96.55%
 1 
3.45%
0
0.00%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4
Permanent (G)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
5
Other than Permanent (H)
267
247
92.51%
20
7.49%
0
0.00%
6
Total Differently abled 
workers (G+H)
 267 
 247 
92.51%
 20 
7.49%
0
0.00%
	
* Workers number are on average basis for the reporting period
Varun Beverages Limited
198
22.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women: As on 31 December 2024	
	
	
Particulars
Total
No. and percentage of Females
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
10
2
20%
Key Management Personnel
3*
0
0%
	
*includes one Board Member
23.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2022
(Turnover rate  
in current FY)
(Turnover rate  
in previous FY)
(Turnover rate in year prior to 
the previous FY)
Total
Male
Female
Other
Total
Male
Female
Other
Total
Male
Female
Other
Permanent 
Employees
16%
20%
20%
9%
14%
19%
15%
0%
14%
20%
18%
0%
Permanent 
Workers
8%
3%
0%
4%
0%
0%
5%
3%
0%
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
24.	 (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures: As on 31 December 2024
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/ 
associate/Companies/ 
Joint Ventures (A)
Indicate 
whether 
holding/
 Subsidiary/
 Joint Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Bussiness Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity ? (Yes/No)
1
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
2
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
3
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
4
Ole Springs Bottlers (Private) Limited 
(step down subsidiary)
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
5
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited 
Subsidiary
90.00%
No
6
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
Subsidiary
85.00%
No
7
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
Subsidiary
99.90%
No
8
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
9
Varun Beverages International DMCC
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
10
Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Ltd.
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
11
VBL Mozambique, SA
Subsidiary
99.00%
No
12
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
Subsidiary
95.00%
No
13
Varun Foods (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
14
The Beverage Company Bidco Proprietary 
Limited (step down subsidiary)
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
15
Little Green Beverages Proprietary Limited 
(step down subsidiary)
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
16
Softbev Proprietary Limited  
(step down subsidiary)
Subsidiary
100.00%
No
17
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
Associate
26.34%
No
18
Clean Max Tav Private Limited
Associate
26.00%
No
19
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited
Joint Venture
50.00%
No
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
199
Annual Report 2024
VI.	 CSR Details
25.	 (i) 	 Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: 	
Yes	
	
	
(Yes/No)
	
(ii) 	 Turnover (in `) (*Revenue from Operations)	
	
143,486.00 (` in million) As on 31.12.2024
	
(iii) 	Net worth (in `) (*Net worth = Equity Share Capital + Other Equity) 	
 165,587.05 (` in million) As on 31.12.2024
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
26.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business (NGRBC):	
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in place (Yes/
No) (If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes, we have strategically 
placed our plant teams 
at various plant locations 
to ensure continuous 
community engagement. 
Furthermore, our individual 
unit heads and HR heads 
work closely with the 
communities, fostering 
strong relationships and 
addressing local needs
0
0
–
0
0
–
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes, we have dedicated 
email address 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.
in and telephone no - +91-
124-4643100 for investors 
to raise their grievances or 
queries
0
0
–
0
0
–
Shareholders
Yes, Company is following 
strong Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism and has 
separate committee of 
Directors i.e. Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
We have dedicated 
email address 
complianceofficer@
rjcorp.in and telephone 
no - +91-124-4643100 for 
shareholders to raise their 
grievances or queries
11
0
–
3
0
–
Varun Beverages Limited
200
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in place (Yes/
No) (If Yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
Complaints 
Filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Employees 
and workers
Yes, our employees 
have multiple ways to 
reach us. Also, we have 
dedicated email address 
complianceofficer@rjcorp.
in and telephone no - +91-
124-4643100 to raise their 
grievances or queries.
Additionally, they can 
directly write to their 
respective HR managers. We 
also have vigil mechanism 
policy and POSH policy 
which empowers and 
encourages employees 
to report any concerns 
regarding suspected 
unethical behaviour, 
malpractice, wrongful 
conduct, fraud, or violations 
of company policies. The 
policies are accessible at -
https://varunbeverages.
com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/03/4-POSH-
Policy.pdf
https://varunbeverages.
com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/03/21-VIGIL-
MECHANISM-POLICY.pdf
0
0
–
0
0
–
Customers
Yes. Also, number of 
complaints received 
through PepsiCo Customer 
Care is provided
1,084
7
The 
pending 
complaints 
were 
resolved in 
subsequent 
months
1,223
17
The 
pending 
complaints 
were 
resolved in 
subsequent 
months
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes,
https://varunbeverages.
com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/04/23.1-
Anti-Bribery-Policy1.pdf
0
0
–
0
0
–
Others 
(please 
specify)
Yes,
https://varunbeverages.
com/wp-content/
uploads/2023/03/21-VIGIL-
MECHANISM-POLICY.pdf
0
0
–
0
0
–
27.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues	
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and 
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach 
to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.	
	
Please refer Sustainability Report - Chapter “Materiality Assessment” (page-44-46) and “Risk and Opportunities 
Management” (page-117-121).	
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
201
Annual Report 2024
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Disclosure 
Questions
P  
1
P  
2
P  
3
P  
4
P  
5
P  
6
P  
7
P  
8
P  
9
Policy and management processes
1.
a. 	
Whether your entity’s 
policy/policies cover each 
principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b. 	
Has the policy been 
approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
c. 	
Web Link of the Policies,  
if available
Yes, policies can be accessed through this link - https://varunbeverages.com/policy/
2.
Whether the entity has 
translated the policy into 
procedures. 
(Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.
Do the enlisted policies extend  
to your value chain partners?  
(Yes/No)
Yes, Anti Bribery Policy covers value chain partners
4.
Name of the national 
and international codes/
certifications/labels/ standards 
(e.g. Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustea) standards 
(e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
GRI  
Stand 
ards
ISO 14001   
ISO 22000 
(FSSC)
GRI  
Standards
OHSAS 
18001
GRI  
Stand 
ards
GRI  
Stand 
ards
GRI  
Stand 
ards
ISO 14001
GRI  
Standards
Company is a member 
of Federation of Indian 
Chambers of Commerce 
and Industry, PHD Chamber 
of Commerce and Industry, 
Confederation of Indian 
Industry, The Associated 
Chambers of Commerce 
and Industry of India 
and Action Alliance for 
Recycling Beverage 
Cartons.
GRI Standards
GRI  
Stand 
ards
GRI  
Stand 
ards
5.
Specific commitments, goals 
and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any
Yes- Refer Sustainability Report (Page 49)
6.
Performance of the entity 
against  the specific 
commitments, goals and targets 
along-with reasons in case the 
same are not met.
Yes- Refer Sustainability Report (Page 49)
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.
Statement by director responsible 
for the business responsibility 
report, highlighting ESG 
related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has 
flexibility regarding the placement 
of this disclosure)
Refer Executive Vice Chairman’s Message section (Page 38-39) in Sustainability Report
8.
Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation 
and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
ESG Committee comprising of Executive Vice-Chairman and
Two Whole-time Directors
9.
Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making   
on sustainability related issues?  
(Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
Yes, Environmental, Social and Governance Committee
Varun Beverages Limited
202
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for 
Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half Yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other - please specify)
P  
1
P  
2
P  
3
P  
4
P  
5
P  
6
P  
7
P  
8
P  
9
P  
1
P  
2
P  
3
P  
4
P  
5
P  
6
P  
7
P  
8
P  
9
Performance  
against above 
policies and 
follow up action
All the policies of the Company are approved by the Board and reviewed periodically or on a need basis.
The Company complies with the regulations, extant and principles as are applicable periodically or on a 
need basis
Compliance 
statutory 
requirements 
of relevance to 
the principles, 
rectification 
of any non-
compliances
11.	
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
P 1
P  
2
P  
3
P  
4
P  
5
P  
6
P  
7
P  
8
P  
9
No
No
No
No
No
Yes#
No
No
No
	
#DQS (Deutsch Quality Systems India Private Limited) has conducted carbon emission and water stewardship audit.
12.	 If answer to question 1 above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated
Questions
P  
1
P  
2
P  
3
P  
4
P  
5
P  
6
P  
7
P  
8
P  
9
The entity does not consider the 
Principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity is not at a stage where 
it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
The entity does not have the financial 
or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
It is planned to be done in the next 
financial year (Yes/No)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Any other reason (please specify)
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Section C - Principle Wise Performance Disclosure
This section demonstrate our performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes and 
decisions
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
203
Annual Report 2024
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators	
	
	
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year 2024:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awaremess programmes
Board of Directors
4
Code of conduct, Anti-bribery, Anti-
corruption, FCPA and other policies 
including POSH, Key Developments, 
Sustainability Initiatives, Regulatory 
updates and Review of Policy & procedures 
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
4
Code of conduct, Human Rights, Anti-
bribery, Anti-corruption, FCPA, other key 
policies including POSH , Key Developments, 
Sustainability Initiatives, Regulatory updates 
and Review of Policy & procedures
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
6
Code of conduct, Human Rights, Anti-
bribery, Anti-corruption, FCPA, other key 
policies including POSH and health & 
safety and skill upgradation
100%
Workers
6
Contractual employees and workers 
Trainings on Health & Safety in 
manufacturing operations/Units
100%
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institution
Amount  
(In `)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred ? 
(Yes/No)
Settlement
-
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Penalty/Fine
-
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Compounding fee
-
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred ? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
-
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Punishment
-
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.	
Case Details
Name of regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
N.A.
N.A.
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes	
Varun Beverages Limited and its subsidiaries, affiliates, associates and group companies (collectively referred to 
as “VBL”), their directors, officers, employees (including part-time and contractors) and suppliers (“Officials”), 
while acting on behalf of VBL strictly comply with this Anti-Bribery Policy. Officials are prohibited from giving or 
receiving Bribes to any Government Officials or any other person or entity, including any person or entity in the 
private or commercial sector, if the payment is intended to induce the recipient to misuse his or her position and 
thereby give an unfair advantage to VBL. Detailed Policy is available at:
https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/23.1-Anti-Bribery-Policy1.pdf
Varun Beverages Limited
204
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of interest of Directors
Nil
N.A.
Nil
N.A.
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of interest of KMPs
Nil
N.A.
Nil
N.A.
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken 
by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
Not Applicable
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of  goods/services procured) in the 
following format: 
FY 2024  
Current Financial Year 
FY 2023 
Previous Financial Year
Number of days of accounts payables 
 31 
 30 
9.	
Open-ness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-
with loans and advances & investments, with related parties,  in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024 
Current Financial 
Year 
FY 2023 
Previous Financial 
Year
Concentration of 
Purchases 
a. 	 Purchases from trading  houses as % of total 
purchases
3.1%
2.4%
b. 	 Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
77
18
c. 	 Purchases from top 10  trading houses as % of  
total purchases from trading houses 
85.5%
96.9%
Concentration of 
Sales
a. 	 Sales to dealers / distributors as % of total sales 
100.0%
100.0%
b. 	 Number of Primary dealers/ distributors to 
whom sales are made
2,275
 1,949
c. 	 Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % of 
total sales to dealers /distributors 
14.3%
7.4%
Share of RPTs in 
a. 	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties as % 
of Total Purchases) 
3.0%
4.6%
b. 	 Sales (Sales to related parties as % of Total 
Sales) 
1.4%
0.9%
c.	 Loans & advances given to related parties as % 
of Total loans & advances
100.0%
100.0%
d. 	 Investments in related parties as % of Total 
Investments made
99.7%
99.8%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
205
Annual Report 2024
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe	
Essential Indicators	
	
	
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.	
	
	
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Details of improvements in environmental 
and social impacts
R&D
 - 
 - 
–
Capex
` 488.45 Million  
(1.65% of the total capex)
` 512.18 Million  
(2.79% of the total capex)
We strive to make use of renewable energy for 
our energy requirements and aim to expand our 
renewable energy portfolio further.
2.	
a. 	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. the Company is procuring raw materials and packaging materials from the suppliers who are doing their 
respective businesses sustainably. Refer page 78-81 of Sustainability Report for some of the initiatives taken 
by our suppliers.
	
b. 	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
Given our business operations, it is difficult to estimate the percentage of inputs sourced sustainably.	
	
However, VBL and all of our suppliers follow PepsiCo’s Global Supplier Code of Conduct wherein they abide 
by all provisions relating to the impact on quality and food safety, sustainability, waste, and work environment 
which includes labor practices and human rights aspects. https://www.pepsico.com/docs/default-source/
sustainability-and-esg-topics/supplier-code-of-conduct/pepsico-supplier-code-of-conduct---english.
pdf?sfvrsn=67dd868f_28
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste ( c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
(a)	 VBL has engaged GEM Enviro Management Limited for phased implementation of 100% recycling of used 
PET bottles. Headquartered in Delhi, GEM Enviro is a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recognised 
Producer Responsible Organisation (PRO) specialising in collection and recycling of packaging waste and 
promotion of recycled green products. It makes T-shirts and bags made from recycling of waste material, 
such as used PET bottles.
(b)	 We are disposing off our E-waste through registered E-waste vendors
(c)	 We are safely disposing off our hazardous waste through registered vendors
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to 
Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.	
Yes, Refer response to point 3 above.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product/
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective/ 
Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/No) If yes, 
provide the web-link.
Life Cycle Assessment Process
VBL is working continuously on screening our end-to-end production processes to deliver positive impact on 
environment. In alignment to this, we adopted Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and undertook an internal study 
to assess the environmental impacts and embed the principles of sustainability into various stages of product 
i.e, procurement of raw material, manufacturing of products, transportation of raw materials and supply of 
finished goods. In order to continuously reduce the Company environmental footprint, the Company is improving 
efficiencies, especially on critical resources such as water, fuel and energy, optimizing the resource consumption 
and minimizing wastages including plastic waste management, increasing green cover in manufacturing plants 
and also developing outside establishments.	
	
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
206
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of 
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other 
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.	
	
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
No risks have been identified
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023  
(Previous Financial Year)
r-PET used in producing Preforms
1.54%
0.00%
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (incuding Packaging)
 - 
 181,887 
-
 - 
 150,982 
-
E-waste
-
-
1
-
-
4
Hazardous waste
 - 
 - 
1,640
 - 
 - 
 1,426 
Other waste
 Quantity not recorded but safely disposed through authorised vendors
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
Essential Indicators	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1. a.	Details of measures for the well-being of employees: FY 2024	
	
	
	
Category
% of employees covered by
Total  
(A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number  
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number  
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number  
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
6,838
6,838
100.00%
6,838
100.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Applicable As per 
Factory  
Act
Female
627
627
100.00%
627
100.00%
627
100.00%
0
0.00%
Others
22
22
100.00%
22
100.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
7,487
7,487 100.00%
7,487 100.00%
627
8.37%
0
0.00%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
7,091
7,091
100.00%
7,091
100.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Applicable As per 
Factory  
Act
Female
250
250
100.00%
250
100.00%
250
100.00%
0
0.00%
Others
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
7,341
7,341 100.00%
7,341 100.00%
250
3.40%
0
0.00%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
207
Annual Report 2024
b. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers: FY 2024
Category
% of workers covered by
Total  
(A)
Health Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number  
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number  
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number  
( E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
3,521
3,521
100.00% 
3,521
100.00% 
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Applicable As per 
Factory  
Act
Female
33
33
100.00% 
33
100.00% 
33
100.00%
0
0.00%
Others
22
22
100.00% 
22
100.00% 
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
3,554
3,554 100.00% 
3,554 100.00% 
33
1.00%
0
0.00%
Other than Permanent workers
Male
10,249
9006
87.87% 
9,006
87.87% 
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Applicable As per 
Factory  
Act
Female
883
826
93.54% 
826
93.54% 
826
93.54% 
0
0.00%
Others
26
26
100.00% 
26
100.00% 
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
Total
11,158
9,832
88.12%
9,832
88.12%
826
7.40%
0
0.00%
c. 	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format – 
FY 2024  
Current Financial Year 
FY 2023 
Previous Financial Year
Cost incurred on well being measures as a % 
of  total revenue of the company 
0.12%
0.12%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Remarks
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
% of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
% of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
% of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered 
as % of 
total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
PF AS PER EPF & 
MISC PROVISION ACT
Gratuity
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
GRATUITY AS 
PER PAYMENT OF 
GRATUITY ACT
ESI
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
ESI AS PER 
EMPLOYEE STATE 
INSURANCE ACT
Others - 
please sepcify
-
-
N.A
-
-
N.A
-
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces		
	
	
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard.
	
Yes
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.	
	
	
	
	
No
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave - FY 2024
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Female
100%
100%
100%
100%
Varun Beverages Limited
208
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.	
	
	
	
Yes/No 
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes, the Company has multiple mechanisms to redress 
grievances as per below links as available on the  
website of the Company.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
	
https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/25-Grievance-Redressal-Policy.pdf	
	
	
https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/21-VIGIL-MECHANISM-POLICY.pdf	
	
	
https://varunbeverages.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/4-POSH-Policy.pdf
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Total Permanent Employees
Male
6,838
0
0.00%
6,260
0
0.00%
Female
627
0
0.00%
488
0
0.00%
Others
22
0
0.00%
14
0
0.00%
7,487
0
0.00%
6,762
0
0.00%
Total Permanent Workers
Male
3,521
1,514
43.00% 
3,175
1,586
49.95% 
Female
33
14
42.42% 
36
14
38.89% 
Others
0
0
0.00%
0
0
0.00%
3,554
1,528
42.99%
 3,211
1,600
49.95%
Total employees  
and workers
11,041
1,528
13.84%
9,973
1,600
16.04%
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Remarks
Total  
(A)
On Health & Safety 
Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Total  
(A)
On Health & 
Safety Measures
On Skill 
Upgradation
Number  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Employees
Male
6,838
6,066
88.71% 
5,498
80.40% 
6,260
2,886
46.10% 
5,607
89.57% 
-
Female
627
627
100.00% 
627
100.00%
488
221
45.29% 
330
67.62% 
-
Others
22
22
100.00% 
22
100.00%
14
4
28.57% 
1
7.14% 
-
7,487
6,715
89.69%
6,147
82.10%
6,762
3,111
46.01%
5,938
87.81%
-
Workers
Male
3,521
3,370
95.71% 
3,100
88.04% 
3,175
3,146
99.09% 
2,856
89.95% 
-
Female
33
33
100.00% 
33
100.00%
36
34
94.44% 
36 100.00%
-
3,554
3,403
95.75%
3,133
88.15%
3211
3,180
99.03%
2,892
90.07%
-
Total employees 
and workers
11,041
10,118
91.64%
9,280
84.05%
9,973
6,291
63.08%
8,830
88.54%
-
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
209
Annual Report 2024
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Employees
Male
6,838
6,838
100.00%
6,260
6,260
100.00%
Female
627
627
100.00%
488
488
100.00%
Others
22
22
100.00%
14
14
100.00%
Total
7,487
7,487
100.00%
6,762
6,762
100.00%
Workers
Male
3,521
3,521
100.00%
3,175
3,175
100.00%
Female
33
33
100.00%
36
36
100.00%
Total
3,554
3,554
100.00%
3,211
3,211
100.00%
	
Remarks - We have an annual appraisal process, where performance is assessed through ratings system. At the Sales unit level, 
performance is monitored month on month through target achievement. At Plant level performance is monitored through KPI’s.
10.	 Health and safety management system:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
a. 	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?	
	
	
Yes, Each plant has primary health centres and restrooms have been established. Periodic inspections are 
conducted by certified surgeons and auditing organization to confirm that our occupational health and safety 
systems meet international standards. Since we fall under Food & Beverage category, we are subjected to all 
industry related audits and surveys to ensure that we are 100% compliant.	
	
	
	
b. 	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Yes (Identified by concern government offices)	
	
c. 	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Yes/No)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Yes, all workers can reach out to management to address their concerns regarding working conditions, 
human rights, etc.	
	
d. 	 Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/No)
	
	
Yes, medical advise is available for workers and employees at the plant level.
11.	
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:	
	
	
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0.12
0
Workers
0.096
 0.003 
Total Recordable work - related injuries
Employees
2
1
Workers
3
1
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
2
High consequence work-related injury 
or ill health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
	
*Including in the contract workforce 
Varun Beverages Limited
210
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
1. 	
Conducting Safety awareness program frequently
	
2. 	
Specialized training program for operations/Technicians.
	
3. 	
Safety audit by Internal/Government officials.
	
4. 	
Formation of safety committee
	
5. 	
Periodic Check of equipment’s	
	
	
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of the year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of the year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%*
Working Conditions
100%*
	
* Remarks - As and when visited by respective Govt. officers
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
There were no significant risk or concern arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working 
conditions, however we have undertaken following preventive measures:
	
i.	
Formation of Safety Committee to formulate best health & safety practices and working conditions.	
	
ii.	
Safety audit by Internal/ Government officials	 	
	
iii.	
Specialized training program for Operations/ Technicians	 	
	
iv.	
Conducting frequent Safety Awareness programs	 	
	
v.	
Periodic check of equipment	
	
Leadership Indicators	 	
	
	
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Yes/No).	
	
	
	
(A) Yes;	  	
(B) Yes
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.	
	
	
	
Yes- for PF & ESI
	
All the contractors working with us are registered with PF & ESI authorities and they have been allotted separate 
code number by respective authorities. They are depositing the contributions as and when due and they share 
back the challans of the deposits made to the authorities.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
211
Annual Report 2024
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment: 
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024
FY 2023
FY 2024
FY 2023
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No/ NA)
	
Yes	
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
90%
Working Conditions
90%
The above table is related with material supplier. All the manpower deployed to the factory/Office by various 
manpower supply companies are governed by the respective labour laws of that company/Plant.	
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
All the manpower deployed to the factory/Office by various manpower supply companies are governed by the 
respective labour laws of the state concerned.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Refer “Stakeholder communications” section (Page 42-43) in Sustainability Report
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
	
Refer “Stakeholder communications” section (Page 42-43) in Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
Refer “Stakeholder communications” section (Page 42-43) in Sustainability Report
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics. If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics 
were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
No such instances
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
No such instances
Varun Beverages Limited
212
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in 
the following format:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Category
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total  
(A)
No. of 
Employees/ 
Workers 
Covered (B)
%  
(B/A)
Total  
(A)
No. of 
Employees/ 
Workers 
Covered (B)
% 
(B/A)
Employees
Permanent
7,487
7,487
100.00% 
 6,762 
 3,111 
46.01% 
Other than Permanent
 7,341 
5,139
70.00% 
 7,013 
 3,013 
42.96% 
Total Employees
14,828
12,626
85.15%
 13,775 
 6,124 
44.46%
Workers
Permanent
 3,554 
3,554
100.00% 
 3,211 
 3,180 
99.03%
Other than Permanent
 11,158 
7,253
65.00% 
 9,832 
 5,113 
52.00%
Total Workers
 14,712 
10,807
73.46%
 13,043 
 8,293 
63.58%
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total  
(A)
Equal to 
minimum wages
More than 
minimum wages
Total  
(A)
Equal to 
minimum wages
More than 
minimum wages
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
Permanent
Male
6,838
0
0.00%
6,838 100.00%
6,260
0
0.00%
6,260 100.00%
Female
627
0
0.00%
627 100.00%
488
0
0.00%
488 100.00%
Other
22
0
0.00%
22 100.00%
14
0
0.00%
14 100.00%
Other than Permanent
Male
7,091
0
0.00%
7,091 100.00%
6,867
0
0.00%
6,867 100.00%
Female
250
0
0.00%
250 100.00%
146
0
0.00%
146 100.00%
Workers
Permanent
Male
3,521
0
0.00%
3,521 100.00%
3,175
0
0.00%
3,175 100.00%
Female
33
0
0.00%
33 100.00%
36
0
0.00%
36 100.00%
Other than Permanent
Male
10,249
5,670
55.32% 
4,579
44.68% 
9,006
4,956
55.03% 
4,050
44.97% 
Female
883
485
54.93% 
398
45.07% 
826
455
55.08% 
371
44.92% 
Other
26
0
0.00%
26 100.00%
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
213
Annual Report 2024
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages
	
a.	
Median remuneration / wages: FY 2024
(` in Million)
Male
Female
Others
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of respective 
category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of respective 
category
Number
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of respective 
category
Board of  
Directors (BOD)
3
67.18
-
 - 
0
0
Key Managerial 
Personnel
2
11.79
-
 - 
0
0
Employees  
other than BOD  
and KMP 
6,833
 0.47 
627
 0.40 
22
 0.36 
Workers
3,521
 0.33 
33
 0.26 
0
0
	
Note: Since Independent Directors received no remuneration, except sitting fee for attending Board/ Committee meetings, the 
required details are not applicable. Further, for the purpose of calculation of median remuneration of KMP, remuneration paid to 
Mr. Lalit Malik has not been considered due to cessation as KMP with effect from May 13, 2024.
	
b. 	 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format: 
FY 2024  
Current Financial Year 
FY 2023 
Previous Financial Year
Gross wages paid to females as % of total 
wages
5.94%
5.19%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to/by the business? (Yes/No)
	
All employees can reach out to management to address their concerns & we also have grievance redressal 
mechanism.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
We have an internal grievance redressal mechanism through which grievance get redressed. However, if the 
grievance is not settled by the internal committee then concern person is free to approach the government forum.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
- 
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
- 
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
- 
Forced Labour/ Involuntary 
Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
- 
Wages
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
- 
Other human rights related 
issues
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
- 
Varun Beverages Limited
214
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:  
FY 2024  
Current Financial Year 
FY 2023 
Previous Financial Year
Total Complaints reported under Sexual 
Harassment on of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013 (POSH)  
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH as a % of female 
employees / workers  
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH upheld 
Nil
Nil
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
All employees can reach out to management to address their concerns & we are also governed by POSH & 
Grievance redressal mechanism.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes / No)
	
Yes, As per Labour laws and/or other applicable laws
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by 
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Nil
Forced/involuntary labour
Nil
Sexual harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Wages
Nil
Others - please specify
N.A.
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks /concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 9 above.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
We are strictly following the labour laws in which all above 6 points are covered, so far we have not been prosecuted 
for any deviations. All employees can reach out to the management to address any significant risks /concerns 
regarding their work environment.
Leadership Indicators	 	
	
	
	
	
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
We have had no such concerns in the past. However, all employees can reach out to the management to address 
any significant risks /concerns regarding their work environment.
2.	
 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted
	
No such due-diligence conducted during the year.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Sexual harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Child labour
Nil
Forced/involuntary labour
Nil
Wages
Nil
Others - please specify
N.A
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
215
Annual Report 2024
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 4 above.
	
There are no such cases.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators 
1.	
Details of total energy consumption and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Units
FY 2024 
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Revenue from Operations
` in million
 143,486.00 
 126,328.26 
Units
FY 2024 
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial 
Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) Solar and Wind million kWH units
 78.96 
 57.70 
Total fuel consumption (B)
million kWH units
 - 
 - 
Energy consumption   through other sources (C)
million kWH units
 - 
 - 
Total energy consumed from renewable sources 
(A+B+C)
million kWH units
 78.96 
 57.70 
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
million kWH units
 407.55 
 363.37 
Total fuel consumption (E)
million kWH units
 13.87 
 14.31 
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
million kWH units
 - 
 - 
Total energy consumed from non renewable 
sources (D+E+F)
million kWH units
 421.42 
 377.68 
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
million kWH units
 500.38 
 435.38 
Energy intensity per rupee  of turnover (Total 
energy consumption/Revenue from operations)
kWH / per rupee 
of turnover
 0.003 
 0.003 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy 
consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted 
for PPP)
kWH / per rupee 
of turnover
 NA 
 NA 
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
kWH / per 8oz 
case of production 
volume
 0.61 
 0.60 
Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric 
may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.	 	
	
	
Yes, DQS (Deutsch Quality Systems India Private Limited)	
	
	
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action 
taken, if any.
	
Not Applicable	
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
(in million liters)
Parameter
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source 
(i)	 Surface water
 1,587 
1,856
(ii)	 Groundwater
 5,688 
4,648
(iii)	Third party water
-
 - 
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
-
 - 
(v)	 Others
-
 - 
Total volume of water withdrawal (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
 7,275 
6,504
Total volume of water consumption 
 4,651 
4,143
Varun Beverages Limited
216
(in million liters)
Parameter
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / 
Revenue from Operations)
 0.032 
 0.033 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  
(Total  water consumption / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP) 
NA
NA
Water intensity in terms of physical output  
(litres of water used per litre of beverage produced)
1.56^ 
1.57^
Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
 
 
	
^ Note Steady state WUR was 1.54 times in 2023 and 1.50 times in 2024, the differential is on account of stabilization of 2 new 
greenfield plants in 2023 and 3 new greenfield plants in 2024.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
Yes, DQS (Deutsch Quality Systems India Private Limited)
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
(in million liters)
Parameter
FY 2024 
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment 
(i)	 To Surface water
-
-
	
- 	 No treatment
-
-
	
- 	 With treatment - please specify the level of treatment
-
-
(ii)	To Groundwater
-
-
	
- 	 No treatment
-
-
	
- 	 With treatment - please specify the level of treatment
-
-
(iii)	To Seawater
-
-
	
- 	 No treatment
-
-
	
- 	 With treatment - please specify the level of treatment
-
-
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
-
-
	
- 	 No treatment
-
-
	
- 	 With treatment - please specify the level of treatment
-
-
(v)	Others
-
-
	
- 	 No treatment
-
-
	
- 	 With treatment - Water discharged is treated through 
ETP plants
 2,624 
 2,254 
Total water discharged  
2,624
 2,254 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DQS (Deutsch Quality Systems India Private Limited)
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
No, the entity has not implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge, however the company has adopted 
various improvement process for better water management:
	
•	
Low glass mix and more efficient new lines
	
•	
Air Scoring to complete in all the plants
	
•	
Connect all filters (ACF / PSF) for water recovery
	
•	
Optimize drainage timing at ACF / PSF (Optimization to standard 5 minutes drain time)
	
•	
Bottle washer recovery to complete. High volume glass line
	
•	
RO at ETPs at selective locations. Sample plant high volume to choose
	
•	
RO Efficiency to improve whereever RO recovery < Designed recovery
	
•	
Sensors / Foot operated taps for hand wash at plants
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
217
Annual Report 2024
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify  
units
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
NOx
NA
SOx
Particulate matter (PM)
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Volatile organic Compounds (VOC)
Hazardous air Pollutants (HAP)
Others - please specify
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
units
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 emissions  
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs,SF6, NF3, if available)"
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
 88,224 
 74,260 
Total Scope 2 emissions  
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs,SF6, NF3, if available)"
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
 3,52,883 
 3,05,164 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per 
rupee of turnover (Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from 
operations)
kg of CO2 
equivalent 
per rupee of 
turnover
 0.003 
 0.003 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP) 
kg of CO2 
equivalent 
per rupee of 
turnover
 NA 
 NA 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2  
emission intensity in terms  
of physical output 
kg of 
CO2e/liter 
of beverage 
produced
 0.09 
 0.09 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity (optional)  
- the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
	
Note:
	
1.	
We have adopted the SBTi methodology for calculating GHG emissions starting from FY 2024. Consequently, 
the GHG emissions for FY 2023 have been restated using this approach.
	
2.	
The increase in GHG emissions is attributed to inorganic acquisitions in FY 2024.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
	
Yes, DQS (Deutsch Quality Systems India Private Limited)
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
Yes, The Company has taken several environmental initiatives which showcases commitment to sustainable 
practices:
i.	
Procurement of Energy efficient machines		
ii.	
Increase in Rooftop Solar Power Generation	
	
iii.	
Energy efficient Visi coolers		
iv.	
Conduction of Plantation Drive	 	
v.	
Use of Electric Vehicles for last mile delivery	
	
Also, Refer “Sustained climate action: Reducing our carbon footprint” section (Page 72-73) in Sustainability Report
Varun Beverages Limited
218
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
 206,682 
 175,292 
E-waste (B)
 1 
 4 
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition Waste (D)
Quantity not recorded but safely disposed 
through authorised vendors
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
1,640
1,426
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please 
specify, if any. (Break-up by composition i.e. by materials 
relevant to the sector)
-
-
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)
208,323
176,722
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations)
0.001 
0.001 
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
Purchasing for Power Parity (PPP) (Total Revenue waste 
from generated / operations adjusted for PPP)
 NA
 NA
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
 0.254
0.242
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling,  
re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
 181,887 
 150,982 
(ii) Re-used
-
-
(iii) Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
 181,887 
 150,982 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
-
-
(i) Incineration
-
-
(ii) Landfilling
-
-
(iii) Other disposal operations
 1,641 
 1,430 
Total
 1,641 
 1,430 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
No. However, Plastic waste recycling data is reported on CPCB portal as per EPR guidelines.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.	
	
We do segregation of all type of waste at source and store wastes in designated areas only. Wastages are closely 
monitored on daily, weekly and monthly basis and are directly linked with plant KPIs. Approximately more than 90-98% 
waste (broken glass, plastic bottles, cartons, metal waste etc) goes for recycling. Unit has effective ETP operation 
combined with aeration and anaerobic system wherein effective operational controls ensures very limited quantity of 
ETP sludge generation as a hazardous waste. ETP sludge is safely collected in Hazardous waste storage area and finally 
disposal is done to pollution control board approved TSDF facility for landfill. Unit is not using any toxic chemicals.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
219
Annual Report 2024
11.	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S.No.
Location of  
operations/offices
Type of  
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not Applicable
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
Name and 
brief details 
of project
EIA  
Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
Not Applicable
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format:
	
Yes
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in million liters):
	
For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i) 	 Name of the area: All the plants which are located in water stressed areas
	
(ii) 	 Nature of operations: Manufacturing of Beverages
	
(iii) 	Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
(in million liters)
Parameter
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source 
(i) Surface water
 593 
575
(ii) Groundwater
 1,532 
1,603
(iii) Third party water
-
-
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal 
 2,124 
 2,178 
Total volume of water consumption  
 1,403 
 1,418 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / 
turnover)
 0.01 
 0.01
Water intensity (Optional) - the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
- 
 -
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment
(i) 	Into Surface water
-
-
 	
-		 No treatment
-
-
	
-		 With treatment - please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii) Into Groundwater
-
-
 	
-		 No treatment
-
-
	
-		 With treatment - please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii) Into Seawater
-
-
 	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
-
-
Varun Beverages Limited
220
(in million liters)
Parameter
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023
(Previous Financial Year)
(iv) Sent to third-parties
-
-
 	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment - please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
 	
-	
No treatment
-
-
	
-	
With treatment - Water discharged is treated 
through ETP plants
 721 
 761 
Total water discharged
 721 
 761 
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:	
	
Parameter
units
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions(Break-up of the 
GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, 
NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
31,20,833
25,95,184
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
kg of CO2e/
per rupee of 
turnover
0.02 
0.02 
Total Scope 3 emission intensity 
(optional) 
- the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
kg of CO2e/
liter of 
beverage 
produced
0.67
0.63
Note:
1.	
We have adopted the SBTi methodology for calculating GHG emissions starting from FY 2024. Consequently, 
the GHG emissions for FY 2023 have been restated using this approach.
2.	
The increase in GHG emissions is attributed to inorganic acquisitions in FY 2024.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention 
and remediation activities.
	
Not Applicable	
	
	
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:	 	
Sr. No. Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Plastic Waste 
Management
Engaged Gem Enviro Management Limited for 
phased implementation (upto 100%) recycling 
of used Plastic Wastes from end users. 
Reduction in plastic waste
2
Water Conservation
Engaged DQS India Pvt. Ltd which verifies 
water mass balance and we also undertook 
several other initiatives towards water 
conservation and water recharge.
Reduction in wastage of 
water
3
Reduced grammage 
of Plastic Closures and 
Preforms (used for 
PET-Bottles) over the years
Packaging innovations introduced by PIH in 
India through Global R&D and best practices.
Reduction in plastic usage
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
221
Annual Report 2024
Sr. No. Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
4
Use of fuels like biomass 
for steam generation, 
increasing renewable 
energy contribution
The company is proactive in adopting new 
technologies that use cleaner fuels of energy. 
Commissioned rooftop solar plants in most 
of our manufacturing plants and entered 
into open access solar and wind power for 
few manufacturing locations to increase the 
renewable energy contribution of our overall 
electricity consumption and redesigned the 
power generation units at many locations.
Reduction in Green House 
Gases
5
Installation of Effluent 
Treatment Plant
Plants have installed online monitoring 
Systems in Effluent Treatment Plant as well as 
Boiler emissions for all time compliance which 
is being monitored by CPCB on real time basis.
Effluents are treated and 
discharged under prescribed 
limits thereby remain well 
within the prescribed norms 
and consent conditions.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Yes; Unit does have Disaster/Emergency preparedness and response plan for business continuity. This includes all 
possible emergencies like Fire, Ammonia or CO2 leakage , any major safety accidents, Chemical leakage, Natural 
Calamity (flood, cyclone, earthquake) or pandemic situation like Covid 19. To ensure unit readiness plant is also 
exercising mock drill on six monthly frequency. In past unit has also successfully demonstrated to respond any 
emergency situation in past. Such one example is to ensure business continuity during Covid times by implementing 
effective control mechanism to avoid Covid 19 spread. Unit has successfully operated production during pandemic 
time by adapting all the established measures.		
	
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.	
	
	
	
In order to continously reduce the Company environment footprint, the company is improving efficiencies, 
especially on critical resources such as Water, fuel and energy, optimizing the resource consumption and minimising 
wastages, increasing green cover in manufacturing plants and also developing outside establishments. Company 
also reduced weight of Closures and Preforms over the years to contribute towards environment sustainability. 
Company also implemented water consumption optimization measures and water recovery and reuse of the water 
across all plants.	
	
	
	
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
90%+ of Raw material suppliers, 90%+ of Capex suppliers and 90%+ of Distributors are covered for assessment.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that 
is responsible and transparent	 	
Essential Indicators	
	
	
1.	
a. 	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.	
	
	
	
	
5	
	
	
	
b. 	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members 
of such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.		
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry
National
2
PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry
National
3
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
4
The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India
National
5
Action Alliance for Recycling Beverage Cartons
National
Varun Beverages Limited
222
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.	
	
	
Not Applicable	
	
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year.	 	
	
	
Name and 
brief details of 
project
SIA  
Notification No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/ No)
Relevant  
Web Link
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:	
	
	
	
	
S.No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid 
to PAFs n the 
FY (In `)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.	
	
There is regular engagement with representatives from key neighbourhood across India. Stakeholders suggestions 
can also be emailed to the Compliance Officer at complianceofficer@rjcorp.in 
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
7.38%
6.66%
Directly from within India 
91.84%
94.44%
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Rural
13%
12%
Semi-urban
17%
17%
Urban
65%
65%
Metropolitan
5%
6%
	
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan) 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
223
Annual Report 2024
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner	
Essential Indicators	
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback	
	
VBL Consumer response programme is developed to promptly resolve consumer concerns & grievances, which 
ensures that consumer/ customer is responded with courtesy and in timely manner. The Mechanism helps the 
organization to remain consumer centric, establish top down approach to build trust and strengthen transparency 
while addressing their queries and concerns:
 	
The Complaints are lodged by consumer (via Toll Free no. available on label & crown), arranged and sorted by the 
PepsiCo Consumer Response System (CRS) representative who then, forwards the same to VBL after logging in 
on Wilke portal. VBL Plant team & Consumer Care / Complaint Management System (CCMS) coordinator review 
auto generated email containing relevant details of the Complaint which are then investigated by VBL Plant team, 
Regional Quality Coordinator (RQC) & CCMS coordinator and the complaint is attended by Customer Relationship 
Executive (CRE) to address the concern simultaneously. After detailed analysis of each reported complaints by all 
the plants root cause analysis is carried out and Corrective and Preventive Actions are taken by plant team.
 	
Plants then, initiate an improvement plan to mitigate reoccurrence of concern and to pacify & satisfy the consumer.
	
Feedback:
	
Feedback is sent to PepsiCo CRS team by CCMS coordinator and Pepsi International (PI) Team connects & respond 
to consumer, subsequently on SOS basis.
	
The Complaints in VBL are tracked and reviewed monthly on the basis of it’s nature, flavour, category and plant.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
	
We understand that we provide these information on the labels of our products like ‘crush bottle after use’, 
recycable package mark, throw in dustbin mark, safe and responsible use instructions on energy drink (Sting), etc. 
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023 
(Previous Financial Year)
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
NIL
N.A
NIL
N.A
Advertising
NIL
N.A
NIL
N.A
Cyber-security
NIL
N.A
NIL
N.A
Delivery of Essential Services
NIL
N.A
NIL
N.A
Restrictive Trade Practices
NIL
N.A
NIL
N.A
Unfair Trade Practices
NIL
N.A
NIL
N.A
Other - No. of complaints 
received through PepsiCo 
Customer Care
1,084
7
The 
pending
complaints 
were 
resolved in
subsequent 
months
1,223
17
The 
pending
complaints 
were 
resolved in
subsequent 
months
Varun Beverages Limited
224
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for Recall
Voluntary recalls
 NA 
 NA 
Forced recalls
 NA 
 NA 
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) 
If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes, https://varunbeverages.com/privacy
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
NIL
7	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
a. 	
Number of instances of data breaches
	
	
0
	
b. 	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers 
	
	
0%
	
c. 	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches 
	
	
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
	
https://www.varunbeverages.com/our-products/
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
https://www.pepsico.com/docs/default-source/sustainability-and-esg-topics/pepsico-policy-on-responsibl
e-advertising-and-marketing-to-children.pdf?sfvrsn=f7901072_3#:~:text=Additionally%2C%20PepsiCo%20
will%20not%20advertise,pledge%20programs%20(Pledge%20Programs)
3	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws?
	
If yes, provide details in brief.
	
Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / 
services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole?
	
We display all the mandatory product information on the product over as per the requirements of the regulatory 
authorities.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
225
Annual Report 2024
To the Members of Varun Beverages Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Varun Beverages Limited 
(‘the Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as ‘the Group’), its associates and 
joint venture, as listed in Annexure I, which 
comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 
December 2024, the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flow and the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to 
the consolidated financial statements, including a 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to 
as the “consolidated financial statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us 
and based on the consideration of the reports 
of the other auditors on separate financial 
statements and on the other financial information 
of the subsidiaries, associates and joint venture the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements give 
the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give 
a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under 
section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, 
its associates and joint venture, as at 31 December 
2024, and their consolidated profit (including other 
comprehensive income), consolidated statement of 
cash flow and the consolidated changes in equity 
for the year ended on that date.
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Group, 
its associates and joint venture in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of 
Chartered 
Accountants 
of 
India 
(‘ICAI’) 
together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and 
the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
together with the audit evidence obtained by the 
other auditors in terms of their reports referred 
to in paragraph 15 of the Other Matters section 
below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, 
in our professional judgment and based on 
the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements of the 
subsidiaries, associates and joint venture, were of 
most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our 
audit of the consolidated financial statements as 
a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and 
we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters.
5.	
We have determined the matter(s) described 
below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment of intangible assets 
including Goodwill 
(Refer note 3(e) and 3(k) for accounting policies on 
Intangibles assets and Business combinations and 
goodwill respectively. Further refer note 5A and 
note 5B to the consolidated financial statements)
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited, to the 
following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the management’s 
process for identification of cash generating unit and 
processes performed by the management for their 
impairment testing;
Varun Beverages Limited
226
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Group carries Goodwill and franchisee rights/
trademarks as intangible assets having indefinite 
life amounting to ` 3,009.37 million and ` 8,946.08 
million respectively, that are required to be tested 
for impairment by the management on an annual 
basis in accordance with Ind AS 36, Impairment of 
Assets.
The aforesaid assessment of the impairment 
testing involves significant judgement around the 
determination of the recoverable amounts, being 
the higher of value in use and fair value less costs 
of disposal. Recoverable amounts are based on 
management’s view of the future cash flows and 
prospects of the business, the appropriate discount 
rates and other industry specific risk factors.
The key judgements in determining the recoverable 
amounts relates to the forecast of future cash 
flows based on strategy using macroeconomic 
assumptions such as industry growth, inflation 
and expected growth in market share, capital 
expenditure and working capital requirements, 
among others.
Changes 
in 
the 
management 
forecasts 
or 
assumptions can impact the assessment of the 
discounted cash flows.
Considering the materiality of the amounts 
involved and significant degree of judgement 
and subjectivity involved in the estimates and key 
assumptions used in determining the forecasted 
cash flows used in the impairment evaluation, which 
are dependent on current and future economic 
factors and trading conditions varying for different 
economic and geographical territories, impairment 
assessment of Goodwill and the franchise rights/ 
trademarks was determined as a key audit matter.
•	
Assessed the process by which management prepared 
its cash flow forecasts and held discussions with 
management to understand the assumptions used 
and estimates made by them for determining such 
projections;
•	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal controls over such identification and 
impairment test procedures;
•	
Assessed 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
Group’s 
accounting policies, including those relating to 
recognition, 
measurement 
and 
impairment 
of 
intangibles by comparing with the applicable Ind AS;
•	
Reviewed the valuation report obtained by the 
management 
from 
an 
independent 
valuer 
for 
Franchise rights and assessed the professional 
competence, skills and objectivity for performing the 
required valuations;
•	
Assessed the appropriateness of the significant 
assumptions as well as the Group’s valuation model 
with the support of auditor’s valuation specialists, who 
assess the reasonableness of assumptions used and 
valuation methodology applied relating to discount 
rate, risk premium, industry growth rate etc. This 
included a discussion of the expected development of 
the business and results as well as of the underlying 
assumptions used with those responsible for the 
planning process;
•	
Assessed the robustness of financial projections 
prepared 
by 
the 
management 
by 
comparing 
projections for previous financial years with actual 
results realised and discussed significant deviations, if 
any, with the management;
•	
Tested mathematical accuracy of the projections 
and performed a sensitivity analysis for reasonably 
possible changes in the sales growth, discount rate 
applied and the long-term growth rate; and
•	
Evaluated the adequacy and appropriateness of 
disclosures made by the Group in the consolidated 
financial statements, as required by the applicable 
provisions of the Act and Ind AS.
Claims, Appeals and Litigations – provisions and 
contingent liabilities
(Refer note 43 to the consolidated financial 
statements for the amounts of contingent liabilities)
The Group is involved in various direct, indirect tax 
and other claims, appeals and litigations (hereafter, 
referred to as “Matters”) that are pending with 
different statutory authorities and judicial courts. 
The management exercises significant judgement 
for determining the need for and the amount of 
provisions, for any liabilities, arising from these 
matters.
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the 
following: 
•	
Assessed 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
Group’s 
accounting 
policies 
relating 
to 
provisions 
and 
contingent liabilities with the applicable accounting 
standards; 
•	
Assessed the Group’s process and the underlying 
controls for identification of the pending matters 
and completeness for financial reporting and also for 
monitoring of significant developments in relation to 
such pending matters; 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
227
Annual Report 2024
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
This judgement is dependent on a number of 
significant assumptions and evaluations which 
involves interpreting the various applicable rules, 
regulations, practices and considering precedents 
in the various jurisdictions including the opinions 
received from various legal counsels.
This matter is considered as a key audit matter, 
in 
view 
of 
the 
uncertainty 
regarding 
the 
outcome of these matters, the significance of the 
amounts involved and the subjectivity involved 
in management’s judgement as to whether any 
amount should be recognised as a provision or 
be disclosed or not as a contingent liability in the 
consolidated financial statements.
•	
Assessed 
the 
management’s 
assumptions 
and 
estimates in respect of matters, including the liabilities 
or provisions recognised or contingent liabilities 
disclosed in the consolidated financial statements. This 
involved assessing the probability of an unfavorable 
outcome of a given proceeding and the reliability of 
estimates of related amounts based on the various 
legal counsel opinions received by the Group;
•	
Recomputed 
the 
arithmetical 
accuracy 
of 
the 
underlying calculations supporting the provisions 
recorded from the supporting evidences including the 
correspondence with various authorities;
•	
Assessed the management’s conclusions through 
understanding relevant judicial precedents in similar 
cases and the applicable rules and regulations and 
through a discussion with Company’s legal department 
and legal counsels appointed by the Company;
•	
Obtained 
legal 
opinions 
and 
confirmation 
on 
completeness 
from 
the 
Group’s 
external 
legal 
counsels, where appropriate;
•	
Engaged auditor’s experts to gain an understanding 
of the current status of matters and changes 
in the disputes, if any, through discussions with 
the management and by reading external advice 
received by the Group, where relevant, to validate 
management’s conclusions; and
•	
Assessed 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
the 
Group’s 
description of the accounting policy, disclosures 
related to matters and whether these are adequately 
presented in the consolidated financial statements.
Business Combination 
As set out in note 50 to the consolidated financial 
statements, 
the 
Group 
has 
completed 
the 
acquisition of 95% share capital in “The Beverage 
Company Proprietary Limited” on 26 March 
2024 for a purchase consideration amounting to 
` 4,037.26, as per terms of the definitive documents 
executed in this regard. 
This acquisition has been concluded as a 
business combination under Ind AS 103, ‘Business 
Combinations’ and has resulted in recognition of 
goodwill, franchise rights, own brands, distribution 
networks, apart from other identifiable assets and 
liabilities acquired. The Company has performed 
a purchase price allocation by allocating the 
purchase consideration paid to the respective 
fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired as 
above. 
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited, to the 
following:
•	
Obtained and understood the terms of the arrangement 
underlying the business acquisition made by the 
Holding Company during the year to confirm the 
determination of control and the acquisition date in 
accordance with Ind AS 103;
•	
Assessed the competence and objectivity of the 
management’s expert and gained an understanding of 
the work done by the management’s valuation expert.
•	
Obtained report of the management’s external 
valuation specialist for the valuations performed 
of assets and liabilities acquired for the purpose of 
purchase price allocation;
•	
Involved our auditor’s valuation experts to assist us in 
validating the valuation assumptions and methodology 
considered by the management’s expert to allocate 
the purchase price to identifiable assets and liabilities;
Varun Beverages Limited
228
Information 
other 
than 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report 
thereon
6.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in 
the Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
on Corporate Governance and Director’s Report, 
but does not include the consolidated financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the consolidated financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the 
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, we 
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
7.	
The accompanying consolidated financial statements 
have been approved by the Holding Company’s 
Board of Directors. The Holding Company’s Board 
of Directors are responsible for the matters stated 
in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view of the 
consolidated financial position, consolidated financial 
performance including other comprehensive income, 
consolidated changes in equity and consolidated 
cash flows of the Group including its associates and 
joint venture in accordance with the Ind AS specified 
under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
also responsible for ensuring accuracy of records 
including financial information considered necessary 
for the preparation of consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements. Further, in terms of the provisions of 
the Act the respective Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group, and its associate 
companies and joint venture company covered 
under the Act are responsible for maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error. These financial statements have been used 
for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The identification and valuation of acquired assets 
and liabilities including intangible assets involve 
significant management judgement in terms of 
making estimates and assumptions including the 
discount rate and growth rate assumptions which 
have high estimation uncertainty. 
Considering 
the 
materiality 
of 
the 
amount 
involved and significant degree of judgement 
and subjectivity involved in the estimates and 
assumptions used in determining the fair value of 
assets and liabilities acquired, we have determined 
the accounting for business combination as a key 
audit matter for the current year audit.
•	
Assessed the reasonableness of the management 
estimates and judgements used to fair value the 
identifiable assets and liabilities and identifiable 
intangible assets acquired; 
•	
Evaluated the appropriateness and adequacy of 
disclosures given in the consolidated financial 
statements, 
including 
disclosure 
of 
significant 
assumptions and judgements, in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
229
Annual Report 2024
8.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associates and 
joint venture are responsible for assessing the 
ability of the Group and of its associates and joint 
venture to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate the 
Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so.
9.	
Those respective Board of Directors are also 
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of the companies included in the Group and 
of its associates and joint venture
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with Standards on Auditing will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these consolidated financial statements.
11.	
As part of an audit in accordance with Standards 
on Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional 
skepticism 
throughout 
the 
audit. 
We also:
	
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a 
material misstatement resulting from fraud 
is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control;
	
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Holding Company 
has adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.;
	
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management;
	
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of 
Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group and 
its associates and joint venture to continue as a 
going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions 
may cause the Group and its associates and 
joint venture to cease to continue as a going 
concern;
	
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation; and
	
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial statements of the 
entities 
or 
business 
activities 
within 
the 
Group, and its associates and joint venture, 
to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the 
audit of financial statements of such entities 
included in the financial statements, of which 
we are the independent auditors. For the other 
entities included in the financial statements, 
Varun Beverages Limited
230
which have been audited by the other auditors, 
such other auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the 
audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
12.	
We 
communicate 
with 
those 
charged 
with 
governance regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit.
13.	
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters 
in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine 
that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
15.	
We did not audit the financial statements of fourteen 
subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflects 
total assets of ` 73,775.58 million as at 31 December 
2024, total revenues of ` 72,166.86 million and 
net cash inflows amounting to ` 236.23 million for 
the year ended on that date, as considered in the 
consolidated financial statements. Out of the above, 
financial statement of one subsidiary included in the 
Statement whose financial statement reflects total 
assets of ` 2,906.75 million as at 31 December 2024, 
total revenues of ` 1,729.54 million, and net cash 
outflows of ` (81.91) million for the year ended on 
that date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements have been audited by one of the joint 
auditors, O P Bagla & Co LLP.
	
The consolidated financial statements also include 
the Group’s share of net loss (including other 
comprehensive income) of ` 14.78 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2024, as considered in the 
consolidated financial statements, in respect of two 
associates and one joint venture, whose financial 
information have not been audited by us. Out of 
the above, annual financial information of one joint 
venture included in the Statement with the Group’s 
share of net loss (including other comprehensive 
income) of ` 12.50 million for the year ended 31 
December 2024, as considered in the consolidated 
financial statements have been audited by one of the 
joint auditors, O P Bagla & Co LLP.
	
These financial statements and financial information 
have been audited by one of the joint auditors, O P 
Bagla & Co LLP and other auditors whose reports 
have been furnished to us by the management and 
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, 
in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these subsidiaries, associates 
and joint venture, and our report in terms of sub-
section (3) of section 143 of the Act in so far as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, associates and 
joint venture, are based solely on the reports of one 
of the joint auditors, O P Bagla & Co LLP and the 
other auditors.
	
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial 
statements, and our report on other legal and 
regulatory requirements below, are not modified in 
respect of the above matters with respect to our 
reliance on the work done by and the reports of O P 
Bagla & Co LLP and the other auditors.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
16.	
As required by section 197(16) of the Act based on 
our audit and on the consideration of the reports 
of one of the joint auditors and the other auditors, 
referred to in paragraph 15, on separate financial 
statements of the subsidiaries, associates and joint 
venture, we report that the Holding Company and 
one subsidiary incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under the Act have 
paid remuneration to their respective directors 
during the year in accordance with the provisions 
of and limits laid down under section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. Further, we report that the 
provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to 
the Act are not applicable to Fifteen subsidiaries, 
Two associates and one joint venture Company, 
since none of such companies is a public company 
as defined under section 2(71) of the Act.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
231
Annual Report 2024
17.	
As required by clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 of Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (‘the Order’) issued by 
the Central Government of India in terms of section 143(11) of the Act based on the consideration of the Order 
reports issued till date by us, of Holding Company included in the consolidated financial statements and covered under 
the Act we report that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks reported in the respective Order reports of such 
companies. Further, following are the companies  included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 
December 2024 and covered under that Act that are audited by one of the joint auditors and other auditors, for which 
the respective reports under section 143(11) of the Act of such companies have not yet been issued by the respective 
auditors (on account of different financial year followed by these companies), as per information and explanation given 
to us by the management in this respect.
S.  
No 
Name
CIN
Subsidiary/ Associate/
Joint Venture
Remarks
1
Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
U72900DL2009PTC190619
Subsidiary
Company follows 
different financial year
2
Clean Max Tav Private 
Limited
U40300MH2022PTC389259
Associate
Company follows 
different financial year
3
Houban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
U40105TG2021PTC157634
Associate
Company follows 
different financial year
4
IDVB Recycling 
Operations Private 
Limited
U35105DL2022PTC398736
Joint Venture
Company follows 
different financial year
18.	
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on 
our audit and on the consideration of the reports 
of one of the joint auditors and other auditors on 
separate financial statements of the subsidiary, 
associates and joint venture incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited under 
the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
a)	
We 
have 
sought 
and 
obtained 
all 
the 
information and explanations which to the best 
of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purpose of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements;
	
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the reports 
of one of the joint auditors and other auditors 
except for the matters stated in paragraph 18(h)
(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended);
	
c)	
The consolidated financial statements dealt 
with by this report are in agreement with the 
relevant books of account maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements;
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with Ind AS 
specified under section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015;
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company, and taken on record by the Board 
of Directors of the Holding Company, and 
the reports of the statutory auditors of its 
subsidiary, associates and joint venture, covered 
under the Act, none of the directors of the 
Group companies, its associate companies and 
joint venture company, are disqualified as on 
31 December 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act.
	
f)	
The modifications relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith with respect to the consolidated 
financial statements are as stated in paragraph 
18(b) above on reporting under section 143(3)
(b) of the Act and paragraph 18(h)(vi) below 
on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
	
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company, and 
its subsidiary company, associates and joint 
Varun Beverages Limited
232
venture covered under the Act, and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate report in ‘Annexure II’ wherein 
we have expressed an unmodified opinion; and
	
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of the report of one of the joint 
auditors and other auditors on separate financial 
statements and other financial information 
of the subsidiary, associates and joint venture 
incorporated in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act:
	
	
i.	
The 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position of 
the Group, its associates and joint venture 
as detailed in Note 43 to the consolidated 
financial statements;
	
	
ii.	
The 
Holding 
Company, 
its 
subsidiary 
companies, associates and joint venture 
company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses as at 31 December 2024;
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to 
the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Holding Company during 
the year ended 31 December 2024. There 
were no amounts which were required to 
be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the subsidiary 
company, associates and joint venture 
covered under the Act, during the year 
ended 31 December 2024;
	
	
iv.	
a.	
The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary 
company, associates and joint venture 
company incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to us 
and one of the joint auditor and other 
auditors of such subsidiary company, 
associates and joint venture company 
respectively that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in 
note 61(e) to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or securities 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Holding Company 
or its subsidiary company, associates 
and joint venture company to or in 
any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), 
with 
the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Holding Company, or any 
such subsidiary company, associates 
and joint venture company (‘the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b.	
The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary 
company, associates and joint venture 
company incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to 
us and one of the joint auditor and 
other auditors of such subsidiary 
company, associates and joint venture 
company respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed in the note 61(f) to the 
accompanying consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been 
received by the Holding Company or 
its subsidiary company, associates 
and joint venture company from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (‘the Funding Parties’), 
with 
the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Holding Company, or any 
such subsidiary company, associates 
and joint venture company shall, 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
233
Annual Report 2024
whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
and
	
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures 
performed by us and that performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiary 
company, associates and joint venture 
company, as considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our or other 
auditors’ notice that has caused us or 
the other auditors to believe that the 
management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain 
any material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The interim dividend declared and paid 
by the Holding Company during the year 
ended 31 December 2024 and until the date 
of this audit report is in compliance with 
section 123 of the Act. The final dividend 
paid by the Holding Company during the 
year ended 31 December 2024 in respect 
of such dividend declared for the previous 
year is in accordance with section 123 of 
the Act to the extent it applies to payment 
of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in note 62(i) to the accompanying 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, 
the 
Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
have proposed final dividend for the year 
ended 31 December 2024 which is subject 
to the approval of the members at the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting. The 
dividend declared is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act to the extent it 
applies to declaration of dividend.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included 
test checks performed by us on the Holding 
Company and reports of the respective 
auditors 
of 
its 
subsidiary 
company, 
associates and joint venture company, 
which are companies incorporated in India 
and audited under the Act, except for 
the instances mentioned below including 
subsidiary company where feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) was not 
enabled for the period 01 January 2024 to 
31 March 2024 , the aforesaid Companies, 
in respect of financial year commencing 
on 01 January 2024, have used accounting 
softwares for maintaining their books of 
account which have a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same 
have been operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions recorded in 
the software. Further, during the course 
of our audit and based on the reports of 
the respective auditors of the subsidiary, 
associates and joint venture company, 
we did not come across any instance of 
audit trail feature being tampered with, 
other than the consequential impact of the 
matter mentioned below
	
	
	
a.	
One accounting software used for 
maintenance of books of accounts of 
the Holding Company and accounting 
software used for maintenance of 
books of accounts by subsidiary 
company and Joint venture Company, 
did not have a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility enabled 
at the database level to log any direct 
data changes;
	
	
	
b.	
One 
associate 
has 
used 
an 
accounting software for the period 
01 January 2024 till 31 March 2024 for 
maintaining books of account, which 
is operated by a third-party software 
service provider. In the absence of 
reporting on compliance with audit 
trail requirements in the independent 
auditor’s report in relation to controls 
at service organization, we are unable 
to comment on whether the feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
was enabled at the database level to 
log any direct data changes.
Varun Beverages Limited
234
For J C Bhalla & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 001111N
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 000018N/N500091
Akhil Bhalla
Partner
Membership No: 505002
UDIN: 25505002BMIKXI9996
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-5, Sector-6, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201301
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal
Partner
Membership No. 094155
UDIN: 25094155BMKSDQ7167
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-225, 5th Floor, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase 1, New Delhi 110020
	
	
	
c.	
In 
the 
absence 
of 
reporting 
on 
compliance 
with 
audit 
trail 
requirements 
in 
the 
independent 
auditor’s 
report 
for 
accounting 
software used by two associates 
for the period 01 April 2024 to 31 
December 
2024, 
on 
account 
of 
different financial 	years adopted by 
these Companies, we are unable to 
comment on whether the audit trail 
feature of the accounting softwares 
in the companies were enabled and 
operated through the period form 
01 April 2024 to 31 December 2024.
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 applies to the Company 
for the financial year commencing on 01 
January 2024, hence, reporting under Rule 
11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention 
is not applicable for the financial year ended 
31 December 2024.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
235
Annual Report 2024
List of entities included in the consolidated financial statements
Holding Company
1.	
 Varun Beverages Limited
Subsidiaries
1.	
 Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
2.	
 Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
3.	
 Ole Spring Bottlers (Private) Limited
4.	
 Varun Beverages Morocco SA
5.	
 Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
6.	
 Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
7.	
 Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
8.	
 Varun Beverages RDC SAS
9.	
 Varun Beverages International DMCC
10.	 Varun Beverages South Africa (Pty) Ltd
11.	
VBL Mozambique, SA
12.	
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited, South Africa (with effect from 26 March 2024)
13.	
The Beverage Company Bidco Proprietary Limited (with effect from 26 March 2024)
14.	 Little Green Beverages Proprietary Limited (with effect from 26 March 2024)
15.	
Softbev Proprietary Limited (with effect from 26 March 2024)
16.	 Varun Foods (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited (with effect from 22 May 2024)
Associates
1.	
Clean Max Tav Private Limited
2.	
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
Joint Venture 
1.	
 IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited
Annexure I
Varun Beverages Limited
236
Annexure II
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) 
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of Varun Beverages Limited (‘the 
Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
‘the Group’), its associates and  joint venture as at 
and for the year ended 31 December 2024, we have 
audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements of the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary company, its associate companies and 
joint venture company, which are companies covered 
under the Act, as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for Internal Financial 
Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary company, its associate 
companies and joint venture company, which are 
companies covered under the Act, are responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements criteria 
established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of the Company’s 
business, including adherence to the Company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements 
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary company, its associate companies and 
joint venture company, as aforesaid, based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Standards on Auditing issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements, and the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by 
the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements were 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements includes obtaining an 
understanding of such internal financial controls, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other 
auditors in terms of their reports referred to in the 
Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary company and joint venture company as 
aforesaid.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements 
6.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
237
Annual Report 2024
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements include those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could 
have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls with Reference to Financial Statements 
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion and based on the consideration of 
the reports of the other auditor on internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of 
the subsidiary company and joint venture company, 
the Holding Company its subsidiary company, and 
joint venture company which are companies covered 
under the Act, have in all material respects, adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and such controls were operating 
effectively as at 31 December 2024, based on the 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India.
Other Matter
9.	
We did not audit the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements insofar as it relates 
to one subsidiary company, which is company 
covered under the Act, whose financial statements 
reflect total assets of ` 2,906.75 million and net assets 
of ` 2,041.21 million as at 31 December 2024 , total 
revenues of ` 1,729.54 million and net cash outflows 
amounting to ` (81.91) million for the year ended on 
that date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements. The consolidated financial statements 
also include the Group’s share of net loss (including 
other comprehensive loss) of ` 12.50 million for the 
year ended 31 December 2024, in respect of one 
joint venture company, which is company covered 
under the Act, whose internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements have not 
been audited by us. The internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements in so far as it 
relates to such subsidiary company and joint venture 
company have been audited by one of the joint 
auditors, O P Bagla & Co LLP whose reports have 
been furnished to us by the management and our 
report on the adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements for the Holding Company its 
subsidiary company and joint venture company, as 
aforesaid, under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act in so 
far as it relates to such subsidiary company and joint 
venture company is based solely on the reports of 
the O P Bagla & Co LLP. Our opinion is not modified 
in respect of this matter with respect to our reliance 
on the work done by and on the report of the 
O P Bagla & Co LLP.
Varun Beverages Limited
238
For J C Bhalla & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 001111N
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 000018N/N500091
Akhil Bhalla
Partner
Membership No: 505002
UDIN: 25505002BMIKXI9996
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-5, Sector-6, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201301
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal
Partner
Membership No. 094155
UDIN: 25094155BMKSDQ7167
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-225, 5th Floor, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase 1, New Delhi 110020
10.	 We did not audit the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements in so far as 
it relates to two associate companies, which are 
companies covered under the Act, in respect of 
which, the Group’s share of net loss (including 
other comprehensive loss) of ` 2.28 million for 
the year ended 31 December 2024 has been 
considered in the consolidated financial statements. 
The internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of these associate companies, 
which are companies covered under the Act, are 
unaudited and our opinion under Section 143(3)(i) 
of the Act on adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements insofar as it relates to the 
aforesaid associates, which are companies covered 
under the Act, is solely based on the corresponding 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements reports certified by the management 
of such companies. In our opinion and according 
to the information and explanations given to us by 
the management, these financial information are not 
material to the Group. Our opinion is not modified 
in respect of the above matter with respect to 
our reliance on the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements reports certified by 
the management.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
239
Annual Report 2024
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2024
The accompanying notes 1 to 63 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
(` in million)
Notes
As at
31 December 2024
As at
31 December 2023
Assets
Non-current assets
(a) 	 Property, plant and equipment
4A
 106,225.51 
 68,031.32 
(b) 	 Capital work-in-progress
4B
 11,623.43 
 19,222.22 
(c) 	 Right of use assets
4C
 13,631.22 
 10,347.07 
(d) 	 Goodwill
5A
 3,009.37 
 242.30 
(e) 	 Other intangible assets
5B
 11,151.26 
 5,471.00 
(f) 	
Intangible assets under development
5C
 43.69 
 - 
(g)	
Investment in associates and joint venture
6
 534.47 
 179.32 
(h) 	 Financial assets
	
(i)	
Investments
7
 60.55 
 31.51 
	
(ii)	
Loans
8
 218.87 
 - 
	
(iii) 	 Other financial assets
9
 987.26 
 622.67 
(i) 	
Deferred tax assets (Net)
10
 196.31 
 - 
(j) 	
Other non-current assets
11
 5,117.42 
 5,368.12 
Total non-current assets
 152,799.36 
 109,515.53 
Current assets
(a) 	 Inventories
12
 27,912.34 
 21,505.33 
(b) 	 Financial assets
	
(i) 	
Trade receivables
13
 8,458.42 
 3,593.85 
	
(ii) 	 Cash and cash equivalents
14
 22,662.83 
 2,422.12 
	
(iii) 	 Bank balances other than (ii) above
15
 1,837.71 
 2,176.50 
	
(iv) 	 Others 
16
 8,356.16 
 7,388.23 
(c) 	 Current tax assets (Net)
17
 48.72 
 3.11 
(d) 	 Other current assets
18
 9,363.56 
 5,267.16 
Total current assets
 78,639.74 
 42,356.30 
Total assets
 231,439.10 
 151,871.83 
Equity and liabilities
Equity
(a) 	 Equity share capital
19
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
(b) 	 Other equity
20
 159,335.27 
 62,868.91 
Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company
 166,098.29 
 69,364.98 
(c) 	 Non-controlling interest
 1,298.07 
 1,481.55 
Total equity
 167,396.36 
 70,846.53 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
(a) 	 Financial liabilities
	
(i) 	
Borrowings
21A
 8,406.89 
 31,889.38 
	
(ia) 	 Lease liabilities
21B
 3,570.86 
 1,978.85 
(b) 	 Provisions
22
 1,894.34 
 2,126.44 
(c) 	 Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
10
 4,879.09 
 3,430.11 
(d) 	 Other non-current liabilities
23
 47.31 
 68.40 
Total non-current liabilities
 18,798.49 
 39,493.18 
Current liabilities
(a) 	 Financial liabilities
	
(i) 	
Borrowings
21C
 15,235.76 
 20,054.49 
	
(ia) 	 Lease liabilities
21D
 1,049.03 
 390.38 
	
(ii) 	 Trade payables
	
	
(a) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
24
 645.75 
 767.43 
	
	
(b) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
24
 14,958.52 
 6,815.05 
	
(iii) 	 Other financial liabilities
25
 7,043.41 
 7,638.39 
(b) 	 Other current liabilities
26
 4,916.55 
 4,650.93 
(c) 	 Provisions
22
 739.00 
 825.43 
(d) 	 Current tax liabilities (Net)
27
 656.23 
 390.02 
Total current liabilities
 45,244.25 
 41,532.12 
Total liabilities
 64,042.74 
 81,025.30 
Total equity and liabilities
 231,439.10 
 151,871.83 
Material accounting policies
3
Varun Beverages Limited
240
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
For the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Notes
Year ended
 31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Income
Revenue from operations
28
 204,813.28 
 163,210.63 
Other income
29
 1,212.68 
 793.59 
Total income
 206,025.96 
 164,004.22 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
30
 82,937.43 
 70,264.61 
Excise duty
 4,736.78 
 2,784.82 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
31
 6,859.21 
 4,626.96 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, intermediate goods, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress
32
 (749.40)
 (842.69)
Employee benefits expense
33
 18,850.26 
 14,465.87 
Finance costs
34
 4,503.86 
 2,680.99 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
35
 9,473.86 
 6,809.06 
Other expenses
36
 45,068.29 
 35,816.21 
Total expenses 
 171,680.29 
 136,605.83 
Profit before share of loss of associates & joint venture and tax
 34,345.67 
 27,398.39 
Share of loss of associates and joint venture
6
 (14.78)
 (4.79)
Profit before tax 
 34,330.89 
 27,393.60 
Tax expense
(a) 	 Current tax
27
 7,502.05 
 6,290.81 
(b) 	 Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
27
 5.28 
 20.55 
(c) 	 Deferred tax charge
10
 480.71 
 64.11 
Total tax expense 
 7,988.04 
 6,375.47 
Net profit for the year
 26,342.85 
 21,018.13 
Other comprehensive income
37
(A) 	 Items that will not to be reclassified to profit or loss
 288.77 
 (28.16)
(B) 	 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 (67.99)
 6.98 
(C) 	 Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
 356.41 
 (58.83)
(D)	 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
 - 
 - 
Total other comprehensive loss
 577.19 
 (80.01)
Total comprehensive income for the year (including non-controlling interest)
 26,920.04 
 20,938.12 
Net profit attributable to:
(a) 	 Owners of the Company
 25,946.33 
 20,559.22 
(b) 	 Non-controlling interest
 396.52 
 458.91 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:
(a) 	 Owners of the Company
 558.22 
 (56.45)
(b) 	 Non-controlling interest
 18.97 
 (23.56)
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
(a) 	 Owners of the Company
 26,504.55 
 20,502.77 
(b) 	 Non-controlling interest
 415.49 
 435.35 
Earnings per equity share of face value of ` 2 each
Basic (`)
41
 7.95 
 6.33 
Diluted (`)
41
 7.94 
 6.33 
Material accounting policies
3
The accompanying notes 1 to 63 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
241
Annual Report 2024
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
For the year ended 31 December 2024
(Indirect Method) 	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
A. 	 Operating activities
Profit before tax and share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint 
venture
 34,345.67 
 27,398.39 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
 8,386.95 
 6,409.04 
Amortisation of intangible assets and right of use assets
 1,086.91 
 400.02 
Interest expense at amortised cost
 4,503.86 
 2,680.99 
Interest income at amortised cost
 (419.00)
 (238.00)
Gain on derecognition of financial instruments
 (0.08)
 (0.81)
	
Gain on sale of current investments
 (22.47)
 (3.51)
Excess provisions and liabilities written back
 (646.15)
 (322.36)
Share based payments
 162.43 
 78.61 
Loss on disposal/written off of property, plant and equipment (Net)
 761.96 
 843.64 
Bad debts and advances written off
 28.73 
 3.24 
Allowance for expected credit loss
 84.85 
 69.47 
Unrealised foreign exchange fluctuation
 (493.15)
 3.26 
	
Operating profit before working capital changes
 47,780.51 
 37,321.98 
Working capital adjustments
Increase in inventories
 (4,787.70)
 (1,601.73)
Increase in trade receivables
 (1,332.15)
 (730.18)
Increase in current and non-current financial assets and other 
current and non-current assets
 (5,224.30)
 (4,572.18)
Increase in current financial liabilities and other current and 
non-current liabilities and provisions
 4,650.27 
 169.28 
Total cash from operations
 41,086.63 
 30,587.17 
Income tax paid
 (7,275.66)
 (6,679.39)
Net cash flows from operating activities (A)
 33,810.97 
 23,907.78 
B. 	 Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, right of use assets 
and intangible assets (including adjustment on account of capital 
work-in-progress, capital advances and capital creditors)
 (37,790.10)
 (32,640.49)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 386.37 
 701.31 
Consideration paid for acquisition under business combination 
(Net)
 (4,018.84)
 - 
Investment made in associates, joint venture and other
 (398.98)
 (215.57)
Purchase of additional stake from minority of a subsidiary
 (2,000.00)
 (100.00)
Interest received
 281.13 
 220.16 
Proceeds from sale of current investments (Net)
 22.47 
 3.51 
Change in other bank balances
 350.15 
 (867.59)
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (43,167.80)
 (32,898.67)
C. 	 Financing activities
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
 17,711.27 
 24,016.61 
Repayment of long-term borrowings
 (55,084.16)
 (12,765.22)
Repayment of lease liabilities
 (1,558.65)
 (295.07)
Proceeds from short-term borrowings (Net)
 1,856.96 
 3,812.66 
Proceeds from issue of equity shares including share premium thereon 
(QIP & ESOPs)
 75,118.80 
 44.41 
Interest paid (inclusive of interest paid on lease liabilities ` 404.03 
(31 December 2023: ` 170.04))
 (4,649.55)
 (2,694.42)
Varun Beverages Limited
242
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow
For the year ended 31 December 2024
(Indirect Method) 	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Share issue expenses paid
 (611.10)
 - 
Proceeds from share application money pending allotment
 - 
 3.51 
Dividend paid
 (3,248.20)
 (2,273.48)
Net cash generated from financing activities (C)
 29,535.37 
 9,849.00 
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (D=A+B+C)
 20,178.54 
 858.11 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year (E)
 2,422.12 
 1,543.32 
Unrealised exchange difference on translation of cash and cash 
equivalent in subsidiaries (F)
 62.17 
 20.69 
	
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year (G= D+E+F)  
(Refer note 14)
 22,662.83 
 2,422.12 
Notes:
(a) 	 Reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing 
activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes pursuant to Ind AS 7:	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Non-current 
borrowings* 
Current borrowings
Lease Liabilities 
(Non-current and 
current)
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 41,911.82 
 10,032.05 
 2,369.23 
Acquired under business combination
 6,209.64 
 965.66 
 1,683.27 
Cash flows (Net)
 (37,372.89)
 1,856.96 
 (1,558.65)
Non-cash changes:
	
Recognition of lease liabilities (net)
 - 
 - 
 2,081.98 
	
Impact of fair value changes
 27.97 
 - 
 - 
	
Impact of exchange fluctuations
 - 
 11.44 
 44.06 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 10,776.54 
 12,866.11 
 4,619.89 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Non-current 
borrowings* 
Current borrowings
Lease Liabilities 
(Non-current and 
current)
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 30,671.17 
 6,276.95 
 1,890.02 
Cash flows (Net)
 11,251.39 
 3,812.66 
 (295.07)
Non-cash changes:
Recognition of lease liabilities (net)
 - 
 - 
 749.28 
Impact of fair value changes
 (10.74)
 - 
 - 
Impact of exchange fluctuations
 - 
 (57.56)
 25.00 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 41,911.82 
 10,032.05 
 2,369.23 
*includes current maturities of long-term debts amounting to ` 2,369.65 million (31 December 2023: ` 10,022.44 million). (Refer note 
21A and 21C)
The accompanying notes 1 to 63 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
243
Annual Report 2024
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2024
A.	 Equity share capital
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Notes
Number of shares
Amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 649,549,620 
 6,495.50 
Changes in equity share capital during the year 2023
 649,665,356 
 0.57 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
19
 1,299,214,976 
 6,496.07 
Changes in equity share capital during the year 2024
 2,082,295,041 
 266.95 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
19
 3,381,510,017 
 6,763.02 
B.	 Other Equity
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Note
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Reserve and surplus
Foreign 
currency
translation 
reserve
Total 
attributable 
to owners of 
the Company
Attributable 
to Non- 
controlling 
interest 
(NCI)
Total 
Capital 
reserve on 
consolidation
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Share option 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserve 
Retained 
earnings
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 (2,279.78)
 533.93  22,569.56 
 29.06 
 444.26  27,398.84 
 - 
 (4,167.57)
 44,528.30 
 1,131.07 
 45,659.37 
Profit for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  20,559.22 
 - 
 - 
 20,559.22 
 458.91 
 21,018.13 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
(Net of deferred taxes)
	
Re-measurement losses on defined 
benefit plans (Net of taxes)#
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (21.08)
 - 
 - 
 (21.08)
 (0.10)
 (21.18)
	
Exchange differences arising on 
translation of foreign operations 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (35.37)
 (35.37)
 (23.46)
 (58.83)
Dividend paid** (Refer note 42)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (2,273.48)
 - 
 - 
 (2,273.48)
 -  (2,273.48)
Pursuant to exercise of employee stock 
options
 - 
 - 
 67.03 
 (23.19)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.84 
 - 
 43.84 
Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.51 
 - 
 3.51 
 - 
 3.51 
Purchase of additional stake in subsidiary 
from minority
 (15.13)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (15.13)
 (84.87)
 (100.00)
Recognition of share based payment 
expenses (Refer note 33)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 79.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 79.10 
 - 
 79.10 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
19
 (2,294.91)
 533.93  22,636.59 
 84.97 
 444.26  45,663.50 
 3.51  (4,202.94)
 62,868.91 
 1,481.55  64,350.46 
Varun Beverages Limited
244
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Note
Attributable to Owners of the Company
Reserve and surplus
Foreign 
currency
translation 
reserve
Total 
attributable 
to owners of 
the Company
Attributable 
to Non- 
controlling 
interest 
(NCI)
Total 
Capital 
reserve on 
consolidation
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Share option 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserve 
Retained 
earnings
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Profit for the year 
-
-
-
-
-
25,946.33
-
-
25,946.33
396.52
26,342.85
Other comprehensive income for the year  
(Net of deferred taxes)
Re-measurement gains on defined 
benefit plans (Net of taxes)#
-
-
-
-
-
220.78
-
-
220.78
-
220.78
Exchange differences arising on 
translation of foreign operations
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
337.44
337.44
18.97
356.41
Dividend paid** (Refer note 42)
-
-
-
-
-
(3,248.55)
-
-
(3,248.55)
-
(3,248.55)
Equity share capital issued during the year 
pending previous year allotment
-
-
-
-
-
-
(3.51)
-
(3.51)
-
(3.51)
Recognition of share based payment 
expenses (Refer note 33)
-
-
-
162.43
-
-
-
-
162.43
-
162.43
Pursuant to exercise of employee stock 
options
-
-
183.56
(62.71)
-
-
-
-
120.85
-
120.85
Additions made on issue of equity share 
capital pursuant to Qualified Institutions 
Placement (Refer note 39)
-
-
74,734.51
-
-
-
-
-
74,734.51
-
74,734.51
Amount utilised for share issue expenses 
(Refer note 39)
-
-
(615.38)
-
-
-
-
-
(615.38)
-
(615.38)
Purchase of additional stake in subsidiary 
from minority
(1,188.54)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(1,188.54)
(811.46) (2,000.00)
Non controlling interest recognised on 
acquisition date (Refer note 50(i))
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
212.49
212.49
Balance as at 31 December 2024
19
(3,483.45)
533.93
96,939.28
184.70
444.26
68,582.06
-
(3,865.50)
159,335.27
1,298.07
160,633.34
# The disaggregation of changes in OCI by each type of reserves in equity is disclosed in Note 37.
**Transaction with owners in their capacity as owners.
The accompanying notes 1 to 63 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria		
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director		
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412		
DIN 00003649	
	
	
	
Rajesh Chawla		
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer		
Chief Risk Officer and 
Place : Gurugram	
	
		
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
		
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
245
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
1.	
Corporate information
	
Varun Beverages Limited (“VBL” or “the Company’’ 
or “Holding Company” or “Parent Company”) is 
a public limited Company domiciled in India. Its 
registered office is at F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase-I, New Delhi- 110 020. The Company’s equity 
shares are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange 
Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of 
India (NSE). The Company was incorporated on 16 
June 1995 with Corporate Identification Number 
L74899DL1995PLC069839 under the provisions of 
the Companies Act 1956.
	
The Company together with its subsidiaries a joint 
venture and associates (hereinafter, “the Group”) 
is engaged in manufacturing, selling, bottling 
and distribution of beverages of Pepsi brand in 
geographically pre-defined territories of India, Sri 
Lanka, Nepal, Zambia, Morocco, Zimbabwe, RDC, 
Mozambique, 
South 
Africa, 
Lesotho, 
Eswatini, 
Namibia and Botswana as per franchisee agreement 
with 
PepsiCo 
India 
Holdings 
Private 
Limited 
(“PepsiCo India”) and its affiliates. The sale of Group’s 
products is seasonal.
2.	 Basis for preparation
	
These Consolidated Financial Statements (“the CFS”) 
of the Group have been prepared in accordance with 
the Indian Accounting Standards (‘‘Ind AS’’) and 
comply with requirements of Ind AS, stipulations 
contained in Schedule III (revised) as applicable 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”), and other relevant provisions of the Act and 
guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from 
time to time and other pronouncements/ provisions 
of applicable laws. These financial statements 
are authorised for issue on 10 February 2025 
in accordance with a resolution of the Board of 
Directors. The Board of Directors can permit the 
revision to the standalone financial statements after 
obtaining necessary approvals or at the instance of 
regulatory authorities as per provisions of the Act.
	
These CFS have been prepared using the material 
accounting 
policies 
and 
measurement 
basis 
summarised below. These accounting policies have 
been used consistently throughout all periods 
presented in these consolidated financial statements 
except as mentioned in note 3 (b) below.
	
The CFS have been prepared on a historical cost 
basis, except for the following assets and liabilities 
which have been measured at fair value:
	
i.	
Derivative financial instruments;
	
ii.	
Certain financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value (refer accounting policy regarding 
financial instruments);
	
iii.	
Defined benefit plans- plan assets measured at 
fair value; and
	
iv.	
Share based payments;
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/non-current classification. 
An asset is treated as current if it satisfies any of the 
following conditions:
	
i.	
Expected to be realised or intended to sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle;
	
ii.	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	
iii.	
Expected to be realised within twelve months 
after the reporting period; or
	
iv.	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period.
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
A liability is current if it satisfies any of the following 
conditions:
	
i.	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle;
	
ii.	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
	
iii.	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
	
iv.	
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period.
	
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as 
non-current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and its realisation in cash and 
cash equivalents. The Group has identified twelve 
months as its operating cycle.
Varun Beverages Limited
246
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
All amounts disclosed in the CFS and notes have 
been rounded off to the nearest million as per the 
requirement of Schedule III to the Act, unless otherwise 
stated.
2.1.	 Basis of consolidation 
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and associate. Control is achieved when the Group 
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the ability 
to affect those returns through its power over the 
investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if 
and only if the Group has:
	
•	
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that 
give it the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities of the investee);
	
•	
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee, and
	
•	
The ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns.
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting 
rights result in control. To support this presumption and 
when the Group has less than a majority of the voting 
or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all 
relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether 
it has power over an investee, including:
	
a)	
The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee;
	
b)	
The 
rights 
arising 
from 
other 
contractual 
arrangements; 
	
c)	
The Group’s voting rights and potential voting 
rights; and
	
d)	
The size of the Group’s holding of voting rights 
relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings 
of the other voting rights holders.
	
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an 
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there 
are changes to one or more of the three elements of 
control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when 
the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and 
ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. 
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary 
acquired or disposed of during the year are included 
in the consolidated financial statements from the date 
the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases 
to control the subsidiary. 
	
Consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and 
other events in similar circumstances. If a member of 
the Group uses accounting policies other than those 
adopted in the consolidated financial statements for 
like transactions and events in similar circumstances, 
appropriate adjustments are made to that member’s 
financial statements in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements to ensure conformity with the 
Group’s accounting policies.
	
An associate is an entity over which the Group has 
significant influence, i.e., the power to participate in the 
financial and operating policy decisions of the investee 
but not control or joint control over those policies.
	
The financial statements of all entities used for the 
purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same 
reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., 
year ended 31 December. When the end of the 
reporting period of the parent is different from that 
of a subsidiary/ associate, the subsidiary/ associate 
prepares, for consolidation purposes, additional 
financial information as of the same date as the 
financial statements of the parent to enable the 
parent to consolidate the financial information of the 
subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so.
	
The following consolidation procedures are adopted:
	
Subsidiary
	
a)	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with 
those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income 
and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the 
amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised 
in the consolidated financial statements at the 
acquisition date;
	
b)	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the 
parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary. 
Business combinations policy explains how to 
account for any related goodwill; and
	
c)	
Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating 
to transactions between entities of the group 
(profits or losses resulting from intragroup 
transactions that are recognised in assets, such as 
inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated in full). 
Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ applies to temporary 
differences that arise from the elimination of 
profits and losses resulting from intragroup 
transactions.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
247
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
Profit or loss and each component of Other 
Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) are attributed to the 
equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the 
non-controlling interests, even if this results in the 
non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. 
	
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without 
a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. 
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it:
•	
Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and 
liabilities of the subsidiary;
•	
Derecognises the carrying amount of any 
non-controlling interests; 
•	
Derecognises 
the 
cumulative 
translation 
differences recorded in equity;
•	
Recognises the fair value of the consideration 
received; 
•	
Recognises the fair value of any investment 
retained; 
•	
Recognises any surplus or deficit in Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss; 
•	
Reclassifies the parent’s share of components 
previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or 
retained earnings, as appropriate, as would be 
required if the Group had directly disposed of the 
related assets or liabilities
	
Associates/Joint Venture
	
Interests in associates/joint venture are accounted for 
using the equity method, after initially being recognised 
at cost in the consolidated balance sheet. When a 
member of the Group transacts with an associate of 
the Group, profits and losses from transactions with 
the associate/joint venture are recognised in the CFS 
only to the extent of interests in the associate/joint 
venture that are not related to the Group.
	
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to 
recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of 
the associate/joint venture since the acquisition date. 
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the 
carrying amount of the investment.
	
The Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss reflects 
the Group’s share of the results of operations of the 
associate/joint venture. Any change in OCI of those 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In 
addition, when there has been a change recognised 
directly in the equity of the associate/joint venture, 
the Group recognises its share of any changes, 
when applicable, in the statement of changes in 
equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from 
transactions between the Group and the associate/
joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the 
interest in the associate/joint venture. The aggregate 
of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate/
joint venture is shown on the face of the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
After application of the equity method, the Group 
determines whether it is necessary to recognise an 
impairment loss on its investment in its associate/joint 
venture. At each reporting date, the Group determines 
whether there is objective evidence that the investment 
in the associate/joint venture is impaired. If there is 
such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of 
impairment as the difference between the recoverable 
amount of the associate/joint venture and its carrying 
value, and then recognises the loss as ‘Share of loss 
of associates and joint venture’ in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate/
joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any 
retained investment at its fair value. Any difference 
between the carrying amount of the associate/joint 
venture upon loss of significant and the fair value of 
the retained investment and proceeds from disposal 
is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
On acquisition of control over previously owned 
associates, the Group re-measures its previously held 
equity interest in the associates at the acquisition 
date fair value and the difference, if any, between the 
carrying amount and the fair value is recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Goodwill is generally computed as the difference 
between 
the 
sum 
of 
consideration 
transferred 
(measured at the fair value) the non-controlling interest 
(“NCI”) in the acquire and the net of the acquisition 
date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and 
the liabilities assumed.
3.	 Summary of material accounting policies
	
a)	
Fair value measurements	
	
	
The Group measures financial instruments 
at fair value which is the price that would be 
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer 
Varun Beverages Limited
248
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
	
	
•     In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the consolidated financial 
statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
	
•	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
	
•	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable; and
	
•	
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs. For assets 
and liabilities that are recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on 
the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 
the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above. 
	
b)	 Revenue recognition
	
	
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control 
of promised goods or services to customers 
at an amount that reflects the consideration 
to which the Group is expected to be entitled 
to in exchange for those goods or services. 
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance 
obligation is measured at the amount of 
transaction price (net of variable considerations) 
allocated to that performance obligation as per 
contractually agreed terms with the customers. 
The transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable considerations on 
account of various discounts and schemes 
offered by the Company as part of the contract. 
Revenue is recorded provided the recovery of 
consideration is probable and determinable. 
Revenue from sale of goods and services 
transferred to distributors/intermediaries are 
recognised at a point in time.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of manufactured and 
traded goods products is recognised upon 
transfer of control of products to the customers 
which coincides with their delivery to customer 
and is measured at fair value of consideration 
received/receivable, net of discounts, amount 
collected on behalf of third parties and 
applicable taxes. 
Interest income
Interest 
income 
is 
recognised 
on 
time 
proportion basis taking into account the amount 
outstanding and rate applicable. For all debt 
instruments measured at amortised cost, interest 
income is recorded using the effective interest 
rate (“EIR”). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
the estimated future cash payments or receipts 
over the expected life of the financial instrument 
or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the 
gross carrying amount of the financial assets. 
Interest income is included in finance income in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
Dividends
Dividend is recognised when the Group’s right 
to receive the payment is established, which 
is generally when shareholders approve the 
dividend.
Services rendered
Revenue from service related activities including 
management and technical know-how service, 
job work are recognised as and when services 
are rendered and on the basis of contractual 
terms with the parties.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
249
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
c)	
Inventories 
	
	
Inventories are valued as follows:
i.	
Raw materials, components and stores and 
spares: At lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost of inventory comprises all costs 
of purchases, duties, taxes (other than 
those subsequently recoverable from tax 
authorities) and all other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventory to their present 
location and condition and is determined 
on a moving weighted average cost basis. 
However, materials and other items held 
for use in the production of inventories are 
not written down below cost if the finished 
products in which they will be incorporated 
are expected to be sold at or above cost.
ii.	
Work-in-progress: At lower of cost and 
net realisable value. Cost for this purpose 
includes material, labour and appropriate 
allocation 
of 
overheads 
including 
depreciation. Cost is determined on a 
weighted average basis.
iii.	
Intermediate goods/ Finished goods:
	
	
a)	
Self-manufactured - At lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Cost for this 
purpose includes material, labour and 
appropriate allocation of overheads. 
Cost is determined on a weighted 
average basis.
	
	
b)	
Traded - At lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost of inventory 
comprises all costs of purchases, duties, 
taxes (other than those subsequently 
recoverable from tax authorities) and 
all other costs incurred in bringing 
the inventory to their present location 
and condition and is determined on a 
weighted average cost basis. 
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price in the ordinary course of business, less 
estimated costs of completion and estimated 
costs necessary to make the sale. Provision 
for obsolescence is determined based on 
management’s assessment and is charged to the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
d)	 Property, plant and equipment
	
	
Measurement at recognition
	
Property, plant and equipment and capital work 
in progress is stated at cost, net of accumulated 
depreciation 
and 
accumulated 
impairment 
losses, if any.
	
Cost comprises the purchase price, borrowing 
costs if capitalization criteria are met and any 
directly attributable cost of bringing the asset 
to its working condition for the intended use. 
Any trade discounts and rebates are deducted 
in arriving at the purchase price. The cost of 
an item of property, plant and equipment is 
recognised as an asset if, and only if:
	
a.	
it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the 
entity; and
	
b.	
the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably.
	
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of 
property, plant and equipment is added to its 
book value only if it increased the future benefits 
from the existing asset beyond its previously 
assessed standard of performance. All other 
expenses on existing assets, including day- 
to- day repair and maintenance expenditure 
and cost of replacing parts, are charged to 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the period during which such expenses 
are incurred. Expenditure directly relating to 
construction activity is capitalized. Indirect 
expenditure incurred during construction period 
is capitalized as a part of indirect construction 
cost to the extent the expenditure is related 
to construction or is incidental thereto. Other 
indirect costs incurred during-the construction 
periods which are not related to construction 
activity nor are incidental thereto are charged to 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Value for individual assets acquired for a 
consolidated 
price, 
the 
consideration 
is 
apportioned to the various assets on a fair value 
basis as determined by competent valuers
Varun Beverages Limited
250
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
Depreciation
The management has estimated, supported by 
technical assessment, the useful lives of property, 
plant and equipment. The management believes that 
these estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect 
fair approximation of the period over which the 
assets are likely to be used. Depreciation is calculated 
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives 
of the assets as follows:
Description
 Useful lives 
(upto)
Leasehold land
Over lease period
Buildings-factory
20-50 years
Buildings-others
59-60 years
Plant and equipment
4-20 years
Furniture and fixtures 
5-10 years
Delivery vehicles
4-10 years
Vehicles (other than delivery 
vehicles)
4-7 years 
Office equipment
4-10 years
Computer equipment
3-5 years
Containers
4-10 years
Post-mix vending machines 
and refrigerators (Visi - Cooler)
5-10 years
Power generating assets*                              
22 years
	
*included in plant and equipment in financial statements.
	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is 
provided over the useful life of assets as specified in 
Schedule II to the Act except where the management, 
based 
on 
independent 
technical 
assessment, 
depreciates certain assets are over estimated 
useful lives which are different from the useful life 
prescribed in the Schedule II to the Act.
	
The Group has used the remaining useful lives to 
compute depreciation on its property, plant and 
equipment, acquired under the business transfer 
agreement based on external technical evaluation.  
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 
which are added/disposed off during the year is 
provided on a pro-rata basis with reference to the 
month of addition/deletion. 
	
The Group has technically evaluated all the property, 
plant and equipment for determining the separate 
identifiable assets having different useful lives 
under the component approach. On technical 
evaluation of all separate identifiable components, 
the management is of the opinion that they do 
not have any different useful life from that of the 
principal asset.
	
In case of revaluation of leasehold land, the resulting 
amortisation of the total revalued amount is expensed 
off to the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. 
	
Derecognition
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognised is de-recognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or 
loss arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds 
or amount of security deposit adjusted and the 
carrying amount of the asset) is included in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss when the 
asset is de-recognised.
	
Breakages of containers are adjusted on ‘first 
bought first broken’ basis, since it is not feasible 
to specifically identify the broken containers in the 
fixed assets records
	
e)	
Intangible assets
	
	
Intangible assets are initially recognised at:
	
	
a.	
In case the assets are acquired separately, 
then at cost,
	
	
b.	
In case the assets are acquired in a business 
combination or under any asset purchase 
agreement, at fair value.
	
	
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.         
	
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are assessed 
for impairment whenever there is an indication 
that the intangible assets may be impaired.
	
	
Amortisation of other intangible assets are 
amortised on a straight-line basis using the 
estimated useful life as follows:
Intangible assets
Useful lives (years)
Software
3-5 Years
Market infrastructure
 5-15 Years 
Distribution network
6-10 Years 
Brands
10 Years
	
	
The franchise rights and trademarks acquired 
as part of business combinations normally 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
251
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
have a remaining legal life of not exceeding 
ten years but is renewable every ten years at 
little cost and is well established. The Group 
intends to renew these rights continuously 
and evidence supports its ability to do so. An 
analysis of product life cycle studies, market 
and competitive trends provides evidence that 
the product will generate net cash inflows for 
the Group for an indefinite period. Therefore, 
these rights have been carried at cost without 
amortisation, but is tested for impairment 
annually, at the cash-generating unit level. 
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on 
a prospective basis.
	
f)	
Borrowing costs
	
	
Borrowing costs include interest, amortisation 
of ancillary costs incurred in connection with 
the arrangement of borrowings and exchange 
differences 
arising 
from 
foreign 
currency 
borrowings to the extent they are regarded as 
an adjustment to the interest cost. Borrowing 
costs, if any, directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an 
asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale 
are capitalized, if any. All other borrowing costs 
are expensed to the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss in the period in which they occur.
	
g)	 Leases
	
	
The Group as a lessee
	
	
The Group enters into an arrangement for lease 
of buildings and equipments. Such arrangements 
are generally for a fixed period but may have 
extension or termination options. In accordance 
with Ind AS 116 – Leases, at inception of the 
contract, the Group assesses whether a contract 
is, or contains a lease. A lease is defined as ‘a 
contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the 
right to control the use an asset (the underlying 
asset) for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration’.
	
	
To assess whether a contract conveys the right 
to control the use of an identified asset, the 
Group assesses whether:
•	
The contract involves the use of an identified 
asset – this may be specified explicitly or 
implicitly, and should be physically distinct or 
represent substantially all of the capacity of a 
physically distinct asset. If the supplier has a 
substantive substitution right, then the asset is 
not identified;
•	
The Group has the right to obtain substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the 
asset throughout the period of use; and
•	
The Group assesses whether it has the right 
to direct ‘how and for what purpose’ the 
asset is used throughout the period of use. 
At inception or on reassessment of a contract 
that contains a lease component, the Group 
allocates the consideration in the contract to 
each lease component on the basis of their 
relative stand-alone prices. However, for the 
leases of land and buildings in which it is a 
lessee, the Group has elected not to separate 
non-lease components and account for the 
lease and non-lease components as a single 
lease component.
	
Measurement and recognition of leases as a lessee
	
The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a 
lease liability at the lease commencement date. The 
right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date, plus any initial direct 
costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle 
and remove the underlying asset or to restore the 
underlying asset or the site on which it is located, 
less any lease incentives received.
	
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at 
cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated 
impairment losses (unless such right of use assets 
fulfills the requirements of Ind AS 40 - Investment 
Property and is accounted for as there under), if any 
and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease 
liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using 
the straight-line method from the commencement 
date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of 
right-of-use asset. Right-of-use assets are tested 
for impairment whenever there is any indication 
that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 
Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.
Varun Beverages Limited
252
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
The lease liability is initially measured at the present 
value of the lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date, discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily 
determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. 
Generally, the Group uses its incremental borrowing 
rate as the discount rate.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability comprise the following:
	
•	
Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed 
payments;
	
•	
Variable lease payments that depend on an 
index or a rate, initially measured using the 
index or rate as at the commencement date;
	
•	
Amounts expected to be payable under a 
residual value guarantee; and
	
•	
The exercise price under a purchase option that 
the Group is reasonably certain to exercise, 
lease payments in an optional renewal period 
if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise 
an extension option, and penalties for early 
termination of a lease unless the Group is 
reasonably certain not to terminate early.
	
The lease liability is measured at amortized cost using 
the effective interest rate method. It is remeasured 
when there is a change in future lease payments 
arising from a change in an index or rate, if there 
is a change in the Group’s estimate of the amount 
expected to be payable under a residual value 
guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment 
of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension 
or termination option. When the lease liability is 
remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment 
is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use 
asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced 
to zero, as the case may be.
	
The Group presents right-of-use assets that do not 
meet the definition of investment property and lease 
liabilities as a separate line item in the standalone 
financial statements of the Group.
	
The Group has elected not to apply the requirements 
of Ind AS 116 - Leases to short-term leases of all 
assets that have a lease term of 12 months or less and 
leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. 
The lease payments associated with these leases are 
recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
	
The Group as a lessor
	
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at 
lease inception whether each lease is a finance 
lease or an operating lease. To classify each lease, 
the Group makes an overall assessment of whether 
the lease transfers substantially all of the risks and 
rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying 
asset. If this is the case, then the lease is a finance 
lease; if not, then it is an operating lease. As part 
of this assessment, the Group considers certain 
indicators such as whether the lease is for the major 
part of the economic life of the asset.
	
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts 
for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease 
separately. It assesses the lease classification of a 
sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset 
arising from the head lease, not with reference to 
the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term 
lease to which the Group applies the exemption 
described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as 
an operating lease.
	
The Group recognizes lease payments received 
under operating leases as income on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term as part of ‘other income’.
	
The accounting policies applicable to the Group as a 
lessor in the comparative period were not different 
from Ind AS 116 - Leases. However, when the Group 
was an intermediate lessor the sub-leases were 
classified with reference to the underlying asset.
	
The Group recognizes lease payments received 
under operating leases as income on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. In case of a finance lease, 
finance income is recognised over the lease term 
based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate 
of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. 
When the Group is an intermediate lessor it accounts 
for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease 
separately. It assesses the lease classification of a 
sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset 
arising from the head lease, not with reference to 
the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short term 
lease to which the Group applies the exemption 
described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as 
an operating lease.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
253
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
h)	
Employee benefits
	
	
Contribution to provident and other funds
	
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident 
fund is a defined contribution scheme. The 
Group has no obligation, other than the 
contribution payable to the provident fund. 
The Group recognises contribution payable 
to the provident fund scheme as an expense, 
when an employee renders the related service. 
If the contribution payable to the scheme for 
service received before the balance sheet date 
exceeds the contribution already paid, the 
deficit payable to the scheme is recognised 
as a liability after deducting the contribution 
already paid. If the contribution already paid 
exceeds the contribution due for services 
received before the balance sheet date, then 
excess is recognised as an asset to the extent 
that the pre-payment will lead to, for example, a 
reduction in future payment or a cash refund.
	
	
Gratuity
	
	
Gratuity is a defined benefit scheme. The 
cost of providing benefits under the defined 
benefit plan is determined using the projected 
unit credit method. The Group recognises 
termination benefit as a liability and an expense 
when the Group has a present obligation as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation. If the termination benefits fall 
due more than twelve months after the balance 
sheet date, they are measured at present value 
of future cash flows using the discount rate 
determined by reference to market yields at the 
balance sheet date on government bonds.
	
	
Gratuity liability is accrued on the basis of 
an actuarial valuation made at the end of the 
year. The actuarial valuation is performed 
by an independent actuary as per projected 
unit credit method, except for few subsidiary 
companies where gratuity liability is provided 
on full cost basis.
	
	
Re-measurements, comprising actuarial gains 
and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, 
excluding amounts included in net interest on 
the net defined benefit liability and the return 
on plan assets (excluding amounts included in 
net interest on the net defined benefit liability), 
are recognised immediately in the balance sheet 
with a corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through OCI in the period in which they 
occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods.
	
	
Past service costs are recognised in Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss on the earlier of:
•	
The date of the plan amendment or 
curtailment, and
•	
The date that the Group recognises related 
restructuring cost
	
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net defined benefit liability 
or asset.
	
	
The Group recognises the following changes in 
the net defined benefit obligation as an expense 
in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss:
	
	
•	
Service costs comprising current service 
costs, 
past-service 
costs, 
gains 
and 
losses on curtailments and non-routine 
settlements; and
	
	
•	
Net interest expense or income
	
	
Compensated absences
	
	
The Group treats accumulated leave expected 
to be carried forward beyond twelve months, 
as long-term employee benefit which are 
computed based on the actuarial valuation using 
the projected unit credit method at the year 
end except for few subsidiary companies where 
accumulated leave liability is provided on full cost 
basis. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately 
taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss and are not deferred. The Group 
presents the leave as a current liability in the 
balance sheet to the extent it does not have 
an unconditional right to defer its settlement 
for twelve months after the reporting date. 
Where Group has the unconditional legal and 
Varun Beverages Limited
254
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
contractual right to defer the settlement for a 
period beyond twelve months, the balance is 
presented as a non-current liability.
	
	
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be 
utilized within the next twelve months, is treated 
as short term employee benefit. The Group 
measures the expected cost of such absences 
as the additional amount that it expects to pay 
as a result of the unused entitlement that has 
accumulated at the reporting date.
	
	
All other employee benefits payable/available 
within twelve months of rendering the service 
are classified as short-term employee benefits. 
Benefits such as salaries, wages, bonus, etc. 
are recognised in the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service.
	
i)	
Share-based payments	
	
	
Employees 
(including 
senior 
executives) 
of the Group receive remuneration in the 
form 
of 
share-based 
payments, 
whereby 
employees render services as consideration 
for equity instruments which are classified as 
equity-settled transactions.
	
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by the fair value at the date of grant 
using an appropriate valuation model. That cost 
is recognised as an employee benefit expense 
with a corresponding increase in ‘Share option 
outstanding account’ in other equity, over the 
period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in relation to options 
granted to employees of the Group.
	
	
The 
cumulative 
expense 
recognised 
for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting 
date until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and the 
parent company’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
	
	
Service 
and 
non-market 
performance 
conditions are not taken into account when 
determining the grant date fair value of awards, 
but the likelihood of the conditions being met is 
assessed as part of the parent company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. Market performance 
conditions are reflected within the grant date 
fair value. Any other conditions attached to 
an award, but without an associated service 
requirement, are considered to be non-vesting 
conditions.
	
	
Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair 
value of an award and lead to an immediate 
expensing of an award unless there are also 
service and/or performance conditions.
	
	
No expense is recognised for awards that 
do not ultimately vest because non-market 
performance and/or service conditions have 
not been met. Where awards include a market 
or non-vesting condition, the transactions are 
treated as vested irrespective of whether the 
market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
provided that all other performance and/or 
service conditions are satisfied.
	
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised 
is the expense had the terms had not been 
modified, if the original terms of the award are 
met. An additional expense is recognised for 
any modification that increases the total fair 
value of the share-based payment transaction, 
or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as 
measured at the date of modification. Where an 
award is cancelled by the parent company or by 
the counterparty, any remaining element of the 
fair value of the award is expensed immediately 
through the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.
	
j)	
Foreign currency transactions and translations
	
	
The Group’s consolidated financial statements 
are presented in INR, which is also the parent 
company’s functional currency. Transactions in 
foreign currencies are initially recorded by the 
Group’s entities at their respective functional 
currency spot rates at the date the transaction 
first qualifies for recognition. However, for 
practical reasons, the Group uses an average 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
255
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
rate if the average approximates the actual rate 
at the date of the transaction.
	
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated at the 
functional currency spot rates of exchange at the 
reporting date. Non-monetary items which are 
carried in terms of historical cost denominated 
in a foreign currency are reported using the 
exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
	
	
Exchange differences arising on the settlement 
of monetary items or on restatement of the 
Company’s monetary items at rates different 
from those at which they were initially recorded 
during the year, or reported in previous financial 
statements, are recognised as income or as 
expenses in the year in which they arise.
	
	
Exchange differences pertaining to long-term 
foreign currency monetary items obtained or 
given on or after 01 January 2017: Exchange 
differences arising on conversion of long term 
foreign currency monetary items obtained or 
given is recorded in the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss. 
	
	
Group companies
	
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of 
foreign operations are translated into INR at 
the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting 
date and their statements of profit and loss are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions. For practical reasons, 
the group uses an average rate to translate 
income and expense items, if the average rate 
approximates the exchange rates at the dates of 
the transactions.
	
The exchange differences arising on translation 
for consolidation are recognised in OCI. On 
disposal of a foreign operation, the component 
of OCI relating to that particular foreign 
operation is recognised in profit or loss
	
k)	
Business combinations and goodwill
	
	
Business 
combinations 
are 
accounted 
for 
using the acquisition method. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured as the aggregate of 
the consideration transferred measured at 
acquisition date fair value and the amount of 
any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. 
For each business combination, the Group 
elects whether to measure the non-controlling 
interests in the acquiree at fair value or at 
the proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs 
are expensed as incurred.
	
	
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets 
acquired 
and 
the 
liabilities 
assumed 
are 
recognised at their acquisition date fair values. 
For this purpose, the liabilities assumed include 
contingent 
liabilities 
representing 
present 
obligation and they are measured at their 
acquisition fair values irrespective of the fact 
that outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits is not probable. However, deferred tax 
assets or liabilities, and the assets or liabilities 
related to employee benefit arrangements are 
recognised and measured in accordance with 
Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ and Ind AS 19 ‘Employee 
Benefits’ respectively. When a liability assumed 
is recognised at the acquisition date but the 
related costs are not deducted in determining 
taxable profits until a later period, a deductible 
temporary difference arises which results in a 
deferred tax asset. A deferred tax asset also 
arises when the fair value of an identifiable asset 
acquired is less than its tax base.
	
	
When the Group acquires a business, it 
assesses the financial assets and liabilities 
assumed for appropriate classification and 
designation in accordance with the contractual 
terms, economic circumstances and pertinent 
conditions as at the acquisition date.
	
	
If the business combination is achieved in 
stages, any previously held equity interest is 
re-measured at its acquisition date fair value 
and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in 
profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate.
	
	
Any contingent consideration to be transferred 
by the acquirer is recognised at fair value at 
the acquisition date. Contingent consideration 
classified as an asset or liability that is a 
financial instrument and within the scope of 
Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’ (“Ind AS 
Varun Beverages Limited
256
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
109”), is measured at fair value with changes 
in fair value recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss. If the contingent 
consideration is not within the scope of Ind 
AS 109, it is measured in accordance with the 
appropriate Ind AS. Contingent consideration 
that is classified as equity is not re-measured at 
subsequent reporting dates and subsequent its 
settlement is accounted for within equity.
	
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the 
excess of the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred and the amount recognised for 
non-controlling interests, and any previous 
interest held, over the net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair 
value of the net assets acquired is in excess 
of the aggregate consideration transferred, 
the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly 
identified all of the assets acquired and all 
of the liabilities assumed and reviews the 
procedures used to measure the amounts 
to be recognised at the acquisition date. If 
the reassessment still results in an excess of 
the fair value of net assets acquired over the 
aggregate consideration transferred, then the 
gain is recognised in OCI and accumulated in 
equity as capital reserve. 
	
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at 
cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from 
the acquisition date, allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash-generating units that are expected 
to benefit from the combination, irrespective of 
whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree 
are assigned to those units. 
	
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has 
been allocated is tested for impairment annually, 
or more frequently when there is an indication 
that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable 
amount of the cash generating unit is less than 
its carrying amount, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of 
any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to 
the other assets of the unit pro rata based on 
the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. 
	
	
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised 
in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is 
not reversed in subsequent periods.
	
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a 
cash-generating unit and part of the operation 
within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the disposed operation is 
included in the carrying amount of the operation 
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is 
measured based on the relative values of the 
disposed operation and the portion of the 
cash-generating unit retained.
	
	
If the initial accounting for a business combination 
is incomplete by the end of the reporting period 
in which the combination occurs, the Group 
reports provisional amounts for the items for 
which the accounting is incomplete. Those 
provisional amounts are adjusted through 
goodwill during the measurement period, or 
additional assets or liabilities are recognised, 
to reflect new information obtained about facts 
and circumstances that existed at the acquisition 
date that, if known, would have affected 
the amounts recognised at that date. These 
adjustments are called as measurement period 
adjustments. The measurement period does not 
exceed one year from the acquisition date.
	
	
Business combinations involving entities that 
are controlled by the Group are accounted 
for using the ‘pooling of interests’ method as 
follows:
•	
The assets and liabilities of the combining 
entities are reflected at their carrying 
amounts;
•	
Except for adjustments made to harmonise 
accounting policies, no adjustments are 
made to reflect fair values, or recognise any 
new assets or liabilities;
•	
The balance of the retained earnings 
appearing in the financial statements 
of the transferor is aggregated with the 
corresponding balance appearing in the 
financial statements of the transferee or is 
adjusted against general reserve; and 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
257
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
•	
The identity of the reserves is preserved 
and the reserves of the transferor become 
the reserves of the transferred.
	
The difference, if any, between the amounts 
recorded as share capital issued plus any 
additional consideration in the form of cash or 
other assets and the amount of share capital of 
the transferor is transferred to capital reserve 
and is presented separately from other capital 
reserves.
l)	
Government grants
	
Grants from the Government are recognised 
when there is reasonable assurance that all 
underlying conditions will be complied with and 
that the grant will be received.
	
Grants related to income are recognised as 
income on a systematic basis in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss over the periods necessary to 
match them with the related costs, which they 
are intended to compensate and are presented 
as ‘other operating revenues’. Further, where 
loans or similar assistance are provided by 
Government or related institutions, with an 
interest rate below the current applicable 
market rate, the effect of this favourable interest 
is regarded as a government grant. The loan or 
assistance is initially recognised and measured 
at fair value and the government grant is 
measured as the difference between the initial 
carrying value of the loan and the proceeds 
to be received. That grant is recognised in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and 
Loss under ‘other operating revenue’. The 
loan is subsequently measured in the year of 
disbursement as per the accounting policy 
applicable to financial liabilities.
	
Government grants related to assets are 
presented in the Consolidated balance sheet by 
deducting the grant from the carrying value of 
the asset and non-monetary grant is recognised 
at a nominal value.
	
m)	 Taxes
	
Tax expense is the aggregate amount included 
in the determination of profit or loss for the 
period in respect of  current and deferred tax.
	
	
Current income tax
	
	
Current income tax is measured at the amount 
expected to be paid to the tax authorities in 
accordance with the Income-tax Act, 1961 and 
respective local jurisdictions of members of 
the Group.
	
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to 
compute the amount are those that are enacted 
or substantively enacted, at the reporting date 
in the countries where the Group operates and 
generates taxable income. Current income tax 
relating to items recognised outside profit or 
loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either 
in OCI or in equity).
	
	
Current tax items are recognised in correlation 
to the underlying transaction either in OCI or 
directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns 
with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate 
including 
amount 
expected 
to 
be 
paid/
recovered for uncertain tax position.
	
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability 
method on temporary differences between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 
book bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates 
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date. 
Deferred tax relating to items recognised 
outside profit or loss is recognised outside 
profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised 
in correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity. Deferred tax 
assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a 
legally enforceable right exists to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and the 
deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
Varun Beverages Limited
258
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences except:
•	
When the deferred tax liability arises 
from the initial recognition of goodwill or 
an asset or liability in a transaction that 
is not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit 
or loss;
•	
In 
respect 
of 
taxable 
temporary 
differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries and associate, when the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is 
probable that the temporary differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all 
deductible temporary differences, the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and any unused 
tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences, and the carry forward of 
unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be 
utilised, except:
•	
When the deferred tax asset relating 
to the deductible temporary difference 
arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss;
•	
In 
respect 
of 
deductible 
temporary 
differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries and associate, deferred tax 
assets are recognised only to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary 
differences will reverse in the foreseeable 
future and taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised.
	
Deferred income taxes are not provided on the 
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where it 
is expected that the earnings of the subsidiary 
will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. 
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to 
allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to 
be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
are re-assessed at each reporting date and are 
recognised to the extent that it has become 
probable that future taxable profits will allow 
the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
	
Minimum Alternate Tax (“MAT”) credit is 
recognised as an asset only when and to the 
extent there is convincing evidence that the 
relevant members of the Group will pay normal 
income tax during the specified period. Such 
asset is reviewed at each reporting period end 
and the adjusted based on circumstances then 
prevailing.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised on the 
unrealized profit for all the inter-company sale/
purchase eliminations of property, plant and 
equipment and inventories.
	
	
Deferred tax on business combination
	
When a liability assumed is recognized at the 
acquisition date but the related costs are not 
deducted in determining taxable profits until a 
later period, a deductible temporary difference 
arises which results in a deferred tax asset. A 
deferred tax asset also arises when the fair value 
of an identifiable asset acquired is less than its 
tax base. In both cases, the resulting deferred 
tax asset affects goodwill
	
n)	
Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided 
to the chief operating decision maker, who is 
responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments. 
	
The 
business 
activities 
of 
the 
Group 
predominantly fall within a single operating 
segment, 
i.e., 
manufacturing 
and 
sale 
of 
beverages. The Group operates in two principal 
geographical areas, namely, India and other 
countries or ‘outside India’.  The Group prepares 
its segment information in conformity with 
the accounting policies adopted for preparing 
the CFS.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
259
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
o)	 Discontinued operations
	
A discontinued operation is a component of the 
Group that either has been disposed of, or is 
classified as held for sale, and:
•	
Represents a separate major line of business 
or geographical area of operations;
•	
Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to 
dispose of a separate major line of business 
or geographical area of operations; or
•	
Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a 
view to resale.
	
	
Discontinued operations are excluded from 
the results of continuing operations and are 
presented as a single amount as profit or loss 
after tax from discontinued operations in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
	
p)	 Impairment of non-financial assets	
	
The Group assesses, at each reporting date, 
whether there is an indication that an asset may 
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, 
the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is 
the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s (“CGU”) fair value less costs of disposal 
and its value in use. Recoverable amount is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the 
asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets 
or groups of assets. When the carrying amount 
of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount.
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent market 
transactions are taken into account.
	
If no such transactions can be identified, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. These 
calculations are corroborated by valuation 
multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded company’s or other available fair value 
indicators.
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation 
on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, 
which are prepared separately for each of the 
Group’s CGUs to which the individual assets 
are allocated. These budgets and forecast 
calculations generally cover a period of five 
years. For longer periods, a long-term growth 
rate is calculated and applied to project future 
cash flows after the fifth year. To estimate cash 
flow projections beyond periods covered by 
the most recent budgets/forecasts, the Group 
extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget 
using a steady or declining growth rate for 
subsequent years, unless an increasing rate 
can be justified. In any case, this growth rate 
does not exceed the long-term average growth 
rate for the products, industries, or country or 
countries in which the entity operates, or for the 
market in which the asset is used.
	
Impairment losses of continuing operations, 
including 
impairment 
on 
inventories, 
are 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
An assessment is made at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is an indication that 
previously recognised impairment losses no 
longer exist or have decreased. If such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s 
recoverable amount. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has 
been a change in the assumptions used to 
determine the asset’s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised.
	
The reversal is limited so that the carrying 
amount of the asset does not exceed its 
recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, 
net of depreciation, had no impairment loss 
been recognised for the asset in prior years. 
Such reversal is recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss unless the asset is 
carried at a revalued amount, in which case, the 
reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
Varun Beverages Limited
260
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
q)	 Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
	
Financial assets
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at 
fair value, plus in the case of financial assets 
not recorded at fair value through profit or 
loss (“FVTPL”), transaction costs that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset. However, trade receivables that do not 
contain a significant financing component are 
measured at transaction price. 
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial assets are classified as follows:
	
	
a)	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortised cost where the asset is held 
within a business model whose objective 
is to hold assets for collecting contractual 
cash flows; and contractual terms of the 
asset give rise to cash flows on specified 
dates that are solely payments of principal 
and interest.
	
After initial measurement, such financial 
assets are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the EIR method. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The interest income 
from these financial assets is included in 
other income in the profit or loss. The losses 
arising from impairment are recognised in 
the profit or loss. This category generally 
applies to trade and other receivables.
	
	
b)	
Debt instruments at Fair Value Through 
Other Comprehensive Income
	
Assets that are held for collection of 
contractual cashflows and for selling 
the financial assets, where the cash flow 
represent solely payments of principal and 
interest, are measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”). 
The Group has not designated any debt 
instrument in this category.
	
	
c)	
Debt instruments at Fair Value Through 
Profit or Loss
	
	
Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (“FVTPL”) 
is a residual category for debt instruments. 
Any debt instrument, which does not 
meet the criteria for categorization as at 
amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified 
as at FVTPL.
	
	
In addition, the Group may elect to designate 
a debt instrument which otherwise meets 
amortized cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at 
FVTPL. However, such election is allowed 
only if doing so reduces or eliminates a 
measurement or recognition inconsistency 
(referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’).
	
	
Debt instruments included within the 
FVTPL category are measured at fair 
value with all changes recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. 
The Group has not designated any debt 
instrument in this category.
	
	
d)	
Equity instruments
	
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind 
AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity 
instruments which are held for trading and 
contingent consideration recognised by an 
acquirer in a business combination to which 
Ind AS 103 ‘Business Combinations’ applies 
are Ind AS classified as at FVTPL. Equity 
instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with 
all changes recognised in the Consolidated 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
For all other equity instruments, the 
Group may make an irrevocable election 
to present in other comprehensive income 
subsequent changes in the fair values. 
The Group makes such election on an 
instrument-by-instrument 
basis. 
The 
classification is made on initial recognition 
and is irrevocable.
	
	
If the Group decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value 
changes on the instrument, excluding 
dividends, are recognised in the OCI. There 
is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
261
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
profit or loss, even on sale of investment. 
However, the Group may transfer the 
cumulative gain or loss within equity.
	
	
De-recognition
	
	
A financial asset is derecognised when the 
contractual rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired or the Group has 
transferred its rights to receive the contractual 
cash flows from the asset in a transaction in 
which substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of the asset are transferred.
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group measures the Expected Credit 
Loss (“ECL”) associated with its assets based 
on historical trends, industry practices and 
the general business environment in which it 
operates. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk. ECL impairment loss 
allowance (or reversal) recognised during the 
period is recognised as income/ expense in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
under the head ‘other expenses’. 
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial 
recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as 
hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as 
appropriate.
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and, in the case of loans and 
borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs.
	
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and 
other payables, loans and borrowings including 
bank 
overdrafts 
and 
derivative 
financial 
instruments.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends 
on their classification, as described below:
	
	
a)	
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
	
Financial 
liabilities 
at 
FVTPL 
include 
financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition as at fair value through profit 
or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as 
held for trading if they are incurred for the 
purpose of repurchasing in the near term. 
This category includes derivative financial 
instruments entered into by the Group that 
are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109.
 	
Financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or 
loss are designated as such at the initial date 
of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind 
AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated 
as FVTPL, fair value gains/ losses are 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit or Loss, except for those  attributable 
to changes in own credit risk, which are 
recognised in OCI. These gains/ loss are not 
subsequently transferred to the profit or loss. 
	
	
b)	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 
	
After initial recognition, financial liabilities 
designated 
at 
amortised 
costs 
are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses 
are recognised in profit or loss when the 
liabilities are derecognised as well as 
through the EIR amortisation process. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The amortisation 
is included as finance costs in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. 
	
	
De-recognition
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the 
terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is 
treated as the de-recognition of the original 
Varun Beverages Limited
262
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 	
r)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of 
three months or less, which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
For the purpose of the consolidated statement 
of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist 
of cash and short-term deposits, as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts 
as they are considered an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management.
	
s)	
Dividend distribution to equity holders of 
the parent	
	
The Group recognises a liability to make cash or 
non-cash distributions to equity holders of the 
parent when the distribution is authorised and 
the distribution is no longer at the discretion of 
the Group. As per the corporate laws in India, 
a distribution is authorised when it is approved 
by the shareholders. A corresponding amount is 
recognised directly in equity.
	
t)	
 Provisions	
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 
the obligation. When the Group expects some or 
all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, 
under an insurance contract, the reimbursement 
is recognised as a separate asset, but only when 
the reimbursement is virtually certain. The 
expense relating to a provision is presented in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
net of any reimbursement.
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current 
pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the 
risks specific to the liability. When discounting 
is used, the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
u)	
Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non–occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events beyond 
the control of the Group or a present obligation 
that is not recognised because it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation. A contingent liability also 
arises in extremely rare cases where there is a 
liability that cannot be recognised because it 
cannot be measured reliably. The Group does 
not recognize a contingent liability but discloses 
its existence in the financial statements. 
Contingent assets are only disclosed when it is 
probable that the economic benefits will flow to 
the entity.
	
v)	
Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings/ (loss) per share are calculated 
by dividing the net profit or loss for the year 
attributable to equity shareholders by the 
weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year. The weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year is adjusted for events, other 
than conversion of potential equity shares, that 
have changed the number of equity shares 
outstanding without a corresponding change in 
resources.
	
In case of a bonus issue and sub-divison/split, 
the number of ordinary shares outstanding is 
increased by number of shares issued as bonus 
shares and sub-divison/split respectively in 
current year and comparative period presented 
as if the event had occurred at the beginning of 
the earliest year presented.  
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
263
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings/
(loss) per share, the net profit or loss for the 
period attributable to equity shareholders 
and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the period are adjusted for 
the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares..
	
3.1.	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of the Group’s financial 
statements requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, 
assets 
and 
liabilities, 
and 
the 
accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure 
of 
contingent 
liabilities. 
Estimates 
and 
assumptions are continuously evaluated and 
are based on management’s experience and 
other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances. Uncertainty about 
these assumptions and estimates could result 
in outcomes that require a material adjustment 
to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities 
affected in future periods.
	
In particular, the Group has identified the 
following areas where significant judgements, 
estimates and assumptions are required. Further 
information on each of these areas and how 
they impact the various accounting policies are 
described below and also in the relevant notes to 
the consolidated financial statements. Changes 
in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
	
	
i)	
Judgements
	
	
In the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting 
policies, 
management 
has 
made the following judgements, which 
have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements:
	
	
	
a)	
Contingencies
	
	
	
Contingent liabilities may arise from 
the ordinary course of business in 
relation to claims against the Group, 
including legal, contractor, land access 
and other claims. By their nature, 
contingencies will be resolved only 
when one or more uncertain future 
events occur or fail to occur. The 
assessment of the existence, and 
potential quantum, of contingencies 
inherently involves the exercise of 
significant judgments and the use of 
estimates regarding the outcome of 
future events.
	
	
	
b)	
Recognition of deferred tax assets
	
	
	
The extent to which deferred tax 
assets can be recognised is based on 
an assessment of the probability that 
future taxable income will be available 
against which the deductible temporary 
differences and tax loss carry-forward 
can be utilised. In addition, significant 
judgement is required in assessing 
the impact of any legal or economic 
limits or uncertainties in various tax 
jurisdictions.
	
	
ii)	
Estimates and assumptions
	
	
The key assumptions concerning the 
future and other key sources of estimation 
uncertainty at the reporting date that have 
a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment 
to 
the 
carrying 
amounts 
of assets and liabilities within the next 
financial 
year, 
are 
described 
below. 
The Group bases its assumptions and 
estimates on parameters available when 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
were prepared. Existing circumstances and 
assumptions about future developments, 
however, may change due to market 
change or circumstances arising beyond 
the control of the Group. Such changes 
are reflected in the assumptions when 
they occur.
	
	
	
a)	
Useful lives of tangible/intangible 
assets
	
The Group reviews its estimate of 
the useful lives of tangible/intangible 
assets at each reporting date, based 
on the expected utility of the assets.
Varun Beverages Limited
264
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
b)	
Defined benefit obligation
	
The cost of the defined benefit 
plan 
and 
other 
post-employment 
benefits and the present value of 
such obligation are determined using 
actuarial 
valuations. 
An 
actuarial 
valuation involves making various 
assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. 
These 
include 
the 
determination 
of the discount rate, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future 
pension increases. In view of the 
complexities involved in the valuation 
and its long-term nature, a defined 
benefit obligation is highly sensitive 
to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each 
reporting date.
	
	
	
c)	
Inventories
	
The Group estimates the net realisable 
values of inventories, taking into 
account the most reliable evidence 
available at each reporting date. The 
future realisation of these inventories 
may be affected by future technology 
or other market-driven changes that 
may reduce future selling prices.
	
	
	
d)	
Business combinations
	
The Group uses valuation techniques 
when determining the fair values of 
certain assets and liabilities acquired 
in a business combination.  
	
	
	
e)	
Impairment of non-financial assets 
and goodwill
	
In 
assessing 
impairment, 
Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of 
each asset or cash-generating units 
based on expected future cash flows 
and uses an interest rate to discount 
them. Estimation uncertainty relates 
to assumptions about future operating 
results and the determination of a 
suitable discount rate.
	
	
	
f)	
Fair value measurement of financial 
instruments
	
When the fair values of financial assets 
and financial liabilities recorded in the 
Balance Sheet cannot be measured 
based on quoted prices in active 
markets, their fair value is measured 
using valuation techniques including 
the DCF model. The inputs to these 
models are taken from observable 
markets where possible, but where this 
is not feasible, a degree of judgment 
is required in establishing fair values. 
Judgements include considerations of 
inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk 
and volatility. Changes in assumptions 
about these factors could affect 
the reported fair value of financial 
instruments.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
265
Annual Report 2024
4A.	 Property, plant and equipment
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Land 
freehold 
 Buildings 
 Plant and 
equipment 
 Furniture and 
fixtures 
 Vehicles 
 Office 
equipment 
 Computer 
equipment 
 Containers 
 Post-mix 
vending 
machines and 
refrigerators 
(Visi Cooler)
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
8,432.43
19,209.97
54,660.22
406.45
4,050.63
508.36
409.55
5,919.02
12,423.89
106,020.52
Addition pursuant to business combination 
(refer note 50(i))
-
78.76
3,762.43
33.23
171.62
-
84.35
-
711.68
4,842.07
Additions for the year
16.75
11,053.19
27,757.37
243.87
2,563.50
153.27
157.12
1,199.36
1,772.55
44,916.98
Disposals for the year
-
(367.12)
(1,232.14)
(1.62)
(151.92)
(3.33)
(5.37)
(361.82)
(378.11)
(2,501.43)
Foreign currency translation difference
40.85
86.47
320.85
5.30
120.51
2.47
4.70
7.81
96.16
685.12
Balance as at 31 December 2024
8,490.03 30,061.27
85,268.73
687.23
6,754.34
660.77
650.35
6,764.37
14,626.17
153,963.26
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 01 January 2024
-
4,108.46
18,609.68
212.31
1,678.98
303.51
259.29
2,563.91
10,253.06
37,989.20
Addition pursuant to business combination 
(refer note 50(i))
-
50.33
1,734.87
27.82
168.42
-
56.87
-
427.56
2,465.87
Depreciation charge for the year
-
936.25
5,059.82
60.52
530.29
81.51
80.62
966.40
671.54
8,386.95
Reversal on disposals for the year
-
(92.48)
(700.14)
(1.47)
(136.54)
(2.60)
(4.70)
(294.06)
(121.70)
(1,353.69)
Foreign currency translation difference
-
21.72
127.46
2.47
26.57
1.35
2.76
7.62
59.47
249.42
Balance as at 31 December 2024
-
5,024.28
24,831.69
301.65
2,267.72
383.77
394.84
3,243.87
11,289.93
47,737.75
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
8,490.03 25,036.99
60,437.04
385.58
4,486.62
277.00
255.51
3,520.50
3,336.24
106,225.51
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Land 
freehold 
 Buildings 
 Plant and 
equipment 
 Furniture and 
fixtures 
 Vehicles 
 Office 
equipment 
 Computer 
equipment 
 Containers 
 Post-mix 
vending 
machines and 
refrigerators 
(Visi Cooler) 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 7,797.60  15,541.43 
 43,694.33 
 290.23 
 2,064.15 
 401.89 
 326.12 
 5,427.93 
 11,981.78 
 87,525.46 
Additions for the year
 587.25  3,986.62 
 12,341.75 
 117.60 
 2,122.24 
 112.60 
 97.53 
 1,557.21 
 724.81 
 21,647.61 
Disposals/adjustments for the year
 (12.49)
 (273.73)
 (1,364.31)
 (0.19)
 (125.57)
 (5.74)
 (11.80)
 (918.86)
 (318.33)
 (3,031.02)
Foreign currency translation difference
 60.07 
 (44.35)
 (11.55)
 (1.19)
 (10.19)
 (0.39)
 (2.30)
 (147.26)
 35.63 
 (121.53)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 8,432.43  19,209.97  54,660.22 
 406.45 
 4,050.63 
 508.36 
 409.55 
 5,919.02 
 12,423.89  106,020.52 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 - 
 3,531.23 
 15,596.24 
 183.59 
 1,610.47 
 249.22 
 222.80 
 2,416.92 
 9,299.21 
 33,109.68 
Depreciation charge for the year
 - 
 626.97 
 3,471.30 
 29.42 
 198.02 
 58.80 
 48.83 
 940.08 
 1,035.62 
 6,409.04 
Reversal on disposals/adjustments for the year
 - 
 (57.53)
 (507.37)
 (0.18)
 (120.68)
 (4.68)
 (10.91)
 (722.46)
 (109.10)
 (1,532.91)
Foreign currency translation difference
 - 
 7.79 
 49.51 
 (0.52)
 (8.83)
 0.17 
 (1.43)
 (70.63)
 27.33 
 3.39 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 -  4,108.46 
 18,609.68 
 212.31 
 1,678.98 
 303.51 
 259.29 
 2,563.91 
 10,253.06  37,989.20 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 8,432.43 
 15,101.51  36,050.54 
 194.14 
 2,371.65 
 204.85 
 150.26 
 3,355.11 
 2,170.83 
 68,031.32 
Varun Beverages Limited
266
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
Footnotes to Note 4A: 
i. 	
Refer note 56 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Group.
ii. 	
Pre-operative expenses incurred and capitalised during the year are as under:
(` in million)
Net Book Value
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,182.42 
 359.72 
Add: Incurred during the year
Foreign currency translation difference
 (16.93)
 (76.87)
Finance costs
 515.84 
 625.45 
Employee benefits expense and other expenses
 1,958.82 
 685.56 
Less: Capitalised during the year
 (3,340.17)
 (411.44)
Amount carried over included in CWIP
 299.98 
 1,182.42 
iii.	
The amount of contractual commitments for the acquisitions of property, plant and equipment are disclosed in Note 44.
iv. 	
All title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Group.	
	
	
	
	
4B.	Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) 
	
The changes in the carrying value of capital work-in-progress for the year ended 31 December 2024 and 
31 December 2023 are as follows :	
	
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 19,222.22 
Addition pursuant to business combination (refer note 50(i))
 466.37 
Additions for the year*
 21,207.13 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment
 (29,265.53)
Foreign currency translation difference
 (6.76)
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 11,623.43 
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 6,066.32 
Additions for the year*
 20,855.34 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment
 (7,529.15)
Foreign currency translation difference
 (170.29)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 19,222.22 
	
* includes finance cost amounting to ` 515.84 million (31 December 2023: ` 625.45 million) and Employee benefits expenses & 
other expenses amounting to ` 1,958.82 million (31 December 2023: ` 685.56 million) respectively.
4B	 (i) 	 CWIP ageing schedule 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particular
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years  More than 3 years 
 Total 
Projects in progress
As at 31 December 2024
 11,410.64 
 191.88 
 17.45 
 3.46  11,623.43 
As at 31 Decemebr 2023
 17,735.60 
 1,482.00 
 1.15 
 3.47  19,222.22 
There are no projects as on each reporting period where activity has been suspended . Also,  there are no project as on reporting 
period which has exceeded cost as compared to its original plan or where completion is overdue.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
267
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
4C.	Right of use assets (ROU) 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Land 
leasehold 
 Leased 
buildings 
 Leased 
plant and 
equipment 
 Vehicles 
 Visi 
Coolers 
Total
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 9,885.86 
 373.96 
 328.25 
 886.81 
 156.83 
 11,631.71 
Addition pursuant to business combination 
(refer note 50(i))
 - 
 2,527.67 
 223.66 
 181.92 
 - 
 2,933.25 
Additions for the year
 651.01 
 1,048.38 
 149.71 
 397.76 
 250.89 
 2,497.75 
Foreign currency translation difference
 (4.34)
 65.09 
 8.51 
 10.50 
 0.94 
 80.70 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 10,532.53 
 4,015.10 
 710.13  1,476.99  408.66  17,143.41 
Accumulated Amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 606.71 
 263.31 
 97.60 
 293.50 
 23.52 
 1,284.64 
Addition pursuant to business combination 
(refer note 50(i))
 - 
 1,115.35 
 139.36 
 111.30 
 - 
 1,366.01 
Amortisation charge for the year
 138.31 
 288.54 
 94.56 
 219.51 
 77.61 
 818.53 
Foreign currency translation difference
 1.62 
 31.78 
 4.53 
 4.99 
 0.09 
 43.01 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 746.64 
 1,698.98 
 336.05 
 629.30 
 101.22 
 3,512.19 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
 9,785.89 
 2,316.12 
 374.08 
 847.69  307.44  13,631.22 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 8,996.88 
 326.20 
 314.26 
 456.84 
 -  10,094.18 
Additions for the year
 992.32 
 78.41 
 - 
 399.36 
 153.24 
 1,623.33 
Rebate (Refer footnote i below)
 (16.61)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (16.61)
Disposals for the year
 - 
 (30.65)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (30.65)
Foreign currency translation difference
 (86.73)
 - 
 13.99 
 30.61 
 3.59 
 (38.54)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 9,885.86 
 373.96 
 328.25 
 886.81 
 156.83 
 11,631.71 
Accumulated Amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 483.81 
 250.61 
 49.00 
 155.75 
 - 
 939.17 
Amortisation charge for the year
 122.52 
 40.92 
 45.57 
 127.52 
 22.98 
 359.51 
Reversal on disposals for the year
 - 
 (28.22)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (28.22)
Foreign currency translation difference
 0.38 
 - 
 3.03 
 10.23 
 0.54 
 14.18 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 606.71 
 263.31 
 97.60 
 293.50 
 23.52 
 1,284.64 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 9,279.15 
 110.65 
 230.65 
 593.31 
 133.31  10,347.07 
	
Footnotes to Note 4C: 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	
During the year ended on 31 December 2023, the Holding Company has received rebate on leasehold land acquired in 
Gorakhpur amounting to ` 16.61 million on account of full premium payment as per prescribed timeline. The rebate received 
is adjusted against the carrying value of the respective asset.
	
(ii)	
All lease deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Holding Company except as disclosed below:
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Description of property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Net 
carrying 
value
Whether title deed holder 
is a Promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee	
Date since the 
property is held
Reason for not being held in 
name of Holding Company
Land Situated at 
Buxar, Bihar
 371.34 
 367.52 
No
21 December 2023
The Holding Company has 
received the possession letter 
dated 21 December 2023 of 
land situated at Buxar, Bihar and 
is in the process of getting lease 
deed registered in its name.
Land situated at  
Kolkata,West Bengal
 1.50 
 1.41 
No
01 October 2018
The Holding Company has 
executed the lease agreement 
for Kolkata, West Bengal land, 
which is yet to be registered.
Varun Beverages Limited
268
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
5A.	Goodwill (Refer note i) 	 	
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 242.30 
Addition pursuant to business combination (refer note 50(i))
 2,689.38 
Foreign currency translation difference
 77.69 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 3,009.37 
Impairment
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 - 
Impairment charge for the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 - 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
 3,009.37 
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 242.30 
Acquired during the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 242.30 
Impairment
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 - 
Impairment charge for the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 - 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 242.30 
5B.	Other intangible assets	 	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Market 
infrastructure 
 Distribution 
network 
Franchise 
rights/ 
trademarks 
(Refer note i) 
Brands Computer 
software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 74.68 
 157.64 
 6,042.96 
 - 
 281.11 
6,556.39
Addition 
pursuant 
to 
business 
combination (refer note 50(i))
 1,053.58 
 1,952.92 
 3,481.74 
 488.73 
 99.66 
7,076.63
Additions for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 40.79 
40.79
Disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.43)
(0.43)
Foreign currency translation difference
 34.56 
 63.06 
 112.42 
 15.78 
 3.20 
229.02
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 1,162.82 
 2,173.62 
 9,637.12 
 504.51 
 424.33 13,902.40
Amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 54.97 
 99.58 
 656.97 
 273.87 
1,085.39
Addition 
pursuant 
to 
business 
combination (refer note 50(i))
 385.17 
 860.05 
 33.00 
 - 
 78.73 
1,356.95
Amortisation charge for the year
 60.54 
 107.47 
 - 
 78.50 
 21.87 
268.38
Reversal on disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.08 
0.08
Foreign currency translation difference
 11.94 
 26.31 
 1.07 
 (1.31)
 2.33 
40.34
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 512.62 
 1,093.41 
 691.04 
 77.19 
 376.88 
2,751.14
Carrying amount as at  
31 December24
 650.20 
 1,080.21 
 8,946.08 
 427.32 
 47.45 
11,151.26
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
269
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Market 
infrastructure 
 Distribution 
network 
Franchise 
rights/ 
trademarks 
(Refer note i) 
Brands  Computer 
software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 71.36 
 157.64 
 6,043.55 
 - 
 279.73 
 6,552.28 
Additions for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.34 
 1.34 
Foreign currency translation difference
 3.32 
 - 
 (0.59)
 - 
 0.04 
 2.77 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 74.68 
 157.64 
 6,042.96 
 - 
 281.11  6,556.39 
Amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 41.13 
 79.88 
 657.19 
 - 
 264.98 
 1,043.18 
Amortisation charge for the year
 11.95 
 19.70 
 - 
 - 
 8.86 
 40.51 
Foreign currency translation  
difference
 1.89 
 - 
 (0.22)
 - 
 0.03 
 1.70 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 54.97 
 99.58 
 656.97 
 - 
 273.87 
 1,085.39 
Carrying amount as at  
31 December 2023
 19.71 
 58.06 
 5,385.99 
 - 
 7.24 
 5,471.00 
	
Footnotes to Note 5A and 5B:
	
i.	
Goodwill and franchise rights/trade marks with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
if the events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. The useful life of an intangible asset with 
an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the useful life assessment continues to be supportable.
	
	
The Group has considered the relevant provisions of Ind AS 38 on ‘Intangibles Assets’ which provide factors to determine the 
life of intangible assets and accordingly the carrying value of franchisee rights have been considered to have an indefinite 
life. These franchisee rights meet the prescribed criteria of renewal at nominal cost, renewal with no specific conditions 
attached, are sustainable and the same is supported by evidences of being renewed. Management is of the opinion that, 
based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the franchise rights are 
expected to generate net cash inflows for the Group.
	
	
The assumptions used in this impairment assessment are most sensitive to following:
	
	
a)	
Weighted average cost of capital ‘’WACC’’ of 12.07% to 16.45% (Previous year: 13.33%-18.90%) has been used for the 
explicit period and for the terminal year.
	
	
b) 	
For arriving at the terminal value, approximate growth rate of 2%-6% (Previous year: 2%-5%) is considered.
	
	
c) 	
Number of years for which cash flows were considered are 5 years.
	
	
d) 	
The approximate rate of growth in sales is estimated at 8%-13% (Previous year: 8%-10%) in the discrete period.
	
	
No impairment loss was identified on the above assessment.
	
ii.	
The amount of contractual commitments for the acquisitions of intangible assets are disclosed in Note 44.
	
iii.	
Refer Note 56 for information on other intangible assets pledged as security by the Group.
5C. 	Intangible assets under development: 
	
The changes in the carrying value of Intangible assets under development for the year ended 31 December 2024 
and 31 December 2023 are as follows :
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 - 
Additions for the year
 43.69 
Transfer to Intangible assets
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 43.69 
Varun Beverages Limited
270
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 - 
Additions for the year
 - 
Transfer to Intangible assets
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 - 
Footnotes to Note 5C: 
 (i) Intangible assets under development ageing schedule 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Amount in Intangible assets under development for a period of
 Less than 
1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years  More than 
3 years 
 Total 
Projects in progress
As at 31 December 2024
 43.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.69 
As at 31 December 2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
There are no projects as on each reporting period where activity has been suspended. Also,  there are no projects as 
on each reporting period which has exceeded cost as compared to its original plan or where completion is overdue.
6. 	 Investment in associate and joint venture
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Investment in joint ventures accounted as per equity method (unquoted)
50,000,000  (31 December 2023: 13,007,000) fully paid equity shares 
of ` 10 each in IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited~
 500.00 
 130.07 
Add: Share in loss of joint venture (refer note 59)
 (15.57)
 (3.07)
 484.43 
 127.00 
Investment in associates accounted as per equity method (unquoted)
21,030 (31 December 2023: 21,030) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 
each in Clean Max Tav Private Limited@
 32.85 
 32.85 
Add: Share in loss of associate (refer note 59)
 (1.55)
 (0.26)
 31.30 
 32.59 
1,247,943 (31 December 2023: 1,247,943) fully paid equity shares of 
` 10 each in Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited#
 21.24 
 21.24 
Add: Share in loss of associate (refer note 59)
 (2.50)
 (1.51)
 18.74 
 19.73 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments*
 534.47 
 179.32 
	
~The Holding Company has subscribed the equity investment of IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited amounting to ` 369.93 
million (31 December 2023: ` 120.00 million). During the previous year, loan given amounting to ` 10.00 million were converted 
into equity investment on 25 September 2023.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
@The Holding Company had made investment in Clean Max Tav Private Limited amounting to ` 3.28 million and ` 29.54 million 
on 27 January 2023 and 13 March 2023 respectively.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
# The Holding Company had made equity investment in Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited amounting to ` 21.24 million on 
09 May 2023.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The above investment is for business purposes.	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
271
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
7.	 Investments
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Fair value through Profit and Loss ("FVTPL")
Investment in fully paid equity shares (unquoted)
200 (31 December 2023: 200) shares of ` 50 each in The Margao 
Urban Co-operative Bank Limited
 0.01 
 0.01 
250 (31 December 2023: 250) shares of ` 10 each in The Goa Urban 
Co-operative Bank Limited**
 0.00 
 0.00 
3,150,000 (31 December 2023: 3,150,000) fully paid equity shares of 
` 10 each in Lone Cypress Ventures Private Limited~
 31.50 
 31.50 
9,58,415 (31 December 2023: Nil) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 each 
in Huoban Energy 11 Private Limited^
 29.04 
 - 
 60.55 
 31.51 
**Rounded off to Nil.
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 60.55 
 31.51 
	
~ The Holding Company has made equity investment in Lone Cypress Ventures Private Limited amounting to ` 31.50 million on 
13 March 2023.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
^ The Holding Company has made equity investment in Huoban Energy 11 Private Limited amounting to ` 29.04 million on 
28 August 2024.	
8.	 Loan
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Loans carried at amortised cost
Loan to others
 218.87 
 - 
 218.87 
 - 
9.	 Other non-current financial asset
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Financial assets at amortised cost
Security deposits
 914.16 
 577.63 
Balance in deposit accounts with remaining maturity of more than 
12 months#
 9.61 
 10.49 
Interest accured on loans 
 15.85 
 - 
Others
 47.64 
 34.55 
 987.26 
 622.67 
	
#Includes deposits pledged as security with banks for utility services.
Varun Beverages Limited
272
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
10.	 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
	
Movement in deferred tax assets/liabilities during the year ended 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023:
(` in million)
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets)	
	
As at 
01 January 
2024
Acquired 
in business 
combination 
(refer note 
50(i))
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income**
Recognised 
in the 
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss
As at 
31 December 
2024
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 4,127.78 
 1,144.81 
 - 
 798.77 
 6,071.36 
Benefit accrued on government grants
 74.45 
 - 
 - 
 (6.96)
 67.49 
Carry forward of unused tax losses
 - 
 (218.05)
 - 
 83.56 
 (134.49)
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (86.24)
 (72.43)
 - 
 (10.68)
 (169.35)
Accrued bonus
 (44.51)
 - 
 - 
 (10.31)
 (54.82)
Provision for retirement benefits
 (510.89)
 - 
 67.99 
 (38.89)
 (481.79)
Fair valuation of financial instruments
 (25.87)
 (450.54)
 - 
 (249.19)
 (725.60)
Borrowings
 (0.65)
 - 
 - 
 0.49 
 (0.16)
Gain on acquisition of control over 
existing associate
 36.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 36.83 
Property, plant and equipment fair 
valuation and newly identified assets 
through business combination
 - 
 359.23 
 - 
 (17.00)
 342.23 
Others
 (140.79)
 (89.46)
 - 
 (38.67)
 (268.92)
 3,430.11 
 673.56 
 67.99 
 511.12 
 4,682.78 
Exchange difference on re-statement 
of deferred tax balances
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (30.41)
 - 
 3,430.11 
 673.56 
 67.99 
 480.71 
 4,682.78 
Classified as:
	
Deferred tax assets (Net)
 - 
 196.31 
	
Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
 3,430.11 
 4,879.09 
(` in million)
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets)	 	
As at 
01 January 
2023
Acquired 
in business 
combination 
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income**
Recognised 
in the 
Consolidated 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss
As at 
31 December 
2023
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 3,914.39 
 - 
 - 
 213.39 
 4,127.78 
Benefit accrued on government grants
 96.59 
 - 
 - 
 (22.14)
 74.45 
Carry forward of unused tax losses
 (61.07)
 - 
 - 
 61.07 
 - 
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (85.32)
 - 
 - 
 (0.92)
 (86.24)
Accrued bonus
 (47.50)
 - 
 - 
 2.99 
 (44.51)
Provision for retirement benefits
 (481.66)
 - 
 (6.98)
 (22.25)
 (510.89)
Fair valuation of financial instruments
 (15.22)
 - 
 - 
 (10.65)
 (25.87)
Borrowings
 (1.00)
 - 
 - 
 0.35 
 (0.65)
Gain on acquisition of control over 
existing associate
 36.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 36.83 
Others
 12.44 
 - 
 - 
 (153.23)
 (140.79)
 3,368.48 
 - 
 (6.98)
 68.61 
 3,430.11 
Exchange difference on re-statement 
of deferred tax balances
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.50)
 - 
 3,368.48 
 - 
 (6.98)
 64.11 
 3,430.11 
Classified as:
	
Deferred tax assets (Net)
 - 
 - 
	
Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
 3,368.48 
 3,430.11 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
273
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
(i)	
In one of the subsidiary of the Group, unused unabsorbed depreciation on tangible assets amounting to 
` 887.26 million (31 December 2023: ` 1,957.14 million) can be carried forward indefintely.
	
	
Notes:
	
	
** The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income relates to the re-measurement of net defined retirement benefit 
liability and exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations. Refer note 37 for the amount of the income 
tax relating to these components of other comprehensive income.	
	
	
All significant deferred tax assets have been recognised in the balance sheet.
	
(ii)	
Two subsidiaries (31 December 2023: three subsidiaries) included in the Group are under the tax holiday period and based 
on the evaluation of future taxability and estimates of reversal of timing differences during the tax holiday periods, no 
deferred tax assets/liabilities has been recognised for these subsidiaries.	
	
	
	
	
	
11.	 Other non-current assets
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Unsecured, considered good)
Capital advances
 4,862.11 
 5,194.24 
Advances other than capital advances
- 	
Security deposits
 104.13 
 12.07 
- 	
Income tax paid (includes amount paid under protest)
 16.42 
 10.42 
- 	
Balance with statutory authorities (paid under protest)
 107.93 
 117.21 
- 	
Prepaid expenses
 26.83 
 34.18 
 5,117.42 
 5,368.12 
12.	 Inventories
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Valued at lower of cost or net realisable value)
Raw and packing material (including raw material in transit of  
` 599.68 (31 December 2023: ` 345.74)
 13,786.10 
 9,756.31 
Work in progress
 78.51 
 25.81 
Intermediate goods (including goods in transit of ` 220.55  
(31 December 2023: ` 232.21))
 4,582.73 
 4,372.42 
Finished goods (including goods in transit of ` 223.54  
(31 December 2023: ` 152.14))*
 5,233.22 
 4,160.22 
Stores and spares
 4,231.78 
 3,190.57 
 27,912.34 
 21,505.33 
	
*The Group manufactures as well as purchases the same product from market for sale and is also involved in trading of other 
products of capital nature. In the absence of demarcation between manufactured and purchased goods and the value of stock in 
trade being insignificant, it is not separately ascertainable and disclosed.	
	
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year are disclosed in Note 30, Note 31, Note 32 and Note 36.
Varun Beverages Limited
274
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
13.	 Trade receivables
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Trade receivables considered good - Unsecured
 8,243.01 
 3,330.75 
Trade receivables considered good - Secured
 215.41 
 263.10 
Trade receivables - Credit impaired
 1,077.51 
 586.23 
 9,535.93 
 4,180.08 
Less : Allowance for expected credit loss (Refer note 53.2)
 (1,077.51)
 (586.23)
 8,458.42 
 3,593.85 
Includes amounts due, in the ordinary course of business, from 
companies in which directors of the Holding Company are also directors:
Alisha Torrent Closures (India) Private Limited
4.29
 0.00* 
	
*Rounded off to Nil.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and credit period generally falls in the range of 0 to 120 days.	
	
	
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other 
person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, 
a director or a member, except as disclosed above.	
	
	
	
	
	
Trade receivables ageing schedule
	
31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from transaction date
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 Months- 
1 Year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
8,199.98
87.12
72.45
41.33
57.54
8,458.42
Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed Trade receivable – credit 
impaired
463.50
69.04
30.53
17.50
75.59
656.16
Disputed Trade receivables - considered 
good
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade receivables – credit 
impaired
0.45
14.04
80.51
142.19
184.16
421.35
Total
8,663.93
170.20
183.49
201.02
317.29 9,535.93
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
275
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
31 December 2023
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
 3,413.46 
 60.32 
 57.86 
 7.35 
 54.86  3,593.85 
Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Undisputed Trade receivable – credit 
impaired
 193.48 
 11.64 
 21.95 
 6.80 
 175.79 
 409.66 
Disputed Trade receivables - considered 
good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade receivables – which have 
significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 3.10 
 3.03 
 24.51 
 145.93 
 176.57 
Total
 3,606.94 
 75.06 
 82.84 
 38.66 
 376.58  4,180.08 
14.	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
(also for the purpose of Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow)
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Balance with banks in current accounts*
 2,094.38 
 1,707.72 
Balance in deposits with original maturity of less than three months#
 19,008.68 
 613.35 
Balances with banks in QIP monitoring accounts#
 125.02 
 - 
Cash on hand
 115.54 
 101.05 
Investment in Liquid Mutual Fund#
 1,319.21 
 - 
 22,662.83 
 2,422.12 
	
* Includes inward remittance not yet cleared amounting to ` 50.18 million (31 December 2023: ` 127.77 millions)
	
#Includes balance of qualified institutional placement (QIP) proceeds of ` 20,055.02 million, which will be utilised for the purpose 
as stated in the preliminary placement document for QIP. Net unutilised proceeds from QIP as on 31 December 2024 have been 
temporarily invested and kept in fixed deposits of ` 18,630.00 million, mutual fund of ` 1,300.00 million and QIP monitoring 
account for ` 125.02 million. (Refer Note 39)
15.	 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents		
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Deposits with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 
months*
 1,836.39 
 2,150.25 
Deposits with bank held as margin money
 - 
 25.28 
Unpaid dividend account**
 1.32 
 0.97 
 1,837.71 
 2,176.50 
	
*Includes deposits pledged as security with banks for statutory authority.	
	
	
	
	
	
**These balances are not available for use by the Group and corresponding balance is disclosed as unclaimed dividend in Note 25.
Varun Beverages Limited
276
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
16.	 Other current financial assets	 	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Unsecured, considered good)
Interest accrued on:
- 	
Term deposits
 148.63 
 22.37 
- 	
Others
 46.60 
 34.99 
Security deposits
 141.80 
 137.93 
Advances to Employees~
 128.19 
 141.57 
Government grants receivable*
 7,110.08 
 6,002.38 
Claims receivable
 331.93 
 595.27 
Other receivables
 448.93 
 453.72 
 8,356.16 
 7,388.23 
~Advance given to key management personnel (Refer Note 46A)
 0.76 
 38.50 
	
* Net of provision amounting to ` 236.45 (31 December 2023: Nil).
17.	 Current tax assets (Net)		
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Advance tax (net of provision)
 48.72 
 3.11 
 48.72 
 3.11 
18.	 Other current assets
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Unsecured, considered good)
Security deposits
 17.17 
 16.79 
Advance to related party*
 50.92 
 66.75 
Other advances:
- 	
Contractors and suppliers
 5,908.02 
 2,029.35 
- 	
Prepaid expenses
 501.77 
 290.14 
- 	
Balance with statutory/government authorities
 2,736.94 
 2,732.46 
- 	
Other advances
 148.74 
 131.67 
 9,363.56 
 5,267.16 
*Amounts due, in the ordinary course of business, from related party:
SMV Beverages Private Limited
 50.92 
 66.75 
19.	 Equity share capital
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Authorised share capital:
5,000,000,000 equity shares of `2 each (31 December 2023: 
2,000,000,000 equity shares of ` 5 each)
 10,000.00 
 10,000.00 
 10,000.00 
 10,000.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up:
3,381,510,017 equity shares of ` 2 each (31 December 2023: 
1,299,214,976 equity shares of ` 5 each)
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
277
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
a) 	 Reconciliation of share capital
(` in million)
Particular
No. of shares
Amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 1,299,214,976 
 6,496.07 
Add: Shares issued of ` 5 each pursuant to exercise of employee 
stock options 
 233,436 
 1.17 
Add: Sub-division/split of 1 share of face value ` 5 each into such 
number share of face value ` 2 each effective 12 September 2024 
(Increase in shares on account of sub-division/split) (Refer note 
(g) below)
 1,949,172,618 
 - 
Add: Shares issued of ` 2 each pursuant to Qualified institutions 
placement (QIP)
 132,743,362 
 265.49 
Add: Shares issued of ` 2 each pursuant to exercise of employee 
stock options 
 145,625 
 0.29 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 3,381,510,017 
 6,763.02 
(` in million)
Particular
No. of shares
Amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 649,549,620 
 6,495.50 
Add: Shares issued of ` 10 each pursuant to exercise of employee 
stock options 
 8,412 
 0.08 
Add: Sub-division/split of 1 share of face value ` 10 each into 
2 share of face value ` 5 each effective 15 June 2023 (Increase in 
shares on account of sub-division/split) (Refer note (g) below)
 649,558,032 
 - 
Add: Shares issued of ` 5 each pursuant to exercise of employee 
stock options 
 98,912 
 0.49 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 1,299,214,976 
 6,496.07 
	
b) 	 Terms/rights attached to shares
	
	
The Holding Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2 each. Each holder of 
equity share is entitled to one vote per share. In the event of liquidation of the Holding Company, holders of 
equity shares will be entitled to receive any of the remaining assets of the Holding Company, after distribution 
of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by 
the shareholders. The dividend, if any, proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.	 	
	
	
c) 	  List of shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity share capital of the Holding 
Company at the beginning and at the end of the year :
Shareholders as at 31 December 2024
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 2 each)
 % of shareholding 
R J Corp Limited
 868,877,060 
25.69%
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 564,736,222 
16.70%
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                                                                    
 520,859,870 
15.40%
Shareholders as at 31 December 2023
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 5 each)
 % of shareholding 
R J Corp Limited
 349,750,824 
26.92%
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 229,104,059 
17.63%
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                                                                    
 208,343,948 
16.04%
	
	
As per records of the Holding Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declaration 
received from the shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal 
and beneficial ownerships of shares.	 	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
278
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
d) 	 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, shares issued for consideration other than cash and 
shares bought back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date:
	
	
(i) 	 During the year ended 31 December 2019, the Holding Company has issued 91,327,613 equity shares of 
` 10 each as fully paid-up bonus shares in the ratio of 1 (One) equity share for every 2 (Two) equity share 
outstanding on record date.
	
	
(ii)	 During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Holding Company has issued 144,344,360 equity shares of 
` 10 each as fully paid-up bonus shares in the ratio of 1 (One) equity share for every 2 (Two) equity share 
outstanding on record date.
	
	
(iii)	 During the year ended 31 December 2022, the Holding Company has issued 216,516,540 equity shares of 
` 10 each as fully paid-up bonus shares in the ratio of 1 (One) equity share for every 2 (Two) equity share 
outstanding on record date.
	
	
For the period of five years of the date of the immediately preceding the reporting date, there was no 
share allotment made for consideration other than cash except as disclosed above. Further, there has 
been no buy back of shares during the period of five years immediately preceding 31 December 2024 and 
31 December 2023.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
e) 	 Shares held by holding and ultimate Holding Company
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
RJ Corp Limited, Parent company*
 1,737.75 
 1,748.75 
868,877,060 fully paid-up equity shares of ` 2 each  
(31 December 2023: 349,750,824 fully paid-up equity shares of  
` 5 each)
 1,737.75 
 1,748.75 
	
	
*As defined under Ind AS 110 - Consolidated Financial Statements
	
f) 	 Details of shares held by promoters:
Shareholders as at 31 December 2024
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 2 each)
% of 
shareholding
% change 
during the year 
R J Corp Limited
 868,877,060 
25.69%
(1.23%)
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 564,736,222 
16.70%
(0.93%)
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                                                                    
 520,859,870 
15.40%
(0.64%)
Shareholders as at 31 December 2023
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 5 each)
% of 
shareholding
% change 
during the year 
R J Corp Limited
 349,750,824 
26.92%
(0.47%)
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 229,104,059 
17.63%
(0.34%)
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                                                                    
 208,343,948 
16.04%
0.00%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
279
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
g) 	 Sub-division/split of equity shares
	
	
i)	
During the year ended 31 December 2024, the Board of Directors of the Holding Company in their meeting 
held on 30 July 2024 recommended the sub-division/split of existing Equity Shares of the Holding 
Company from 1 (One) Equity Share having face value of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up, 
into such number Equity Shares having face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up. The 
above sub-division/split has been approved by the equity shareholders of the Holding Company dated 30 
August 2024 through postal ballot. Pursuant to sub-division/split of shares effective 12 September 2024 
(“Record Date”), the paid up equity share capital of the Holding Company is ` 6,497.24 consisting of 
3,248,621,030 equity shares having face value of ` 2/- (Rupees two only) each fully paid-up.
	
	
ii)	
During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Board of Directors of the Holding Company in their 
meeting held on 02 May 2023 recommended the sub-division/split of existing Equity Shares of the 
Holding Company from 1 (One) Equity Share having face value of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten only) each fully 
paid-up, into 2 (Two) Equity Shares having face value of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up. The 
above sub-division/split has been approved by the equity shareholders of the Holding Company dated 02 
June 2023 through postal ballot. Pursuant to sub-division/split of shares effective 15 June 2023 (“Record 
Date”), the paid up equity share capital of the Holding Company is ` 6,495.58  consisting of 1,299,116,064 
equity shares having face value of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up.
	
h) 	 Pursuant to QIP the Holding Company has issued 132,743,362 equity shares of ` 2 each at a premium 
of ` 563 per share: (Refer note 39)	
Date of allotment
Share capital
Securities premium
Total
19 November 2024
 265.49 
 74,734.51 
 75,000.00 
20.	Other equity
	
Refer Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for detailed movement in Other Equity balance.
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Capital reserve on consolidation
 (3,483.45)
 (2,294.91)
Capital reserve
 533.93 
 533.93 
Securities premium
 96,939.28 
 22,636.59 
Share option outstanding account
 184.70 
 84.97 
General reserve
 444.26 
 444.26 
Retained earnings
 68,582.06 
 45,663.50 
Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 3.51 
Foreign currency translation reserve
 (3,865.50)
 (4,202.94)
 159,335.27 
 62,868.91 
Description of nature and purpose of each reserve:
	
Capital reserve on consolidation - Created on additional consideration paid in form of cash on business 
combinations involving entities including businesses/entities under common control.
	
Capital reserve - Created on merger of Varun Beverages (International) Limited with the Holding Company 
pursuant to and in accordance with the Court approved scheme of amalgamation. Includes gain from bargain 
purchases.
	
General reserve - Created by way of transfer from debenture redemption reserve on redemption of debentures.
Varun Beverages Limited
280
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
Securities premium - Created to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act.
	
Retained earnings - Created from the profit of the Group, as adjusted for distributions to owners, transfers to 
other reserves, etc.
	
Share option outstanding account - Created to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under the employee stock option schemes and is adjusted on exercise / forfeiture of options.
	
Share application money pending allotment - Created to record the amount of money received for the purpose 
of allotment of equity share of the Holding company pending at the reporting date. It will be utilised in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 upon issuance of equity shares.
	
Foreign currency translation reserve - Exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign operations of 
the Group, recognised in other comprehensive income as described in accounting policy and accumulated in a 
separate reserve within other equity.	 	
21.	 Borrowings
A.	
Non-current borrowings:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Term loans (secured) (Refer note 21E)
- 	
Loans from banks
 8,146.22 
 31,442.52 
- 	
Loan from others
 260.67 
 446.86 
 8,406.89 
 31,889.38 
	
Loans and borrowing above are recognised at amortised cost taking into account any discount or premium on 
acquisition and fee or costs that are part of effective interest rate, accordingly the outstanding balances above 
may not necessarily reconcile with repayment amounts.	
	
	
The carrying value of financial assets pledged as security for borrowings as disclosed under Note 56.
B.	
Non-current financial liabilities:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Lease liabilities (Refer note 47)
 3,570.86 
 1,978.85 
 3,570.86 
 1,978.85 
C.	
Current borrowings:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Loans repayable on demand
-	
Working capital facilities from banks (secured) (Refer footnote (a))
 9,616.11 
 7,082.05 
-	
Working capital facilities from banks (unsecured) (Refer 
footnote (b))
 1,800.00 
 2,450.00 
Working capital facility from banks (unsecured) (Refer footnote (c))
 1,450.00 
 500.00 
Current maturities of long-term debts (Refer note 21E)
 2,369.65 
 10,022.44 
 15,235.76 
 20,054.49 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
281
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
a) 	 In case of the Holding Company, the working capital facilities from banks are secured by first charge on entire 
current assets of the Holding Company ranking pari-passu amongst the banks and second charge on the 
movable and immovable assets of the Holding Company pertaining to specific manufacturing units (wherever 
applicable). During the previous year one short term loan facility from a bank was secured by subservient 
charge over entire current assets and movable fixed assets (both present and future) of the Holding Company. 
These facilities carry interest rates ranging between 7.10% to 7.53 % (31 December 2023: 7.45% to 7.76%). 
Working capital facilities in case of subsidiaries amounting to ` 7,182.69 million (31 December 2023: ` 2,277.05 
million), are secured mainly by charge on trade receivables, inventories and other current assets of the respective 
subsidiary company, ranking pari passu and charge on certain movable and immovable assets of the respective 
subsidiary. Some of the facilities of subsidiaries are guaranteed by respective subsidiary company, as per the 
terms of respective agreements. The working capital facilities carries interest rates ranging between 5.20% to 17% 
(31 December 2023: 5.50% to 14.50%).
	
b) 	 The Holding Company has availed working capital facilities from banks carrying interest rate 7.16% per annum 
(31 December 2023: 7.70% to 7.72% per annum).
	
c)	
In case of the Holding Company, working capital facility from a bank carrying interest rate 7.15% per annum is 
repayable in two equal instalments from the date of disbursement. During the previous year working capital 
facility from a bank carrying interest rate 7.76% per annum is repayable in three equal instalments from the date of 
disbursement and was repaid during the year.	
	
	
There are no defaults in repayment of principal borrowing or interest thereon.	
	
D.	
Current financial liabilities:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Lease liabilities (Refer note 47)
 1,049.03 
 390.38 
 1,049.03 
 390.38 
E.	
Terms and conditions/details of securities for loans:
(` in million)
Particulars
Loan outstanding
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Non-current 
Current
Non-current
Current
Term loans
i) 	 Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
Loans carrying weighted average rate of interest 
7.56% (31 December 2023: 8.01%) depending 
upon tenure of the loans.
 1,181.43 
 547.17 
 29,283.63 
 8,068.46 
These loans are secured on first pari-passu charge 
on the entire movable and immovable property, 
plant and equipment of the Holding Company 
including the territory /franchisee rights acquired 
under the business acquisition except vehicles 
and lands for which no mortgages have been 
created till date.
Varun Beverages Limited
282
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Loan outstanding
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Non-current 
Current
Non-current
Current
ii) 	Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
Loans carrying weighted average rate of interest 
Nil (31 December 2023: 7.40%) depending upon 
tenure of the loans.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 800.00 
These loans are secured with subservient charge 
on movable fixed assets of the Holding Company 
and one facility during the previous year was 
further secured with first pari passu charge on 
the inventories and receivables of the Holding 
Company.
iii) 	Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
Loans 
carrying 
rate 
of 
interest 
7.95% 
(31 December 2023: 7.95%) depending upon 
tenure of the loans.
 - 
 375.00 
 375.00 
 541.67 
These loan are secured on first pari-passu charge 
on the entire movable assets of the Company 
including the territory /franchisee rights acquired 
under the business acquisition except vehicles.
iv) 	Term loan at Varun Beverages Morocco
(a)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 4.00% 
(31 December 2023: 4.00%) and is secured 
by corporate guarantee of the Holding 
Company.
 11.27 
 43.81 
 54.72 
 41.67 
(b)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 4.75% 
(31 December 2023: 5.00%) and is secured 
by corporate guarantee of the Holding 
Company.
 240.92 
 98.35 
 337.04 
 92.25 
(c)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 5.75% 
(31 December 2023: 5.75%) and is secured 
against Land and plant & machinery.
 1,561.47 
 257.75 
 799.95 
 - 
v)	 Term loan at Lunarmech Technologies Private 
Limited
(a)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of Euribor+88 
bps and was secured against respective 
asset financed.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 99.28 
(b)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of Euribor+88 
bps and were secured against respective 
asset financed.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.69 
(c)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of Euribor+88 
bps (31 December 2023: Euribor+88 bps) 
and is secured against current asset and 
movable fixed assets.
 - 
 96.13 
 99.28 
 - 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
283
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Loan outstanding
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Non-current 
Current
Non-current
Current
(d)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 8.10% 
(31 December 2023: 8.10%). The loan is secured 
against current asset and movable fixed assets.
 0.75 
 0.25 
 1.00 
 - 
(e)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 7.79%. The 
loan is secured against current asset and 
movable fixed assets.
 142.88 
 47.63 
 - 
 - 
(f)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 7.79%. The 
loan is secured against current asset and 
movable fixed assets.
 142.92 
 47.64 
 - 
 - 
vi) Term loan at Varun Beverages RDC SAS
(a)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 7.25%. 
The loan is secured against assets of the 
company and also by corporate guarantee of 
the Holding Company.
 776.14 
 356.35 
 491.90 
 - 
(b)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of 7.25%. 
The loan is secured against vehicles of the 
company.
 - 
 231.85 
 - 
 - 
vii) Term loan at The Beverage Company Proprietary 
Limited
(a)	 Loan carrying rate of interest of JIBAR+1.45%. 
The loan is secured against assets of the 
company and also by corporate guarantee of 
the Holding Company.
 4,088.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total loans from banks (secured)
 8,146.22 
 2,101.93 
 31,442.52 
 9,692.02 
For repayment terms of above loans, refer note 21F .
Loans from others (secured)
Interest free loans from The Pradeshiya Industrial & 
Investment Corporation of U.P. Limited are repayable 
in one instalment after expiry of seven years from the 
date of disbursement. Loans are secured against bank 
guarantee equivalent to 100% of loan amount valid up 
to the repayment date of loan plus six months grace 
period.
The loans are recognised at amortised cost basis using 
weighted average rate of borrowing on date of receipt, 
i.e., 7.63%-8.77% (31 December 2023: 8.52%-9.72%) 
The repayment schedule is as under:
Date of repayment	
Amount
01 November 2025	
211.98
31 March 2030	
65.90 
07 July 2030	
139.92
22 February 2031	
22.87
01 October 2031	
46.59
 176.18 
 201.53 
 308.20 
 166.86 
Varun Beverages Limited
284
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Loan outstanding
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Non-current 
Current
Non-current
Current
Interest free loan from The Director of Industries 
and Commerce, Haryana are repayable in one 
instalment after expiry of five years from the date 
of disbursement. Loans are secured against bank 
guarantee equivalent to 100% of loan amount valid 
up to the repayment date of loan plus six months 
grace period.
The loans are recognised at amortised cost basis 
using weighted average rate of borrowing on date of 
receipt, i.e., 8.33% (31 December 2023: 8.33%)
The repayment schedule is as under:
Date of repayment          	
Amount 
17 February 2025                 	 43.98
13 October 2025                   	 23.96
21 February 2027                  	 70.83
18 July 2028                          	 33.30
 84.49 
 66.19 
 138.66 
 163.56 
Total loans from others (secured)
 260.67 
 267.72 
 446.86 
 330.42 
Total
 8,406.89 
 2,369.65 
 31,889.38 
 10,022.44 
F. 	 Repayment terms:
(` in million)
S.No
Description
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Repayment terms
 Non-current  Current  Non-current 
 Current 
i) 	
Indian rupee loan from banks
1
Term loan - 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 240.00 Loan was repaid during the year
2
Term loan - 2
 - 
 - 
 291.49 
 291.80 Loan was repaid during the year
3
Term loan - 3
 - 
 - 
 499.32 
 500.00 Loan was repaid during the year
4
Term loan - 4
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 200.00 Loan was repaid during the year
5
Term loan - 5
 - 
 - 
 199.73 
 200.00 Loan was repaid during the year
6
Term loan - 6
 - 
 - 
 699.75 
 400.00 Loan was repaid during the year
7
Term loan - 7
 560.28 
 317.77 
 1,050.00 
 380.00 Two instalments of ` 158.89 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, two 
instalments of ` 154.70 each due in 
May 2026 and June 2026 and two 
instalments of ` 125.44 each due in 
May 2027 and June 2027.
8
Term loan - 8
 - 
 - 
 - 
 800.00 Loan was repaid during the year
9
Term loan - 9
 - 
 - 
 1,600.00 
 500.00 Loan was repaid during the year
10
Term loan - 10
 - 
 - 
 1,350.00 
 300.00 Loan was repaid during the year
11
Term loan - 11
 - 
 - 
 1,333.34 
 666.66 Loan was repaid during the year
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
285
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
S.No
Description
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Repayment terms
 Non-current  Current  Non-current 
 Current 
12
Term loan - 12
 282.65 
 141.32 
 3,750.00 
 1,250.00 Two  instalments of ` 70.66 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, 
two instalments of ` 70.66 each due 
in May 2026 and June 2026 and two 
instalments of ` 70.66 each due in 
May 2027 and June 2027.
13
Term loan - 13
 - 
 375.00 
 375.00 
 375.00 Two instalments of ` 187.50 each due 
in May 2025 and June 2025.
14
Term loan - 14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 166.67 Loan was repaid during the year
15
Term loan - 15
 - 
 - 
 2,000.00 
 1,000.00 Loan was repaid during the year
16
Term loan - 16
 170.50 
 46.08 
 2,350.00 
 100.00 Two instalments of ` 23.04 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, 
two instalments of ` 23.04 each 
due in May 2026 and June 2026, 
two instalments of ` 32.26 each due 
in May 2027 and June 2027,one 
instalment of ` 32.26 due in May 2028 
and one instalment of ` 27.65.00 due 
in June 2028.  
17
Term loan - 17
 - 
 - 
 2,400.00 
 600.00 Loan was repaid during the year
18
Term loan - 18
 - 
 - 
 1,900.00 
 100.00 Loan was repaid during the year
19
Term loan - 19
 - 
 - 
 750.00 
 250.00 Loan was repaid during the year
20
Term loan - 20
 - 
 - 
 3,150.00 
 350.00 Loan was repaid during the year
21
Term loan - 21
 - 
 - 
 2,760.00 
 240.00 Loan was repaid during the year
22
Term loan - 22
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 - Loan was repaid during the year
23
Term loan - 23
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 500.00 Loan was repaid during the year
24
Term loan - 24
 168.00 
 42.00 
 - 
 - Two instalments of ` 21.00 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, 
two instalments of ` 21.00 each 
due in May 2026 and June 2026, 
two instalments of ` 21.00 each due 
in May 2027 and June 2027, two 
instalments of ` 21.00 each due in 
May 2028 and June 2028 and two 
instalments of ` 21.00 each due in 
May 2029 and June 2029.
Total (A)
 1,181.43 
 922.17 
 29,658.63 
 9,410.13 
Varun Beverages Limited
286
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
S.No
Description
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Repayment terms
 Non-current  Current  Non-current 
 Current 
ii) 	 Term Loan at Varun Beverages Morocco
25
Term loan - 25
 11.27 
 43.81 
 54.72 
 41.67 Loan is repayable in 5 quarterly 
instalments till January 2026.
26
Term loan - 26
 240.92 
 98.35 
 337.04 
 92.25 Loan is repayable in 13 quarterly 
instalments till January 2028.
27
Term loan - 27
 1,561.47 
 257.75 
 799.95 
 - Loan is repayable in 24 quarterly 
instalments till December 2030.
Total (B)
 1,813.66 
 399.91 
 1,191.71 
 133.92 
iii) 	 Term Loan at Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
28
Term loan - 28
 - 
 - 
 - 
 99.28 Loan was repaid during the year.
29
Term loan - 29
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.69 Loan was repaid during the year.
30
Term loan - 30
 - 
 96.13 
 99.28 
 - Loan is repayable on 14 April 2025.
31
Term loan - 31
 0.75 
 0.25 
 1.00 
 - Loan is repayable in 16 quarterly EMI 
starting from March 2025.
32
Term loan - 32
 142.88 
 47.63 
 - 
 - Loan is repayable in 16 quarterly EMI 
starting from March 2025.
33
Term loan - 33
 142.92 
 47.64 
 - 
 - Loan is repayable in 16 quarterly EMI 
starting from March 2025.
Total (C)
 286.55 
 191.65 
 100.28 
 147.97 
iv) 	 Varun Beverage RDC SAS
34
Term loan - 34
 776.14 
 356.35 
 491.90 
 - Loan is repayable in 38 equal monthly 
instalments till February 2028.
35
Term loan - 35
 - 
 231.85 
 - 
 - Loan is repayable in 11 equal monthly 
instalments till November 2025.
Total (D)
 776.14 
 588.20 
 491.90 
 - 
v) 	  Term Loan at The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
36
Term loan - 36
 4,088.44 
 - 
 - 
 - Loan is repayable on 27 March 2027.
Total (E)
 4,088.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total 
(A+B+C+D+E)
 8,146.22  2,101.93 
 31,442.52 
 9,692.02 
22.	 Provisions
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Non-current
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 40)
	
Defined benefit liability (net)
 1,166.30 
 1,470.83 
	
Other long term employee obligations
 728.04 
 655.61 
 1,894.34 
 2,126.44 
Current
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 40)
	
Defined benefit liability (net)
 6.82 
 3.99 
	
Other short term employee obligations
 438.06 
 317.72 
Others (Refer note 60)
 294.12 
 503.72 
 739.00 
 825.43 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
287
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
23.	 Other non-current liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Deferred revenue on government grant
 4.37 
 5.16 
Deferred income
 42.94 
 63.24 
 47.31 
 68.40 
24.	Trade payables
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Total outstanding dues of-
	
Micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer note 49)
 645.75 
 767.43 
	
Creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 14,958.52 
 6,815.05 
 15,604.27 
 7,582.48 
	
Trade payables ageing schedule
	
31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Unbilled
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed trade payable
    Micro enterprises and small enterprises
113.98
528.21
2.88
0.25
0.43
645.75
    Others
3,088.40
11,425.05
168.55
131.92
61.49
14,875.41
Disputed trade payable
    Micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
-
-
-
-
    Others
-
52.40
12.01
8.85
9.85
83.11
Total
3,202.38
12,005.66
183.44
141.02
71.77 15,604.27
	
31 December 2023
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Unbilled
Less than 
 1 year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed trade payable
    Micro enterprises and small enterprises
 68.73 
 692.31 
 5.34 
 0.36 
 0.50 
 767.24 
    Others
 2,123.29 
 4,408.76 
 157.26 
 16.32 
 30.08 
 6,735.71 
Disputed trade payable
    Micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
0.19
-
-
-
0.19
    Others
-
52.46
13.18
6.95
6.75
79.34
Total
2,192.02
5,153.72
175.78
23.63
37.33
7,582.48
Varun Beverages Limited
288
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
25.	Other current financial liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 36.44 
 115.82 
Interest payable
 48.59 
 27.21 
Payable for capital expenditures
 3,639.04 
 4,543.04 
Employee related payables
 995.51 
 810.91 
Unclaimed dividends#
 1.32 
 0.97 
Security deposits
 2,322.51 
 2,140.44 
 7,043.41 
 7,638.39 
	
#Not due for deposit to the Investor Education and Protection Fund in the books of Holding Company.	
26.	Other current liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Advances from customers
 2,194.82 
 1,804.71 
Statutory dues payable
 2,604.36 
 2,806.31 
Deferred income
 117.37 
 39.91 
 4,916.55 
 4,650.93 
27.	 Current tax liabilities (Net)
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Provision for tax (net of taxes paid)
 656.23 
 390.02 
 656.23 
 390.02 
	
The key components of income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 are:
 	
A. 	 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
(i) 	 Profit and Loss section
(a) 	 Current tax
 7,502.05 
 6,290.81 
(b) 	 Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
 5.28 
 20.55 
(c) 	 Deferred tax charge
 480.71 
 64.11 
Tax expense reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss
 7,988.04 
 6,375.47 
(ii) Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) section
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the 
year:
(a)	 Net gain/(loss) on remeasurements of defined benefit 
plans
 (67.99)
 6.98 
Tax charged to OCI
 (67.99)
 6.98 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
289
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
B. 	 Reconciliation of tax expense between accounting profit at applicable tax rate and effective tax rate:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Accounting profit before tax
 34,330.89 
 27,393.60 
Tax expense at statutory income tax rate of 25.17% (31 
December 2023: 25.17%)
 8,640.40 
 6,894.15 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
 5.28 
 20.55 
Non deductible expenses/income not taxable
 64.98 
 75.14 
Deduction claimed u/s Chapter-VI A of Income-tax Act, 1961 by 
Holding Company
 (20.15)
 (6.90)
Non-Taxable Subsidiaries and effect of Differential Tax Rate 
under various jurisdiction
 (793.69)
 (658.21)
Income chargeable at special rates
 (1.64)
 - 
Others
 92.86 
 50.74 
Tax expense at effective tax rate reported in the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss
 7,988.04 
 6,375.47 
28.	Revenue from operations
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Sale of products (inclusive of excise duty) *
 198,394.21 
 158,687.38 
Rendering of services
 793.03 
 314.86 
Other operating revenue
 5,626.04 
 4,208.39 
 204,813.28 
 163,210.63 
	
*Sale of products includes excise duty collected from customers of  ` 4,736.78 million (31 December 2023: ` 2,784.82 million) in 
subsidiaries.	
	
	
	
Disclosure on revenue pursuant to Ind AS 115- Revenue from contract with customers:
	
A. 	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Gross revenue/Contracted price
 206,715.39 
 162,329.34 
 Less: Discounts and rebates 
 (7,528.15)
 (3,327.10)
Revenue from contracts with customers
 199,187.24 
 159,002.24 
	
B. 	 Disaggregation of revenue
	
	
a)	
 Information about geographical area
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
i. 	
Sale of products and rendering of services
    	
(i) 	 Within India
136,173.93
 121,594.93 
     	 (ii) 	 Outside India
 63,013.31 
 37,407.31 
Total sale of products and rendering of services
 199,187.24 
 159,002.24 
	
	
b) 	 b) Revenue from sale of goods and services are recognised at a point in time.There are no disaggregation 
of revenue with respect to this information.	
	
	
	
	
c)	
No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the Company’s revenue from operations.
Varun Beverages Limited
290
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
C. 	 Contract balances:
	
	
The following table provides information about trade receivables and contract liabilities from contract with 
customers:
	
	
Receivables
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Trade receivables
 9,535.93 
 4,180.08 
Less: Allowances for expected credit loss
 (1,077.51)
 (586.23)
Net receivables
 8,458.42 
 3,593.85 
	
	
Contract liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Advance from customers (Refer note 26)
 2,194.82 
 1,804.71 
 2,194.82 
 1,804.71 
	
D. 	 Contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customer. 
Contract liabilities are on account of the advance payment received from customer for which performance 
obligation has not yet been completed.
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customers 
based on the contractual terms. The Group does not have any remaining performance obligation as contracts 
entered for sale of goods are for a shorter duration. Further, there are no contracts for sale of services 
wherein, performance obligation is unsatisfied to which transaction price has been allocated.
	
	
Payment terms with customers vary depending upon the contractual terms of each contract and generally 
falls in the range of 0 to 120 days from the completion of performance obligation.
	
	
There is no significant financing component in any transaction with the customers.
	
E. 	 Government grant recongnised under the head ‘Other operating revenue’ amounts to ` 4,829.26 million 
(31 December 2023 ` 3,462.98 million) under different industrial promotion tax exemption schemes.
	
F. 	 Changes in the contract liabilities balances during the year are as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,804.71 
 2,033.83 
Addition during the year
 2,194.82 
 1,804.71 
Revenue recognised during the year
 (1,804.71)
 (2,033.83)
Balance at the closing of the year
 2,194.82 
 1,804.71 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
291
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
29.	Other income
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Interest income on items at amortised cost:
- 	
term deposits
 362.97 
 205.44 
- 	
others
 56.03 
 32.56 
Gain on sale of current investments
 22.47 
 3.51 
Excess provisions and liabilities written back
 646.15 
 322.36 
Gain on derecognition of financial instruments
 0.08 
 0.81 
Miscellaneous income
 124.98 
 228.91 
 1,212.68 
 793.59 
30.	Cost of materials consumed
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Raw material and packing material consumed
Inventories at beginning of the year
 9,756.31 
 9,613.51 
Acquired in business combination
 640.72 
 - 
Purchases during the year (net)
 87,635.34 
 72,762.19 
 98,032.37 
 82,375.70 
Less: Sold during the year
 1,308.84 
 2,354.78 
Less: Inventories at end of the year
 13,786.10 
 9,756.31 
 82,937.43 
 70,264.61 
31.	 Purchases of stock-in-trade
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Beverages
 982.89 
 1,378.89 
Others
 5,876.32 
 3,248.07 
 6,859.21 
 4,626.96 
32.	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, intermediate goods, stock-in-trade and work- 
in-progress
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
As at the beginning of the year
- 	
Finished goods
 4,160.22 
 4,313.41 
- 	
Intermediate goods
 4,372.42 
 3,392.40 
- 	
Work in progress
 25.81 
 61.80 
 8,558.45 
 7,767.61 
Acquired in a business combination
- 	
Finished goods
 593.63 
 - 
 593.63 
 - 
Varun Beverages Limited
292
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
As at the closing of the year
- 	
Finished goods
 5,233.22 
 4,160.22 
- 	
Intermediate goods
 4,582.73 
 4,372.42 
- 	
Work in progress
 78.51 
 25.81 
 9,894.46 
 8,558.45 
Finished goods used as property, plant and equipment*
 (7.02)
 (51.85)
 (749.40)
 (842.69)
	
*The Holding Company and a subsidiary manufactures plastic shells at some of their manufacturing facilities. The shells 
manufactured are used for beverages operations of the Group as property, plant and equipment (under the head ‘Containers’). 
These containers are sold to third parties. The cost of manufacturing of plastic shells is being shown here separately with a 
corresponding debit to property, plant and equipment.	
	
	
33.	 Employee benefits expense
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Salaries, wages and bonus*
 17,067.81 
 13,041.12 
Contribution to provident fund and other funds*
 816.67 
 679.36 
Staff welfare expenses*
 803.35 
 666.78 
Share based payments** (Refer note 52)
 162.43 
 78.61 
 18,850.26 
 14,465.87 
	
*Refer note 4A for capitalisation of employee benefits expense in setting-up of new manufacturing facilities.
	
**excluding expenses of ` 0.50 (31 December 2023: ` 0.49) related to one subsidiary, which has been capitalised in new projects.
34.	Finance costs
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Interest on items at amortised cost:
- 	
Term loans*
 3,039.34 
 2,044.26 
- 	
Working capital facilities*
 919.71 
 214.28 
- 	
Financial liabilities (inclusive of interest on lease liabilities 
` 404.03 (31 December 2023: ` 170.04))
 440.42 
 260.05 
- 	
Bank guarantee fees
 16.39 
 17.82 
- 	
Others (inclusive of interest on income tax ` 6.50 (31 
December 2023: ` 82.28))
 69.56 
 130.03 
Other ancillary borrowing costs
 18.44 
 14.55 
 4,503.86 
 2,680.99 
	
*Refer note 4A for capitalisation of finance costs in setting-up of new manufacturing facilities.
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
293
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
35.	Depreciation, amortisation expense 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (refer note 4A)
 8,386.95 
 6,409.04 
Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 5B)
 268.38 
 40.51 
Amortisation of ROU (refer note 4C)
 818.53 
 359.51 
 9,473.86 
 6,809.06 
36.	Other expenses* 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Power and fuel
 6,295.08 
 5,502.85 
Repairs to plant and equipment
 3,837.09 
 2,973.81 
Repairs to buildings
 292.18 
 178.12 
Other repairs
 1,163.65 
 923.29 
Consumption of stores and spares
 1,512.34 
 1,296.28 
Rent (Refer note 47 (iv))
 970.54 
 801.60 
Rates and taxes
 518.68 
 901.80 
Insurance
 341.38 
 180.99 
Printing and stationery
 105.80 
 91.43 
Communication 
 241.28 
 121.27 
Travelling and conveyance
 1,550.41 
 1,215.23 
Sitting fees paid to directors (Refer note 46A)
 8.45 
 5.85 
Payment to auditors**
 43.13 
 27.69 
Vehicle running and maintenance 
 1,235.53 
 594.23 
Lease and hire (Refer note 47 (iv))
 645.67 
 297.62 
Security and service charges
 847.36 
 564.00 
Legal, professional and consultancy
 872.70 
 510.05 
Bank charges
 324.72 
 234.96 
Advertisement and sales promotion 
 2,521.15 
 1,963.65 
Meeting and conferences 
 90.03 
 117.98 
Royalty
 177.84 
 165.93 
Freight, octroi and insurance paid (net)
 14,031.34 
 11,020.58 
Delivery vehicle running and maintenance 
 836.18 
 832.34 
Distribution expenses
 3,064.82 
 2,250.15 
Loading and unloading charges
 1,109.55 
 881.69 
Donations
 4.16 
 2.23 
Property, plant and equipment written off
 33.26 
 1.37 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
 728.70 
 842.27 
Bad debts and advances written off
 28.73 
 3.24 
Allowance for expected credit loss and advances
 84.85 
 69.47 
Corporate social responsibility expenditure
 317.92 
 169.42 
Net loss on foreign currency transactions and translations
 634.02 
 574.92 
General office and other miscellaneous
 599.75 
 499.90 
 45,068.29 
 35,816.21 
	
*Refer note 4A for capitalisation of other expenses in setting-up of new manufacturing facilities.
Varun Beverages Limited
294
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
**Includes payment to statutory auditors of the Holding Company as follows:-
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Services rendered for:
- 	
Audit and reviews
 13.50 
 11.46 
- 	
taxation matters
 3.23 
 2.11 
- 	
other matters#
 1.40 
 1.86 
-	
reimbursement of expenses
 0.94 
 0.23 
 19.07 
 15.66 
	
#Excludes expense of ` 6.07 (31 December 2023: ` Nil) towards fee related to share issue expenes, netted off with share 
premium account and expense of ` Nil (31 December 2023: ` 0.23) towards other matters, which has been capitalised in new 
projects.	
37.	 Other comprehensive income (OCI)
	
The disaggregation of changes to OCI by each type of reserves in equity is shown below:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Retained earnings
Re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
 288.77 
 (28.16)
Tax impact on re-measurement gains on defined benefit plans 
(Refer note 10)
 (67.99)
 6.98 
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations
 356.41 
 (58.83)
 577.19 
 (80.01)
38.	Composition of the Group
	
These consolidated financial statements include the respective financial statements of Varun Beverages Limited 
(the “Parent Company” or the “Holding Company”), its subsidiaries and the results of operations of its associates 
& joint venture as listed below. The principal activity of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries predominantly 
comprise manufacturing and sale of beverages including its packing material.	
	
Name of the company/
entity
Nature
Country of 
incorporation and 
principal place of 
business
Proportion of ownership interests held by 
the Group at year end
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Varun Beverages (Nepal)  
Private Limited ("VBL Nepal")
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Nepal
100.00%
100.00%
Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited  
("VBL Lanka")
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Sri Lanka
100.00%
100.00%
Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA ("VBL Morocco")
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Morocco
100.00%
100.00%
Ole Spring Bottlers Private 
Limited ("Ole")*
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Sri Lanka
100.00%
100.00%
Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited ("VBL Zambia")
Foreign subsidiary
Zambia
90.00%
90.00%
Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited ("VBL Zimbabwe")
Foreign subsidiary
Zimbabwe
85.00%
85.00%
Varun Beverages RDC SAS 
("VBL RDC")
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Democratic Republic 
of the Congo
100.00%
100.00%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
295
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
Name of the company/
entity
Nature
Country of 
incorporation and 
principal place of 
business
Proportion of ownership interests held by 
the Group at year end
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Varun Beverages South 
Africa (PTY) Limited**
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
South Africa
100.00%
100.00%
Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited#
Domestic 
subsidiary
India
100.00%
60.07%
Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
VBL Mozambique, SA^
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Mozambique
100.00%
100.00%
The Beverage Company 
Proprietary Limited 
("Bevco")@
Foreign subsidiary
South Africa
95.00%
0.00%
The Beverage Company 
Bidco Proprietary 
Limited^^@
Foreign subsidiary
South Africa
95.00%
0.00%
Little Green Beverages 
Proprietary Limited^^@
Foreign subsidiary
South Africa
95.00%
0.00%
Softbev Proprietary 
Limited^^@
Foreign subsidiary
South Africa
95.00%
0.00%
Varun Foods Zimbabwe 
(Private) Limited$
Foreign wholly 
owned subsidiary
Zimbabwe
100.00%
0.00%
Clean Max Tav Private 
Limited
Associate
India
26.00%
26.00%
Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited~
Associate
India
26.34%
26.34%
IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
Joint Venture
India
50.00%
50.00%
*subsidiary of VBL Lanka
**w.e.f 23 May 2023 (refer note 50)
# wholly owned subsidiary w.e.f. 16 December 2024 (refer note 50(ii))
^w.e.f 21 November 2023 (refer note 50(viii)
@Acquired on 26 March 2024  (refer note 50(i))
$ w.e.f 22 May 2024 (refer note 50(iii))
~w.e.f 09 May 2023 (refer note 6)
^^subsidiary of Bevco
39.	 During the year ended 31 December 2024, pursuant to Qualified institutions placement (QIP), the Holding Company 
has raised ` 75,000 million through fresh issue of 132,743,362 equity shares of ` 2 each at a premium of ` 563 per 
share on 19 November 2024. The Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee and the Board of Directors noted 
the utilisation of funds raised through such fresh issue of equity shares to be in line with the object of the issue, 
the details of which are as follows: 
(` in million)
Particulars
Amount as 
per placement 
document
Amount 
utilised upto 
31 December 2024
Amount Unutilised/
(Excess spent) as at 
31 December 2024
Repayment / pre-payment, in part or in full, of certain 
outstanding borrowings availed by Holding Company 
and/or one of our Subsidiaries
 56,000.00 
 50,475.46 
 5,524.54 
Inorganic acquisitions and general corporate purposes
 18,390.00 
 3,858.42 
 14,531.58 
Share issue expenses#
 610.00 
 611.10 
 (1.10)
Total
 75,000.00 
 54,944.98 
 20,055.02 
#excludes expenses of ` 4.28 million which is paid subsequent to year ended 31 December 2024.
Unutilised amounts have been kept in fixed deposits, mutual funds and QIP monitoring account.
Varun Beverages Limited
296
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
40.	Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
	
Parent Company and other components of the Group provide its employees gratuity and compensated absences 
benefits in accordance with the respective local statutory requirements and entity’s policies. The following tables 
summaries the changes in their present values over the reporting periods, components of expense recognised in 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, their funded status and amounts recognised in the consolidated 
balance sheet:	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Changes in present values are as follows: 
Balance at the beginning of the year
 2,147.71 
 1,852.54 
 973.33 
 898.93 
Acquired on business combination
 - 
 - 
 90.61 
 - 
Current service cost
 278.76 
 235.94 
 229.96 
 168.68 
Interest cost
 152.92 
 137.42 
 70.63 
 65.54 
Benefits settled
 (129.57)
 (101.03)
 (78.61)
 (59.74)
Actuarial loss/(gain)
 (238.15)
 25.66 
 (118.02)
 (99.43)
Foreign currency translation difference
 4.46 
 (2.82)
 (1.80)
 (0.65)
Balance at the end of the year
 2,216.13 
 2,147.71 
 1,166.10 
 973.33 
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Changes in fair value of plan assets are as 
follows:
Plan assets at the beginning of the year, at 
fair value
 672.89 
 418.43 
 - 
 - 
Expected income on plan assets
 49.81 
 36.31 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial gain/(loss)
 28.35 
 (2.51)
 - 
 - 
Contributions by employer
 300.00 
 250.00 
 - 
 - 
Benefits settled
 (8.04)
 (29.34)
 - 
 - 
Plan assets at the end of the year, at fair 
value
 1,043.01 
 672.89 
 - 
 - 
The Holding Company has taken an insurance policy against its liability towards gratuity, the same has been 
disclosed as plan assets above.	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Reconciliation of present value of the 
obligation and the fair value of the plan assets:
Present value of obligation
 2,216.13 
 2,147.71 
 1,166.10 
 973.33 
Fair value of plan assets
 (1,043.01)
 (672.89)
 - 
 - 
Net liability recognised in the consolidated 
balance sheet
 1,173.12 
 1,474.82 
 1,166.10 
 973.33 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
297
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Amount recognised in consolidated 
statement of profit and loss:
Current service cost
 278.76 
 235.94 
 229.96 
 168.68 
Interest cost
 152.92 
 137.42 
 70.63 
 65.54 
Expected return on plan assets
 (49.81)
 (36.31)
 - 
 - 
Actuarial gain
 - 
 - 
 (118.02)
 (99.43)
Net cost recognised
 381.87 
 337.05 
 182.57 
 134.79 
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Amount recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income:
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
financial assumptions
 (229.31)
 21.67 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 (5.02)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 (26.09)
 3.98 
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets
 (28.35)
 2.51 
 - 
 - 
Amount recognised loss/(gain)
 (288.77)
 28.16 
 - 
 - 
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Assumptions used:
Mortality
IALM 2012-2014 
and A 1967/70 
mortality 
table (issued 
by Institute 
of Actuaries, 
London)
IALM 2012-2014 
and A 1967/70 
mortality 
table (issued 
by Institute 
of Actuaries, 
London)
IALM 2012-2014 IALM 2012-2014
Discount rate
6.95% - 11.50%
7.23%-13.50%
6.95%-8.00%
7.23%-8.50%
Rate of return on plan assets
7.33% - 7.67%
6.79%-7.65%
0.00%
0.00%
Withdrawal rate
1%-12%
3%-12%
1%-12%
3%-12%
Salary increase
6% -10%
6% -12%
6%-11%
6%-12%
Rate of leave availment
 - 
 - 
3.50%-20%
3.50%-20%
Retirement age (Years)
 58-70 years 
 58-70 years 
 58-70 years 
 58-70 years 
	
These assumptions were developed by management of the respective company/entity with the assistance of 
independent actuaries wherever applicable. Discount factors are determined close to each year-end by reference 
to market yields of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the respective currency in which the 
benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligations. 
Other assumptions are based on current actuarial benchmarks and respective management’s historical experience.
Varun Beverages Limited
298
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
The defined benefit obligation and plan assets are composed by geographical locations as follows:
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
31 December 2024
India
Outside India
Total 
Defined benefit obligation
 2,141.35 
 74.78 
 2,216.13 
Fair value of plan assets
 1,043.01 
 - 
 1,043.01 
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
31 December 2023
India
Outside India
Total 
Defined benefit obligation
 2,097.23 
 50.48 
 2,147.71 
Fair value of plan assets
 672.89 
 - 
 672.89 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption is as shown below:	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Sensitivity level
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Discount rate
+1%
+1%
 (137.23)
 (129.68)
 (33.42)
 (29.68)
-1%
-1%
 123.68 
 145.63 
 31.70 
 31.60 
Salary increase
+1%
+1%
 121.55 
 138.06 
 31.11 
 29.98 
-1%
-1%
 (132.14)
 (125.76)
 (32.20)
 (28.73)
Withdrawal rate
+1%
+1%
 (21.13)
 (30.37)
 (9.65)
 (9.80)
-1%
-1%
 19.23 
 33.59 
 9.19 
 10.33 
	
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
Risk associated:
Investment risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate 
determined by reference to Government Bonds Yield. If plan liability is funded and return 
on plan assets is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
Interest risk 
(discount rate risk)
A decrease in the bond interest rate (discount rate) will increase the plan liability.
Mortality risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best 
estimate of the mortality of plan participants. For this report we have used Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality (2012-2014) (31 December 2023: (2012-14) ultimate table). A change in 
mortality rate will have a bearing on the plan's liability.
Salary risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated with the assumption of 
salary increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary 
in future for plan participants from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the 
present value of obligation will have a bearing on the plan's liability. 
	
Effect of the defined benefit plan on the Holding Company’s future cash flows:
	
Funding arrangements and funding policy: 
	
The Holding Company has purchased an insurance policy to provide for payment of gratuity to the employees. 
Every year, the insurance Holding Company carries out a funding valuation based on the latest employee data 
provided by the Holding Company. Any deficit in the assets arising as a result of such valuation is funded by the 
Holding Company.		
	
	
	
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
299
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
Expected contribution during the next annual reporting period:
	
The Holding Company’s best estimate of contribution during the next financial year approximates to ` 1,310.68 
million (31 December 2023: ` 1,637.97 million).	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following are maturity profile of Defined Benefit Obligations in future years (before adjusting fair 
value of plan assets):		
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
i)	
Weighted average duration of the 
defined benefit obligation
6-6.2 years
6-10 years
 3-5 years 
 3-5 years 
ii)	
Expected cash flows over the years 
(valued on undiscounted basis):
Duration (years)
1
 366.32 
 328.23 
 357.96 
 315.81 
2 to 5
 1,065.09 
 961.20 
 682.20 
 627.31 
Above 5
 2,134.70 
 2,433.78 
 307.83 
 312.80 
 3,566.11 
 3,723.21 
 1,347.99 
 1,255.92 
	
Defined contribution plan: 
	
Contribution to defined contribution plans, recognised as expense for the year is as under:	
	
Employer’s contribution to provident and other funds ` 816.67 million (31 December 2023 ` 679.36 million) (Refer 
note 33)
41.	 Earnings per share (EPS)
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Profit attributable to the equity shareholders  
 25,946.33 
 20,559.22 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year for calculating basic earnings per share (nos.)*
 3,264,147,731 
 3,247,850,643 
Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on 
account of employee stock options*
 1,610,654 
 1,397,832 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year for calculating diluted earnings per share (nos.)*
 3,265,758,385 
 3,249,248,475 
Nominal value per equity shares (`)*
 2.00 
 2.00 
Basic earnings per share (`)
 7.95 
 6.33 
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 7.94 
 6.33 
	
*Previous year numbers are adjusted for shares splits during the current year (refer note 19(g)).	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
300
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
42.	Dividend
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Dividend on equity shares declared and paid during the year:
Final dividend
 1,624.24 
 649.55 
Interim dividend
 1,624.31 
 1,623.93 
43.	Contingent liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at 
 31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts (being contested):
i. 	
Goods and Service Tax
 308.74 
 140.90 
ii. 	
For excise and service tax
 67.88 
 103.35 
iii. 	 For customs
 207.81 
 90.75 
iv. 	 For sales tax (VAT)/entry tax
 1,005.20 
 778.65 
v. 	
For income tax
 771.29 
 378.35 
vi. 	 For mandi tax and others*
 205.02 
 388.60 
	
*excludes pending matters where amount of liability is not ascertainable.
44.	Commitments
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
a.	
Guarantee issued to third party by subsidiaries for business 
purposes
458.48
373.39
b.	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on 
capital account and not provided for (net of advances ` 4,862.11 
(31 December 2023 ` 5,194.24))*
26,908.22
30,726.98
	
*Inclusive of commitment as mentioned in note no. 50 (iv) and (v).
45.	Pursuant to transfer pricing legislations under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Holding Company is required to 
use specified methods for computing arm’s length price in relation to specified international and domestic 
transactions with its associated enterprises. Further, the Holding Company is required to maintain prescribed 
information and documents in relation to such transactions. The appropriate method to be adopted will depend 
on the nature of transactions/ class of transactions, class of associated persons, functions performed and other 
factors, which have been prescribed. The Holding Company is in the process of updating its transfer pricing 
documentation for the current financial year. Based on the preliminary assessment, the management is of the 
view that the update would not have a material impact on the tax expense recorded in these consolidated 
financial statements. Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments for 
the transfer pricing implications, if any.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
301
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
46.	Related party disclosures (as per Ind AS-24)	
	
Following are the related parties and transactions entered with related parties for the relevant financial year:
	
(i)	
List of related parties and relationships:-
	
	
I.	
Key managerial personnel (KMPs)	
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
Non-executive chairman
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
Executive vice-chairman and Whole time Director
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
Whole Time Director
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
Whole Time Director
Mrs. Sita Khosla
Non-executive independent director
Dr. Ravi Gupta 
Non-executive independent director
Mrs. Rashmi Dhariwal
Non-executive independent director
Mr. Abhiram Seth
Non-executive independent director  (w.e.f 02 May 2023)
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
Non-executive independent director  (w.e.f 02 May 2023)
Mr. Pradeep Khushalchand Sardana
Non-executive independent director (till 27 March 2023)
Dr. Naresh Kumar Trehan
Non-executive Non-independent director (w.e.f 21 
April 2024)
Mr. Ravi Batra
Company secretary
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg 
Company secretary of the parent, namely RJ Corp Limited
Mr. Lalit Malik
Chief Financial Officer (till 13 May 2024)
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f 14 May 2024)
	
	
II.	
Parent and ultimate parent	
RJ Corp Limited
Parent
	
	
III.	 Fellow subsidiaries and entities controlled by parent and ultimate parent*
Devyani International Limited
Devyani Food Industries Limited
Varun Food and Beverages Zambia Limited
Varun Developers Private Limited
Wellness Holdings Limited
SVS India Private Limited
Ole Marketing (Private) Limited
Devyani Food Industries (Kenya) Limited
Devyani Airport Services (Mumbai) Private Limited#
Devyani International Nepal Private Limited
Cryoviva Biotech Private Limited
	
	
IV.	 Joint venture and associate*	
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited
Joint Venture
Clean Max Tav Private Limited
Associate
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
Associate (w.e.f 09 May 2023)
	
	
V.	
Relatives of KMPs*	
	
	
	
Mrs. Dhara Jaipuria
Mrs. Devyani Jaipuria
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
Varun Beverages Limited
302
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
	
VI.	 Entities in which a director or his/her relative is a member/director/trustee*	 	
	
	
	
	
SMV Beverages Private Limited
	
	
	
Alisha Torrent Closures (India) Private Limited
	
	
	
Lineage Healthcare Limited
	
	
	
Jai Beverages Private Limited
	
	
	
RJ Foundation
	
	
	
Global Health Limited	
	
	
VII.	 Entities which are post employment benefits plans	
	
	
	
VBL Employees’ Gratuity Trust	
	
	
	
*With whom the Group had transactions during the current year and previous year.
	
	
	
#Amalgamated with Devyani International Limited w.e.f. 01 April 2022 vide Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal 
order dated 13 July 2023.
	
(ii)	 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
	
The transactions with related parties are made in the ordinary course of business and on terms equivalent 
to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and 
settlement occurs in cash. This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial 
position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.	
	
	
(iii)	 Transactions with KMPs (Refer note 46A)	
	
(iv)	 Transactions with related parties (Refer note 46B)
46A. Transactions with KMPs
(` in million)
For year ended 2024
For year ended 2023
I.
Remuneration paid
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 204.99 
 151.72 
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 72.02 
 54.02 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 67.18 
 62.45 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 16.18 
 14.85 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 61.56 
 57.66 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 7.41 
 6.35 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 3.59 
 2.99 
Mr. Lalit Malik 
 38.17 
 20.63 
II.
Director sitting fees paid
Mr. Pradeep Khushalchand Sardana
 - 
 0.10 
Mrs. Sita Khosla
 1.70 
 1.00 
Dr. Ravi Gupta 
 2.20 
 1.40 
Mrs. Rashmi Dhariwal 
 2.90 
 1.80 
Mr. Abhiram Seth
 0.60 
 0.40 
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
 0.80 
 0.40 
III.
Dividend paid
 Mr. Varun Jaipuria 
 520.86 
 364.60 
 Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi 
 6.59 
 4.66 
 Mr. Ravi Batra 
 0.02 
 - 
 Mr. Rajesh Chawla 
 0.01 
 - 
 Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria 
 565.90 
 403.11 
 Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga 
 1.46 
 1.02 
 Mr. Abhiram Seth 
0.00
 - 
 Mr. Pradeep Khushalchand Sardana 
 - 
0.00
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
303
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
For year ended 2024
For year ended 2023
IV.
Defined benefit obligation (Cumulative) for KMP
i. Gratuity
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 69.55 
 56.52 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 54.84 
 53.21 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 3.87 
 3.41 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 1.21 
 0.97 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 49.13 
 45.13 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 1.30 
 - 
Mr. Lalit Malik 
 - 
 0.01 
ii. Compensated absences
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 26.47 
 21.01 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 15.05 
 15.19 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 2.34 
 2.29 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 0.68 
 0.68 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 13.59 
 12.93 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 1.51 
 - 
Mr. Lalit Malik
 - 
 0.79 
V.
Advance given
Mr. Lalit Malik
 - 
 38.50 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 0.85 
 - 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 4.40 
 - 
VI.
Balances (payable)/receivable outstanding at the end of 
the year, net
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 (3.70)
 (2.78)
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 (2.20)
 (1.96)
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 (2.49)
 (2.22)
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 (0.54)
 (0.49)
Mr. Ravi Batra
 (0.80)
 (0.73)
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 0.52 
 0.46 
Mr. Lalit Malik
 - 
 37.02 
Dr. Ravi Gupta 
 - 
 (0.09)
Mrs. Rashmi Dhariwal 
 - 
 (0.09)
Mr. Abhiram Seth
 - 
 (0.09)
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
 - 
 (0.09)
Mrs. Sita Khosla
 - 
 (0.09)
	
Amounts below the rounding off norms adopted by the Group are presented as “0.00”.
	
Note:
	
(i) 	
Stock options have been granted to KMPs of the Group. The number of stock options granted to such KMPs outstanding as 
at 31 December 2024: 35,000 (31 December 2023 : 145,000). However as the liability has not been determined for individual 
employees, the charge thereof for the individual employees is not disclosed above. 
	
	
Previous year numbers are adjusted for shares splits during the current year (refer note 19(g)).
Varun Beverages Limited
304
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
46B. Transactions with related parties	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Fellow subsidiaries and 
entities controlled by 
parent and ultimate 
parent
Joint Venture and 
Associate (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are post 
employment benefits 
plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Sale of goods
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 119.19 
 105.41 
 - 
 - 
 119.19 
 105.41 
- Alisha Torrent Closures (India) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.45 
 11.35 
 - 
 - 
 11.45 
 11.35 
- Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.95 
 32.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.95 
 32.38 
- Jai Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 115.85 
 170.49 
 - 
 - 
 115.85 
 170.49 
- Devyani International Limited
 - 
 - 
 38.37 
 59.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 38.37 
 59.15 
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 32.57 
 30.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.57 
 30.19 
- Lineage Healthcare Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.11 
- Devyani Airport Services 
(Mumbai) Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
- Devyani International Nepal 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 13.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13.03 
 - 
- RJ Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
Sale of raw materials and stores
- Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.50 
- Jai Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 164.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 164.40 
 - 
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 34.10 
 45.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 34.10 
 45.91 
- SMV Beverages Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 99.45 
 172.40 
 - 
 - 
 99.45 
 172.40 
Purchase of goods
- SMV Beverages Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 449.81 
 575.53 
 - 
 - 
 449.81 
 575.53 
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 291.16 
 384.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 291.16 
 384.89 
Purchase of raw materials and 
stores
-  SMV Beverages Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.32 
 16.65 
 - 
 - 
 5.32 
 16.65 
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 5.61 
 60.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.61 
 60.45 
-  Alisha Torrent Closures (India) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
305
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Fellow subsidiaries and 
entities controlled by 
parent and ultimate 
parent
Joint Venture and 
Associate (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are post 
employment benefits 
plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Loan given
- IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
- Varun Developers Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 407.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 407.08 
Loan taken
-Varun Developers Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 407.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 407.08 
Conversion of loan into 
investment
-   IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
Interest received/(paid)
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.00)
 (7.00)
 - 
 - 
 (4.00)
 (7.00)
- IDVB Recycling Operations Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.68 
Contribution to corporate social 
responsibility activities
- RJ Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 308.11 
 158.50 
 - 
 - 
 308.11 
 158.50 
Equity investment
-  IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 369.93 
 120.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 369.93 
 120.00 
-  Clean Max Tav Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.82 
-  Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.24 
Professional charges/Salary paid
- Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
Travelling expenses
- Wellness Holdings Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 102.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 102.02 
Contribution to gratuity trust
- VBL Employees' Gratuity Trust
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 300.00 
 250.00 
 300.00 
 250.00 
Varun Beverages Limited
306
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Fellow subsidiaries and 
entities controlled by 
parent and ultimate 
parent
Joint Venture and 
Associate (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are post 
employment benefits 
plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Dividend paid
- RJ Corp Limited
 871.63 
 615.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 871.63 
 615.09 
- Mrs. Dhara Jaipuria
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
 0.02 
- Mrs. Devyani Jaipuria
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78.78 
 55.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78.78 
 55.15 
(Recovery of Expenses incurred 
by the Company on behalf of 
others)/expenses incurred by 
others on behalf of the Company
- Devyani International Limited
 - 
 - 
 5.58 
 3.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.58 
 3.37 
- RJ Corp Limited
 (1.73)
 (2.43)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1.73)
 (2.43)
- Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.61)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.61)
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 (24.70)
 (21.36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (24.70)
 (21.36)
Licence fee paid
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 1.50 
 0.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.50 
 0.90 
Purchase of property, plant and 
equipment
- Devyani Food Industries (Kenya) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.86 
 - 
Rent/ lease charges paid/
(received)
- RJ Corp Limited
 112.80 
 112.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 112.80 
 112.80 
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 (8.82)
 (8.82)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8.82)
 (8.82)
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27.00 
 27.00 
 - 
 - 
 27.00 
 27.00 
- SVS India Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.24 
 2.97 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.24 
 2.97 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
307
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Fellow subsidiaries and 
entities controlled by 
parent and ultimate 
parent
Joint Venture and 
Associate (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are post 
employment benefits 
plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
IT infrastructure support fee
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 16.22 
 11.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.22 
 11.96 
-  RJ Corp Limited
 1.75 
 0.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.75 
 0.84 
-  Devyani Food Industries (Kenya) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 2.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 2.06 
- Devyani International Limited
 - 
 - 
 10.13 
 4.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.13 
 4.41 
- Cryoviva Biotech Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.94 
 3.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.94 
 3.16 
- Lineage Healthcare Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.49 
 0.57 
 - 
 - 
 0.49 
 0.57 
Capital commitments
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 156.60 
 201.60 
 - 
 - 
 156.60 
 201.60 
Medical Expenditure paid
-  Global Health Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 0.11 
Utility charges
-   Clean Max Tav Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67.40 
 28.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67.40 
 28.24 
-   Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.58 
 13.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.58 
 13.34 
Advance paid for acquisition of 
assets
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.00 
 - 
Varun Beverages Limited
308
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Fellow subsidiaries and 
entities controlled by 
parent and ultimate 
parent
Joint Venture and 
Associate (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are post 
employment benefits 
plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Balances outstanding at the end 
of the year, (net)
A. Receivable/(payable), net
- Devyani International Limited
 - 
 - 
 22.35 
 11.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.35 
 11.90 
- RJ Corp Limited
 67.19 
 36.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67.19 
 36.24 
- Devyani International Nepal 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.49 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.92 
 0.49 
- Lineage Healthcare Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.59 
 0.39 
 - 
 - 
 0.59 
 0.39 
- Ole Marketing (Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 28.09 
 24.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28.09 
 24.68 
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 129.42 
 100.23 
 - 
 - 
 129.42 
 100.23 
- Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.66 
 24.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.66 
 24.94 
- Alisha Torrent Closures (India) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.29 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 4.29 
 0.00 
- Jai Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
 1.05 
- Devyani Food Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 12.07 
 4.95 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.07 
 4.95 
- Varun Food and Beverages 
Zambia Limited
 - 
 - 
 (45.84)
 (48.85)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (45.84)
 (48.85)
- SVS India Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.58)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.58)
- Cryoviva Biotech Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 5.88 
 4.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.88 
 4.78 
- IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
- RJ Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
- Clean Max Tav Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (1.88)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (1.88)
- Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2.27)
 (1.70)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2.27)
 (1.70)
Amounts below the rounding off norms adopted by the Group are presented as “0.00”.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
309
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
47. Disclosure on lease transactions pursuant to Ind AS 116 - Leases	
	
The Group lease asset class primarily consists of leases for land, buildings, plant and equipments and vehicles. 
With the exception of short-term leases, leases of low-value and cancellable long-term leases underlying assets, 
each lease is reflected on the balance sheet as a right of use asset and a lease liability.
	
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the weighted 
average borrowing rate on the date of adoption ranging between 5.44% - 13.56% (31 December 2023: 5.44% - 
13.56%).
	
Each lease generally imposes a restriction that, unless there is a contractual right for the Group to sublet the asset 
to another party, the right of use asset can only be used by the Group. Leases are either non-cancellable or may 
only be cancelled by incurring a substantive termination fee. Some leases contain an option to extend the lease for 
a further term. The Group is prohibited from selling or pledging the underlying leased assets other than leasehold 
lands as security against the Group’s other debts and liabilities.
	
i. 	
Lease liabilities are presented in the balance sheet as under:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Current maturities of lease liabilities (Refer note 21D)
 1,049.03 
 390.38 
Non-current lease liabilities (Refer note 21B)
 3,570.86 
 1,978.85 
Total
 4,619.89 
 2,369.23 
	
ii. 	
The recognised right of use assets relate to land, buildings and plant and equipments as at 31 December 2024 
and 31 December 2023:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Right of use assets - land, buildings and plant and equipments
Balance at the beginning of the year
 10,347.07 
 9,155.01 
Acquired on business combination (Refer note 50(i))
 1,567.24 
 - 
Additions for the year
 2,497.75 
 1,623.33 
Derecognition for the year
 - 
 (2.43)
Rebate/grant related to asset received
 - 
 (16.61)
Amortisation charge for the year
 (818.53)
 (359.51)
Foreign currency translation difference
 37.69 
 (52.72)
Balance at the end of the year
 13,631.22 
 10,347.07 
	
iii. 	 The following are amounts recognised in Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Amortisation charge on right of use assets
 818.53 
 359.51 
Interest expense on lease liabilities*
 402.65 
 179.04 
Total 
 1,221.18 
 538.55 
	
iv. 	 Lease payments not recognised as a liability	
	
	
	
The Group has elected not to recognise a lease liability for short term leases (leases with an expected term 
of 12 months or less), non-cancellable long-term leases and for leases of low value assets. Payments made 
under such leases are expensed on a straight-line basis. The expense relating to payments not included in the 
measurement of the lease liability for short term leases is ` 1,616.21 (31 December 2023: ` 1,099.22 million).
v. 	
Refer Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for total cash outflow for leases.	 	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
310
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
vi. 	 Maturity of lease liabilities	
	
	
	
Future minimum lease payments for year ended 31 December 2024 were as follows:		
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Lease payments 
 Interest expense  Net Present value* 
Not later than 1 year
 1,478.96 
 429.93 
 1,049.03 
Later than 1 year not later than 5 years
 3,367.35 
 1,123.85 
 2,243.50 
Later than 5 years
 2,984.76 
 1,657.40 
 1,327.36 
Total
 7,831.07 
 3,211.18 
 4,619.89 
	
	
Future minimum lease payments for year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Lease payments 
 Interest expense 
 Net Present value* 
Not later than 1 year
 554.90 
 169.21 
 390.38 
Later than 1 year not later than 5 years
 1,872.67 
 379.76 
 1,508.34 
Later than 5 years
 1,359.42 
 881.62 
 470.51 
Total
 3,786.99 
 1,430.59 
 2,369.23 
	
	
* Includes exchange differences on translation of foreign operations of ` 12.83 million
48. 	Segment Reporting
	
The business activity of the Group predominantly fall within a single reportable business segment viz manufacturing 
and sale of beverages. There are no separate reportable business segments. As part of reporting for geographical 
segments, the Group operates in two principal geographical areas of the world, i.e., within India and other countries 
(outside India). The aforesaid is in line with review of operating results by the chief operating decision maker. The 
sale of products of the Group is seasonal.	 	
	
	
The following table presents segment non-current assets, revenue from external customers regarding geographical 
segments:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Non-current assets*
-	
Within India
 106,527.75 
 89,820.78 
-	
Outside India
 44,274.15 
 18,861.25 
	
* excluding Investment in associates & joint venture, non-current financial assets and deferred tax asset(net).
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Revenue from operations
-	
Within India
 141,755.87 
 125,763.47 
-	
Outside India
 63,057.41 
 37,447.16 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
311
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
49. 	Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises
	
The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development 
Act (“MSMED”), 2006 to the extent information available with the Holding Company and its one Indian subsidiary 
is given below:	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid 
to any supplier as at the end of each accounting year 
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,237.70 
 767.43 
Interest due
 6.56 
 4.83 
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the 
MSMED Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to 
the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year*
 949.98 
 522.67 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in 
making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed 
day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under 
the MSMED Act, 2006.
 14.82 
 8.67 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of 
each accounting year
 48.59 
 27.21 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even 
in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as 
above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of 
disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the 
MSMED Act, 2006
 48.59 
 27.21 
	
*includes principal amounting to ` 949.98 million (31 December 2023: ` 522.67 million).	
	
	
	
	
The above amounts includes due to micro and small enterprises included within other financial liabilities.	
50. 	Investments/Acquisitions of Subsidiary 
	
Investment/Acquisition of Subsidiary during the current year
	
i	
Business Combination- Bevco
	
(a)	 Summary of acquisition	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Pursuant to Share Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) and Shareholders Agreement (“SHA”) executed by 
Varun Beverages Limited (“VBL” or “the Company”) with the existing Promoters and Shareholders 
of The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited along with its wholly owned subsidiaries (hereinafter 
referred as ”Bevco”), the Group had acquired 95% equity shareholding of Bevco amounting to ` 4,037.26 
million from its shareholders upon fulfilment of terms and conditions as per SPA and SHA and the said 
transaction had been completed on 26 March 2024. The remaining stake of 5% is held by ESOT (Trust). 
Consequent to the above transaction, Bevco had become a subsidiary of VBL w.e.f. 26 March 2024. 
Bevco is engaged in the business of manufacturing and distribution of licensed (PepsiCo Inc.) and own-
branded non-alcoholic beverages in South Africa. Bevco has franchise bottling rights from PepsiCo Inc. 
for South Africa, Lesotho and Eswatini and distribution rights for Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique and 
Madagascar.
	
(b)	 Accounting treatment
	
	
Said transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition method prescribed under Ind AS 103 – ‘Business 
Combinations’, and accordingly, the identifiable assets (both tangible and intangible) acquired and liabilities 
assumed are recorded on acquisition date at their fair values as determined by an independent valuer. Excess 
of purchase consideration over the fair value of identified assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-
controlling interest in the acquiree has been recognised as Goodwill.	
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
312
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
(c)	 The fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition are as follows:	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
 Amount 
A. Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 2,376.20 
Capital work-in-progress
 466.37 
Right of use assets
 1,567.24 
Other Intangible assets 
 5,719.68 
Other non-current assets
 65.40 
 10,194.89 
B. Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 3,263.57 
Provisions
 16.83 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 314.33 
 3,594.73 
C. Net working capital
 4,680.56 
D. Deferred tax liability on fair valuation and newly identified assets
 359.23 
Total liabilities (E=B+C+D)
 8,634.52 
Total net assets (F=A-E)
 1,560.37 
Goodwill (G)
 2,689.38 
Total Equity Value H=(F+G)
 4,249.75 
Non-controlling stake on acquisition date (I)
 212.49 
Purchase consideration (H-I)
 4,037.26 
The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets was recorded as goodwill in 
consolidated financial statements.
	
(d)	 Revenue and loss contribution
	
	
i.	
From the date of acquisition, acquired business contributed revenue from operations and loss after tax 
of ` 15,763.29 million and ` 250.46 million respectively to the Group. If the acquisition had occured on 01 
January 2024, revenue from operations for the Group would have been ` 209,536.36 million and since 
the details on loss after tax is not readily available, such information has not been disclosed.
	
	
	
There are no transaction costs incurred in relation to this aquisition.
	
	
	
The goodwill is attributable to the operational synergies and expansion on market share.
	
	
	
Further, through the acquisition the Group intends to expand in other geographical areas with franchise 
bottling rights from PepsiCo Inc. for South Africa, Lesotho and Eswatini and distribution rights for 
Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique and Madagascar which is part of its expansion strategy.
	
	
ii	
 The Holding Company on 16 December 2024, has acquired 39.93% shareholding in Lunarmech 
Technologies Private Limited (LTPL) for a purchase consideration of ` 2,000 million. Post acquisition, 
LTPL has become wholly-owned subsidiary of the Holding Company w.e.f. 16 December 2024.
	
	
iii	
During the year ended 31 December 2024, the Holding Company on 22 May 2024 has incorporated a 
wholly owned subsidiary Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private) Limited for a consideration of ` 0.84 million. 
Further, on 15 July 2024 Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private) Limited and Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited, subsidiaries of the Holding Company, had entered into exclusive agreements with Premier 
Nutrition Trading LLC, Dubai (subsidiary of PepsiCo Inc.) to manufacture, distribute and selling of snacks 
“Simba Munchiez” in the territory of Zimbabwe and Zambia. The expected date to start the commercial 
production is on or before, 01 October 2025 for Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private) Limited and 01 April 
2026 for Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited.	 	
	
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
313
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
iv	
On 13 November 2024, the Holding Company has entered into a binding agreement to acquire 
100% stake in the business conducted by SBC Beverages Tanzania Limited, Tanzania (SBCT), 
subject to approvals from PepsiCo Inc., Fair Competition Commission (FCC) Tanzania and other 
regulatory approvals (if any) for a proposed purchase consideration amounting to USD 154.50 
million. The indicative time period for completion of the acquisition is on or before 31 March 2025. 
SBCT is engaged in the business of manufacturing and distribution of licensed (PepsiCo Inc.) branded non-
alcoholic beverages in Tanzania. SBCT has five manufacturing facilities located at one each in Dar-es-Salaam, 
Mbeya, Arusha and two in Mwanza.
	
v	
On 13 November 2024, the Holding Company has entered into a binding agreement to acquire 100% stake in 
the business conducted by SBC Beverages Ghana Limited, Ghana (SBCG), subject to approvals from PepsiCo 
Inc. and other regulatory approvals (if any) for a proposed purchase consideration amounting to USD 15.06 
million. The indicative time period for completion of the acquisition is on or before 28 February 2025. 
SBCG is engaged in the business of manufacturing and distribution of licensed (PepsiCo Inc.) branded non-
alcoholic beverages in Ghana. SBCG has one manufacturing facility located at Accra, Ghana.”
	
Investment in Subsidiary during the previous year
	
vi	
On 23 May 2023, the Holding Company incorporated a new wholly-owned subsidiary company i.e. Varun 
Beverages South Africa (Pty) Ltd in Johannesburg, South Africa by subscription of its 100% share capital for 
a consideration of ` 0.05 million to explore the business of manufacturing and distribution of beverages.
	
vii	
On 16 October 2023, the Holding Company had acquired 50,000 equity shares of Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited for a purchase consideration of ` 100 million. Post acquisition, the Holding Company is holding 
60.07% of the effective equity share capital of Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited.
	
viii	 On 21 November 2023, incorporated a new subsidiary company i.e. VBL Mozambique,SA in Mozambique for 
selling and distribution of beverages. The Group has subscribed its 100% share capital for a consideration of 
` 1.33 million on 31 January 2024.
	
ix	
The Holding Company had subscribed 370,370 equity shares of Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited 
amounting to ` 625.00 million on 18 May 2023 and Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited on 24 December 
2023 allotted 551,130 equity shares as bonus shares of NPR 1,000 each to its existing shareholder.
51.	 The Holding Company follows calendar year as its financial year as approved by the Company Law Board, 
New Delhi.
52.	Share-based payments	 	
	
	
	
	
a.	
Description of share based payment arrangements	
	
	
	
	
i)	
Share Options Schemes (equity settled)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2016 (“ESOS 2016 or scheme”)
	
The ESOS 2016 was approved by the Board of Directors and the shareholders on 27 April 2016 and further ratified 
and amended by the shareholders in their meetings held on 17 April 2017 and 07 April 2022 respectively. Further, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited have accorded their in principle approvals for issue 
and allotment of upto 41,737,880 equity shares (“Ceiling Limit”). The scheme was formulated with the objective 
to enable the Holding Company to grant Options for equity shares of the Holding Company to certain eligible 
employees as defined in the Scheme at a pre-determined price.		
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
314
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
The Options were granted on the dates as mentioned in the table below:
	
31 December 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
Scheme
Grant Date
Number of 
Options Granted
Exercise 
Price
Vesting 
Conditions
Vesting 
Period
Contractual 
period
ESOS 2016
05-Feb-24
 7,500 
 453.60 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
05 Feb 2025 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.92 Years
ESOS 2016
13-May-24
 30,000 
 563.20 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
13 May 2024 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.67 Years
ESOS 2016
16-Sep-24
 6,250 
 626.00 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
16 Sep 2024 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.25 Years
ESOS 2016
27-Sep-24
 20,000 
 626.00 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
27 Sep 2024 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.25 Years
	
31 December 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
Scheme
Grant Date
Number of 
Options Granted
Exercise 
Price
Vesting 
Conditions
Vesting 
Period
Contractual 
period
ESOS 2016
06-Feb-23
 135,000 
 251.00 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
06 Feb 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.92 Years
ESOS 2016
02-May-23
 30,000 
 257.20 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
02 May 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.67 Years
ESOS 2016
03-Aug-23
 125,000 
 320.40 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
03 Aug 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.42 Years
ESOS 2016
06-Nov-23
 65,000 
 359.60 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
06 Nov 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.17 Years
ESOS 2016
23-Nov-23
 75,000 
 359.60 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 years
23 Nov 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.09 Years
	
b. 	 Measurement of fair values		
	
	
	
	
	
The fair values are measured based on the Black-Scholes-Merton model. The fair value of the options and 
inputs used in the measurement of the grant date fair values of the equity-settled share based payments are 
as follows:	
	
31 December 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Options 
granted on 
05 February 
2024
Options 
granted on 
13 May 2024
Options 
granted on 
16 September 
2024
Options 
granted on 
27 September 
2024
Fair value per Option at grant date (in `)
 187.97 
 183.34 
 165.54 
 165.54 
Share price at grant date (in `)
 514.30 
 585.32 
 626.85 
 626.85 
Exercise price (in `)
 453.60 
 563.20 
 626.00 
 626.00 
Expected volatility
34.20%-
37.95%
31.26%-36.48%
30.39%-
35.07%
30.39%-
35.07%
Expected life (in years)
1.57-4.47
1.57-4.20
1.57-3.83
1.57-3.83
Expected dividends
0.27%
0.17%
0.40%
0.40%
Risk-free interest rate
6.67%-6.75%
6.72%-6.76%
6.33%-6.37%
6.33%-6.37%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
315
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
31 December 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Options 
granted on 
06 February 
2023
Options 
granted on 
02 May 2023
Options 
granted on 
03 August 
2023
Options 
granted on 
06 November 
2023
Options 
granted on 
23 November 
2023
Fair value per Option at 
grant date (in `)
 68.80 
 105.55 
 97.43 
 116.17 
 139.01 
Share price at grant date 
(in `)
 230.98 
 289.04 
 323.24 
 380.74 
 412.54 
Exercise price (in `)
 251.00 
 257.20 
 320.40 
 359.60 
 359.60 
Expected volatility
38.03%-40.07%
37.33%-39.95%
36.65%-39.12%
35.77%-37.09%
35.71%-36.46%
Expected life (in years)
1.6-4.5
1.6-4.2
1.6-4.0
1.57-3.72
1.57-3.68
Expected dividends
0.22%
0.24%
0.43%
0.37%
0.34%
Risk-free interest rate
6.57%-6.91%
6.60%-6.69%
6.67%-6.80%
6.82%-6.96%
6.75%-6.89%
The risk-free interest rate (continuous compounding) being considered for the calculation is the interest rate 
applicable for maturity equal to the expected life of the options on the date of grant of options based on the 
zero-coupon yield curve for Government Securities available as on Valuation date taken from www.ccilindia.com.
The measure of volatility used in the Option-Pricing Model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuous 
rates of return on the stock over a period of time.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
c.	
Effect of employee stock option schemes on the consolidated statement of profit and loss
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Employee stock option expense*
 162.43 
 78.61 
	
	
*included in employee benefits expense (refer note 33)
	
d.	
Reconciliation of outstanding share options	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options under the share option scheme is as follows:
As at 31 December 2024
As at 31 December 2023
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Number of options granted, exercised and forfeited
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year
 3,083,035 
 159.82 
 3,054,875 
 159.82 
Add: Options granted during the year
 63,750 
 576.16 
 430,000 
 306.97 
Less: Options exercised during the year
 729,215 
 159.82 
 289,340 
 159.82 
Less: Options forfeited/lapsed during the year
 10,000 
 159.82 
 112,500 
 159.82 
Options outstanding as at the end of the year
 2,407,570 
 170.84 
 3,083,035 
 159.82 
Options exercisable at the end of the year
 563,877 
 159.82 
 180,750 
 159.82 
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Weighted average remaining life of options outstanding at the end 
of year (in years)
 1.75 
 2.70 
Also refer note 19(g) on sub-division/split of equity shares of the Holding Company during the year. The outstanding 
stock options (whether vested or unvested as on the Record Date) and exercise prices as above has been adjusted 
to ensure fair and reasonable adjustment to the entitlement of the Eligible Employees under the Schemes due to 
the sub-division/split of equity shares.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
316
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
53.	Financial instruments risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Financials risk management objectives and policies 	
	
The Group is exposed to various risks in relation to financial instruments. The main types of financial risks are 
market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
	
The respective management of the Holding Company and other companies/entities comprising the Group 
monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the respective entity/Holding Company 
on a continuous basis. The Group’s risk management is coordinated at head office, in close cooperation with the 
management of respective entity/Holding Company, and focuses on actively securing the short to medium-term 
cash flows and simultaneously minimising the exposure to volatile financial markets. Long-term financial 
investments are managed to generate lasting returns.
	
The Group does not engage in the trading of financial assets for speculative purposes. The most significant financial 
risks to which the Group is exposed are described below.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
53.1	Market risk analysis	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market prices. The Group is exposed to market risk through its use of financial instruments and 
specifically to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk, which result from its operating, 
investing and financing activities. Contracts to hedge exposures in foreign currencies, interest rates etc. are 
entered into wherever considered necessary by the management.
Foreign currency risk
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of 
changes in foreign exchange rates. The functional currency of the Holding Company is Indian Rupees (‘INR’ or ‘`’). 
Most of the transactions of the Holding Company and other entities/companies are carried out in the respective 
local currency. Exposures to currency exchange rates mainly arise from the overseas operations and external 
commercial borrowings etc., which are primarily denominated in US Dollar (“USD”), Euro (“EUR”), Pound Sterling 
(“GBP”), Zuid-Afrikaanse Rand (“ZAR”), ZWG (Zimbabwe Gold) and Zimbabwe Dollar (“ZWL”).
	
To mitigate its exposure to foreign currency risk, the Group continuously monitors non-INR cash flows and hedging 
contracts are entered into wherever considered necessary.	
	
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary items are restated at the end of each 
reporting period. Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities which expose the Group to currency 
risk are as follows:		
	
	
	
	
(Amt. in million)
USD
GBP
EUR
ZWL
ZWG
ZAR
31 December 2024
Financial assets 
(i) 	 Trade receivables
 6.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 29.78 
 0.00 
(ii) 	 Others
 4.18 
 - 
 0.41 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.01 
(iii) 	Cash and cash equivalents
 2.74 
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 58.16 
 4.09 
(iv) 	Other bank balances
 0.57 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total financial assets
 13.66 
 - 
 0.46 
 - 
 87.94 
 4.10 
Financial liabilities
(i) 	 Borrowings 
 42.28 
 - 
 1.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	 Trade payables
 21.59 
 0.00 
 0.89 
 - 
 10.28 
 0.42 
(iii) 	Other financial liabilities
 11.75 
 0.01 
 3.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total financial liabilities
 75.62 
 0.01 
 5.33 
 - 
 10.28 
 0.42 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
317
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
(Amt. in million)
USD
GBP
EUR
ZWL
ZWG
ZAR
31 December 2023
Financial assets
(i) Trade receivables
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 6,884.63 
 - 
 0.02 
(ii) Others
 6.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
 7.42 
 - 
 - 
 10,016.19 
 - 
 0.79 
(iv) Other bank balances
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00* 
Total financial assets
 14.64 
 - 
 -  16,900.82 
 - 
 0.81 
Financial liabilities 
(i) Borrowings 
 7.89 
 - 
 2.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(ii) Trade payables
 15.98 
 0.00*
 1.88 
 2,570.26 
 - 
 4.27 
(iii) Other financial liabilities
 3.46 
 - 
 9.63 
 196.19 
 - 
 - 
Total financial liabilities
 27.33 
 0.00 
 14.27  2,766.45 
 - 
 4.27 
	
*Rounded off to Nil.
	
There are no other exposure hedged against advance currency fluctuations.
	
The foreign currency sensitivity of profit and equity in regards to the Group’s financial assets and financial 
liabilities considering ‘all other things being equal’ and ignoring the impact of taxation. It assumes a +/- 1% 
change of the respective countries exchange rates (i.e. local currency to foreign currency) for the year ended at 31 
December 2024 (31 December 2023: +/-1%). These are the sensitivity rates used when reporting foreign currency 
exposures internally to the key management personnel and represents respective management’s assessment of 
the reasonably possible changes in the foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding 
foreign currency denominated monetary items at end of each period reported upon. A positive number indicates 
an increase in profit or equity and vice-versa.
	
If the INR had strengthened against the USD by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), GBP by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), 
ZWL by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) EUR by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), ZWG by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) and 
ZAR by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), the following would have been the impact: 
(` in million)
Particulars
Profit/(Loss) for the year
Equity
31 December 2024
31 December 2023 31 December 2024
31 December 2023
USD
 52.62 
 10.55 
 52.62 
 10.55 
GBP
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
EUR
 4.74 
 13.14 
 4.74 
 13.14 
ZWL
 - 
 (32.43)
 - 
 (32.43)
ZAR
 (0.17)
 0.16 
 (0.17)
 0.16 
ZWG
 (2.58)
 - 
 (2.58)
 - 
Varun Beverages Limited
318
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
If the INR had weakened against the USD by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), GBP by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), ZWL 
by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) EUR by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), ZWG by 1% (31 December 2023: Nil) and ZAR 
by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), the following would have been the impact:
(` in million)
Particulars
Profit/(Loss) for the year
Equity
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
USD
 (52.62)
 (10.55)
 (52.62)
 (10.55)
GBP
 (0.01)
 (0.00)
 (0.01)
 (0.00)
EUR
 (4.74)
 (13.14)
 (4.74)
 (13.14)
ZWL
 - 
 32.43 
 - 
 32.43 
ZAR
 0.17 
 (0.16)
 0.17 
 (0.16)
ZWG
 2.58 
 - 
 2.58 
 - 
Amounts below the rounding off norms adopted by the Group are presented as “0.00”.
	
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the year depending on the volume of the overseas transactions. 
Nonetheless, the analysis above is considered to be representative of the Group’s exposure to currency risk.
	
Interest rate risk		
	
	
	
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s policy is to minimise interest rate cash flow risk exposures on 
long-term financing. The Group is exposed to changes in market interest rates as some of the bank and other 
borrowings are at variable interest rates.
	
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit and equity to a reasonably possible change in interest 
rates of +/- 1% (31 December 2023: +/- 1%). These changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on 
management’s assessment. The calculations are based on a change in the average market interest rate for each 
period, and the financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. All 
other variables are held constant.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Profit/(Loss) for the year
Equity
+1%
-1%
+1%
-1%
31 December 2024
 (70.11)
 70.11 
 (70.11)
 70.11 
31 December 2023
 (396.00)
 396.00 
 (396.00)
 396.00 
	
Commodity price risk	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing 
purchase of sugar and pet chips and therefore require a continuous supply. In view of volatility of price of sugar 
and pet chips, the Group also executes into various advance purchase contracts.		
	
Commodity price sensitivity		
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following tables shows the effect of price change in sugar and pet chips	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Change in yearly
Effect on profit /(Loss)
Effect on equity
31 December 2024
Sugar
 +/-1% 
(195.15)
 195.15 
 (195.15)
 195.15 
Pet chips
 +/-1% 
(192.37)
 192.37 
 (192.37)
 192.37 
31 December 2023
Sugar
 +/-1% 
 (169.53)
 169.53 
 (169.53)
 169.53 
Pet chips
 +/-1% 
 (145.18)
 145.18 
 (145.18)
 145.18 
	
Other price sensitivity		
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group is not exposed to any listed equity or listed debt price risk as it does not hold any investments in listed entities.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
319
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
53.2 Credit risk analysis	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to discharge an obligation to the Group. The Group is operating 
through a network of distributors and other distribution partners based at different locations. The Group is exposed 
to this risk for various financial instruments, for example loans granted, receivables from customers, deposits 
placed etc. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets 
recognised at end of each reporting period, as summarised below:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Classes of financial assets-carrying amounts:
Investments (non-current)
 60.55 
 31.51 
Loans (non-current)
 218.87 
 - 
Others non-current financial assets
 987.26 
 622.67 
Trade receivables
 8,458.42 
 3,593.85 
Cash and cash equivalents
 22,662.83 
 2,422.12 
Bank balances (other than those classified as cash and cash 
equivalents above)
 1,837.71 
 2,176.50 
Others current financial assets
 8,356.16 
 7,388.23 
 42,581.80 
 16,234.88 
The Group continuously monitors receivables and defaults of customers and other counterparties, and incorporates 
this information into its credit risk controls. Appropriate security deposits are kept against the supplies to customers 
and balances are reconciled at regular intervals. The Group’s policy is to deal only with creditworthy counterparties.
In respect of trade and other receivables, the Group is not exposed to any significant credit risk exposure to any 
single counterparty. Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers of various scales and in different 
geographical areas. Based on historical information about customer default rates, management considers the 
credit quality of trade receivables. In case the receivables are not recovered even after regular follow up, measures 
are taken to stop further supplies to the concerned customer. The expected credit loss is based on the five years 
historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward 
looking estimates. Further, the Group has assessed the recoverability of grants receivable classified under other 
current financial assets and accordingly provided for balance overdue for more than three years, amounting to 
` 236.45 million (31 December 2023: Nil).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Movement in expected credit loss allowance on trade receivables and capital advances:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Balance as at beginning of the year
 586.23 
 538.87 
Acquired on business combination
 500.52 
 - 
Loss allowance measured at lifetime expected credit loss
 84.85 
 69.47 
Reversal of allowance during the year
 (36.89)
 (2.31)
Foreign currency translation difference
 (57.20)
 (19.80)
Balance at the end of the year
 1,077.51 
 586.23 
	
The credit risk for cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits including interest accrued thereon and Government 
grant receivables is considered negligible, since the counterparties are reputable banks with high quality external 
credit ratings and State Government bodies.
	
In respect of financial guarantees provided by the Group, the maximum exposure to which the Group is exposed 
to is the maximum amount which it would have to pay if the guarantee is called upon. Based on the expectation at 
the end of each reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not 
be payable under the guarantees provided.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
320
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
53.3	 Liquidity risk analysis
	
Liquidity risk is that the Group might be unable to meet its obligations. The Group manages its liquidity needs by 
monitoring scheduled debt servicing payments for long-term financial liabilities and considering the maturity profiles 
of financial assets and other financial liabilities as well as forecast of operational cash inflows and outflows. Liquidity 
needs are monitored in various time bands, on a day-to-day basis, a week-to-week basis and a month-to-month 
basis. Long-term liquidity needs for a 180-day and a 360-day lookout period are identified monthly. Net cash 
requirements are compared to available borrowing facilities in order to determine headroom or any shortfalls.
	
Funding for long-term liquidity needs is additionally secured by an adequate amount of committed credit facilities 
and the Group’s ability to avail further credit facilities subject to creation of requisite charge on its assets. The 
Group assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low.
	
As at 31 December 2024, the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities have contractual undiscounted maturities 
as summarised below:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024	
Carrying 
value
1 to 12 months
1 to 5 years Later than 
5 years
Total contractual 
cash flow
Borrowings (current and non-current)
 23,642.65 
 15,247.96 
 8,250.35 
 275.29 
 23,773.60 
Lease liabilities (current and 
non-current)
 4,619.89 
 1,478.96 
 3,367.35 
 2,984.76 
 7,831.07 
Trade payables 
 15,604.27 
 15,604.27 
 - 
 - 
 15,604.27 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 7,043.41 
 7,043.41 
 - 
 - 
 7,043.41 
Total 
 50,910.22 
 39,374.60 
 11,617.70  3,260.05 
 54,252.35 
	
This compares to the maturity of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities in the previous reporting periods 
as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2023	
Carrying 
value
1 to 12 months
1 to 5 years Later than 
5 years
Total contractual 
cash flow
Borrowings (current and non-current)
 51,943.87 
 20,069.19 
 31,452.89 
 580.82 
 52,102.91 
Lease liabilities (current and 
non-current)
 2,369.23 
 554.90 
 1,872.67 
 1,359.42 
 3,786.99 
Trade payables 
 7,582.48 
 7,582.48 
 - 
 - 
 7,582.48 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 7,638.39 
 7,638.39 
 - 
 - 
 7,638.39 
Total 
 69,533.97 
 35,844.96 
 33,325.56 
 1,940.24 
 71,110.77 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
321
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
54.	Fair value measurements
	
Financial instruments by categories	 	
	
	
	
The carrying values and fair values of financial instruments by categories are as follows:
(` in million)
Particulars
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
Financial assets
(i) 	 Non-current financial assets
	
(a) 	Investment
7
 60.55 
 - 
 31.51 
 - 
	
(b)	Loans
8
 - 
 218.87 
 - 
 - 
	
(c) 	Others financial assets
9
 - 
 987.26 
 - 
 622.67 
(ii) 	 Current financial assets
	
(a) 	Trade receivables
13
 - 
 8,458.42 
 - 
 3,593.85 
	
(b) 	Cash and cash equivalents
14
 1,319.21 
 21,343.62 
 - 
 2,422.12 
	
(c) 	Bank balances other than above
15
 - 
 1,837.71 
 - 
 2,176.50 
	
(d) 	Others financial assets
16
 - 
 8,356.16 
 - 
 7,388.23 
Total
 1,379.76  41,202.04 
 31.51 
 16,203.37 
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Non-current borrowings
21A
 - 
 8,406.89 
 - 
 31,889.38 
(ii)	 Non-current lease liabilities
21B
 - 
 3,570.86 
 - 
 1,978.85 
(iii)	 Current financial liabilities
	
(a)	 Borrowings
21C
 - 
 15,235.76 
 -  20,054.49 
	
(b)	 Lease liabilities
21D
 - 
 1,049.03 
 - 
 390.38 
	
(c)	 Trade payables
24
 - 
 15,604.27 
 - 
 7,582.48 
	
(d)	 Others financial liabilities
25
 - 
 7,043.41 
 - 
 7,638.39 
Total
 -  50,910.22 
 - 
 69,533.97 
	
Valuation technique to determine fair value	
	
	
	
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, trade receivables, other current financial assets, trade payables, 
current borrowings and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the 
short-term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is the amount at 
which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced 
or liquidation sale.
	
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
	
-	
The fair values of the long term borrowings, loans and other deferred payments are determined by using 
discounted cash flow method using the appropriate discount rate. The discount rate is determined using 
other similar instruments incorporating the risk associated.
Varun Beverages Limited
322
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
Fair value hierarchy	
	
	
	
	
	
The financial assets measured at fair value are grouped into the fair value hierarchy as on 31 December 2024 and 
31 December 2023 as follows: (also refer note 3(a))		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024	
Date of valuation
Total
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices 
in active 
markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable 
inputs (Level 2)
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs (Level 3)
Assets measured at fair value:
Investment (non-current)
31 December 2024
 60.55 
 - 
 - 
 60.55 
Cash and cash equivalents
31 December 2024
 1,319.21 
 1,319.21 
 - 
 - 
There have been no transfers of financial assets and financial liabilities between the levels during the year 2024.
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2023	
Date of valuation
Total
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices 
in active markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
(Level 2)
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs (Level 3)
Assets measured at fair value:
Investment (non-current)
31 December 2023
 31.51 
 - 
 - 
 31.51 
55.	Capital management	
	
	
For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity share capital, securities 
premium and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity shareholders of the Group. 
	
The Group’s capital management objectives are:
	
•	
to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern
	
• 	
to provide an adequate return to shareholders
	
by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk. 
	
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and 
the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the 
dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group monitors capital 
using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group includes within net debt, 
non-current and current borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding discontinued 
operations, if any.	 	
	
The amounts managed as capital by the Group for the reporting periods are summarised as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Non-current borrowings (Refer note 21A)
 8,406.89 
 31,889.38 
Current borrowings (Refer note 21C)
 15,235.76 
 20,054.49 
Lease liabilities (Refer note 21B)
 3,570.86 
 1,978.85 
Current lease liabilities (Refer note 21D)
 1,049.03 
 390.38 
 28,262.54 
 54,313.10 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 14)
 (22,662.83)
 (2,422.12)
Net debt                                                                                        (A)
 5,599.71 
 51,890.98 
Equity share capital (Refer note 19)
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
Other equity (Refer note 20)
 159,335.27 
 62,868.91 
Total capital                                                                                  (B)
 166,098.29 
 69,364.98 
Capital and net debt                                                           (C=A+B)
 171,698.00 
 121,255.96 
Gearing ratio                                                                            (A/C)
3.26%
42.79%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
323
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure 
that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital 
structure requirements.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 
December 2024 and 31 December 2023.
There is no breaches in the financial covenants of the borrowing that would permit the banks to immediately call 
loans and borrowings in the reporting periods.		
56.	Assets pledged as security
The carrying amount of assets pledged as security are:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Inventories and trade receivable
 33,011.21 
 19,928.92 
Other bank deposits 
 1,220.72 
 1,652.34 
Other current financial assets
 10,685.23 
 8,243.82 
Other current assets
 3,987.89 
 4,086.65 
Other non current assets
 0.09 
 42.23 
Other intangible assets
 6,494.05 
 5,450.94 
Property, plant and equipment (including capital work-in-progress)
 107,217.02 
 83,894.08 
Right of use assets
 7,116.13 
 6,400.64 
Intangible assets under development
 43.69 
 - 
Cash and cash equivalent
 117.32 
 129.20 
57.	Audit Trail
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a new requirement for companies under the proviso to 
Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules 
2021 requiring companies covered under the Act, which uses accounting software for maintaining its books of 
accounts, shall only use such accounting software which has a feature of recording audit trail of each and every 
transaction, creating an edit log of each change made in the books of account along with the date when such 
changes were made and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
	
The group used certain software for maintenance of its books of account which have a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility and the same have been operated throughout the year, except for instances mentioned 
below including a instance of subsidiary where feature of recording audit trail (edit log) was not enabled for the 
period 01 January 2024 to 31 March 2024. 
	
a.	
One accounting software used for maintenance of books of accounts of the Holding Company and accounting 
software used for maintenance of books of accounts by subsidiary company, did not have a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes; 
	
b.	
One associate has used an accounting software for the period 01 January 2024 till 31 March 2024 for 
maintaining books of account is operated by a third-party software service provider and audit trail (edit log) 
facility was not enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes.
	
c.	
Reporting on compliance with audit trail requirements for accounting softwares used by two associates 
for the period 01 April 2024 to 31 December 2024 is not available on account of different accounting years 
adopted by these Companies.
Varun Beverages Limited
324
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on theConsolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
58.	 Additional information, as required to Consolidated Financial Statements pursuant to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013
(` in million)
Name of the company/entity
Net assets i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share of profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income 
(OCI)
Share in total 
comprehensive income 
(TCI)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets*
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit/
(loss)*
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI*
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
TCI*
Amount
For the year ended 31 December 2024
A. 	
Parent Company
	
Varun Beverages Limited
90.66%
 165,587.05 
84.45%
 23,203.64 
103.11%
 208.07 
84.58%
 23,411.71 
B. 	
Subsidiaries
	
Indian
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
1.12%
 2,041.21 
0.97%
 267.85 
-0.16%
 (0.33)
0.97%
 267.52 
Foreign
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
1.48%
 2,694.24 
4.89%
 1,344.96 
0.00%
 - 
4.86%
 1,344.96 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited 
(Consolidated)
1.43%
 2,616.76 
2.53%
 694.53 
6.46%
 13.03 
2.56%
 707.56 
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
1.77%
 3,226.90 
1.25%
 342.56 
0.00%
 - 
1.24%
 342.56 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited 
0.15%
 280.88 
-0.70%
 (191.69)
0.00%
 - 
-0.69%
 (191.69)
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
3.91%
 7,136.52 
7.83%
 2,150.32 
0.00%
 - 
7.77%
 2,150.32 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
-0.03%
 (50.51)
0.22%
 61.66 
0.00%
 - 
0.22%
 61.66 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
0.50%
 911.44 
1.02%
 280.27 
0.00%
 - 
1.01%
 280.27 
Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Limited
0.00%
 0.03 
0.00%
 (0.00)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.00)
VBL Mozambique, SA
-0.01%
 (14.86)
-0.06%
 (15.82)
0.00%
 - 
-0.06%
 (15.82)
The Beverages Company Proprietray Limited 
(Consolidated)
-0.26%
 (481.42)
-0.91%
 (250.46)
0.00%
 - 
-0.90%
 (250.46)
Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private) Limited
0.00%
 0.86 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
-0.72%
 (1,298.07)
-1.44%
 (396.52)
-9.41%
 (18.97)
-1.51%
 (415.49)
C. 	
Associate (Investment as per equity method)
Indian
Clean Max Tav Private Limited^
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (1.29)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (1.29)
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.99)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.99)
D. 	
Joint venture (Investment as per equity method)
Indian
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited^
0.00%
 - 
-0.05%
 (12.50)
0.00%
 - 
-0.05%
 (12.50)
100.00%
 182,651.03 
100.00%
 27,476.52 
100.00%
 201.80 
100.00%
 27,678.32 
Inter group eliminations/adjustments
 (16,552.74)
 (1,530.19)
 356.42 
 (1,173.77)
Total
 166,098.29 
 25,946.33 
 558.22 
 26,504.55 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
325
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Name of the company/entity
Net assets i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share of profit or loss
Share in other 
comprehensive income 
(OCI)
Share in total 
comprehensive income 
(TCI)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets*
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit/
(loss)*
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI*
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
TCI*
Amount
For the year ended 31 December 2023
A. 	
Parent Company
	
Varun Beverages Limited
84.07%
 70,758.02 
84.17%
 17,751.30 
-874.44%
 (20.77)
84.06%
 17,730.53 
B. 	
Subsidiaries
	
Indian
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
2.11%
 1,773.69 
1.93%
 407.47 
-10.54%
 (0.25)
1.93%
 407.22 
Foreign
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
2.79%
 2,346.21 
3.33%
 701.72 
0.00%
 - 
3.33%
 701.72 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited 
(Consolidated)
2.37%
 1,992.19 
1.91%
 403.14 
-6.93%
 (0.16)
1.91%
 402.97 
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
3.41%
 2,868.04 
2.12%
 446.63 
0.00%
 - 
2.12%
 446.63 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited  
0.55%
 459.59 
-2.71%
 (571.56)
0.00%
 - 
-2.71%
 (571.56)
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
5.76%
 4,851.54 
10.05%
 2,119.24 
0.00%
 - 
10.05%
 2,119.24 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
-0.03%
 (22.03)
-0.01%
 (2.26)
0.00%
 - 
-0.01%
 (2.26)
Varun Beverages International DMCC
0.73%
 617.76 
1.42%
 299.06 
0.00%
 - 
1.42%
 299.06 
Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Limited
0.00%
 0.04 
0.00%
 (0.01)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.01)
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
-1.76%
 (1,481.55)
-2.19%
 (458.91)
991.91%
 23.56 
-2.07%
 (435.35)
C. 	
Associate (Investment as per equity method)
Indian
Clean Max Tav Private Limited^
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.21)
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 (0.21)
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
0.00%
 - 
-0.01%
 (1.51)
0.00%
 - 
-0.01%
 (1.51)
D. 	
Joint venture (Investment as per equity method)
Indian
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited^
0.00%
 - 
-0.01%
 (3.07)
0.00%
 - 
-0.01%
 (3.07)
100.00%
 84,163.50 
100.00%
 21,091.03 
100.00%
 2.38 
100.00%
 21,093.41 
Inter group eliminations/adjustments
 (14,798.52)
 (531.81)
 (58.83)
 (590.64)
Total
 69,364.98 
 20,559.22 
 (56.45)
 20,502.77 
*Percentage has been determined before considering elimination/adjustments arising out of consolidation.	
	
	
	
	
^ Refer note 6.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
326
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
59. 	Summarised financial information for Associate and Joint Venture: 
	
The Group has subscribed 50% ownership interest in IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited (“IDVB”), a joint 
venture, 26% ownership interest in Clean Max Tav Private Limited (“Clean Max”) and 26.34% ownership interest 
in Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited (“Huoban”). The Holding Company’s interest in IDVB, Huoban and Clean Max 
is accounted at cost using the equity method in these financial statements. Summarised financial information of 
IDVB, Huoban and Clean Max, is set out below:	
	
A.	
Principal place of business: India
	
B.	
Summarised balance sheet as on 31 December 2024:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
IDVB
Huoban
Clean Max
Non-current assets
 1,546.86 
 309.40 
 441.72 
Current assets
 78.16 
 33.90 
 39.78 
Non-current liabilities
 (616.89)
 (276.55)
 (331.73)
Current liabilities
 (39.28)
 (23.75)
 (29.34)
Net assets
 968.85 
 43.00 
 120.43 
Group share of net assets
50.00%
26.34%
26.00%
Group's carrying amount of investment
 484.43 
 11.33 
 31.31 
	
C.	
Summarised statement of profit and loss
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
IDVB
Huoban
Clean Max
Revenue
 - 
 40.74 
 46.07 
Other income
 0.65 
 1.20 
 2.18 
Total income
 0.65 
 41.94 
 48.25 
Finance costs
 0.59 
 27.45 
 37.46 
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
 1.96 
 12.58 
 10.58 
Other expenses
 23.10 
 5.40 
 6.18 
Total expense
 25.65 
 45.43 
 54.22 
Loss before tax
 (25.00)
 (3.49)
 (5.97)
Tax expense
 - 
 0.29 
 (1.02)
Loss after tax
 (25.00)
 (3.78)
 (4.95)
Other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive income
 (25.00)
 (3.78)
 (4.95)
Group's share in %
50.00%
26.34%
26.00%
Group's share in total comprehensive loss
 (12.50)
 (0.99)
 (1.29)
Loss recognised in the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss
 (12.50)
 (0.99)
 (1.29)
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
327
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
60. Disclosure relating to provision:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
31 December 2024
 31 December 2023
Opening balance
 503.72 
 - 
Addition
 41.16 
 503.72 
Utilisation
 (250.76)
 - 
Closing balance
 294.12 
 503.72 
	
The Holding Company has made GST provision during the year 31 December 2023 towards tax rate difference based on the 
demand order amounting to ` 120.08 million issued by Central GST Commissionerate, Jalandhar for the period 01 July 2017 to 30 
September 2021 in the State of Punjab. Considering the demand order, Holding Company has provided for GST liability on entire 
sales of a product for the said period. The Holding Company has not recovered the additional GST liability from its customers. 
During the current year, the Holding Company has accrued interest on above GST provision and also reversed provisions that has 
now become time-barred as at reporting date.	 	
	
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
i	
This provision represent estimates made mainly for probable claim arising out of dispute pending with 
authority. The probability and the timing of the outflow with regard to the matter depend on the final outcome 
of the dispute. Hence, the Holding Company is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
	
ii	
Discounting obligation has not been considered as the dispute relates to Government Authority.	
61.	 Additional regulatory information not disclosed elsewhere in the financial information during 
current and previous year	
	
a)	
The Holding Company and its Indian subsidiary does not have any Benami property and no proceedings have 
been initiated or pending against the Group for holding any Benami property, under the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibitions) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.	
	
	
	
	
	
b)	
The Holding Company and its Indian subsidiary does not have any transactions with struck off companies 
under section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956, except for the 
parties mentioned below: 	
	
	
	
	
Name of the 
struck off 
company 
Nature of 
transactions with 
struck off company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31 December 2024
Relationship with 
the struck off 
company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31 December 2023
Relationship 
with the struck 
off company
Ace Polypet 
Private Limited
Sale of goods
 (0.00)* No relationship
 (0.00)* No 
relationship
C A Trade Links 
Private Limited
Security deposit 
received
 (0.09) No relationship
 (0.09) No 
relationship
Ngen Auto 
Private Limited
Purchases
 - No relationship
 0.00* No 
relationship
Thermadyne 
Private Limited
Purchases
 (0.38) No relationship
 - No 
relationship
	
*Rounded off to Nil
	
c)	
The Group does not have any charges which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period. 
	
d)	
The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency.
	
e)	
The Group has not advanced or provided loan to or invested funds in any entity(ies) including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) or to any other person(s), with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
Varun Beverages Limited
328
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2024
	
f)	
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
	
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries,
	
g)	
The Group has not undertaken any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
	
h)	
The Holding Company and its Indian subsidiary has not been declared a ‘Wilful Defaulter’ by any bank (as 
defined under the Companies Act, 2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful 
defaulters issued by the Reserve Bank of India.		
	
	
	
	
i)	
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read 
with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017. 
	
j)	
The borrowings obtained by the Group from banks have been applied for the purposes for which such loans 
were taken. 
	
k)	
The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible 
assets or both. 
	
l)	
The Holding Company has borrowings from banks on the basis of security of current assets. The quarterly 
returns or statements of current assets filed by the Holding Company with banks are in agreement with the 
books of accounts.
62. 	Subsequent events occurred after the balance sheet date: 
	
i.	
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on 10 February 2025 have approved a payment of final dividend 
of ` 0.50 (Rupee fifty paisa only) per equity share of the face value of ` 2 each, subject to the approval of 
equity shareholders in ensuing annual general meeting of the Holding Company. 
	
ii	
The Holding Company has invested in the equity shares of one of its subsidiaries named The Beverage 
Company Proprietary Limited amounting to ` 4,128.04 million as on 02 January 2025.
63. 	The amounts of previous reported period have been regrouped/reclassified wherever considered necessary in 
order to comply with financial reporting requirements.
The accompanying notes 1 to 63 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649	
	
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
329
Annual Report 2024
Form AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of Subsidiaries/Associate companies/Joint venture
Part A: Subsidiaries
(` in million, except as stated otherwise)
S. 
No
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Particulars
Varun 
Beverages 
(Nepal) 
Private 
Limited
Varun 
Beverages 
Lanka 
(Private) 
Limited*
Varun 
Beverages 
Morocco SA
Varun 
Beverages 
(Zambia) 
Limited
Varun 
Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) 
(Private) 
Limited
Lunarmech 
Technologies 
Private 
Limited
Varun 
Beverages 
RDC SAS
Varun 
Beverages 
International 
DMCC
Varun 
Beverages 
South Africa 
(Pty) Limited^
VBL 
Mozambique, 
SA@
Varun Foods 
Zimbabwe 
(Private) 
Limited#
The Beverage 
Company 
Proprietary 
Limited~*
Date of acquisition
01 January 
2012
01 January 
2012
01 January 
2012
01 January 
2016
01 January 
2016
04 
November 
2019
31 December 
2021
31 January 
2022
23 May 2023 21 November 
2023
22 May 2024
26 March 
2024
Financial year ended
15 July 2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 March 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
Reporting period for 
consolidation
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2024
Reporting Currency
NPR
LKR
MAD
ZMW
USD
INR
CDF
AED
ZAR
MZN
USD
ZAR
Exchange rate on the 
last day of financial year
0.62441
0.29027
8.31371
3.06649
85.62320
1.00000
0.02956
23.29620
4.54272
1.32764
85.62320
4.54272
Average exchange rate 
during the financial year
0.62441
0.27589
8.32064
3.20470
83.67864
1.00000
0.02940
22.77720
4.61974
1.29800
83.67864
4.61974
1
Share Capital
 907.31 
 2,896.82 
 6,215.07 
 843.71 
 0.07 
 9.95 
 0.74 
 20.68 
 0.05 
 1.34 
 0.84 
 3,740.39 
2
Reserves and surplus
 1,786.93 
 (280.07)
 (2,988.18)
 (562.83)
 7,136.45 
 2,031.26 
 (51.25)
 890.76 
 (0.01)
 (16.19)
 - 
 (4,221.81)
3
Total Assets
 5,579.68 
 3,270.36 
 11,659.56 
 2,443.82 
 11,539.28 
 2,906.75 
 11,028.88 
 7,890.47 
 0.03 
 8.51 
 0.89 
 17,448.28 
4
Total Liabilities
 2,885.44 
 653.67 
 8,411.48 
 2,170.94 
 4,402.75 
 865.54 
 10,977.15 
 6,975.67 
 - 
 23.37 
 0.03 
 17,929.69 
5
Investments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6
Turnover
 6,808.06 
 3,984.56 
 12,363.67 
 3,431.25 
 16,277.64 
 1,667.47 
 2,945.00 
 7,958.11 
 - 
 48.32 
 - 
 15,763.29 
7
Profit/(Loss) before tax
 1,521.81 
 746.53 
 362.12 
 (167.69)
 2,116.71 
 357.02 
 54.23 
 297.04 
 (0.00)
 (15.82)
 - 
 (239.35)
8
Provision for tax
 176.85 
 119.30 
 31.62 
 - 
 30.85 
 89.17 
 - 
 30.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.93 
9
Profit/(Loss) after tax
 1,344.96 
 627.23 
 330.51 
 (167.69)
 2,085.86 
 267.85 
 54.23 
 266.19 
 (0.00)
 (15.82)
 - 
 (283.28)
10
Proposed Dividend
 999.81 
 310.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
11
% of shareholding
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
90.00%
85.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
95.00%
* Consolidated figures
^Incorporated on 23 May 2023 and yet to commence operations as on reporting date.
@Incorporated on 21 November 2023.
#Incorporated on 22 May 2024 and yet to commence operations as on reporting date. 
~Acquired on 26 March 2024. 
Varun Beverages Limited
330
Part B: Associates and Joint venture	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, except as stated otherwise)
S. 
No
Particulars
IDVB Recycling 
Operations Private 
Limited*
Clean Max Tav 
Private Limited
Huoban Energy 7 
Private Limited
Latest Audited Balance sheet date
31 December 2024
31 December 2024
31 December 2024
Date of acquisition
01 July 2022
23 November 2022
09 May 2023
Reporting Currency
INR
INR
INR
1
Shares of Associate/Joint venture held by the Holding company on the year 
end: (Number)
 5,00,00,000 
 21,030 
 12,47,943 
Amount of investment in Associate/joint venture
 500.00 
 32.85 
 21.24 
Total number of shares
 10,00,00,000 
 80,881 
 47,38,129 
Extent of holding %
50.00%
26.00%
26.34%
Description of how there is significant influence
Joint Venture
Associate
Associate
2
Networth attributable to shareholding as per latest Balance Sheet
 968.85 
 120.40 
 43.00 
3
Loss for the year:
Considered in consolidation
 (12.50)
 (1.29)
 (0.99)
Not considered in consolidation
 (12.50)
 (3.66)
 (2.79)
* yet to commence commercial operations as on reporting date.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
	
Varun Beverages Limited
	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and
Place : Gurugram	
	
Group Company Secretary
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
331
Annual Report 2024
To the Members of Varun Beverages Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone 
financial statements of Varun Beverages Limited 
(‘the Company’), which comprise the Balance 
Sheet as at 31 December 2024, the Statement of 
Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Statement of Cash Flow and the 
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then 
ended, and notes to the standalone financial 
statements, including a summary of the material 
accounting 
policies 
and 
other 
explanatory 
information 
(hereinafter 
referred 
to 
as 
the 
“standalone financial statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid standalone financial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 
(‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give a 
true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 
31 December 2024, and its profit (including other 
comprehensive income), its cash flows and the 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Independent Auditor’s Report
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
standalone financial statements section of our 
report. We are independent of the Company in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘the 
ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the standalone 
financial statements under the provisions of the 
Act and the rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance 
in our audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.
5.	
We have determined the matters described below 
to be the key audit matters to be communicated 
in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment of intangible assets 
including goodwill
Refer note 3.5 and 3.11 for accounting policies on 
Intangibles assets and Business combinations and 
Goodwill respectively. Further refer note 5A and 
5B to the standalone financial statements.
The Company carries Goodwill and franchise 
rights/ trademarks as intangible assets having 
indefinite life amounting to INR 19.40 million and 
INR 5,385.99 million respectively, that are required 
to be tested for impairment by the management 
on an annual basis in accordance with Ind AS 36, 
Impairment of Assets.
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited, to the 
following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the management’s 
process for identification of cash generating unit and 
processes performed by the management for their 
impairment testing;
•	
Assessed the process by which management prepared 
its cash flow forecasts and held discussions with 
management to understand the assumptions used 
and estimates made by them for determining such 
projections;
Varun Beverages Limited
332
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The aforesaid assessment of the impairment 
testing involves significant judgement around the 
determination of the recoverable amounts, being 
the higher of value in use and fair value less costs 
of disposal. Recoverable amounts are based on 
management’s view of the future cash flows and 
prospects of the business, the appropriate discount 
rates and other industry specific risk factors.
The key judgements in determining the recoverable 
amounts relates to the forecast of future cash 
flows based on strategy using macroeconomic 
assumptions such as industry growth, inflation 
and expected growth in market share, capital 
expenditure and working capital requirements, 
among others.
Changes 
in 
the 
management 
forecasts 
or 
assumptions can impact the assessment of the 
discounted cash flows.
Considering the materiality of the amounts 
involved and significant degree of judgement 
and subjectivity involved in the estimates and key 
assumptions used in determining the forecasted 
cash flows used in the impairment evaluation, which 
are dependent on current and future economic 
factors and trading conditions varying for different 
economic and geographical territories, impairment 
assessment of Goodwill and the Franchise rights/ 
trademarks was determined as a key audit matter.
•	
Tested the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal controls over such identification and 
impairment test procedures;
•	
Assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s 
accounting policies, including those relating to 
recognition, 
measurement 
and 
impairment 
of 
intangibles by comparing with the applicable Ind AS;
•	
Reviewed the valuation report obtained by the 
management 
from 
an 
independent 
valuer 
for 
Franchise rights and assessed the professional 
competence, skills and objectivity for performing the 
required valuations;
•	
Assessed the appropriateness of the significant 
assumptions as well as the Company’s valuation model 
with the support of auditor’s valuation specialists, who 
assess the reasonableness of assumptions used and 
valuation methodology applied relating to discount 
rate, risk premium, industry growth rate etc. This 
included a discussion of the expected development of 
the business and results as well as of the underlying 
assumptions used with those responsible for the 
planning process.
•	
Assessed the robustness of financial projections 
prepared 
by 
the 
management 
by 
comparing 
projections for previous financial years with actual 
results realised and discussed significant deviations, if 
any, with the management;
•	
Tested mathematical accuracy of the projections 
and performed a sensitivity analysis for reasonably 
possible changes in the sales growth, discount rate 
applied and the long-term growth rate; and
•	
Evaluated the adequacy and appropriateness of 
disclosures made by the Company in the standalone 
financial statements, as required by the applicable 
provisions of the Act and Ind AS.
Claims, Appeals and Litigations – provisions and 
contingent liabilities
(Refer note 40 to the standalone financial 
statements for the amounts of contingent liabilities)
The Company is involved in various direct, indirect 
tax and other claims, appeals and litigations 
(hereafter, referred to as “Matters”) that are 
pending 
with 
different 
statutory 
authorities 
and judicial courts. The management exercises 
significant judgement for determining the need 
for and the amount of provisions, for any liabilities, 
arising from these matters.
Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the 
following:
•	
Assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s 
accounting 
policies 
relating 
to 
provisions 
and 
contingent liabilities with the applicable accounting 
standards;
•	
Assessed the Company’s process and the underlying 
controls for identification of the pending matters 
and completeness for financial reporting and also for 
monitoring of significant developments in relation to 
such pending matters;
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
333
Annual Report 2024
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
This judgement is dependent on a number of 
significant assumptions and evaluations which 
involves interpreting the various applicable rules, 
regulations, practices and considering precedents 
in the various jurisdictions including the opinions 
received from various legal counsels.
This matter is considered as a key audit matter, 
in 
view 
of 
the 
uncertainty 
regarding 
the 
outcome of these matters, the significance of the 
amounts involved and the subjectivity involved 
in management’s judgement as to whether any 
amount should be recognised as a provision or 
be disclosed or not as a contingent liability in the 
standalone financial statements.
•	
Assessed 
the 
management’s 
assumptions 
and 
estimates in respect of matters, including the liabilities 
or provisions recognised or contingent liabilities 
disclosed in the standalone financial statements. This 
involved assessing the probability of an unfavorable 
outcome of a given proceeding and the reliability of 
estimates of related amounts based on the various 
legal counsels’ opinions received by the Company;
•	
Recomputed 
the 
arithmetical 
accuracy 
of 
the 
underlying calculations supporting the provisions 
recorded from the supporting evidences including the 
correspondence with various authorities;
•	
Assessed the management’s conclusions through 
understanding relevant judicial precedents in similar 
cases and the applicable rules and regulations and 
through a discussion with Company’s legal department 
and legal counsels appointed by the Company;
•	
Obtained 
legal 
opinions 
and 
confirmation 
on 
completeness from the Company’s external legal 
counsels, where appropriate;
•	
Engaged auditor’s experts to gain an understanding 
of the current status of matters and changes 
in the disputes, if any, through discussions with 
the management and by reading external advice 
received by the Company, where relevant, to validate 
management’s conclusions; and
•	
Assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s 
description of the accounting policy, disclosures 
related to matters and whether these are adequately 
presented in the standalone financial statements.
Information other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report thereon
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises 
the 
information 
included 
in 
the 
Management Discussion and Analysis, Report on 
Corporate Governance and Director’s Report, but 
does not include the standalone financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon.
	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the standalone financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the 
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, we 
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Varun Beverages Limited
334
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Standalone Financial 
Statements
7.	
The accompanying standalone financial statements 
have been approved by the Company’s Board 
of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors 
are responsible for the matters stated in section 
134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
and presentation of these standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the 
financial position, financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, changes in equity and 
cash flows of the Company in accordance with the 
Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of 
the assets of the Company and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
8.	
In preparing the financial statements, the Board of 
Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern, and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the 
Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so.
9.	
The Board of Directors is also responsible for 
overseeing 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
reporting 
process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a 
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these standalone financial statements. 
11.	
As part of an audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the 
Act, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement 
of 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive 
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher 
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control;
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3) (i) of the 
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate 
internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to financial statements and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls;
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the management;
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board 
of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
335
Annual Report 2024
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Company 
to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
12.	
We 
communicate 
with 
those 
charged 
with 
governance regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
13.	
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters 
in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine 
that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the 
public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
15.	
As required by section 197(16) of the Act based on 
our audit, we report that the Company has paid 
remuneration to its directors during the year in 
accordance with the provisions of and limits laid down 
under section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
16.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of section 143(11) of 
the Act, we give in the Annexure I, a statement on 
the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 
Order, to the extent applicable.
17.	
Further to our comments in Annexure I, as required 
by section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit, we 
report, to the extent applicable, that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit of the accompanying 
standalone financial statements;
b)	
in our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books, except for the matters stated 
in paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended)}.
c)	
The standalone financial statements dealt with 
by this report are in agreement with the books 
of account;
d)	
in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act;
e)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors and taken on record 
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors 
is disqualified as on 31 December 2024 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of section 
164(2) of the Act;
f)	
The modification relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in paragraph 17(b) above 
on reporting under section 143(3)(b) of the Act 
and paragraph 17(h)(vi) below on reporting 
under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company as on 31 December 
2024 and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate Report 
in Annexure II wherein we have expressed an 
unmodified opinion; and
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
Varun Beverages Limited
336
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
	
i.	
The Company, as detailed in note 40 to 
the standalone financial statements, has 
disclosed the impact of pending litigations 
on its financial position as at 31 December 
2024;
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses as at 31 December 2024.
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company during the year ended 31 
December 2024; and
	
	
iv. 	 a.	
The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in note 57(e) to 
the standalone financial statements, 
no funds have been advanced or 
loaned 
or 
invested 
(either 
from 
borrowed funds or securities premium 
or any other sources or kind of 
funds) by the Company to or in any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), 
with 
the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Company (‘the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b.	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in note 57(f) to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
received by the Company from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (‘the Funding Parties’), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures 
performed as considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain 
any material misstatement.
	
v.	
The interim dividend declared and paid 
by the Company during the year ended 31 
December 2024 and until the date of this 
audit report is in compliance with section 
123 of the Act.
	
	
The final dividend paid by the Company 
during the year ended 31 December 2024 
in respect of such dividend declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend.
	
	
As stated in note 61(i) to the accompanying 
standalone 
financial 
statements, 
the 
Board of Directors of the Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2024 which is subject to the 
approval of the members at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included 
test checks, the Company, in respect of 
financial year commencing on 01 January 
2024, has used two accounting software 
for maintaining its books of account 
which have a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility and the same have 
been operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. However, the audit trail feature 
was not enabled at database level for one 
accounting software to log any direct data 
changes, as described in note 60 to the 
standalone financial statements.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
337
Annual Report 2024
For J C Bhalla & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 001111N
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 000018N/N500091
Akhil Bhalla
Partner
Membership No: 505002
UDIN: 25505002BMIKXH2112
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-5, Sector-6, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201301
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal
Partner
Membership No. 094155
UDIN: 25094155BMKSDP4102
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-225, 5th Floor, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase 1, New Delhi 110020
	
	
Further, during the course of our audit we 
did not come across any instance of audit 
trail feature being tampered with in respect 
of these accounting software
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 applies to the 
Company for the financial year commencing 
on 01 January 2024, reporting under Rule 
11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as 
per the statutory requirements for record 
retention is not applicable for the financial 
year ended December 31, 2024.
Varun Beverages Limited
338
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us 
and given by the Company and the books of account and 
records examined by us in the normal course of audit, and 
to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
(i)	
(a)	 (A)	 The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative 
details 
and 
situation 
of 
property, plant and equipment, capital 
work-in-progress and relevant details of 
right-of-use assets.
	
	
(B)	 The 
Company 
has 
maintained 
proper 
records showing full particulars of intangible 
assets including intangible assets under 
development.
	
(b)	 The property, plant and equipment (other than 
refrigerators (Visi coolers) and containers lying 
with third parties) and right-of-use assets have 
been physically verified by the management 
during the year and no material discrepancies 
were noticed on such verification. The Company 
has a regular programme of physical verification 
Annexure I referred to in Paragraph 17 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of 
even date to the members of Varun Beverages Limited on the standalone financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
of refrigerators (Visi coolers) under which 
such assets are verified in a phased manner 
over a period of three years and no material 
discrepancies were noticed on such verification. 
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the existence of containers lying 
with third parties is considered on the basis 
of the confirmations obtained from such 
third parties. In our opinion, the frequency of 
physical verification programme adopted by the 
Company, is reasonable having regard to the 
size of the Company and the nature of its assets.
	
(c) 	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties 
held by the Company (other than properties 
where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
lessee), disclosed in Note 4A to the standalone 
financial statements, are held in the name of the 
Company. For properties where the Company 
is a lessee and the lease agreements are duly 
executed in favour of the lessee except in 
following case:
	
We have directly obtained the confirmation from the 
trust for title deeds of immovable properties, which 
are in the nature of land, having gross carrying value 
of 13,384.39 million as at 31 December 2024. The 
title deeds of such immovable properties have been 
mortgaged as security for loans or borrowings taken 
by the Company.
	
(d)	 The Company has not revalued its property, 
plant and equipment (including right-of-use 
assets) or intangible assets during the year.
	
(e)	 No proceedings have been initiated or are 
pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of 
Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as 
amended) and rules made thereunder. 
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
(` million)
Net 
carrying 
value
(` million)
Whether title deed holder 
is a Promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee
Date 
since the 
property 
is held
Reasons
Land situated at 
Buxar, Bihar
371.34
367.52
No
21 
December 
2023
The Company has received 
the possession letter dated 
21 December 2023 of land 
situated at Buxar, Bihar and 
is in the process of getting 
lease deed registered in its 
name.
Land situated at, 
Kolkata, West Bengal
1.50
1.41
No
01 
October 
2018
The Company has executed 
the lease agreement for 
Kolkata, West Bengal land, 
which is yet to be registered.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
339
Annual Report 2024
(ii)	 (a)	 The 
management 
has 
conducted 
physical 
verification of inventory at reasonable intervals 
during the year, except for goods-in-transit. In 
our opinion, the coverage and procedure of such 
verification by the management is appropriate 
and no discrepancies of 10% or more in the 
aggregate for each class of inventory were noticed 
as compared to book records.
	
(b)	 As disclosed in Note 19A to the standalone 
financial statements, the Company has been 
sanctioned a working capital limit in excess of Rs. 
50 million by banks or financial institutions based 
on the security of current assets. The quarterly 
statements, in respect of the working capital limits 
have been filed by the Company with such banks 
or financial institutions and such statements are 
in agreement with the books of account of the 
Company for the respective periods, which were 
subject to audit/review.
(iii)	 (a)	 The Company has not provided security or granted 
any loans or advances in the nature of loans, 
secured or unsecured to companies, firms, Limited 
Liability Partnerships (LLPs) or any other parties 
during the year. The Company has provided loans 
or guarantee, to Subsidiaries during the year as 
per details given below:
	
Further, the Company has made investment in 6 
entities amounting to ` 6,438.39 million (year-end 
balance ` 20,922.18 million).
	
(b)	 In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the investments 
made, guarantees provided and terms and 
conditions of the grant of all loans and guarantees 
provided are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the 
interest of the Company. Further the Company 
has not provided any advances in the nature of 
loans or given any security.
	
(c)	 In respect of loans granted by the Company, 
the schedule of repayment of principal and 
payment of interest has been stipulated and the 
repayments/receipts of principal and interest 
are regular.
	
(d)	 There is no overdue amount in respect of loans 
granted by the Company.
	
(e)	 The Company has not granted any loan or 
advance in the nature of loan which has fallen 
due during the year. Further, no fresh loans 
were granted to any party to settle the overdue 
loans/advances in nature of loan that existed as 
at the beginning of the year.
	
(f)	 The Company has not granted any loans or 
advances in the nature of loans, which are 
repayable on demand or without specifying any 
terms or period of repayment.
Particulars
Guarantees
(` million)
Loans
(` million)
Aggregate amount provided/granted during the year
12,075.07
7,994.24
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date
15,776.40
15,403.40
(iv)	 In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of section 186 of the 
Act in respect of loans and investments made and 
guarantees provided by it, as applicable. Further, 
the Company has not entered into any transaction 
covered under section 185 and section 186 of the Act 
in respect of security provided by it.
(v)	 In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has not 
accepted any deposits or there are no amounts 
which have been deemed to be deposits within the 
meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the 
Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as 
amended). Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(v) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	 The Central Government has specified maintenance 
of cost records under sub-section (1) of section 
148 of the Act in respect of the products of the 
Company. We have broadly reviewed the books of 
account maintained by the Company pursuant to 
the rules made by the Central Government for the 
maintenance of cost records and are of the opinion 
that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and 
records have been made and maintained. However, 
we have not made a detailed examination of the cost 
records with a view to determine whether they are 
accurate or complete.
Varun Beverages Limited
340
(vii)	(a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, undisputed 
statutory dues including goods and services 
tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of 
customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess 
and other material statutory dues, as applicable, 
have generally been regularly deposited with 
the appropriate authorities by the Company, 
though there have been slight delays in a few 
cases. Further, no undisputed amounts payable 
in respect thereof were outstanding at the year-
end for a period of more than six months from 
the date they became payable.
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Gross 
Amount  
(` million)
Amount paid 
under protest  
(` million)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where dispute is pending
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
11.89
0.89
April 2012 to 
December 2015
CESTAT, New Delhi
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
11.39
-
March 2011 to 
March 2013
Honourable Rajasthan High Court, 
Jaipur
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
0.16
-
March 2015 to 
October 2015
Joint Commissioner, Panchkula
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
0.58
-
March 2015 to 
January 2016
CESTAT, Chandigarh
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
13.69
0.68
April 2014 to 
February 2015
Office of the Commissioner of 
Central Tax, Panchkula
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
0.11
-
February 2016 to 
March 2017
Office of the Commissioner of 
Central Excise, Sonipat
Central Excise Act, 1944
Central 
excise
0.26
-
April 2017 to 
June 2018
Office of the Commissioner of 
Central Excise, Sonipat
The Custom Act, 1962
Custom Act
90.75
3.41
January 2017 to 
December 2018
CESTAT Mumbai
The Custom Act, 1962
Custom Act
117.06
2.32
January 2022 to 
December 2023
CESTAT Mumbai
The Rajasthan Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.10
0.10
Dec-20
Assistant Commissioner, Jaipur
The Rajasthan Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
18.02
0.87
July 2017 to 
March 2018
Joint Commissioner, Rajasthan
The Madhya Pradesh Goods 
& Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.10
0.10
2019-2020
Additional Commissioner, Indore
The Bihar Goods & Services 
Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.004
-
2022-2023
Additional Commissioner, 
Darbhanga
The Bihar Goods & Services 
Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.10
0.10
2022-2023
Case remand back to the 
Commissioner (Appeal)
The Chhattisgarh Goods & 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
8.89
-
2017-2018
Assistant Commissioner of State 
Tax, Raipur
The Delhi Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.40
0.40
Mar-20
Additional Commissioner, Noida
The Delhi Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
10.63
-
2018-2019
Deputy Commissioner, Okhla, Delhi
The Uttar Pradesh Goods 
and Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.98
0.25
2017-2021
Additional Commissioner, 
Ghaziabad
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given to us, we report that there are no statutory dues referred 
in sub-clause (a) which have not been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of any dispute 
except for the following:
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
341
Annual Report 2024
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Gross 
Amount  
(` million)
Amount paid 
under protest  
(` million)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where dispute is pending
The Uttar Pradesh Goods 
and Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.51
0.37
2013-2024
Additional Commissioner, 
Ghaziabad
The Gujarat Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.48
0.48
March 2020 to 
April 2021
Assistant Commissioner, Gujrat
The Jharkhand Goods & 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.11
0.11
2021-2022
Additional Commissioner, Ranchi
The Rajasthan Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.30
0.30
2019-2020
Appellate Authority-I Commercial 
Taxes Jaipur
The Kerala Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.38
0.38
2019-2022
Additional and Joint Commissioner, 
Palakkad
The Karnataka Goods & 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.11
0.11
2020-2021
Additional Commissioner, Bengaluru
The Haryana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.20
0.20
2019-2020
Assistant Commissioner, GST 
Faridabad
The Haryana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.21
0.21
2023-2024
Assistant Excise & Taxation Officer 
Sonipat
The Haryana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.64
0.64
01-09-2019 and 
June 2020
Additional Commissioner, Panchkula 
The Haryana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
142.68
-
01-04-2020 TO 
31-03-2021
Additional Commissioner, Panchkula 
Punjab Goods and Services 
Tax Act, 2017
GST
120.87
12.08
Nov-22
Assistant Commissioner, GST 
Jalandhar
Punjab Goods and Services 
Tax Act, 2017
GST
80.85
-
FY 2019-20 TO 
FY 2022-23
Commissioner CBIC, Jalandhar, 
Chandigarh
Punjab Goods and Services 
Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.03
0.03
2022-2023
Assistant Commissioner of State Tax 
Mobile Wing Jalandhar
The Uttar Pradesh Goods 
and Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.23
0.23
2024-2025
Assistant Commissioner
The Telangana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
10.57
0.06
2020-2021 and 
2021-2022
Commissioner of Central Tax, 
Madhapur, Hyderabad
The Telangana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
0.04
0.04
Dec-19
Assistant Commissioner, GST 
Sangareddy
The Telangana Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
2.53
-
2019-2020
Assistant Commissioner, GST 
Sangareddy
The Tamil Nadu Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
2.35
0.62
2019-2023
Joint Commissioner and 
Superintendent
The Andra pradesh Goods 
and Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
2.33
-
2019-20
Deputy Commissioner
The Andra pradesh Goods 
and Services Tax Act, 2017
GST
13.63
-
2020-21
Deputy Commissioner
Odisha Goods and Services 
Tax. Act, 2017
GST
0.18
0.18
2019-2020
Odisha High court
Odisha Goods and Services 
Tax. Act, 2017
GST
0.70
-
2020-21
Superintendent , Bhubaneshwar 
Range -1
The Uttarakhand Goods & 
Service Tax Act 2017.
GST
0.22
0.22
June 2023 and 
December 2023
Additional Commissioner, Haldwani
The Uttarakhand Goods & 
Service Tax Act 2017.
GST
0.14
-
May 2024 and 
December 2024
Additional Commissioner, Haldwani
Varun Beverages Limited
342
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Gross 
Amount  
(` million)
Amount paid 
under protest  
(` million)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where dispute is pending
The Assam Goods & 
Service Tax Act 2017.
GST
3.31
-
Apr-20 to Mar-21
Additional Commissioner, Guwahati
The Assam Goods & 
Service Tax Act 2017.
GST
1.43
0.68
Apr-19 To May 20
Additional Commissioner, Guwahati
The Assam Goods & 
Service Tax Act 2017.
GST
5.35
-
Apr-20 To March 
21
Additional Commissioner, Guwahati
Income-Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
39.00
-
AY 2012-2013
Honourable High Court, New Delhi
Income-Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
24.20
-
AY 2016-2017
Commissioner Income Tax 
(Appeals), New Delhi
Income-Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
11.85
-
AY 2017-2018
Commissioner Income Tax 
(Appeals), New Delhi
Income-Tax Act, 1961
Income tax
24.97
-
AY 2018-2019
Commissioner Income Tax 
(Appeals), New Delhi
The Uttarakhand Value 
Added Tax Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
0.14
0.23
Apr-12
Commissioner (Appeals) Roorkee
The Uttarakhand Value 
Added Tax Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
3.86
0.50
2015-2016
Honourable High court of 
Uttarakhand
The Uttarakhand Value 
Added Tax Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
11.16
0.50
2016-2017
Honourable High court of 
Uttarakhand
The Uttarakhand Value 
Added Tax Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
5.75
-
2017-2018
Deputy Commissioner of Sale Tax, 
Roorkee
Rajasthan Value Added Tax 
Act, 2003
Value added 
tax
582.46
16.75
2010-2015
Honourable Rajasthan High Court - 
Jaipur
Rajasthan Value Added Tax 
Act, 2003
Value added 
tax
0.04
-
2009-2010, May 
2015 and June 
2016
Deputy Commissioner (Appeal), 
Jaipur
The Uttar Pradesh Value 
Added Tax Act, 2008
Value added 
tax
0.10
0.10
2010-2011
Joint Commissioner, Kanpur
West Bengal Value Added 
Tax Act, 2003
Value added 
tax
0.25
0.12
Jul'12
West Bengal, Tribunal
Punjab Value Added Tax 
Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
0.36
-
2015-2016
The Deputy Excise and Taxation 
Commissioner (Appeals) cum Joint 
Director (Investigation), Mohali
Punjab Value Added Tax 
Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
0.37
0.14
2016-2017
The Deputy Excise and Taxation 
Commissioner (Appeals) cum 
Joint Director (Investigation), HQ 
Bathinda
Punjab Value Added Tax 
Act, 2005
Value added 
tax
0.25
0.03
2016-2017
The Deputy Excise and Taxation 
Commissioner (Appeals) cum Joint 
Director (Enforcement), Jalandhar
The Uttar Pradesh Value 
Added Tax Act, 2008 
Value added 
tax
1.52
0.11
2001-2002
Additional Commissioner (Appeals), 
Ghaziabad
The Uttar Pradesh Value 
Added Tax Act, 2008
Value added 
tax
14.17
-
2007-2011
Additional Commissioner, 
Ghaziabad
The Uttar Pradesh Value 
Added Tax Act, 2008
Value added 
tax
4.48
4.48
2011-2012
Tribunal Bench-1, Ghaziabad
Goa Value Added Tax Act 
2005
Value added 
tax
5.61
-
2017-2018
Additional Commissioner of 
Commercial taxes, Margao
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
343
Annual Report 2024
(viii)	According to the information and explanations 
given to us, we report that no transactions were 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year 
in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) which have not been previously 
recorded in the books of accounts. 
(ix)	  (a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not defaulted in repayment of its loans 
or borrowings or in the payment of interest 
thereon to any lender.
	
(b) According to the information and explanations 
given to us including representation received 
from the management of the Company, and on 
the basis of our audit procedures, we report that 
the Company has not been declared a willful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
	
(c)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, money raised by 
way of term loans were applied for the purposes 
for which these were obtained.
	
(d)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, funds raised by the Company on 
short term basis have, prima facie, not been 
utilised for long term purposes.
	
(e)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, the Company has not taken any 
funds from any entity or person on account of 
or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, 
associates or joint ventures.
	
(f)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not raised any loans during the year on the 
pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint 
ventures or associate companies.
(x) (a)	
The Company has not raised any money by 
way of initial public offer or further public offer 
(including debt instruments), during the year. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 During the year, the Company has made private 
placement (Qualified institutions placement) 
of shares. In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the 
Company has complied with the requirements 
of section 42 and section 62 of the Act and 
the rules framed thereunder with respect to 
the same. Further, the amounts so raised were 
used for the purposes for which the funds 
were raised, though idle funds which were not 
required for immediate utilisation have been 
invested in readily realisable liquid investments 
and kept in monitoring account.
(xi) (a)	
To the best of our knowledge and according to 
the information and explanations given to us, 
no fraud by the Company or no fraud on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during 
the period covered by our audit.
	
(b)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us including the representation made 
to us by the management of the Company, no 
report under sub-section 12 of section 143 of 
the Act has been filed by the auditors in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, with the 
Central Government for the period covered by 
our audit.
	
(c)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us including the representation made 
to us by the management of the Company, there 
are no whistle-blower complaints received by 
the Company during the year.
(xii)	The Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi 
Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, all transactions entered 
into by the Company with the related parties are 
in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the Act, 
where applicable. Further, the details of such related 
party transactions have been disclosed in the 
standalone financial statements, as required under 
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related 
Party Disclosures specified in Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 as prescribed 
under section 133 of the Act.
(xiv) (a)	 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has 
an internal audit system which is commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business as 
required under the provisions of section 138 of 
the Act.
Varun Beverages Limited
344
	
(b)	 We have considered the reports issued by the 
Internal Auditors of the Company till date for 
the period under audit.
(xv) 	According to the information and explanation given 
to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with its directors and accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xv) of the Order with respect to compliance 
with the provisions of section 192 of the Act are not 
applicable to the Company.
(xvi) The Company is not required to be registered under 
section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934. Accordingly, reporting under clauses 3(xvi)(a), 
(b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to the 
Company.
	
(d) Based on the information and explanations given 
to us and as represented by the management 
of the Company, the Group (as defined in 
Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016) has only one CIC as part of the 
Group.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred any cash losses in 
the current financial year as well as the immediately 
preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year. Accordingly, reporting 
under clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xix)	According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, 
ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial 
assets and payment of financial liabilities, other 
information in the standalone financial statements, 
our knowledge of the plans of the Board of Directors 
and management and based on our examination of 
the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing 
has come to our attention, which causes us to believe 
that any material uncertainty exists as on the date 
of the audit report indicating that Company is not 
capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, 
however, state that this is not an assurance as to the 
future viability of the company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of 
the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within 
a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the company as and when they 
fall due.
(xx) According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company does not have any unspent 
amounts towards Corporate Social Responsibility in 
respect of any ongoing or other than ongoing project 
as at the end of the financial year. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xxi) The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is 
not applicable in respect of audit of standalone 
financial statements of the Company. Accordingly, 
no comment has been included in respect of said 
clause under this report.
For J C Bhalla & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 001111N
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 000018N/N500091
Akhil Bhalla
Partner
Membership No: 505002
UDIN: 25505002BMIKXH2112
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-5, Sector-6, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201301
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal
Partner
Membership No. 094155
UDIN: 25094155BMKSDP4102
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-225, 5th Floor, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase 1, New Delhi 110020
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
345
Annual Report 2024
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements of Varun Beverages Limited (‘the 
Company’) as at and for the year ended 31 December 
2024, we have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements of the 
Company as at that date. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for Internal Financial 
Controls
2.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering 
the 
essential 
components 
of 
internal 
control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (‘the 
Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of the Company’s business, 
including adherence to the Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Financial Statements 
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) prescribed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements, and the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by 
the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
Annexure II
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) 
controls with reference to financial statements were 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements includes obtaining an 
understanding of such internal financial controls, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Financial Statements 
6.	
A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements include those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could 
have a material effect on the financial statements.
Varun Beverages Limited
346
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls with Reference to Financial Statements 
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial 
controls 
with 
reference 
to 
financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements and such controls 
were operating effectively as at 31 December 
2024, based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For J C Bhalla & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 001111N
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 000018N/N500091
Akhil Bhalla
Partner
Membership No: 505002
UDIN: 25505002BMIKXH2112
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-5, Sector-6, Noida
Uttar Pradesh 201301
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal
Partner
Membership No. 094155
UDIN: 25094155BMKSDP4102
Place: Gurugram
Date: 10 February 2025
B-225, 5th Floor, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase 1, New Delhi 110020
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
347
Annual Report 2024
Standalone Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2024
The accompanying notes 1 to 62 are an integral part of the standalone financial statements. 
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
(` in million)
Notes
As at
31 December 2024
As at
31 December 2023
Assets
Non-current assets
(a) 	 Property, plant and equipment
4A
 77,016.11 
 55,036.05 
(b) 	Capital work-in-progress
4B
 9,556.64 
 15,759.99 
(c) 	 Right of use assets
4C
 9,315.41 
 8,875.89 
(d) 	Goodwill
5A
 19.40 
 19.40 
(e) 	 Other intangible assets
5B
 5,460.04 
 5,450.74 
(f)	 Intangible assets under development
5C
 43.69 
 - 
(g) 	Financial assets
	
(i) 	 Investments
6
 20,960.11 
 14,499.54 
	
(ii) 	 Loans
7
 14,856.27 
 6,999.39 
	
(iii) 	Other financial assets
8
 802.09 
 564.85 
(h) 	 Other non-current assets
9
 3,429.50 
 3,537.46 
Total non-current assets
 141,459.26 
 110,743.31 
Current assets
(a) 	 Inventories
10
 16,887.05 
 15,358.74 
(b) 	Financial assets
(i) 	 Trade receivables
11
 1,997.63 
 2,129.42 
(ii) 	 Cash and cash equivalents
12
 20,580.80 
 494.80 
(iii) 	Bank balances other than (ii) above
13
 6.28 
 28.29 
(iv) 	Loans
14
 547.13 
 - 
(v) 	 Other financial assets
15
 9,772.54 
 7,695.02 
(c) 	 Other current assets
16
 3,589.05 
 3,645.00 
Total current assets
 53,380.48 
 29,351.27 
Total assets
 194,839.74 
 140,094.58 
Equity and liabilities
Equity
(a) 	 Equity share capital
17
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
(b) 	Other equity
18
 158,824.03 
 64,261.97 
Total equity
 165,587.05 
 70,758.04 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
(a) 	 Financial liabilities
(i) 	 Borrowings
19A
 1,442.10 
 30,105.49 
(ia) 	Lease liabilities
19C
 419.61 
 1,043.65 
(b) 	Provisions
20
 1,777.00 
 2,056.26 
(c) 	 Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
21
 3,833.51 
 3,133.33 
(d) 	Other non-current liabilities
22
 47.31 
 68.40 
Total non-current liabilities
 7,519.53 
 36,407.13 
Current liabilities
(a) 	 Financial liabilities
(i) 	 Borrowings
19B
 6,873.31 
 17,495.56 
(ia) 	Lease liabilities
19D
 77.10 
 176.29 
(ii) 	 Trade payables
	
	
(a) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
23
 640.19 
 767.25 
	
	
(b) 	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
23
 4,938.09 
 4,151.36 
(iii) 	Other financial liabilities
24
 5,883.00 
 6,678.70 
(b) 	Other current liabilities
25
 2,171.10 
 2,508.88 
(c) 	 Provisions
20
 647.94 
 815.70 
(d) 	 Current tax liabilities (Net)
26
 502.43 
 335.67 
Total current liabilities
 21,733.16 
 32,929.41 
Total liabilities
 29,252.69 
 69,336.54 
Total equity and liabilities
 194,839.74 
 140,094.58 
Material accounting policies
3
Varun Beverages Limited
348
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
For the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Notes
Year ended
 31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
Income
Revenue from operations
27
 143,486.00 
 126,328.26 
Other income
28
 3,539.35 
 1,461.42 
Total income
 147,025.35 
 127,789.68 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
29
 63,622.29 
 59,027.80 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
30
 2,029.08 
 1,494.34 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, intermediate goods, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress
31
 388.40 
 (618.15)
Employee benefits expense
32
 11,775.54 
 10,367.96 
Finance costs
33
 3,496.55 
 2,410.95 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
34
 6,179.06 
 5,183.28 
Other expenses
35
 28,835.04 
 26,241.87 
Total expenses 
 116,325.96 
 104,108.05 
Profit before tax
 30,699.39 
 23,681.63 
Tax expense
(a) 	 Current tax
26
 6,858.95 
 6,018.71 
(b) 	 Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
26
 6.64 
 (28.82)
(c) 	 Deferred tax charge/(credit)
21
 630.16 
 (59.52)
Total tax expense 
 7,495.75 
 5,930.37 
Net profit for the year
 23,203.64 
 17,751.26 
Other comprehensive income
36
 (a) 	 Items that will not to be reclassified to Profit or Loss:
	
(i)	
Re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
 278.06 
 (27.76)
	
(ii)	
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to 
	
	
Profit or Loss
 (69.98)
 6.99 
Total other comprehensive income
 208.08 
 (20.77)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 23,411.72 
 17,730.49 
Earnings per equity share of face value of ` 2 each
Basic (`)
38
 7.11 
 5.46 
Diluted (`)
38
 7.11 
 5.46 
Material accounting policies
3
The accompanying notes 1 to 62 are an integral part of the standalone financial statements. 
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
349
Annual Report 2024
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow
For the year ended 31 December 2024
(Indirect Method) 	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
A. 	 Operating activities
Profit before tax
 30,699.39 
 23,681.63 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
 5,986.66 
 5,007.16 
Amortisation of intangible assets and Right of use assets
 192.40 
 176.12 
Interest expense at amortised cost
 3,496.55 
 2,410.95 
Interest income at amortised cost
 (1,183.48)
 (512.24)
Dividend income from non-current investment in subsidiaries
 (1,315.99)
 (407.53)
	
Loss on disposal/written off of property, plant and equipment (Net)
 761.81 
 764.10 
Share based payments (Net)
 140.25 
 63.35 
Bad debts and advances written off
 9.10 
 2.13 
Excess provisions and liabilities written back
 (62.35)
 (291.84)
Gain on sale of current investments
 (22.47)
 (3.51)
Guarantee commission income
 (93.48)
 (28.87)
Unrealised foreign exchange fluctuation
 (425.29)
 (111.87)
Allowance for expected credit loss
 3.10 
 - 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 38,186.20 
 30,749.58 
Working capital adjustments:
Increase in inventories
 (1,528.30)
 (1,097.26)
Decrease/(Increase) in trade receivables
 127.61 
 (625.21)
Increase in current and non-current financial assets and other current 
and non-current assets
 (914.90)
 (3,165.89)
Increase/(Decrease) in current financial liabilities and other current 
and non-current liabilities and provisions
 423.94 
 (24.23)
Total cash from operations
 36,294.55 
 25,836.99 
Income tax paid
 (6,625.12)
 (6,308.22)
Net cash flows from operating activities (A)
 29,669.43 
 19,528.77 
B. 	 Investing activities
	
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, right of use assets 
and intangible assets (including adjustment on account of capital 
work-in-progress, capital advances and capital creditors)
 (23,833.06)
 (26,464.52)
	
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 154.65 
 563.20 
Loan given to subsidiaries and joint venture
 (7,994.24)
 (1,993.40)
Investment made in subsidiaries, associates, joint venture and other
 (6,438.39)
 (930.61)
Proceeds from sale of current investments (Net)
 22.47 
 3.51 
Receipt of loan given to a subsidiary
 - 
 250.07 
Change in other bank balances
 22.88 
 (28.39)
Guarantee commission received
 81.42 
 25.72 
Interest received
 430.55 
 366.23 
Dividend income from non-current investment in subsidiaries
 682.81 
 512.52 
	
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (36,870.91)
 (27,695.67)
Varun Beverages Limited
350
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow
For the year ended 31 December 2024
(Indirect Method) 	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended 
31 December 2024
Year ended 
31 December 2023
C. 	 Financing activities
Proceeds from long term borrowings
 10,929.58 
 22,689.10 
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (48,171.60)
 (12,377.86)
(Repayments)/Proceeds of short-term borrowings (Net)
 (2,071.58)
 2,582.05 
Repayments of lease liabilities
 (1,015.91)
 (98.25)
Interest paid (inclusive of interest paid on lease liabilities ` 120.18  
(31 December 2023: ` 106.23))
 (3,642.51)
 (2,381.67)
Proceeds from issue of equity shares including share premium thereon 
(QIP & ESOPs)
 75,118.80 
 44.41 
Share issue expenses (Refer note 59)
 (611.10)
 - 
Proceeds from share application money pending allotment
 - 
 3.51 
Dividend paid
 (3,248.20)
 (2,273.48)
Net cash generated from financing activities (C)
 27,287.48 
 8,187.81 
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (D=A+B+C)
 20,086.00 
 20.91 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year (E)
 494.80 
 473.89 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year (D+E) (Refer note 12)
 20,580.80 
 494.80 
Notes:
(a) 	 Reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing 
activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes pursuant to Ind AS 7:	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Non-current 
borrowings* 
Current 
borrowings
Lease Liabilities 
(Non-current and 
current)
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 39,846.05 
 7,755.00 
 1,219.94 
Cash flows (Net)
 (37,242.02)
 (2,071.58)
 (1,015.91)
Non-cash changes:
	
Recognition of lease liabilities (net)
 - 
 - 
 292.68 
	
Impact of fair value changes
 27.96 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 2,631.99 
 5,683.42 
 496.71 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Non-current 
borrowings* 
Current 
borrowings
Lease Liabilities 
(Non-current and 
current)
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 29,545.55 
 5,172.95 
1231.06
Cash flows (Net)
 10,311.24 
 2,582.05 
 (98.25)
Non-cash changes:
	
Recognition of lease liabilities (net)
 - 
 - 
 87.13 
	
Impact of fair value changes
 (10.74)
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 39,846.05 
 7,755.00 
 1,219.94 
*includes current maturities of long-term debts amounting to ` 1,189.89 million (31 December 2023: ` 9,740.56 million). (Refer note 19A and 19B)
Refer Note 47 for amount spent during the financial year 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 relating to Corporate Social Responsibilities 
activities.
The accompanying notes 1 to 62 are an integral part of the standalone financial statements. 
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co  	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
351
Annual Report 2024
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2024
A.	 Equity share capital
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Notes
Number of shares
Amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 649,549,620 
 6,495.50 
Changes in equity share capital during the year 2023
 649,665,356 
 0.57 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
17
 1,299,214,976 
 6,496.07 
Changes in equity share capital during the year 2024
 2,082,295,041 
 266.95 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
17
 3,381,510,017 
 6,763.02 
B.	 Other Equity
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Notes
Reserve and surplus
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Total 
Capital 
reserve 
Share 
option
outstanding 
account
Securities 
premium
General 
reserve 
Retained 
earnings
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 533.93 
 29.08 
 22,569.56 
 444.26 
 25,101.68 
 - 
 48,678.51 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17,751.26 
 - 
 17,751.26 
Other comprehensive income for the year
Re-measurement gain on defined benefit plans 
(Net of taxes)#
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (20.77)
 - 
 (20.77)
Dividend paid* (Refer note 39)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,273.48)
 - 
 (2,273.48)
Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.51 
 3.51 
Recognition of share based payment expenses 
(Refer note 32)
 - 
 79.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 79.10 
Pursuant to exercise of employee stock options
 - 
 (23.19)
 67.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.84 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
18
 533.93 
 84.99 
 22,636.59 
 444.26 
 40,558.69 
 3.51 
 64,261.97 
Varun Beverages Limited
352
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Notes
Reserve and surplus
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment
Total 
Capital 
reserve 
Share 
option
outstanding 
account
Securities 
premium
General 
reserve 
Retained 
earnings
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23,203.64 
 - 
 23,203.64 
Other comprehensive income for the year
	
Re-measurement loss on defined benefit plans 
(Net of taxes)#
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 208.08 
 - 
 208.08 
Dividend paid* (Refer note 39)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,248.55)
 - 
 (3,248.55)
Equity share capital issued during the year pending 
previous year allotment
-
-
-
-
-
 (3.51)
 (3.51)
Recognition of share based payment expenses 
(Refer note 32)
 - 
 162.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 162.43 
Pursuant to exercise of employee stock options
 - 
 (62.72)
 183.56 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 120.84 
Additions made on issue of equity share capital 
pursuant to Qualified Institutions Placement (Refer 
note 59)
 - 
 - 
 74,734.51 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 74,734.51 
Amount 
utilised 
for 
share 
issue 
expenses 
(Refer note 59)
 - 
 - 
 (615.38)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (615.38)
Balance as at 31 December 2024
18
 533.93 
 184.70 
 96,939.28 
 444.26 
 60,721.86 
 - 
 158,824.03 
# The disaggregation of changes in OCI by each type of reserves in equity is disclosed in Note 37.
*Transaction with owners in their capacity as owners.
The accompanying notes 1 to 62 are an integral part of the standalone financial statements. 
As per our report of even date attached
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
	
Varun Jaipuria		
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
	
Whole Time Director		
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
	
DIN 02465412		
DIN 00003649
	
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and 
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
353
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
1	
Corporate information
	
Varun Beverages Limited (the “Company”) is a 
public limited Company domiciled in India. Its 
registered office is at F-2/7, Okhla Industrial Area, 
Phase-I, New Delhi- 110 020. The Company’s equity 
shares are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange 
Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of 
India (“NSE”). The Company was incorporated on 
16 June 1995 with Corporate Identification Number 
L74899DL1995PLC069839 under the provision of 
the Companies Act, 1956. The Company is primarily 
engaged in manufacturing, selling, bottling and 
distribution of beverages of PepsiCo’s brand 
in geographically pre-defined territories as per 
franchisee agreement with PepsiCo India Holdings 
Private Limited. 
2	
Basis for preparation
	
These standalone financial statements (“financial 
statements”) of the Company have been prepared 
in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 
(“Ind AS”) and comply with requirements of Ind 
AS notified under section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”), read together with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015 as amended, and other relevant provisions of 
the Act and guidelines issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) from time to time, 
stipulation contained in Schedule III (Revised) and 
other pronouncements/ provisions of applicable 
laws. These financial statements are authorised for 
issue on 10 February 2025 in accordance with a 
resolution of the Board of Directors. The Board of 
Directors can permit the revision to the standalone 
financial statements after obtaining necessary 
approvals or at the instance of regulatory authorities 
as per provisions of the Act.
	
These standalone financial statements have been 
prepared using the material accounting policies 
and measurement basis summarised below. These 
accounting policies have been used consistently 
throughout all periods presented in these standalone 
financial 
statements 
except 
as 
mentioned 
in 
note 3.2 below.
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis, except for the following assets 
and liabilities which have been measured at fair value:
i.	
Derivative financial instruments;
ii.	
Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at 
fair value (refer accounting policy regarding financial 
instruments);
iii.	
Defined benefit plans- plan assets measured at fair 
value; and
iv.	
Share based payments.
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/non-current classification. An 
asset is treated as current if it satisfies any of the following 
conditions:
i.	
Expected to be realised or intended to sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle;
ii.	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
iii.	
Expected to be realised within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
iv.	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period.
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current if it satisfies any of the following 
conditions:
i.	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;
ii.	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
iii.	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 
reporting period; or
iv.	
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement 
of the liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period.
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities.
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of 
assets for processing and its realisation in cash and cash 
equivalents. The Company has identified twelve months 
as its operating cycle.
The Company follows calendar year as its financial year as 
approved by the Company Law Board, New Delhi.
The financial statements of the Company are presented 
in Indian Rupees (`), which is also its functional currency 
and all amounts disclosed in the financial statements 
and notes have been rounded off to the nearest million 
as per the requirement of Schedule III to the Act, unless 
otherwise stated.
Varun Beverages Limited
354
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
3	
Material accounting policies
3.1 	 Fair value measurements	
	
The Company measures financial instruments at 
fair value which is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between independent market 
participants at the measurement date. The fair value 
measurement is based on the presumption that the 
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements are 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities;
	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable; and
	
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs. For assets 
and liabilities that are recognised in the balance 
sheet at fair value on a recurring basis, the Company 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the 
Company has determined classes of assets and 
liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics 
and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the 
fair value hierarchy as explained above.
3.2 	Revenue recognition	
	
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control 
of promised goods or services to customers at an 
amount that reflects the consideration to which the 
Company is expected to be entitled to in exchange 
for those goods or services. Revenue towards 
satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured 
at the amount of transaction price (net of variable 
considerations) allocated to that performance 
obligation as per contractually agreed terms with the 
customers. The transaction price of goods sold and 
services rendered is net of variable considerations on 
account of various discounts and schemes offered 
by the Company as part of the contract. Revenue 
is recorded provided the recovery of consideration 
is probable and determinable. Revenue from sale 
of goods and services transferred to distributors/
intermediaries are recognised at a point in time.
	
a)	
Sale of goods:
	
	
Revenue from the sale of manufactured and 
traded goods products is recognised upon 
transfer of control of products to the customers 
which coincides with their delivery to customer 
and is measured at fair value of consideration 
received/receivable, net of discounts, amount 
collected on behalf of third parties and 
applicable taxes.
	
b)	
Interest:
	
	
Interest 
income 
is 
recognised 
on 
time 
proportion basis taking into account the amount 
outstanding and rate applicable. For all debt 
instruments measured at amortised cost, interest 
income is recorded using the effective interest 
rate (“EIR”). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
the estimated future cash payments or receipts 
over the expected life of the financial instrument 
or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the 
gross carrying amount of the financial assets. 
Interest income is included in other income in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
c)	
Dividends:
	
	
Dividend is recognised when the Company’s 
right to receive the payment is established, 
which is generally when shareholders approve 
the dividend.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
355
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
d)	
Commission: 
	
	
Commission income is recognised rateably 
over the contract period as per the agreed 
contractual terms.
	
e)	
Services rendered: 
	
	
Revenue from service related activities including 
management and technical know-how service, 
job work are recognised as and when services 
are rendered and on the basis of contractual 
terms with the parties.
3.3 	Inventories	
	
Inventories are valued as follows:
	
a)	
Raw materials, components, stores and spares: 
At lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
of inventory comprises all costs of purchases, 
duties, taxes (other than those subsequently 
recoverable from tax authorities) and all other 
costs incurred in bringing the inventory to 
their present location and condition and is 
determined on a moving weighted average cost 
basis.
	
	
However, materials and other items held for use 
in the production of inventories are not written 
down below cost if the finished products in 
which they will be incorporated are expected to 
be sold at or above cost.
	
b)	
Work-in-progress: At lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost for this purpose includes 
material, labour and appropriate allocation 
of overheads including depreciation. Cost is 
determined on a weighted average basis.
	
c)	
Intermediate goods/ Finished goods:
	
	
i.	
Self manufactured - At lower of cost and 
net realisable value. Cost for this purpose 
includes material, labour and appropriate 
allocation of overheads. Cost is determined 
on a weighted average basis.
	
	
ii.	
Traded - At lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost of inventory comprises all costs 
of purchases, duties, taxes (other than 
those subsequently recoverable from tax 
authorities) and all other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventory to their present 
location and condition and is determined 
on a weighted average cost basis.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale. Provision for obsolescence is 
determined based on management’s assessment 
and is charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss
3.4	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Measurement at recognition:
	
Property, plant and equipment and capital work-
in progress are stated at cost, net of accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
	
Cost comprises the purchase price, borrowing costs 
if capitalisation criteria are met and any directly 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its working 
condition for the intended use. Any trade discounts and 
rebates are deducted in arriving at the purchase price. 
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
shall be recognised as an asset if, and only if:
	
a)	
it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the entity; and
	
b)	
the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
	
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of property, 
plant and equipment is added to its book value only if 
it increased the future benefits from the existing asset 
beyond its previously assessed standard of performance. 
All other expenses on existing assets, including day-to-
day repair and maintenance expenditure and cost of 
replacing parts, are charged to the Statement of Profit 
and Loss for the period during which such expenses are 
incurred. Expenditure directly relating to construction 
activity is capitalised. Indirect expenditure incurred 
during construction period is capitalised as a part of 
indirect construction cost to the extent the expenditure 
is related to construction or is incidental thereto. Other 
indirect costs incurred during the construction periods 
which are not related to construction activity nor are 
incidental thereto are charged to the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
Value for individual assets acquired for a consolidated 
price, the cost is apportioned to the various assets 
on their relative fair values basis as determined by 
competent valuers.
Varun Beverages Limited
356
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Depreciation:
	
The management has estimated, supported by 
technical assessment, the useful lives of property, 
plant and equipment. The management believes 
that these estimated useful lives are realistic and 
reflect fair approximation of the period over which 
the assets are likely to be used. Depreciation is 
calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful lives of the assets as follows:
Description
 Useful lives 
(upto)
Leasehold land
Over lease period
Buildings-factory
30 years
Buildings-others
60 years
Plant and equipment
20 years
Furniture and fixtures 
10 years
Delivery vehicles
10 years
Vehicles (other than delivery 
vehicles)
7 years
Office equipment
4 years
Computer equipment
4 years
Containers
6 years
Post-mix vending machines 
and refrigerators (Visi - Cooler)
8 years
Power generating assets*
22 years
	
*Included in plant and equipment in financial statements.
	
Freehold land is not depreciated.
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 
is provided over the useful lives of assets as 
specified in Schedule II to the Act except where 
the management, based on independent technical 
assessment, depreciates certain assets are over 
estimated useful lives which are different from the 
useful lives prescribed in the Schedule II to the Act. 
The Company has used the remaining useful lives 
to compute depreciation on its property, plant and 
equipment, acquired under the business transfer 
agreement based on external technical evaluation. 
	
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 
which are added/disposed off during the year is 
provided on pro-rata basis with reference to the 
month of addition/deletion. 
	
The Company has technically evaluated all the 
property, plant and equipment for determining the 
separate identifiable assets having different useful 
lives under the component approach. On technical 
evaluation of all separate identifiable components, 
the management is of the opinion that they do 
not have any different useful life from that of the 
principal asset.
	
In case of revaluation of leasehold land, the resulting 
amortisation of the total revalued amount is 
expensed off to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Derecognition:
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognised is de-recognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss 
arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as 
the difference between the net disposal proceeds or 
amount of security deposit adjusted and the carrying 
amount of the asset) is included in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss when the asset is de-recognised.
	
Breakages of containers are adjusted on ‘first 
bought first broken’ basis, since it is not feasible 
to specifically identify the broken containers in the 
fixed assets records.
3.5	 Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets are initially recognised at:
	
a)	
In case the assets are acquired separately, then 
at cost,
	
b)	
In case the assets are acquired in a business 
combination or under any asset purchase 
agreement, at fair value.
	
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are 
carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment loss. Intangible assets 
with finite useful life are assessed for impairment 
whenever there is an indication that the intangible 
assets may be impaired. Amortisation of intangible 
assets such as softwares and distribution network 
is computed on a straight-line basis, at the rates 
representing estimated useful life of 4 years and 
8 years respectively.
	
The franchise rights and trademarks acquired as 
part of business combinations normally have a 
remaining legal life of not exceeding twenty years 
but is renewable every twenty years and is well 
established. The Company intends to renew these 
rights continuously and evidence supports its 
ability to do so. An analysis of product life cycle 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
357
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
studies, market and competitive trends provides 
evidence that the product will generate net cash 
inflows for the Company for an indefinite period. 
Therefore, these rights have been carried at cost 
without amortisation, but is tested for impairment 
annually, at the cash-generating unit level. The 
assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to 
determine whether the indefinite life continues to 
be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from 
indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
3.6 	Borrowing costs	
	
Borrowing costs include interest, amortisation 
of ancillary costs incurred in connection with 
the arrangement of borrowings and exchange 
differences arising from foreign currency borrowings 
to the extent they are regarded as an adjustment 
to the interest cost. Borrowing costs, if any, directly 
attributable to the acquisition, construction or 
production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its 
intended use or sale are capitalized, if any. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss in the period in which they occur.
3.7 	Leases
	
The Company as a lessee
	
The Company enters into an arrangement for lease 
of buildings and equipments. Such arrangements are 
generally for a fixed period but may have extension 
or termination options. In accordance with Ind AS 116 
– Leases, at inception of the contract, the Company 
assesses whether a contract is, or contains a lease. A 
lease is defined as ‘a contract, or part of a contract, 
that conveys the right to control the use an asset (the 
underlying asset) for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration’.
	
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset, the Company 
assesses whether:
	
a)	
The contract involves the use of an identified 
asset – this may be specified explicitly or 
implicitly, and should be physically distinct or 
represent substantially all of the capacity of a 
physically distinct asset. If the supplier has a 
substantive substitution right, then the asset is 
not identified;
	
b) 	 The Company has the right to obtain substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the asset 
throughout the period of use; and
	
c) The Company assesses whether it has the right 
to direct ‘how and for what purpose’ the asset is 
used throughout the period of use. At inception or 
on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease 
component, the Company allocates the consideration 
in the contract to each lease component on the basis 
of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for the 
leases of land and buildings in which it is a lessee, 
the Company has elected not to separate non-lease 
components and account for the lease and non-lease 
components as a single lease component.
	
Measurement and recognition of leases as a lessee
	
The Company recognizes a right-of-use asset and a 
lease liability at the lease commencement date. The 
right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before 
the commencement date, plus any initial direct 
costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle 
and remove the underlying asset or to restore the 
underlying asset or the site on which it is located, 
less any lease incentives received.
	
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at 
cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated 
impairment losses (unless such right of use assets 
fulfills the requirements of Ind AS 40 - Investment 
Property and is accounted for as there under), if any 
and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease 
liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using 
the straight-line method from the commencement 
date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of 
right-of-use asset. Right-of-use asset are tested for 
impairment whenever there is any indication that 
their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 
Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at the present 
value of the lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date, discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be 
readily determined, the Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate. Generally, the Company uses its 
incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability comprise the following:
	
a)	
Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed 
payments;
Varun Beverages Limited
358
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
b)	
Variable lease payments that depend on an 
index or a rate, initially measured using the 
index or rate as at the commencement date;
	
c)	
Amounts expected to be payable under a 
residual value guarantee; and
	
d)	
The exercise price under a purchase option that 
the Company is reasonably certain to exercise, 
lease payments in an optional renewal period if 
the Company is reasonably certain to exercise 
an extension option, and penalties for early 
termination of a lease unless the Company is 
reasonably certain not to terminate early.
	
The lease liability is measured at amortized cost 
using the effective interest rate method. It is 
remeasured when there is a change in future lease 
payments arising from a change in an index or rate, 
if there is a change in the Company’s estimate of 
the amount expected to be payable under a residual 
value guarantee, or if the Company changes its 
assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, 
extension or termination option. When the lease 
liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding 
adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the 
right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if 
the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has 
been reduced to zero, as the case may be.
	
The Company presents right-of-use assets that 
do not meet the definition of investment property 
and lease liabilities as a separate line item in the 
standalone financial statements of the Company.
	
The Company has elected not to apply the 
requirements of Ind AS 116 - Leases to short-term 
leases of all assets that have a lease term of 12 
months or less and leases for which the underlying 
asset is of low value. The lease payments associated 
with these leases are recognized as an expense on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
The Company as a lessor
	
When the Company acts as a lessor, it determines at 
lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease 
or an operating lease. To classify each lease, the 
Company makes an overall assessment of whether 
the lease transfers substantially all of the risks and 
rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying 
asset. If this is the case, then the lease is a finance 
lease; if not, then it is an operating lease. As part 
of this assessment, the Company considers certain 
indicators such as whether the lease is for the major 
part of the economic life of the asset.
	
When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it 
accounts for its interests in the head lease and 
the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease 
classification of a sub-lease with reference to the 
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not 
with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease 
is a short-term lease to which the Company applies 
the exemption described above, then it classifies the 
sub-lease as an operating lease.
	
The Company recognizes lease payments received 
under operating leases as income on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term as part of ‘other income’.
	
The accounting policies applicable to the Company 
as a lessor in the comparative period were not 
different from Ind AS 116 - Leases. However, when the 
Company was an intermediate lessor the sub-leases 
were classified with reference to the underlying asset.
	
The Company recognizes lease payments received 
under operating leases as income on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. In case of a finance lease, 
finance income is recognised over the lease term 
based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic 
rate of return on the lessor’s net investment in 
the lease. When the Company is an intermediate 
lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease 
and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease 
classification of a sub-lease with reference to the 
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not 
with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease 
is a short term lease to which the Company applies 
the exemption described above, then it classifies the 
sub-lease as an operating lease.
3.8 	Employee benefits	
	
Contribution to provident and other funds
	
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is 
a defined contribution scheme. The Company has 
no obligation, other than the contribution payable 
to the provident fund. The Company recognises 
contribution payable to the provident fund scheme 
as an expense, when an employee renders the 
related service. If the contribution payable to the 
scheme for service received before the balance 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
359
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
sheet date exceeds the contribution already paid, 
the deficit payable to the scheme is recognised as 
a liability after deducting the contribution already 
paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before the 
balance sheet date, then excess is recognised as 
an asset to the extent that the pre-payment will 
lead to, for example, a reduction in future payment 
or a cash refund.
	
Gratuity
	
Gratuity is a defined benefit scheme. The cost of 
providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is 
determined using the projected unit credit method. 
The Company recognises termination benefit as 
a liability and an expense when the Company has 
a present obligation as a result of past event, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the 
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation. If the termination benefits 
fall due more than twelve months after the balance 
sheet date, they are measured at present value of 
future cash flows using the discount rate determined 
by reference to market yields at the balance sheet 
date on government bonds.
	
Re-measurements, comprising actuarial gains and 
losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the 
balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit 
to retained earnings through Other Comprehensive 
Income (“OCI”) in the period in which they occur. 
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods.
	
Past service costs are recognised in Statement of 
Profit and Loss on the earlier of:
	
•	
The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, 
and
	
•	
The date that the Company recognises related 
restructuring cost
	
	
Net interest is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net defined benefit liability 
or asset. 
	
	
The Company recognises the following changes 
in the net defined benefit obligation as an 
expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss:
	
•	
Service 
costs 
comprising 
current 
service 
costs, past-service costs, gains and losses on 
curtailments and non-routine settlements; and
	
•	
Net interest expense or income
	
Compensated absences
	
The Company treats accumulated leave expected 
to be carried forward beyond twelve months, as 
long-term employee benefit which are computed 
based on the actuarial valuation using the projected 
unit credit method at the period end. Actuarial gains/
losses are immediately taken to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss and are not deferred. The Company 
presents the leave as a current liability in the balance 
sheet to the extent it does not have an unconditional 
right to defer its settlement for twelve months 
after the reporting date. Where Company has the 
unconditional legal and contractual right to defer the 
settlement for a period beyond twelve months, the 
balance is presented as a non-current liability.
	
Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilized 
within the next twelve months, is treated as short 
term employee benefit. The Company measures the 
expected cost of such absences as the additional 
amount that it expects to pay as a result of the 
unused entitlement that has accumulated at the 
reporting date.
	
All other employee benefits payable/available within 
twelve months of rendering the service are classified 
as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such as 
salaries, wages, bonus, etc. are recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which 
the employee renders the related service.
3.9	 Share-based payments
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group 
receive remuneration in the form of share-based 
payments, whereby employees render services 
as consideration for equity instruments which are 
classified as equity-settled transactions. 
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date of grant using an 
appropriate valuation model. That cost is recognised 
Varun Beverages Limited
360
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
as an employee benefit expense with a corresponding 
increase in ‘Share option outstanding account’ in 
other equity, over the period in which the service 
conditions are fulfilled in relation to options granted 
to employees of the Company. Further, In relation to 
options granted to employees of subsidiaries, the 
amount is disclosed under non-current investments 
with a corresponding increase in ‘Share option 
outstanding account’ and disclosed as equity 
contribution in subsidiaries.
	
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the 
number of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest.
	
Service and non-market performance conditions 
are not taken into account when determining the 
grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood 
of the conditions being met is assessed as part of 
the Company’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. Market 
performance conditions are reflected within the 
grant date fair value. Any other conditions attached 
to an award, but without an associated service 
requirement, are considered to be non-vesting 
conditions.
	
Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value 
of an award and lead to an immediate expensing 
of an award unless there are also service and/or 
performance conditions.
	
No expense is recognised for awards that do not 
ultimately vest because non-market performance 
and/or service conditions have not been met. Where 
awards include a market or non-vesting condition, 
the transactions are treated as vested irrespective 
of whether the market or non-vesting condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or 
service conditions are satisfied.
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised is the 
expense had the terms had not been modified, if the 
original terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense is recognised for any modification that 
increases the total fair value of the share-based 
payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the 
employee as measured at the date of modification. 
Where an award is cancelled by the Company or by 
the counterparty, any remaining element of the fair 
value of the award is expensed immediately through 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share.
3.10	Foreign currency transactions and translations
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially 
recorded in the functional currency, by applying 
to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate 
between the functional currency and the foreign 
currency at the date of the transaction.
	
Foreign currency monetary items are reported using 
the closing rate. Non-monetary items which are 
carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a 
foreign currency are reported using the exchange 
rate at the date of the transaction.
	
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of 
monetary items or on restatement of the Company’s 
monetary items at rates different from those at 
which they were initially recorded during the year, 
or reported in previous financial statements, are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the year in 
which they arise.
	
Exchange differences pertaining to long-term foreign 
currency monetary items obtained or given on or 
before 31 December 2016: Exchange differences 
arising on conversion of long term foreign currency 
monetary items used for acquisition of depreciable 
fixed assets are added to the cost of fixed assets 
and is depreciated over the remaining life of the 
respective fixed asset and in other cases, is recorded 
under the head ‘Foreign Currency Monetary Item 
Translation Difference Account’ and is amortised 
over the period of maturity of underlying long term 
foreign currency monetary items, in accordance with 
the option available under Ind AS 101.
	
Exchange 
differences 
pertaining 
to 
long-term 
foreign currency monetary items obtained or given 
on or after 01 January 2017: Exchange differences 
arising on restatement of long term foreign currency 
monetary items obtained or given is recorded in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
361
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
3.11	 Business combination and goodwill
	
Business combinations are accounted for using 
the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred measured at acquisition date fair value 
and the amount of any non-controlling interests in 
the acquiree. At the acquisition date, the identifiable 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are 
recognised at their acquisition date fair values. 
For this purpose, the liabilities assumed include 
contingent liabilities representing present obligation 
and they are measured at their acquisition fair values 
irrespective of the fact that outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits is not probable. 
However, deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the 
assets or liabilities related to employee benefit 
arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ and Ind AS 
19 ‘Employee Benefits’ respectively.
	
When the Company acquires a business, it assesses 
the financial assets and liabilities assumed for 
appropriate 
classification 
and 
designation 
in 
accordance with the contractual terms, economic 
circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the 
acquisition date.
	
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the 
Company is recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Contingent consideration classified as an asset 
or liability that is a financial instrument and within 
the scope of Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’ (‘Ind 
AS 109’), is measured at fair value with changes in 
fair value recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. If the contingent consideration is not within the 
scope of Ind AS 109, it is measured in accordance 
with the appropriate Ind AS.
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess 
of the aggregate of the consideration transferred 
over the net identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed. If the fair value of the net assets 
acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration 
transferred, the Company re-assesses whether it has 
correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all 
of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures 
used to measure the amounts to be recognised at 
the acquisition date. If the reassessment still results 
in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired 
over the aggregate consideration transferred, then 
the gain is recognised in OCI and accumulated in 
equity as capital reserve. However, if there is no clear 
evidence of bargain purchase, the entity recognises 
the gain directly in equity as capital reserve, without 
routing the same through OCI.
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in 
a business combination is, from the acquisition date, 
allocated to each of the Company’s cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or 
liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been 
allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, 
the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro 
rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in 
the unit.
	
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent 
periods.
	
Where 
goodwill 
has 
been 
allocated 
to 
a 
cash-generating unit and part of the operation within 
that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with 
the disposed operation is included in the carrying 
amount of the operation when determining the 
gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these 
circumstances is measured based on the relative 
values of the disposed operation and the portion of 
the cash-generating unit retained.
	
If the initial accounting for a business combination 
is incomplete by the end of the reporting 
period in which the combination occurs, the 
Company reports provisional amounts for the 
items for which the accounting is incomplete. 
Those provisional amounts are adjusted through 
goodwill during the measurement period, or 
additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to 
Varun Beverages Limited
362
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
reflect new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date 
that, if known, would have affected the amounts 
recognised at that date. These adjustments are 
called as measurement period adjustments. The 
measurement period does not exceed one year 
from the acquisition date.
3.12	Government grants	
	
Grants from the Government are recognised when 
there is reasonable assurance that all underlying 
conditions will be complied with and that the grant 
will be received.
	
Grants related to income are recognised as income 
on a systematic basis in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss over the periods necessary to match them 
with the related costs, which they are intended to 
compensate and are presented as ‘Other operating 
revenues. Further, where loans or similar assistance 
are provided by Government or related institutions, 
with an interest rate below the current applicable 
market rate, the effect of this favorable interest 
is regarded as a government grant. The loan or 
assistance is initially recognised and measured at fair 
value and the government grant is measured as the 
difference between the initial carrying value of the 
loan and the proceeds to be received. That grant is 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss under 
‘other operating revenue’. The loan is subsequently 
measured in the year of disbursement as per the 
accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities.
	
Government grants related to assets are presented 
in the balance sheet by deducting the grant from the 
carrying value of the asset and non-monetary grant 
is recognised at a nominal value.
3.13	Income taxes 
	
Tax expense is the aggregate amount included in 
the determination of profit or loss for the period in 
respect of current tax and deferred tax.	
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax is measured at the amount expected 
to be paid to the tax authorities in accordance with 
the Income-tax Act, 1961 and rules thereunder. Current 
income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used 
to compute the amount are those that are enacted or 
substantively enacted, at the reporting date. Current 
income tax relating to items recognised outside profit 
or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in OCI 
or in equity). 
	
Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the 
underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate including 
amount expected to be paid/recovered for uncertain 
tax position.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method 
on temporary differences between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their book bases. Deferred 
tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary 
differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profit will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses 
can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the year when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date.
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside 
profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. 
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly 
in equity.
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of 
the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will 
allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are 
offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
363
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity 
and the same taxation authority.
	
Minimum Alternate Tax (“MAT”) credit is recognised 
as an asset only when and to the extent there is 
convincing evidence that the relevant members of 
the Company will pay normal income tax during 
the specified period. Such asset is reviewed at each 
reporting period end and the adjusted based on 
circumstances then prevailing.
	
Deferred tax on business combination
	
When a liability assumed is recognized at the 
acquisition date but the related costs are not 
deducted in determining taxable profits until a later 
period, a deductible temporary difference arises 
which results in a deferred tax asset. A deferred tax 
asset also arises when the fair value of an identifiable 
asset acquired is less than its tax base. In both cases, 
the resulting deferred tax asset affects goodwill.
3.14	Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
chief operating decision maker, who is responsible 
for allocating resources and assessing performance 
of the operating segments. The business activities 
of the Company predominantly fall within a single 
operating segment, i.e., manufacturing and sale of 
beverages within India.
3.15	Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Company assesses, at each reporting date, 
whether there is an indication that an asset may be 
impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the 
Company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (“CGU”) fair value 
less costs of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable 
amount is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or 
groups of assets.
	
When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount.
	
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a 
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value 
less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are 
taken into account. If no such transactions can be 
identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. 
These calculations are corroborated by valuation 
multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded 
Company’s or other available fair value indicators.
	
The Company bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which 
are prepared separately for each of the Company’s 
CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. 
These budgets and forecast calculations generally 
cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a 
long-term growth rate is calculated and applied 
to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To 
estimate cash flow projections beyond periods 
covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the 
Company extrapolates cash flow projections in the 
budget using a steady or declining growth rate for 
subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can 
be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
products, industries, or country or countries in which 
the entity operates, or for the market in which the 
asset is used.
	
Impairment 
losses 
of 
continuing 
operations, 
including impairment on inventories, are recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
An assessment is made at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is an indication that 
previously recognised impairment losses no longer 
exist or have decreased. If such indication exists, the 
Company estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable 
amount. 
A 
previously 
recognised 
impairment 
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in 
the assumptions used to determine the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so that 
the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed 
its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal 
Varun Beverages Limited
364
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in 
which case, the reversal is treated as a revaluation 
increase.
3.16	Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
	
Financial assets
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value, 
plus in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), transaction 
costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the 
financial asset. However, trade receivables that do 
not contain a significant financing component are 
measured at transaction price.
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets are classified as follows:
	
a)	
Debt instruments at amortised cost
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortised cost where the asset is held within 
a business model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual cash flows; 
and contractual terms of the asset give rise to 
cash flows on specified dates that are solely 
payments of principal and interest.
	
	
After initial measurement, such financial assets 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at 
amortised 
cost using the EIR method. Amortised cost is 
calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. The interest 
income from these financial assets is included 
in finance income in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. The losses arising from impairment are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
This category generally applies to trade and 
other receivables.
	
b)	
Debt instruments at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
	
	
Assets that are held for collection of contractual 
cashflows and for selling the financial assets, 
where the cash flow represent solely payments 
of principal and interest, are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income 
(“FVOCI”). The Company has not designated 
any debt instrument in this category.
	
c)	
Debt instruments at fair value through profit or 
loss
	
	
Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (“FVTPL”) is 
a residual category for debt instruments. Any 
debt instrument, which does not meet the 
criteria for categorisation as at amortized cost 
or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
	
	
In addition, the Company may elect to 
designate a debt instrument which otherwise 
meets amortized cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at 
FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if 
doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement 
or recognition inconsistency (referred to as 
‘accounting mismatch’).
	
	
Debt instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss. The Company has not designated any 
debt instrument in this category.
	
d)	
Equity instruments
	
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are 
measured at fair value. Equity instruments which 
are held for trading and contingent consideration 
recognised by an acquirer in a business 
combination to which Ind AS 103 ‘Business 
Combinations’ applies are Ind AS classified as 
at FVTPL. Equity instruments included within 
the FVTPL category are measured at fair value 
with all changes recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
For all other equity instruments, the Company 
may make an irrevocable election to present 
in other comprehensive income subsequent 
changes in the fair values. The Company makes 
such election on an instrument-by-instrument 
basis. The classification is made on initial 
recognition and is irrevocable.
	
	
If the Company decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value 
changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
365
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
are recognised in the OCI. There is no recycling 
of the amounts from OCI to profit or loss, even 
on sale of investment. However, the Company 
may transfer the cumulative gain or loss 
within equity.
	
De-recognition
	
A 
financial 
asset 
is 
de-recognised 
when 
the 
contractual rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired or the Company has transferred its rights 
to receive the contractual cash flows from the asset in 
a transaction in which substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the asset are transferred.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company measures the Expected Credit Loss 
(“ECL”) associated with its assets based on historical 
trends, industry practices and the general business 
environment in which it operates. The impairment 
methodology applied depends on whether there 
has been a significant increase in credit risk. ECL 
impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised 
during the period is recognised as income/ expense 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the head 
‘other expenses’. 
	
Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as 
derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an 
effective hedge, as appropriate.
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
	
The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and 
other payables, loans and borrowings including bank 
overdrafts and derivative financial instruments.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on 
their classification, as described below:
	
a)	
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
	
	
Financial liabilities at FVTPL include financial 
liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities 
designated upon initial recognition as at fair 
value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities 
are classified as held for trading if they are 
incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the 
near term.
	
	
This category includes derivative financial 
instruments entered into by the Company that 
are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109.
	
	
Financial liabilities designated upon initial 
recognition at fair value through profit or loss 
are designated as such at the initial date of 
recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 
are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, 
fair value gains/ losses are recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss, except for those 
attributable to changes in own credit risk, which 
are recognised in OCI. These gains/ loss are not 
subsequently transferred to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
b)	
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 
	
	
After initial recognition, financial liabilities 
designated at amortised costs are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR 
method. Gains and losses are recognised in 
Statement of Profit and Loss when the liabilities 
are derecognised as well as through the EIR 
amortisation process. 
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account 
any discount or premium on acquisition and fees 
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The 
amortisation is included as finance costs in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss. 
	
De-recognition
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the de-recognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
Varun Beverages Limited
366
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
3.17	Investment in subsidiaries, joint venture and 
associates
	
An investor, regardless of the nature of its involvement 
with an entity (the investee), shall determine whether it 
is a parent by assessing whether it controls the investee. 
An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or 
has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with 
the investee and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the investee.
	
Thus, an investor controls an investee if and only if the 
investor has all the following:
	
a)	
power over the investee;
	
b)	
exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee; and
	
c)	
the ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect the amount of the investor’s returns.
	
An associate is an entity over which the Company 
has significant influence. Significant influence is the 
power to participate in the financial and operating 
policy decisions of the investee, but not control or joint 
control over those policies. The considerations made 
in determining significant influence are similar to those 
necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
	
The Company has elected to recognise its investments 
in subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies at 
cost in accordance with the option available in Ind AS 
27, ‘Separate Financial Statements’.
	
Investment carried at cost is tested for impairment as 
per Ind-AS 36.
3.18	Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprise cash at banks and on hand, cheques 
on hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less, which are subject 
to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the 
purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term 
deposits, as defined above.
3.19	Dividend distribution to equity holders
	
The Company recognises a liability to make cash 
or non-cash distributions to equity holders when 
the distribution is authorised and the distribution 
is no longer at the discretion of the Company. As 
per the corporate laws in India, a distribution is 
authorised when it is approved by the shareholders. A 
corresponding amount is recognised directly in equity.
3.20	Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. When the Company expects some or 
all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, 
under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is 
recognised as a separate asset, but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense 
relating to a provision is presented in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss, net of any reimbursement.
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, 
provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax 
rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the 
increase in the provision due to the passage of time 
is recognised as a finance cost.
3.21	Contract liabilities
	
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods 
or services to a customer for which the Company has 
received consideration or is due from the customer. If 
a customer pays consideration before the Company 
transfers goods or services to the customer, a 
contract liability is recognised when the payment is 
made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when 
the Company performs under the contract.
3.22	Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed by the occurrence or non–occurrence 
of one or more uncertain future events beyond the 
control of the Company or a present obligation that 
is not recognised because it is not probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle 
the obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases where there is a liability 
that cannot be recognised because it cannot be 
measured reliably. The Company does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in 
the financial statements. Contingent assets are only 
disclosed when it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the entity.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
367
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
3.23	Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings/ (loss) per share are calculated by 
dividing the net profit or loss for the year attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year. The weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year is adjusted for events, 
other than conversion of potential equity shares, 
that have changed the number of equity shares 
outstanding without a corresponding change in 
resources.
	
In case of a bonus issue and sub-divison/split, the 
number of ordinary shares outstanding is increased 
by number of shares issued as bonus shares and 
sub-divison/split respectively in current year and 
comparative period presented as if the event 
had occurred at the beginning of the earliest year 
presented.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings/
(loss) per share, the net profit or loss for the period 
attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the 
period are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive 
potential equity shares. 
3.24	Significant management judgement in applying 
accounting policies and estimation uncertainty
	
The 
preparation 
of 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
statements 
requires 
management 
to 
make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets 
and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and 
the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of 
the financial statements. Estimates and assumptions 
are continuously evaluated and are based on 
management’s 
experience 
and 
other 
factors, 
including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
	
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates 
could result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or 
liabilities affected in future periods.
	
In particular, the Company has identified the 
following 
areas 
where 
significant 
judgements, 
estimates and assumptions are required. Further 
information on each of these areas and how they 
impact the various accounting policies are described 
below and also in the relevant notes to the financial 
statements. Changes in estimates are accounted for 
prospectively.
	
i)	
Judgements
	
	
In the process of applying the Company’s 
accounting policies, management has made 
the following judgements, which have the most 
significant effect on the amounts recognised in 
the financial statements:
	
	
a)	
Contingencies
	
	
	
Contingent liabilities may arise from the 
ordinary course of business in relation to 
claims against the Company, including legal, 
contractor, land access and other claims. By 
their nature, contingencies will be resolved 
only when one or more uncertain future 
events occur or fail to occur. The assessment 
of the existence, and potential quantum, 
of contingencies inherently involves the 
exercise of significant judgments and the 
use of estimates regarding the outcome of 
future events.
	
	
b)	
Recognition of deferred tax assets
	
	
	
The extent to which deferred tax assets can 
be recognised is based on an assessment 
of the probability that future taxable 
income will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences and 
tax loss carry-forward can be utilised. In 
addition, significant judgement is required 
in assessing the impact of any legal or 
economic limits or uncertainties in various 
tax jurisdictions.
	
ii)	
Estimates and assumptions
	
	
The key assumptions concerning the future and 
other key sources of estimation uncertainty 
at the reporting date that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within 
the next financial year, are described below. 
The Company based its assumptions and 
estimates on parameters available when the 
financial statements were prepared. Existing 
circumstances and assumptions about future 
Varun Beverages Limited
368
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
developments, however, may change due to 
market change or circumstances arising beyond 
the control of the Company. Such changes are 
reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
	
	
a)	
Useful lives of tangible/intangible assets
	
	
	
The Company reviews its estimate of the 
useful lives of tangible/intangible assets at 
each reporting date, based on the expected 
utility of the assets.
	
	
b)	
Defined benefit obligation
	
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit plan and 
other 
post-employment 
benefits 
and 
the present value of such obligation are 
determined 
using 
actuarial 
valuations. 
An actuarial valuation involves making 
various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These 
include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases, mortality rates 
and future pension increases. In view of 
the complexities involved in the valuation 
and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes 
in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date.
	
	
c)	
Inventories
	
	
	
The Company estimates the net realisable 
values of inventories, taking into account 
the most reliable evidence available at each 
reporting date. The future realisation of 
these inventories may be affected by future 
technology or other market-driven changes 
that may reduce future selling prices.
	
	
d)	
Business combinations
	
	
	
The Company uses valuation techniques 
when determining the fair values of certain 
assets and liabilities acquired in a business 
combination. 
	
	
e)	
Impairment of non-financial assets and 
goodwill
	
	
	
In 
assessing 
impairment, 
Company 
estimates the recoverable amount of each 
asset or cash-generating units based on 
expected future cash flows and uses an 
interest rate to discount them. Estimation 
uncertainty 
relates 
to 
assumptions 
about future operating results and the 
determination of a suitable discount rate.
	
	
f)	
Fair 
value 
measurement 
of 
financial 
instruments
	
	
	
When the fair values of financial assets 
and financial liabilities recorded in the 
Balance Sheet cannot be measured based 
on quoted prices in active markets, their 
fair value is measured using valuation 
techniques including the DCF model. The 
inputs to these models are taken from 
observable markets where possible, but 
where this is not feasible, a degree of 
judgment is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations 
of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk 
and volatility. Changes in assumptions 
about these factors could affect the 
reported fair value of financial instruments.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
369
Annual Report 2024
4A.	 Property, plant and equipment
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Land 
freehold 
 Buildings 
 Plant and 
equipment 
 Furniture and 
fixtures 
 Vehicles 
 Office 
equipment 
 Computer 
equipment 
 Containers 
Post-mix 
vending 
machines and 
refrigerators 
(Visi Cooler)
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
7,287.92
16,066.41
45,317.81
270.33
1,247.56
407.71
312.67
4,794.97
9,463.15
85,168.53
Additions for the year
6.72
6,319.81
20,722.33
82.32
129.07
98.36
89.63
849.83
585.11
28,883.18
Disposals for the year
-
(349.98)
(1,075.19)
(0.31)
(125.18)
(2.18)
(5.12)
(164.41)
(89.02)
(1,811.39)
Balance as at 31 December 2024
7,294.64 22,036.24
64,964.95
352.34
1,251.45
503.89
397.18
5,480.39
9,959.24
112,240.32
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 01 January 2024
-
3,355.26
14,851.42
151.96
879.78
250.79
201.31
1,854.08
8,587.88
30,132.48
Depreciation charge for the year
-
700.60
3,889.77
23.58
73.18
60.57
47.09
769.45
422.42
5,986.66
Reversal on disposals for the year
-
(81.61)
(498.64)
(0.28)
(111.23)
(1.53)
(4.63)
(110.90)
(86.11)
(894.93)
Balance as at 31 December 2024
-
3,974.25
18,242.55
175.26
841.73
309.83
243.77
2,512.63
8,924.19
35,224.21
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
7,294.64
18,061.99
46,722.40
177.08
409.72
194.06
153.41
2,967.76
1,035.05
77,016.11
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Land 
freehold 
 Buildings 
 Plant and 
equipment 
 Furniture and 
fixtures 
 Vehicles 
 Office 
equipment 
 Computer 
equipment 
 Containers 
Post-mix 
vending 
machines and 
refrigerators 
(Visi Cooler)
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 6,758.49  12,761.74  35,030.44 
 207.37 
 1,157.84 
 321.54 
 253.20 
 4,121.81 
 9,523.92 
 70,136.35 
Additions for the year
 541.92 
 3,572.67 
 11,644.35 
 63.15 
 156.36 
 91.43 
 70.28 
 1,367.28 
 65.81 
 17,573.25 
Disposals/adjustments for the year
 (12.49)
 (268.00)
 (1,356.98)
 (0.19)
 (66.64)
 (5.26)
 (10.81)
 (694.12)
 (126.58)
 (2,541.07)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 7,287.92  16,066.41 
 45,317.81 
 270.33 
 1,247.56 
 407.71 
 312.67 
 4,794.97 
 9,463.15  85,168.53 
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 - 
 2,890.12 
 12,398.66 
 134.95 
 871.31 
 211.02 
 178.07 
 1,722.70 
 7,975.87  26,382.70 
Depreciation charge for the year
 - 
 516.94 
 2,959.45 
 17.19 
 71.37 
 44.32 
 33.41 
 679.08 
 685.40 
 5,007.16 
Reversal on disposals/adjustments for the year
 - 
 (51.80)
 (506.69)
 (0.18)
 (62.90)
 (4.55)
 (10.17)
 (547.70)
 (73.39)
 (1,257.38)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 - 
 3,355.26 
 14,851.42 
 151.96 
 879.78 
 250.79 
 201.31 
 1,854.08 
 8,587.88 
 30,132.48 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 7,287.92 
 12,711.15  30,466.39 
 118.37 
 367.78 
 156.92 
 111.36 
 2,940.89 
 875.27  55,036.05 
Varun Beverages Limited
370
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
4A. Property, plant and equipment [Cont’d]
	
Footnotes to Note 4A: 
i. 	
Refer Note 50 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Company.
ii. 	
Pre-operative expenses incurred and capitalised during the year are as under:
(` in million)
Net Book Value
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 741.34 
 212.43 
Add: Incurred during the year
	
Finance costs
 400.95 
 619.36 
	
Employee benefits expense and other expenses
 933.98 
 320.99 
Less: Capitalised during the year
 (1,780.72)
 (411.44)
Amount carried over included in CWIP
 295.55 
 741.34 
iii. 	
The amount of contractual commitments for the acquisitions of property, plant and equipment are disclosed in Note 41.
iv. 	
All title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company.
4B.	Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) 
	
The changes in the carrying value of capital work-in-progress for the year ended 31 December 2024 and 
31 December 2023 are as follows :	
	
	
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 15,759.99 
Additions for the year*
 11,123.67 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment
 (17,327.02)
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 9,556.64 
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 5,399.45 
Additions for the year*
 17,376.80 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment
 (7,016.26)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 15,759.99 
	
* includes finance cost amounting to ` 400.95 million (31 December 2023: ` 619.36 million) and employee benefits expense and 
other expenses amounting to ` 933.98 million (31 December 2023: ` 320.99 million).
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
371
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
4B.	Capital work-in-progress (CWIP)
	
Footnotes to Note 4B: 
(i) 	 CWIP ageing schedule 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particular
Amount in CWIP for a period of
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years  More than 3 years 
 Total 
Projects in progress
As at 31 December 2024
 9,406.68 
 129.05 
 17.45 
 3.46  9,556.64 
As at 31 December 2023
 15,112.82 
 642.55 
 1.15 
 3.47  15,759.99 
	
There are no projects as on each reporting period where activity has been suspended. Also, there are no projects as on each 
reporting period which has exceeded cost as compared to its original plan or where completion is overdue.
4C.	Right of use assets (ROU) 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Land 
leasehold
Leased 
buildings
Leased plant 
and equipment
Total
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 9,331.57 
 373.96 
 13.60 
 9,719.13 
Additions for the year
 544.67 
 57.44 
 - 
 602.11 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 9,876.24 
 431.40 
 13.60 
 10,321.24 
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 572.23 
 263.30 
 7.71 
 843.24 
Amortisation for the year
 127.03 
 34.60 
 0.96 
 162.59 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 699.26 
 297.90 
 8.67 
 1,005.83 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
 9,176.98 
 133.50 
 4.93 
 9,315.41 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Land 
leasehold
Leased 
buildings
Leased plant 
and equipment
Total
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 8,653.46 
 295.55 
 13.60 
 8,962.61 
Addition during the year
 694.72 
 78.41 
 - 
 773.13 
Rebate (Refer footnote i)
 (16.61)
 - 
 - 
 (16.61)
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 9,331.57 
 373.96 
 13.60 
 9,719.13 
Accumulated amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 460.33 
 229.16 
 6.06 
 695.55 
Amortisation for the year
 111.90 
 34.14 
 1.65 
 147.69 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 572.23 
 263.30 
 7.71 
 843.24 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 8,759.34 
 110.66 
 5.89 
 8,875.89 
Footnotes to Note 4C: 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i) 	 During the year ended on 31 December 2023, the Company has received rebate on leasehold land acquired in 
Gorakhpur amounting to ` 16.60 million on account of full premium payment as per prescribed timeline. The 
rebate received is adjusted against the carrying value of the respective asset. 
Varun Beverages Limited
372
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
(ii)	 All lease deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company except as disclosed below:	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Description of property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Net 
carrying 
value
Whether title deed holder 
is a Promoter, director 
or relative of promoter/
director or employee
Date since the 
property is held
Reason for not being held in 
name of Company
Land situated at Buxar,
Bihar
 371.34 
 367.52 
No
21 December 2023
The Company has received 
the possession letter dated 
21 December 2023 of land 
situated at Buxar, Bihar and is 
in the process of getting lease 
deed registered in its name.
Land situated  
at Kolkata, West Bengal
 1.50 
 1.41 
No
01 October 2018
The Company has executed 
the lease agreement for 
Kolkata, West Bengal land, 
which is yet to be registered.
5A.	Goodwill (Refer note i) 	 	
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 19.40 
Acquired during the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 19.40 
Impairment
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 - 
Impairment charge for the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 - 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
 19.40 
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 19.40 
Acquired during the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 19.40 
Impairment
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 - 
Impairment charge for the year
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 - 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 19.40 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
373
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
5B.	Other intangible assets	 	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Franchise rights/ 
trademarks 
(Refer note i)
 Distribution 
network 
 Computer 
software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 6,042.96 
 157.64 
 280.51 
 6,481.11 
Additions for the year
 - 
 - 
 39.11 
 39.11 
Disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 6,042.96 
 157.64 
 319.62 
 6,520.22 
Amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 656.97 
 99.58 
 273.82 
 1,030.37 
Amortisation charge for the year
 - 
 19.70 
 10.11 
 29.81 
Reversal on disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 656.97 
 119.28 
 283.93 
 1,060.18 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2024
 5,385.99 
 38.36 
 35.69 
 5,460.04 
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Franchise rights/ 
trademarks 
(Refer note i) 
 Distribution 
network 
 Computer 
software 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 6,042.96 
 157.64 
 279.89 
 6,480.49 
Additions for the year
 - 
 - 
 0.62 
 0.62 
Disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 6,042.96 
 157.64 
 280.51 
 6,481.11 
Amortisation
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 656.97 
 79.87 
 265.10 
 1,001.94 
Amortisation charge for the year
 - 
 19.71 
 8.72 
 28.43 
Reversal on disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 656.97 
 99.58 
 273.82 
 1,030.37 
Carrying amount as at 31 December 2023
 5,385.99 
 58.06 
 6.69 
 5,450.74 
	
i.	
Goodwill and franchise rights/trade marks with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually, or 
more frequently if the events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. The useful 
life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the useful 
life assessment continues to be supportable.
	
	
The Company has considered the relevant provisions of Ind AS 38 on ‘Intangibles Assets’ which provides factors to 
determine the life of intangible assets and accordingly the carrying value of franchisee rights have been considered 
to have an indefinite life. These franchisee rights meet the prescribed criteria of renewal at nominal cost, renewal 
with no specific conditions attached, are sustainable and the same is supported by evidences of being renewed. 
Management is of the opinion that, based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to 
the period over which the franchise rights are expected to generate net cash inflows for the Company. 	
	
	
The assumptions used in this impairment assessment are most sensitive to following:
	
	
a)	
Weighted average cost of capital ‘’WACC’’ of 16.45% (Previous year - 13.33%) for the explicit period and 
16.45% (Previous year - 13.33%) for the terminal year.
	
	
b) 	 For arriving at the terminal value, approximate growth rate of 6% (Previous year - 5%) is considered.
Varun Beverages Limited
374
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
5B.	Other intangible assets [Cont’d]
	
	
c)	
Number of years for which cash flows were considered are 5 years.
	
	
d) 	 The approximate rate of growth in sales is estimated at 8%-10% (Previous year - 8%-10%) in the discrete 
period.
 	
	
	
No impairment loss was identified on the above assessment.	
	
ii.	
The amount of contractual commitments for the acquisitions of intangible assets are disclosed in Note 41.
	
iii.	
Refer Note 50 for information on other intangible assets pledged as security by the Company.
5C.	Intangible assets under development: 
	
The changes in the carrying value of intangible assets under development for the year ended 31 December 2024 
and 31 December 2023 are as follows :
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 - 
Additions for the year
 43.69 
Transfer to intangible assets
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 43.69 
(` in million)
Amount
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 - 
Additions for the year
 - 
Transfer to intangible assets
 - 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 - 
Footnotes to Note 5C:   
 (i) Intangible assets under development ageing schedule
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Amount in intangible assets under development for a period of
 Less than 
1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More than 
3 years 
 Total 
Projects in progress
As at 31 December 2024
 43.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.69 
As at 31 December 2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no projects as on each reporting period where activity has been suspended. Also, there are no projects 
as on each reporting period which has exceeded cost as compared to its original plan or where completion is 
overdue.		
	
	
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
375
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
6. 	 Investments
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Investment in equity shares of subsidiaries (at cost) (unquoted)
17,392,760 (31 December 2023: 17,392,760) fully paid equity shares 
of MAD 50 each in Varun Beverages Morocco SA^
 6,179.18 
 6,179.18 
643,853,670 (31 December 2023: 643,853,670) fully paid equity 
shares of LKR 10 each in Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
 3,149.55 
 3,149.55 
2,001,500 (31 December 2023: 2,001,500) fully paid equity shares of 
NPR 1,000 each in Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited*
 1,423.91 
1423.91
18,710,100 (31 December 2023: 18,710,100) fully paid equity shares of 
ZMW 10 each in Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited^
 3,231.01 
 3,231.01 
935 (31 December 2023: 935) fully paid equity shares of USD 1 each 
in Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 0.06 
 0.06 
995,010 (31 December 2023: 597,645) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 
each in Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited#^
 2,262.94 
 262.94 
999 (31 December 2023: 999) fully paid equity shares of USD 10 
each in Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 0.74 
 0.74 
1,000 (31 December 2023: 1,000) fully paid equity shares of AED 
1,000 each in Varun Beverages International DMCC
 20.68 
 20.68 
1,000 (31 December 2023: 1,000) fully paid equity shares of ZAR 10 
each in Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Ltd.$
 0.05 
 0.05 
2,018,674 (31 December 2023: Nil) fully paid equity shares in The 
Beverage Company Proprietary Limited.## ^
 4,037.26 
 - 
9,900 (31 December 2023: Nil) fully paid equity shares of MZN 100 
each in VBL Mozambique, SA ^%
 1.32 
 - 
10,000 (31 December 2023: Nil) fully paid shares of USD 1 each in 
Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private) Limited^^^
 0.84 
 - 
Deemed investment (Refer note 43B)
 37.93 
 15.75 
Investment in equity shares of associates (at cost) (unquoted)
21,030 (31 December 2023: 21,030 ) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 
each in Clean Max Tav Private Limited@
 32.85 
32.85
1,247,943 (31 December 2023: 1,247,943) fully paid equity shares of 
` 10 each in Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited^^
 21.24 
 21.24 
Investment in equity shares of joint ventures (at cost) (unquoted)
50,000,000 (31 December 2023: 13,007,000) fully paid equity 
shares of ` 10 each in IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited~
 500.00 
 130.07 
Investment in others in fully paid equity shares (FVTPL, unquoted)
200 (31 December 2023: 200) shares of ` 50 each in The Margao 
Urban Co-operative Bank Limited
 0.01 
 0.01 
250 (31 December 2023: 250) shares of ` 10 each in The Goa Urban 
Co-operative Bank Limited**
 0.00 
 0.00 
3,150,000 (31 December 2023: 3,150,000) fully paid equity shares of 
` 10 each in Lone Cypress Ventures Private Limited@@
 31.50 
 31.50 
958,415 (31 December 2023: Nil) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 each 
in Huoban Energy 11 Private Limited
 29.04 
 - 
 20,960.11 
 14,499.54 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 20,960.11 
 14,499.54 
Varun Beverages Limited
376
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
6.	 Investments [Cont’d]
	
**Rounded off to Nil.
	
* The Company had subscribed 370,370 equity shares of Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited amounting to ` 625.00 million 
on 18 May 2023 and Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited on 24 December 2023 allotted 551,130 equity shares as bonus 
shares of NPR 1,000 each to its existing shareholder.
	
#The Company had acquired 50,000 equity shares of Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited amounting to ` 100.00 million on 
16 October 2023. Further on 16 December 2024 Company has acquired 39.93% of the issued and paid-up Equity Share Capital 
and accordingly, it has become wholly-owned subsidiary.
	
$The Company had made equity investment in Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Ltd. amounting to ` 0.05 million on 23 
May 2023.
	
~The Company had subscribed the equity investment of IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited amounting to ` 369.93 (31 
December 2023: ` 120.00 million) and loan given amounting to ` 10.00 million were converted into equity investment on 25 
September 2023.
	
@The Company had made investment in Clean Max Tav Private Limited amounting to ` 3.28 million and ` 29.54 million on 27 
January 2023 and 13 March 2023 respectively.
	
^^The Company had made equity investment in Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited amounting to ` 21.24 million on 09 May 2023.
	
@@The Company had made equity investment in Lone Cypress Ventures Private Limited amounting to ` 31.50 million on 13 
March 2023.
	
^% The Company had incorporated VBL Mozambique, SA, a subsidiary on 21 November 2023, and consideration for 99% share 
capital has been transferred on 31 January 2024
	
^^^The Company has incorporated Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private ) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary on 22 May 2024.
	
## The Company acquired 95% stake of The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited amounting to ` 4,037.26 million on 26 
March 2024
	
PThe Company has made equity investment in Huoban Energy 11 Private Limited amounting to ` 29.04 million on 28 
August 2024.	
	
	
	
^These investments were tested for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 36 “Impairment of Assets” concluding no impairment 
to the carrying values.
Refer note 51 for information required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Information about investments along with proportion of ownership interest held and country of incorporation 
are as follows:
Name of the company/entity
Country of 
incorporation 
and principal 
place of 
business
Proportion of ownership interests held 
by the Company at year end
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited ('VBL Nepal')
Nepal
100.00%
100.00%
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited ('VBL Lanka')
Sri Lanka
100.00%
100.00%
Varun Beverages Morocco SA ('VBL Morocco')
Morocco
100.00%
100.00%
Ole Spring Bottlers (Private) Limited ('Ole')*
Sri Lanka
100.00%
100.00%
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited ('VBL Zambia')
Zambia
90.00%
90.00%
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited  
('VBL Zimbabwe')
Zimbabwe
85.00%
85.00%
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
Congo
99.90%
99.90%
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited~~
India
100.00%
60.07%
Varun Beverages International DMCC
Dubai
100.00%
100.00%
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited
India
50.00%
50.00%
Clean Max Tav Private Limited
India
26.00%
26.00%
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited@
India
26.34%
26.34%
Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Ltd.#
South Africa
100.00%
100.00%
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
377
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
Name of the company/entity
Country of 
incorporation 
and principal 
place of 
business
Proportion of ownership interests held 
by the Company at year end
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
VBL Mozambique, SA^^
Mozambique
99.00%
99.00%
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited ('Bevco')##
South Africa
95.00%
 - 
The Beverage Company Bidco Proprietary Limited$##
South Africa
95.00%
 - 
Little Green Beverages Proprietary Limited$##
South Africa
95.00%
 - 
Softbev Proprietary Limited$##
South Africa
95.00%
 - 
Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private ) Limited^^^
Zimbabwe
100.00%
 - 
	
*subsidiary of VBL Lanka
	
@w.e.f. 09 May 2023
	
#w.e.f. 23 May 2023
	
^^Subsidiary incorporated on 21 November 2023, 99% share capital subscribed on 31 January 2024
	
##Acquired on 26 March 2024
	
^^^Wholly owned subsidiary incorporated on 22 May 2024, 100% share capital subscribed on 22 May 2024
	
~~Wholly owned subsidiary w.e.f. 16 December 2024
	
$subsidiary of Bevco
7.	 Loans
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Loans carried at amortised cost
Loans to related parties, considered good - Unsecured
 14,856.27 
 6,999.39 
 14,856.27 
 6,999.39 
Loans to subsidiaries:-
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 466.65 
 984.10 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited#
 826.71 
 802.51 
Varun Beverages Morocco SA#
 1,110.25 
 1,077.74 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 5,655.41 
 2,123.62 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
 3,844.48 
 2,011.42 
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited#
 2,952.77 
 - 
	
#The loans granted were tested for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 109 concluding no impairment to the carrying values.
	
Refer note 51 for information required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
There are no loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to promoters, directors, key managerial personnel and related 
parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013) that are either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period 
of repayment.	 	
8.	 Other non-current financial asset
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Financial asset at amortised cost
Security deposits
 744.84 
 519.83 
Balance in deposit accounts with remaining maturity of more than 
12 months#
 9.61 
 10.49 
Others
 47.64 
 34.53 
 802.09 
 564.85 
	
#Includes deposits pledged as security with banks for utility services.
Varun Beverages Limited
378
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
9.	 Other non-current assets
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Unsecured, considered good)
Capital advances
 3,281.12 
 3,375.94 
Advances other than capital advances
- 	
Income tax paid (includes amount paid under protest)
 16.42 
 10.42 
- 	
Balance with statutory authorities (paid under protest)
 107.93 
 117.21 
- 	
Prepaid expenses
 24.03 
 33.89 
 3,429.50 
 3,537.46 
10.	 Inventories
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Valued at lower of cost or net realisable value)
Raw and packing material (including goods in transit of ` 212.81 (31 
December 2023: ` 231.47 )
 7,469.37 
 5,905.76 
Work in progress
 71.25 
 24.55 
Intermediate goods (including goods in transit of ` 220.55 (31 
December 2023: ` 232.21))
 3,887.77 
 4,153.40 
Finished goods (including goods in transit of ` 178.06 (31 December 
2023: ` 0.92))*
 2,809.45 
 2,985.94 
Stores and spares
 2,649.21 
 2,289.09 
 16,887.05 
 15,358.74 
	
*The Company manufactures as well as purchases the same product from market for sale and is also involved in trading of other 
products of capital nature. In the absence of demarcation between manufactured and purchased goods and the value of stock 
in trade being insignificant, it is not separately ascertainable and disclosed.
	
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is disclosed in Note 29, Note 30, Note 31 and Note 35.
11.	 Trade receivables
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Trade receivables, considered good - Unsecured
 1,965.01 
 2,106.55 
Trade receivables, considered good - Secured
 32.62 
 22.87 
Trade receivables - Credit impaired
 289.82 
 286.72 
 2,287.45 
 2,416.14 
Less : Allowance for expected credit loss (Refer note 52.2)
 (289.82)
 (286.72)
 1,997.63 
 2,129.42 
Includes amounts due, in the ordinary course of business, from subsidiaries:
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
 96.66 
 51.21 
Varun Beverages Zimbabwe (Private) Limited
 210.44 
 567.08 
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
 7.39 
 11.19 
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
 18.90 
 9.64 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
 55.21 
 50.79 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 60.34 
Includes amounts due, in the ordinary course of business, from 
companies in which directors of the Company are also directors:
Alisha Torrent Closures Private Limited
4.29
0.00*
	
*Rounded off to Nil.
	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and credit period generally falls in the range of 0 to 120 days.
	
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other 
person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, 
a director or a member, except as disclosed above.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
379
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Trade receivables ageing schedule
	
31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 Months- 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
 1,967.73 
 29.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,997.63 
Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Undisputed Trade receivables – credit 
impaired
 8.49 
 26.23 
 3.72 
 4.93 
 57.60 
 100.97 
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade receivables – credit 
impaired
 0.45 
 2.72 
 8.50 
 33.16 
 144.02 
 188.85 
Total
 1,976.67 
 58.85 
 12.22 
 38.09 
 201.62 
 2,287.45 
	
31 December 2023
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 Months- 
1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed Trade Receivables – 
considered good
 2,129.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,129.42 
Undisputed Trade Receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Undisputed Trade receivables – credit 
impaired
 15.40 
 3.20 
 8.24 
 3.00 
 80.31 
 110.15 
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade receivables – which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade receivables – credit 
impaired
 - 
 3.10 
 3.03 
 24.51 
 145.93 
 176.57 
Total
 2,144.82 
 6.30 
 11.27 
 27.51 
 226.24 
 2,416.14 
12.	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
(also for the purpose of Standalone Statement of Cash Flow)
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Balance with banks in current accounts*
 501.10 
 472.76 
Balance in deposits with original maturity of less than three months#
 18,630.11 
 19.68 
Balances with banks in QIP monitoring accounts#
 125.02 
 - 
Cash on hand
 5.36 
 2.36 
Investment in liquid fund#
 1,319.21 
 - 
 20,580.80 
 494.80 
	
* Includes inward remittance not yet cleared amounting to ` 25.86 million (31 December 2023: ` 3.80 million)
	
#Includes balance of qualified institutional placement (QIP) proceeds of ` 20,055.02 Million, which will be utilised for the purpose 
as stated in the preliminary placement document for QIP. Net unutilised proceeds from QIP as on 31 December 2024 have been 
temporarily invested and kept in fixed deposits of ` 18,630.00 Million, mutual fund of ` 1,300.00 Million and QIP monitoring 
account for ` 125.02 Million. (Refer Note 59)
Varun Beverages Limited
380
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
13.	 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents		
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Deposits with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 
months*
 4.96 
 2.04 
Unpaid dividend account**
 1.32 
 0.97 
Deposits with bank held as margin money
 - 
 25.28 
 6.28 
 28.29 
	
*Includes deposits pledged as security with banks for statutory authority.	
	
	
	
	
**These balances are not available for use by the Company and corresponding balance is disclosed as unclaimed dividend in 
note 24.
14.	 Loans	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Loans carried at amortised cost
Loans to related party, considered good - Unsecured*
 547.13 
 - 
 547.13 
-
	
*Loans to a subsidiary, in the ordinary course of business
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited 
 547.13 
-
Refer note 51 for information required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
15.	 Other current financial assets	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Unsecured, considered good)
Interest accrued on:
-	
Loan to subsidiaries*
 1,106.48 
 500.00 
-	
Term deposits
 137.81 
 0.13 
-	
Others
 30.88 
 18.47 
Security deposits
 140.03 
 136.18 
Dividend receivable**
 949.82 
 387.15 
Guarantee commission receivable#
 32.97 
 20.58 
Advances to employees~
 82.77 
 106.25 
Government grants receivable$
 7,110.08 
 6,002.38 
Claims receivables
 134.54 
 481.63 
Other receivables^
 47.16 
 42.25 
 9,772.54 
 7,695.02 
*Amounts due from subsidiaries
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
 132.19 
 76.02 
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 181.57 
 104.99 
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
 54.05 
 110.24 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
381
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 118.49 
 25.91 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
 383.53 
 182.84 
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
 236.65 
 - 
 1,106.48 
 500.00 
**Amount due from a subsidiary, namely, Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
949.82
387.15
#Amounts due from subsidiaries:
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
 0.04 
 0.04 
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 0.86 
 12.36 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
 6.98 
 4.05 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 3.96 
 3.08 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
 0.58 
 0.52 
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
 18.83 
 - 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
 1.72 
 0.53 
 32.97 
 20.58 
^Includes amounts due from subsidiaries:
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
 3.92 
 0.73 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
 2.64 
 1.06 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
 3.62 
 1.29 
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 8.03 
 1.21 
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
 1.13 
 0.79 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
 0.15 
 0.09 
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
 1.58 
 - 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 0.90 
 0.03 
 21.97 
 5.20 
~Advance given to key management personnel: (Refer Note 43A)
 0.76 
 38.50 
$ Net of provision amounting to ` 236.45 (31 December 2023: Nil)
16.	 Other current assets	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(Unsecured, considered good)
Security deposits
 10.10 
 10.36 
Advance to related party*
 50.92 
 66.75 
Other advances :
-	
Contractors and suppliers
 647.46 
 664.52 
-	
Prepaid expenses
 225.63 
 229.91 
-	
Balance with statutory/government authorities
 2,587.43 
 2,595.59 
-	
Other advances
 67.51 
 77.87 
 3,589.05 
 3,645.00 
*Amounts due, in the ordinary course of business, from related party:
SMV Beverages Private Limited
 50.92 
 66.75 
Varun Beverages Limited
382
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
17.	 Equity share capital	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Authorised share capital:
5,000,000,000 equity shares of `2 each (31 December 2023: 
2000,000,000 equity shares of ` 5 each)
 10,000.00 
 10,000.00 
 10,000.00 
 10,000.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up:
3,381,510,017 equity shares of ` 2 each (31 December 2023: 
1,299,214,976  equity shares of ` 5 each)
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
	
a) 	 Reconciliation of share capital
(` in million)
Particular
No. of shares
Amount
Balance as at 01 January 2024
 1,299,214,976 
 6,496.07 
Add: Shares issued of `5 each pursuant to exercise of 
employee stock options 
 233,436 
 1.17 
Add: Sub-division/split of 1 share of face value ` 5 each into such 
number share of face value ` 2 each effective 12 September 2024 
(Increase in shares on account of sub-division/split) (Refer note 
(g) below)
 1,949,172,618 
 - 
Add: Shares issued of ` 2 each pursuant to Qualified institutions 
placement (QIP) (Refer note 59)
 132,743,362 
 265.49 
Add: Shares issued of ` 2 each pursuant to exercise of employee 
stock options 
 145,625 
 0.29 
Balance as at 31 December 2024
 3,381,510,017 
 6,763.02 
(` in million)
Particular
No. of shares
Amount
Balance as at 01 January 2023
 649,549,620 
 6,495.50 
Add: Shares issued of ` 10 each pursuant to exercise of 
employee stock options 
 8,412 
 0.08 
Add: Sub-division/split of 1 share of face value ` 10/- each 
into 2 share of face value ` 5/- each effective 15 June 2023 
(Increase in shares on account of sub-division/split) (Refer 
note (g) below)
 649,558,032 
 - 
Add: Shares issued of ` 5 each pursuant to exercise of employee 
stock options 
 98,912 
 0.49 
Balance as at 31 December 2023
 1,299,214,976 
 6,496.07 
	
b) 	 Terms/rights attached to shares
	
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 2 each. Each holder of equity share 
is entitled to one vote per share. In the event of liquidation of the Company, holders of equity shares will be 
entitled to receive any of the remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. 
The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. The dividend, 
if any, proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
383
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
c) 	 List of shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate equity share capital of the Company at 
the beginning and at the end of the year:
Shareholders as at 31 December 2024
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 2 each)
 % of shareholding 
RJ Corp Limited
 868,877,060 
25.69%
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 564,736,222 
16.70%
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                          
 520,859,870 
15.40%
Shareholders as at 31 December 2023
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 5 each)
 % of shareholding 
RJ Corp Limited
 349,750,824 
26.92%
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 229,104,059 
17.63%
Mr. Varun Jaipuria 
 208,343,948 
16.04%
	
	
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declaration 
received from the shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal 
and beneficial ownerships of shares.
	
d) 	 Aggregate number of bonus shares issued, shares issued for consideration other than cash and 
shares bought back during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date	
	
	
(i) 	 During the year ended 31 December 2019, the Company has issued 91,327,613 equity shares of ` 10 
each as fully paid-up bonus shares in the ratio of 1 (One) equity share for every 2 (Two) equity share 
outstanding on record date.		
	
	
	
(ii)	 During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Company has issued 144,344,360 equity shares of `10 
each as fully paid-up bonus shares in the ratio of 1 (One) equity share for every 2 (Two) equity share 
outstanding on record date.		
	
	
	
(iii)	 During the year ended 31 December 2022, the Company has issued 216,516,540 equity shares of `10 
each as fully paid-up bonus shares in the ratio of 1 (One) equity share for every 2 (Two) equity share 
outstanding on record date.		
	
	
	
For the period of five years of the date of the immediately preceding the reporting date, there was no 
share allotment made for consideration other than cash except as disclosed above. Further, there has been 
no buy back of shares during the period of five years immediately preceding 31 December 2024 and 31 
December 2023.
	
e) 	 Shares held by holding and ultimate holding company
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
RJ Corp Limited, Parent company*
 1,737.75 
 1,748.75 
868,877,060 fully paid-up equity shares of ` 2 each  
(31 December 2023: 349,750,824 fully paid-up equity shares of 
` 5 each)
 1,737.75 
 1,748.75 
	
	
*as defined under Ind AS 110 - Consolidated Financial Statements.
Varun Beverages Limited
384
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
17.	  Equity share capital [Cont’d]
	
f) 	 Details of shares held by promoters:
Shareholders as at 31 December 2024
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 2 each)
% of shareholding
% change during 
the year 
RJ Corp Limited
 868,877,060 
25.69%
(1.23%)
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 564,736,222 
16.70%
(0.93%)
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                          
 520,859,870 
15.40%
(0.64%)
Shareholders as at 31 December 2023
No. of shares 
(face value of ` 5 each)
% of shareholding
% change during 
the year 
RJ Corp Limited
 349,750,824 
26.92%
(0.47%)
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 229,104,059 
17.63%
(0.34%)
Mr. Varun Jaipuria                                          
 208,343,948 
16.04%
0.00%
	
g) 	 Sub-division/split of equity shares
	
	
i)	
During the year ended 31 December 2024,the Board of Directors of the Company in their meeting held on 
30 July 2024 recommended the sub-division/split of existing Equity Shares of the Company from 1 (One) 
Equity Share having face value of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up, into such number Equity 
Shares having face value of ` 2/- (Rupees Two only) each fully paid-up. The above sub-division/split has 
been approved by the equity shareholders of the Company dated 30 August 2024 through postal ballot. 
Pursuant to sub-division/split of shares effective 12 September 2024 (“Record Date”), the paid up equity 
share capital of the Company is ` 6,497.24 consisting of 3,248,621,030 equity shares having face value of 
` 2/- (Rupees two only) each fully paid-up.	
	
	
	
	
ii)	
During the year ended 31 December 2023, the Board of Directors of the Company in their meeting held on 
02 May 2023 recommended the sub-division/split of existing Equity Shares of the Company from 1 (One) 
Equity Share having face value of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten only) each fully paid-up, into 2 (Two) Equity Shares 
having face value of ` 5/- (Rupees Five only) each fully paid-up. The above sub-division/split has been 
approved by the equity shareholders of the Company dated 02 June 2023 through postal ballot. Pursuant 
to sub-division/split of shares effective 15 June 2023 (“Record Date”), the paid up equity share capital of 
the Company is ` 6,495.58 consisting of 1,299,116,064 equity shares having face value of ` 5/- (Rupees 
Five only) each fully paid-up.	
	
	
	
h) 	 Pursuant to QIP the Company has issued 132,743,362 equity shares of ` 2 each at a premium of ` 563 per share: 
(Refer note 59)
(` in million)
Date of allotment
Share capital
Securities premium
Total
19 November 2024
 265.49 
 74,734.51 
 75,000.00 
18.	 Other equity
	
Refer Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity for detailed movement in Other Equity balance.
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Capital reserve
 533.93 
 533.93 
Share option outstanding account
 184.70 
 84.99 
Securities premium
 96,939.28 
 22,636.59 
General reserve
 444.26 
 444.26 
Retained earnings
 60,721.86 
 40,558.69 
Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 3.51 
 158,824.03 
 64,261.97 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
385
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
Description of nature and purpose of each reserve:
	
Capital reserve - Created on merger of Varun Beverages (International) Limited with the Company pursuant to 
and in accordance with the Court approved scheme of amalgamation. Includes gain from bargain purchases.
	
General reserve - Created by way of transfer from debenture redemption reserve on redemption of debentures.
	
Securities premium - Created to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act.	
	
	
	
	
Retained earnings - Created from the profit of the Company, as adjusted for distributions to owners, transfers to other 
 reserves, etc. 
	
Share option outstanding account - Created to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under the employee stock option schemes and is adjusted on exercise / forfeiture of options.
	
Share application money pending allotment - Created to record the amount of money received for the purpose 
of allotment of equity share of the company pending at the reporting date. It will be utilised in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 upon issuance of equity shares.
19.	 Borrowings
A.	
Non-current borrowings:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Term loans (secured) (Refer note 19E)
-	
Indian rupee loan from banks
 1,181.43 
 29,658.63 
-	
Indian rupee loan from others
 260.67 
 446.86 
 1,442.10 
 30,105.49 
	
Loans and borrowing above are recognised at amortised cost/fair value taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fee or costs that are part of effective interest rate, accordingly the outstanding 
balances above may not necessarily reconcile with repayment amounts.	
B.	
Current borrowings:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Loans repayable on demand
	
-	
Working capital facilities from banks (secured) (Refer 
footnote (a))
 2,433.42 
 4,805.00 
	
-	
Working capital facilities from banks (unsecured) (Refer 
footnote (b))
 1,800.00 
 2,450.00 
Working capital facility from banks (unsecured) (Refer footnote (c))
 1,450.00 
 500.00 
Current maturities of long-term debts
 1,189.89 
 9,740.56 
 6,873.31 
 17,495.56 
	
(a) 	 Working capital facilities from banks are secured by first charge on entire current assets of the Company 
ranking pari-passu amongst the banks and second charge on the movable and immovable assets of the 
Company pertaining to specific manufacturing units (wherever applicable). During the previous year, one 
short term loan facility from a bank was secured by subservient charge over entire current assets and movable 
fixed assets (both present and future) of the Company. These facilities carry interest rates ranging between 
7.10% to 7.53 % (31 December 2023: 7.45% to 7.76%).	
	
	
(b)	 Working capital facilities from banks carrying interest rates 7.16% per annum (31 December 2023: 7.70% to 
7.72% per annum).		
Varun Beverages Limited
386
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
(c) 	 Working capital facility from a bank carrying interest rate 7.15% per annum is repayable in two equal instalments 
from the date of disbursement. During the previous year working capital facility from a bank carrying interest 
rate 7.76% per annum is repayable in three equal instalments from the date of disbursement and was repaid 
during the year.	
	
	
There are no defaults in repayment of principal borrowings or interest there on.
C.	
Other non-current financial liabilities:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Lease liabilities (Refer note 44)
 419.61 
 1,043.65 
 419.61 
 1,043.65 
D.	
Current financial liabilities:
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Lease liabilities (Refer note 44)
 77.10 
 176.29 
 77.10 
 176.29 
E.	
Terms and conditions/details of securities for loans:
(` in million)
Name of the bank/instrument
Loan outstanding
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Non-current 
Current
Non-current
Current
Term loans
i) 	 Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
Loans carrying weighted average rate of interest 
7.56% (31 December 2023: 8.01%) depending 
upon tenure of the loans. 
For repayment terms refer note 19F.
 1,181.43 
 547.17 
 29,283.63 
 8,068.46 
These loans are secured on first pari-passu charge 
on the entire movable and immovable property, 
plant and equipment of the Company including 
the territory /franchisee rights acquired under the 
business acquisition except vehicles and lands for 
which no mortgages have been created till date.
ii) 	Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
Loans carrying weighted average rate of interest 
Nil (31 December 2023: 7.40%) depending upon 
tenure of the loans. 
For repayment terms refer note 19F.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 800.00 
These loans are secured with subservient charge 
on movable fixed assets of the Company and 
one facility during the previous year was further 
secured with first pari passu charge on the 
inventories and receivables of the Company.
19.	 Borrowings [Cont’d]
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
387
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
(` in million)
Name of the bank/instrument
Loan outstanding
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Non-current 
Current
Non-current
Current
iii) 	Indian rupee loan from banks (secured)
Loans carrying rate of interest 7.95 % (31 
December 2023: 7.95%) depending upon tenure 
of the loans. 
For repayment terms refer note 19F.
 - 
 375.00 
 375.00 
 541.67 
These loans are secured on first pari-passu charge 
on the entire movable assets of the Company 
including the territory /franchisee rights acquired 
under the business acquisition except vehicles.
 1,181.43 
 922.17 
 29,658.63 
 9,410.13 
iv) 	Indian rupee loan from others (secured)
Interest free loans from The Pradeshiya Industrial 
& Investment Corporation of U.P. Limited are 
repayable in one instalment after expiry of seven 
years from the date of disbursement. Loans are 
secured against bank guarantee equivalent to 
100% of loan amount valid up to the repayment 
date of loan plus six months grace period.
The loans are recognised at amortised cost basis 
using weighted average rate of borrowing on date 
of receipt, i.e., 7.63%-8.77% (31 December 2023: 
8.52%-9.72%) 
Date of repayment 	
Amount 
01 November 2025	
211.98
31 March 2030 	
65.90
07 July 2030 	
139.92
22 February 2031 	
22.87
01 October 2031 	
46.59
176.18
201.53
308.20
166.87
Interest free loan from The Director of Industries 
and Commerce, Haryana are repayable in one 
instalment after expiry of five years from the date 
of disbursement. Loans are secured against bank 
guarantee equivalent to 100% of loan amount 
valid up to the repayment date of loan plus six 
months grace period.
The loans are recognised at amortised cost basis 
using weighted average rate of borrowing on date 
of receipt, i.e., 8.33% (31 December 2023: 8.33%) 
The repayment schedule is as under:
Date of repayment 	
Amount 
17 February 2025 	
43.98
13 October 2025 	
23.96
21 February 2027 	
70.83
18 July 2028             	
	
33.30
 84.49 
 66.19 
 138.66 
 163.56 
 260.67 
 267.72 
 446.86 
 330.43 
Total
 1,442.10 
 1,189.89 
 30,105.49 
 9,740.56 
Varun Beverages Limited
388
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
F. 	 Repayment terms:
(` in million)
S.No
Description
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Repayment terms
 Non-current 
 Current  Non-current 
 Current 
1
Term loan - 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 240.00 Loan was repaid during the year
2
Term loan - 2
 - 
 - 
 291.49 
 291.80 Loan was repaid during the year
3
Term loan - 3
 - 
 - 
 499.32 
 500.00 Loan was repaid during the year
4
Term loan - 4
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 200.00 Loan was repaid during the year
5
Term loan - 5
 - 
 - 
 199.73 
 200.00 Loan was repaid during the year
6
Term loan - 6
 - 
 - 
 699.75 
 400.00 Loan was repaid during the year
7
Term loan - 7
 560.28 
 317.77 
 1,050.00 
 380.00 Two instalments of ` 158.89 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, two 
instalments of ` 154.70 each due in 
May 2026 and June 2026 and two 
instalments of ` 125.44 each due in 
May 2027 and June 2027.
8
Term loan - 8
 - 
 - 
 - 
 800.00 Loan was repaid during the year
9
Term loan - 9
 - 
 - 
 1,600.00 
 500.00 Loan was repaid during the year
10
Term loan - 10
 - 
 - 
 1,350.00 
 300.00 Loan was repaid during the year
11
Term loan - 11
 - 
 - 
 1,333.34 
 666.66 Loan was repaid during the year
12
Term loan - 12
 282.65 
 141.32 
 3,750.00 
 1,250.00 Two instalments of ` 70.66 each due 
in May 2025 and June 2025, two 
instalments of ` 70.66 each due in 
May 2026 and June 2026 and two 
instalments of ` 70.66 each due in 
May 2027 and June 2027.
13
Term loan - 13
 - 
 375.00 
 375.00 
 375.00 Two instalments of ` 187.50 each due 
in May 2025 and June 2025.
14
Term loan - 14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 166.67 Loan was repaid during the year
15
Term loan - 15
 - 
 - 
 2,000.00 
 1,000.00 Loan was repaid during the year
16
Term loan - 16
 170.50 
 46.08 
 2,350.00 
 100.00 Two instalments of ` 23.04 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, 
two instalments of ` 23.04 each 
due in May 2026 and June 2026, 
two instalments of ` 32.26 each due 
in May 2027 and June 2027,one 
instalment of ` 32.26 due in May 2028 
and one instalment of ` 27.65 due in 
June 2028. 
17
Term loan - 17
 - 
 - 
 2,400.00 
 600.00 Loan was repaid during the year
18
Term loan - 18
 - 
 - 
 1,900.00 
 100.00 Loan was repaid during the year
19
Term loan - 19
 - 
 - 
 750.00 
 250.00 Loan was repaid during the year
20
Term loan - 20
 - 
 - 
 3,150.00 
 350.00 Loan was repaid during the year
21
Term loan - 21
 - 
 - 
 2,760.00 
 240.00 Loan was repaid during the year
22
Term loan - 22
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 - Loan was repaid during the year
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
389
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
(` in million)
S.No
Description
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Repayment terms
 Non-current 
 Current  Non-current 
 Current 
23
Term loan - 23
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
 500.00 Loan was repaid during the year
24
Term loan - 24
 168.00 
 42.00 
 - 
 - Two instalments of ` 21.00 each 
due in May 2025 and June 2025, 
two instalments of ` 21.00 each 
due in May 2026 and June 2026, 
two instalments of ` 21.00 each due 
in May 2027 and June 2027, two 
instalments of ` 21.00 each due in 
May 2028 and June 2028 and two 
instalments of ` 21.00 each due in 
May 2029 and June 2029
 1,181.43 
 922.17 
 29,658.63 
 9,410.13 
20.	Provisions
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Non-current
	
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 37)
	
Defined benefit liability (net)
 1,089.24 
 1,417.19 
	
Other long term employee obligations
 687.76 
 639.07 
 1,777.00 
 2,056.26 
Current 
	
Provision for employee benefits (Refer note 37)
	
Other short term employee obligations
 353.82 
 311.98 
	
Others (Refer note 56)
 294.12 
 503.72 
 647.94 
 815.70 
Varun Beverages Limited
390
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
21.	 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
	
Deferred taxes arising from temporary differences and unused tax losses are summarised as follows:	
(` in million)
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets)
As at 
 01 January 
2024
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income**
Recognised 
in Statement 
of Profit and 
Loss
As at 
 31 December 
2024
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 3,844.81 
 - 
 702.14 
 4,546.95 
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (72.16)
 - 
 (0.77)
 (72.93)
Accrued bonus
 (44.51)
 - 
 (10.31)
 (54.82)
Fair valuation of financial instruments
 (25.87)
 - 
 3.14 
 (22.73)
Provision for retirement benefits
 (501.96)
 69.98 
 (37.34)
 (469.32)
Borrowings
 (0.65)
 - 
 0.49 
 (0.16)
Benefit accrued on government grants
 74.45 
 - 
 (6.96)
 67.49 
Others
 (140.78)
 - 
 (20.22)
 (161.00)
 3,133.33 
 69.98 
 630.16 
 3,833.51 
(` in million)
Deferred tax liabilities/(assets)	
	
As at 
 01 January 
2023
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income**
Recognised in 
Statement of 
Profit and Loss
As at 
 31 December 
2023
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 3,701.97 
 - 
 142.84 
 3,844.81 
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (72.74)
 - 
 0.58 
 (72.16)
Accrued bonus
 (47.50)
 - 
 2.99 
 (44.51)
Fair valuation of financial instruments
 (15.22)
 - 
 (10.65)
 (25.87)
Provision for retirement benefits
 (474.70)
 (6.99)
 (20.27)
 (501.96)
Borrowings
 (1.00)
 - 
 0.35 
 (0.65)
Benefit accrued on government grants
 96.59 
 - 
 (22.14)
 74.45 
Others
 12.44 
 - 
 (153.22)
 (140.78)
 3,199.84 
 (6.99)
 (59.52)
 3,133.33 
	
*The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income relate to the re-measurement of net defined retirement 
benefit liability. Refer note 36 for the amount of the income tax relating to these components of other comprehensive 
income.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
All significant deferred tax assets have been recognised in the balance sheet.	
22.	 Other non-current liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Deferred revenue on government grant
 4.37 
 5.16 
Deferred income
 42.94 
 63.24 
 47.31 
 68.40 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
391
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
23.	 Trade payables
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Total outstanding dues of-
	
Micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer note 46)
 640.19 
 767.25 
	
Creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 4,938.09 
 4,151.36 
 5,578.28 
 4,918.61 
	
Trade payables ageing schedule
	
31 December 2024
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Unbilled
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed trade payable
  Micro enterprises and small enterprises
113.98
522.65
2.88
0.25
0.43
640.19
  Others
1,377.72
3,438.30
19.83
5.03
14.10 4,854.98
Disputed trade payable
  Micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
-
-
-
-
  Others
-
52.40
12.01
8.85
9.85
83.11
Total
1,491.70
4,013.35
34.72
14.13
24.38 5,578.28
	
Trade payables ageing schedule 
	
31 December 2023
(` in million)
Particulars
Outstanding from date of transactions
Total
Unbilled
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
Undisputed trade payable
  Micro enterprises and small enterprises
 68.73 
 692.13 
 5.34 
 0.36 
 0.50 
 767.06 
  Others
 1,519.74 
 2,470.47 
 65.62 
 10.19 
 6.00  4,072.02 
Disputed trade payable
  Micro enterprises and small enterprises
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
  Others
 - 
 52.46 
 13.18 
 6.95 
 6.75 
 79.34 
Total
 1,588.47 
 3,215.25 
 84.14 
 17.50 
 13.25  4,918.61 
24.	Other current financial liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 5.55 
 80.40 
Interest payable
 48.59 
 27.21 
Payable for capital expenditure
 3,088.65 
 4,064.96 
Employee related payables
 813.94 
 705.62 
Unclaimed dividends#
 1.32 
 0.97 
Security deposits
 1,924.95 
 1,799.54 
 5,883.00 
 6,678.70 
	
#Not due for deposit to the Investor Education and Protection Fund.
Varun Beverages Limited
392
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
25.	Other current liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Advance from customers*
 1,417.35 
 1,725.58 
Statutory dues payable
 703.84 
 743.39 
Deferred income
 49.91 
 39.91 
 2,171.10 
 2,508.88 
	
*Amounts due to subsidiary:
	
Varun Beverages RDC SAS	
59.20	
-  
26.	Current tax liabilities (Net)
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Provision for tax (net of taxes paid)
 502.43 
 335.67 
 502.43 
 335.67 
	
The key components of income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 are:
 	
A. 	 Statement of Profit and Loss:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
(i)	
Profit and Loss section
(a) 	 Current tax
 6,858.95 
 6,018.71 
(b) 	 Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
 6.64 
 (28.82)
(c) 	 Deferred tax charge/(credit)
 630.16 
 (59.52)
	
Income tax expense reported in the Statement of  
Profit and Loss
 7,495.75 
 5,930.37 
(ii)	 Other comprehensive income (OCI) section
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
(a)	 Net gain/(loss) on remeasurements of defined benefit 
plans
 (69.98)
 6.99 
	
Tax charged to OCI
 (69.98)
 6.99 
	
B. 	 Reconciliation of tax expense between accounting profit at applicable tax rate and effective tax 
rate:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Accounting profit before tax
 30,699.39 
 23,681.63 
Tax expense at statutory income tax rate of 25.17% (31 
December 2023: 25.17%)
 7,726.42 
 5,959.96 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
 6.64 
 (28.82)
Non deductible expenses
 83.53 
 73.73 
Deduction claimed u/s Chapter-VI A of Income-tax Act, 1961
 (351.34)
 (109.46)
Income chargeable at special rates
 (1.64)
 - 
Others
 32.14 
 34.96 
Tax expense at effective tax rate reported in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss
 7,495.75 
 5,930.37 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
393
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
27.	 Revenue from operations
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Sale of products
 137,820.72 
 122,098.90 
Rendering of services
 94.64 
 67.21 
Other operating revenue 
 5,570.64 
 4,162.15 
 143,486.00 
 126,328.26 
	
Disclosure on revenue pursuant to Ind AS 115- Revenue from contract with customers:
	
A. 	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Gross revenue/Contracted price
 139,496.90 
 123,554.82 
Less: Discounts and rebates
 (1,581.54)
 (1,388.71)
Revenue from contracts with customers
 137,915.36 
 122,166.11 
	
B. 	 Disaggregation of revenue
	
	
a)	
 Information about geographical area
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
i. 	
Sale of products and rendering of services
 	
(i) 	 Within India
 136,208.72 
 121,606.68 
 	
(ii) 	 Outside India
 1,706.64 
 559.43 
Total sale of products and rendering of services
 137,915.36 
 122,166.11 
	
	
b)	
Revenue from sale of goods and services are recognised at a point in time. There are no disaggregation 
of revenue with respect to this information.
	
	
c) 	 No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the Company’s revenue from operations.	
	
C. 	 Contract balances:
	
	
The following table provides information about trade receivables and contract liabilities from contract with 
customers:
	
	
Receivables
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Trade receivables
 2,287.45 
 2,416.14 
Less: Allowances for expected credit loss
 (289.82)
 (286.72)
Net receivables
 1,997.63 
 2,129.42 
	
	
Contract liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at
31 December 2024
 As at 
31 December 2023
Advance from customers (Refer note 25)
 1,417.35 
 1,725.58 
 1,417.35 
 1,725.58 
Varun Beverages Limited
394
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
D. 	 Contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to the customer. 
Contract liabilities are on account of the advance payment received from customer for which performance 
obligation has not yet been completed.
	
	
The performance obligation is satisfied when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customers 
based on the contractual terms. The Company does not have any remaining performance obligation as 
contracts entered for sale of goods are for a shorter duration. Further, there are no contracts for sale of 
services wherein, performance obligation is unsatisfied to which transaction price has been allocated.
	
	
Payment terms with customers vary depending upon the contractual terms of each contract and generally 
falls in the range of 0 to 120 days from the completion of performance obligation.
	
	
There is no significant financing component in any transaction with the customers.
	
E. 	 Government grant recognised under the head ‘Other operating revenue’ amounts to ` 4,829.26 million 
 (31 December 2023: ` 3,462.98 million) under different industrial promotion tax exemption schemes.
	
F. 	 Changes in the contract liabilities balances during the year are as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,725.58 
 1,933.09 
Addition during the year
 1,417.35 
 1,725.58 
Revenue recognised during the year
 (1,725.58)
 (1,933.09)
Balance at the closing of the year
 1,417.35 
 1,725.58 
28.	Other income
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Interest income on items at amortised cost:
	
- term deposits
 170.80 
 11.12 
	
- loan to subsidiaries (Refer note 43B)
 967.78 
 483.49 
	
- others
 44.90 
 17.63 
Net gain on foreign currency transactions and translations
 714.83 
 76.38 
Gain on sale of current investments
 22.47 
 3.51 
Excess provisions and liabilities written back
 62.35 
 291.84 
Guarantee commission income from subsidiaries (Refer note 43B)
 93.48 
 28.87 
Dividend income from non-current investment in subsidiaries (Refer 
note 43B)
 1,315.99 
 407.53 
Miscellaneous income
 146.75 
 141.05 
 3,539.35 
 1,461.42 
29.	Cost of materials consumed
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Raw material and packing material consumed
Inventories at beginning of the year
 5,905.76 
 5,799.79 
Purchases during the year (net)
 66,202.38 
 61,045.06 
 72,108.14 
 66,844.85 
Less: Sold during the year
 1,016.48 
 1,911.29 
Less: Inventories at end of the year
 7,469.37 
 5,905.76 
 63,622.29 
 59,027.80 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
395
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
30.	Purchases of stock-in-trade
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Beverages
 806.24 
 960.33 
Others
 1,222.84 
 534.01 
 2,029.08 
 1,494.34 
31.	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, intermediate goods, stock-in-trade and work 
-in-progress
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
As at the beginning of the year
- 	
Finished goods
 2,985.94 
 3,180.12 
- 	
Intermediate goods
 4,153.40 
 3,361.97 
- 	
Work in progress
 24.55 
 55.50 
 7,163.89 
 6,597.59 
As at the closing of the year
- 	
Finished goods
 2,809.45 
 2,985.94 
- 	
Intermediate goods
 3,887.77 
 4,153.40 
- 	
Work in progress
 71.25 
 24.55 
 6,768.47 
 7,163.89 
Finished goods used as property, plant and equipment*
 (7.02)
 (51.85)
 388.40 
 (618.15)
	
*The Company manufactures plastic shells at one of its manufacturing facilities at Alwar. The shells manufactured are used for 
beverages operations of the Company as property, plant and equipment (under the head “Containers”). These containers are 
also sold to third parties. The cost of manufacturing of plastic shells is being shown here separately with a corresponding debit 
to property, plant and equipment.
32.	 Employee benefits expense
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Salaries, wages and bonus*
 10,580.29 
 9,423.00 
Contribution to provident fund and other funds*
 592.02 
 498.45 
Staff welfare expenses*
 462.98 
 383.16 
Share based payments (Net)** (Refer note 48)
 140.25 
 63.35 
 11,775.54 
 10,367.96 
	
*Refer note 4A for capitalisation of employee benefits expense in setting-up of new manufacturing facilities.
	
**Net of share based payments in relation to employees of subsidiaries amounting to ` 22.18 (31 December 2023: 15.75)
Varun Beverages Limited
396
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
33.	 Finance costs
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Interest on items at amortised cost:
- 	
Term loans*
 2,810.92 
 2,022.66 
- 	
Working capital facilities*
 471.13 
 57.92 
- 	
Financial liabilities (inclusive of interest on lease liabilities 
` 104.75 (31 December 2023: ` 115.23))*
 160.08 
 201.82 
-	
Others (inclusive of interest on income tax ` 6.50 (31 
December 2023: ` 82.28))
 46.06 
 118.65 
Other ancillary borrowing costs
 8.36 
 9.90 
 3,496.55 
 2,410.95 
*Refer note 4A for capitalisation of finance costs in setting-up of new manufacturing facilities.
34.	Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (Refer note 4A)
 5,986.66 
 5,007.16 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Refer note 5B)
 29.81 
 28.43 
Amortisation of ROU (Refer note 4C)
 162.59 
 147.69 
 6,179.06 
 5,183.28 
35.	Other expenses* 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Power and fuel
 4,756.55 
 4,369.42 
Repairs to plant and equipment
 2,555.42 
 2,107.72 
Repairs to buildings
 153.46 
 124.39 
Other repairs
 942.59 
 841.81 
Consumption of stores and spares
 1,263.90 
 1,058.54 
Rent (Refer note 44)
 553.09 
 517.90 
Rates and taxes
 388.97 
 717.54 
Insurance
 205.38 
 115.17 
Printing and stationery
 60.95 
 56.79 
Communication 
 68.09 
 62.55 
Travelling and conveyance
 1,314.02 
 881.40 
Sitting fees paid to directors (Refer note 43A)
 8.20 
 5.10 
Payment to auditors**
 19.07 
 15.66 
Vehicle running and maintenance 
 162.80 
 128.67 
Lease and hire (Refer note 44)
 228.98 
 193.61 
Security and service charges
 546.29 
 444.23 
Legal, professional and consultancy
 401.34 
 357.75 
Bank charges
 39.45 
 33.59 
Advertisement and sales promotion 
 939.20 
 1,003.41 
Meetings and conferences 
 52.92 
 63.94 
Royalty
 177.84 
 165.93 
Freight, octroi and insurance paid (net)
 8,505.58 
 8,369.15 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
397
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Delivery vehicle running and maintenance 
 532.10 
 508.58 
Distribution expenses
 2,607.23 
 2,061.83 
Loading and unloading charges
 812.83 
 698.03 
Donations
 2.51 
 0.80 
Loss on disposal/written off of property, plant and equipment (net)
 761.81 
 764.10 
Bad debts and advances written off
 9.10 
 2.13 
Allowance for expected credit loss
 3.10 
 - 
Corporate social responsibility expenditure (Refer note 47)
 308.11 
 158.50 
General office and other miscellaneous
 454.16 
 413.63 
 28,835.04 
 26,241.87 
*Refer note 4B for capitalisation of other expenses in setting-up of new manufacturing facilities.
	
**Payment to auditors
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Services rendered for:
- 	 Audit and reviews
 13.50 
 11.46 
- 	 taxation matters
 3.23 
 2.11 
- 	 other matters#
 1.40 
 1.86 
- 	 reimbursement of expenses
 0.94 
 0.23 
 19.07 
 15.66 
	
#Excludes expense of ` 6.07 (31 December 2023: ` Nil) towards fee related to share issue expenses, netted off with share 
premium account and expense of ` Nil (31 December 2023: ` 0.23) towards other matters, which has been capitalised in new 
projects.	
36.	Other comprehensive income (OCI)
	
The disaggregation of changes to OCI by each type of reserves in equity is shown below:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Year ended
31 December 2024
 Year ended 
31 December 2023
Retained earnings
Re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
 278.06 
 (27.76)
Tax impact on re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans  
(Refer note 21)
 (69.98)
 6.99 
 208.08 
 (20.77)
37.	 Gratuity and other post-employment benefit plans
	
Gratuity:
	
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan governed by the Payments of Gratuity Act, 1972. Every employee 
who has completed five years or more of services is eligible for gratuity on separation at 15 days salary (last drawn 
salary) for each completed year of service. The Company has formed a Gratuity Trust to which contribution is made 
and an insurance policy is taken by the trust, which is a year-on-year cash accumulation plan in which the interest rate is 
declared on yearly basis and is guaranteed for a period of one year. The insurance company, as part of the policy rules, 
makes payment of all gratuity outflow during the year (subject to sufficiency of funds under the policy). The policy, 
thus, mitigates the liquidity risk. However, being a cash accumulation plan, the duration of assets is shorter compared 
to the duration of liabilities. Thus, the Company is exposed to movement in interest rate (particularly, the significant fall 
in interest rates, which should result in a increase in liability without corresponding increase in the asset. The Company 
makes a provision of unfunded liability based on actuarial valuation in the Balance Sheet as part of employee cost.
Varun Beverages Limited
398
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Compensated absences:
	
The Company recognises the compensated absences expenses in the Statement of Profit and Loss based on 
actuarial valuation.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following tables summaries the components of net benefit expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Changes in present value are as follows: 
Balance at the beginning of the year
 2,090.08 
 1,801.42 
 951.05 
 876.72 
Current service cost
 251.03 
 208.99 
 213.85 
 163.15 
Interest cost
 148.37 
 133.22 
 68.82 
 63.89 
Benefits settled
 (107.52)
 (78.80)
 (73.20)
 (53.45)
Actuarial (gain)/loss
 (249.71)
 25.25 
 (118.94)
 (99.26)
Balance at the end of the year
 2,132.25 
 2,090.08 
 1,041.58 
 951.05 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Change in fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Plan assets at the beginning of the year, at fair value
 672.89 
 418.43 
 - 
 - 
Expected income on plan assets
 49.81 
 36.31 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial gain/(loss)
 28.35 
 (2.51)
 - 
 - 
Contributions by employer
 300.00 
 250.00 
 - 
 - 
Benefits settled
 (8.04)
 (29.34)
 - 
 - 
Plan assets at the end of the year, at fair value
 1,043.01 
 672.89 
 - 
 - 
	
The Company has taken an insurance policy against its liability towards gratuity, the same has been disclosed as 
plan assets above. 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Reconciliation of present value of the obligation 
and the fair value of the plan assets:
Present value of obligation
 2,132.25 
 2,090.08 
 1,041.58 
 951.05 
Fair value of plan assets
 (1,043.01)
 (672.89)
 - 
 - 
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet
 1,089.24 
 1,417.19 
 1,041.58 
 951.05 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Amount recognised in Statement of Profit 
and Loss:
Current service cost
 251.03 
 208.99 
 213.85 
 163.15 
Interest expense
 148.37 
 133.22 
 68.82 
 63.89 
Expected return on plan assets
 (49.81)
 (36.31)
 - 
 - 
Actuarial gain
 - 
 - 
 (118.94)
 (99.26)
Net cost recognised
 349.59 
 305.90 
 163.73 
 127.78 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
399
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Amount recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income:
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
financial assumptions
 (225.31)
 21.27 
 - 
 - 
Experience adjustments
 (24.40)
 3.98 
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets
 (28.35)
 2.51 
 - 
 - 
Amount recognised
 (278.06)
 27.76 
 - 
 - 
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Assumptions used:
Mortality
IALM 2012-2014 IALM 2012-2014 IALM 2012-2014 IALM 2012-2014
Discount rate
6.95%
7.23%
6.95%
7.23%
Withdrawal rate
12.00%
12.00%
12.00%
12.00%
Salary increase
10.00%
12.00%
10.00%
12.00%
Rate of leave availment
 - 
 - 
20.00%
20.00%
Retirement age (Years)
 58-70 
 58-70 
 58-70 
 58-70 
Rate of return on plan assets
7.33-7.67%
6.79-7.65%
 - 
 - 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption is shown below:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Sensitivity level
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Discount rate
+1%
+1%
 (133.69)
 (126.51)
 (32.10)
 (28.55)
-1%
-1%
 119.78 
 142.05 
 30.25 
 30.36 
Salary increase
+1%
+1%
 117.64 
 134.38 
 29.69 
 28.76 
-1%
-1%
 (128.54)
 (122.44)
 (30.90)
 (27.61)
Withdrawal rate
+1%
+1%
 (21.56)
 (30.63)
 (9.64)
 (9.60)
-1%
-1%
 19.70 
 33.85 
 9.18 
 10.10 
	
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
Risk associated:
Investment risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate 
determined by reference to Government Bonds Yield. If plan liability is funded and return 
on plan assets is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
Interest risk 
(discount rate risk)
A decrease in the bond interest rate (discount rate) will increase the plan liability.
Mortality risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best 
estimate of the mortality of plan participants. For this report we have used Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality (2012-2014) (31 December 2023: (2012-14)). A change in mortality rate will 
have a bearing on the plan's liability.
Salary risk
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated with the assumption of 
salary increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary 
in future for plan participants from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the 
present value of obligation will have a bearing on the plan's liability. 
Varun Beverages Limited
400
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Effect of the defined benefit plan on the Company’s future cash flows:
	
Funding arrangements and funding policy:
	
The Company has purchased an insurance policy to provide for payment of gratuity to the employees. Every 
year, the insurance company carries out a funding valuation based on the latest employee data provided by the 
Company. Any deficit in the assets arising as a result of such valuation is funded by the Company.
	
Expected contribution during the next annual reporting period:
	
The Company’s best estimate of contribution during the next financial year approximates to ` 1,310.68 million 
(31 December 2023: ` 1,637.97 million). 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following are maturity profile of Defined Benefit Obligations in future years (before adjusting fair 
value of plan assets):		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Gratuity
Compensated Absences
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
i) 	
Weighted average duration of the 
defined benefit obligation
6 years
6 years
3 years
3 years
ii) 	 Expected cash flows over the years 
(valued on undiscounted basis):
Duration (years)
1
 359.50 
 324.25 
 353.82 
 311.98 
2 to 5
 1,041.41 
 953.48 
 671.61 
 616.72 
Above 5 
 2,105.81 
 2,406.44 
 285.48 
 292.42 
 3,506.72 
 3,684.17 
 1,310.91 
 1,221.12 
	
Defined contribution plan: 
	
Contribution to defined contribution plans, recognised as expense for the year is as under:
	
Employer’s contribution to provident and other funds ` 592.02 million (31 December 2023 ` 498.45 million) 
(Refer note 32)
38.	Earnings per share (EPS)
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Profit attributable to the equity shareholders 
 23,203.64 
 17,751.26 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year for calculating basic earning per share (nos.)*
 3,264,147,731 
 3,247,850,643 
Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on 
account of employee stock options*
 1,610,654 
 1,397,832 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year for calculating diluted earnings per share (nos.)*
 3,265,758,385 
 3,249,248,475 
Nominal value per equity shares (`)*
 2.00 
 2.00 
Basic earnings per share (`)
 7.11 
 5.46 
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 7.11 
 5.46 
	
*Previous year numbers are adjusted for shares splits during the current year (Refer note 17(g)).
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
401
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
39.	Dividend
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Dividend on equity shares declared and paid during the year:
Final dividend
 1,624.24 
 649.55 
Interim dividend
 1,624.31 
 1,623.93 
40.	Contingent liabilities
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts (being 
contested):-
(i)	
Goods and service tax
 308.74 
 140.90 
(ii) 	 For excise and service tax
 38.08 
 41.79 
(iii) 	For customs
 207.81 
 90.75 
(iv) 	For sales tax / entry tax
 630.52 
 663.59 
(v) 	 For income tax
 100.02 
 144.36 
(vi) 	For mandi tax and others*
 205.02 
 388.60 
	
*excludes pending matters where amount of liability is not ascertainable.
41.	 Commitments
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
a.	
Guarantees issued on behalf of subsidiaries for business 
purposes
 15,776.40 
 3,595.76 
b.	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed 
on capital account and not provided for (net of advances of 
` 3,281.12 (31 December 2023: ` 3,375.94))*
 25,311.44 
 27,554.41 
	
*Inclusive of commitment as mentioned in note 58.
42.	 Pursuant to transfer pricing legislations under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Company is required to use specified 
methods for computing arm’s length price in relation to specified international and domestic transactions with its 
associated enterprises. Further, the Company is required to maintain prescribed information and documents in 
relation to such transactions. The appropriate method to be adopted will depend on the nature of transactions/
class of transactions, class of associated persons, functions performed and other factors, which have been 
prescribed. The Company is in the process of updating its transfer pricing documentation for the current financial 
year. Based on the preliminary assessment, the management is of the view that the update would not have a 
material impact on the tax expense recorded in these financial statements. Accordingly, these financial statements 
do not include any adjustments for the transfer pricing implications, if any.
Varun Beverages Limited
402
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
43.	Related party disclosures (as per Ind AS-24)	
	
Following are the related parties and transactions entered with related parties for the relevant reporting 
period as at 31 December 2024
	
(i)	
List of related parties and relationships:-
	
	
I.	
Key managerial personnel (KMPs)	
	
	
	
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria	
Non-executive chairman
	
	
	
Mr. Varun Jaipuria	
Executive vice-chairman and Whole time Director
	
	
	
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi	
Whole Time Director
	
	
	
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga	
Whole Time Director
	
	
	
Mrs. Sita Khosla	
Non-executive independent director
	
	
	
Dr. Ravi Gupta 	
Non-executive independent director
	
	
	
Mrs. Rashmi Dhariwal	
Non-executive independent director
	
	
	
Mr. Abhiram Seth	
Non-executive independent director  
(w.e.f 02 May 2023)
	
	
	
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi	
Non-executive independent director  
(w.e.f 02 May 2023)
	
	
	
Mr. Pradeep Khushalchand Sardana	
Non-executive independent director  
(till 27 March 2023)
	
	
	
Dr. Naresh Kumar Trehan	
Non-executive Non-independent director  
(w.e.f 21 April 2024)
	
	
	
Mr. Ravi Batra	
Company secretary
	
	
	
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg 	
Company secretary of the parent, namely RJ 
Corp Limited
	
	
	
Mr. Lalit Malik	
Chief Financial Officer (till 13 May 2024)
	
	
	
Mr. Rajesh Chawla	
Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f 14 May 2024)
	
	
II.	
Parent and ultimate parent
	
	
	
RJ Corp Limited	
Parent
	
	
III.	 Subsidiaries/step down subsidiaries
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Morocco SA	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Ole Spring Bottlers (Private) Limited	
Step down subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages RDC SAS	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages International DMCC 	
Subsidiary
	
	
	
Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Limited	
Subsidiary (w.e.f 23 May 2023)
	
	
	
VBL Mozambique, SA	
Subsidiary (w.e.f 21 November 2023)
	
	
	
Varun Foods (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited	
Subsidiary (w.e.f. 22 May 2024)
	
	
	
The Beverages Company Proprietary Limited	
Subsidiary (w.e.f. 26 March 2024)
	
	
	
The Beverage Company Bidco Proprietary Limited	
Step down subsidiary (w.e.f. 26 March 2024)
	
	
	
Little Green Beverages Proprietary Limited	
Step down subsidiary (w.e.f. 26 March 2024)
	
	
	
Softbev Proprietary Limited	
Step down subsidiary (w.e.f. 26 March 2024)
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
403
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
	
IV.	 Fellow subsidiaries and entities controlled by parent/ultimate parent*	
	
	
	
Devyani International Limited
	
	
	
Devyani Food Industries Limited
	
	
	
Devyani Food Industries (Kenya) Limited
	
	
	
SVS India Private Limited
	
	
	
Devyani Airport Services (Mumbai) Private Limited#
	
	
	
Cryoviva Biotech Private Limited
	
	
	
	
V.	
Joint Venture/Associates (or an associate of any member of the company)	
	
	
	
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited	
	
	
Joint Venture
	
	
	
Clean Max Tav Private Limited	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate
	
	
	
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited	
	
	
	
	
Associate (w.e.f. 09 May 2023)
	
	
	
	
VI.	 Relatives of KMPs*	
	
	
	
Mrs. Dhara Jaipuria
	
	
	
Mrs. Devyani Jaipuria
	
	
	
Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
	
	
	
	
VII.	 Entities in which a director or his/her relative is a member/director/Trustee*	
	
	
	
SMV Beverages Private Limited
	
	
	
Alisha Torrent Closures (India) Private Limited
	
	
	
Jai Beverages Private Limited
	
	
	
Lineage Healthcare Limited
	
	
	
RJ Foundation
	
	
	
Global Health Limited
	
	
	
VIII.	Entities which are post employment benefits plans	
	
	
	
VBL Employees Gratuity Trust	
	
	
	
*With whom the Company had transactions during the current year and previous year.
	
	
	
#Amalgamated with Devyani International Limited w.e.f. 01 April 2022 vide Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal 
order dated 13 July 2023.	
	
	
	
(ii)	 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties	
	
	
The transactions with related parties are made in the ordinary course of business and on terms equivalent 
to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and 
settlement occurs in cash. This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial 
position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.	
	
(iii)	 Transactions with KMPs (Refer note 43A)
	
(iv)	 Transactions with related parties (Refer note 43B)	
Varun Beverages Limited
404
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
43A. Transactions with KMPs
(` in million)
For year ended 2024
For year ended 2023
I.
Remuneration paid
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 72.02 
 54.02 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 67.18 
 62.45 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 16.18 
 14.85 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 61.56 
 57.66 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 7.41 
 6.35 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 3.59 
 2.99 
Mr. Lalit Malik
 38.17 
 20.63 
II.
Director sitting fees paid
Mr. Pradeep Khushalchand Sardana
 - 
 0.10 
Mrs. Sita Khosla
 1.70 
 1.00 
Dr. Ravi Gupta 
 2.20 
 1.40 
Mrs. Rashmi Dhariwal 
 2.90 
 1.80 
Mr. Abhiram Seth
 0.60 
 0.40 
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
 0.80 
 0.40 
III.
Dividend paid
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 520.86 
 364.60 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 6.59 
 4.66 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 0.02 
 - 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 0.01 
 - 
Mr. Ravi Kant Jaipuria
 565.90 
 403.11 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 1.46 
 1.02 
Mr. Abhiram Seth
 0.00 
 - 
Mr. Pradeep Khushalchand Sardana
 - 
 0.00 
IV.
Defined benefit obligation for KMP
i. Gratuity
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 69.55 
 56.52 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 54.84 
 53.21 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 3.87 
 3.41 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 1.21 
 0.97 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 49.13 
 45.13 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 1.30 
 - 
Mr. Lalit Malik 
 - 
 0.01 
ii. Compensated absences
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 26.47 
 21.01 
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 15.05 
 15.19 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 2.34 
 2.29 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 0.68 
 0.68 
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 13.59 
 12.93 
Mr. Rajesh Chawla 
 1.51 
 - 
Mr. Lalit Malik
 - 
 0.79 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
405
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
(` in million)
For year ended 2024
For year ended 2023
V.
Advance given
Mr. Lalit Malik
 - 
 38.50 
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 0.85 
 - 
Mr. Ravi Batra
 4.40 
 - 
VI.
Balances (payable)/receivable outstanding at the end of 
the year, net
Mr. Varun Jaipuria
 (3.70)
 (2.78)
Mr. Raj Pal Gandhi
 (2.20)
 (1.96)
Mr. Rajinder Jeet Singh Bagga
 (2.49)
 (2.22)
Mr. Rajesh Chawla
 (0.54)
 (0.49)
Mr. Ravi Batra
 (0.80)
 (0.73)
Mr. Mahavir Prasad Garg
 0.52 
 0.46 
Mr. Lalit Malik
 - 
 37.02 
Dr. Ravi Gupta 
 - 
 (0.09)
Mrs. Rashmi Dhariwal 
 - 
 (0.09)
Mr. Abhiram Seth
 - 
 (0.09)
Mr. Anil Kumar Sondhi
 - 
 (0.09)
Mrs. Sita Khosla
 - 
 (0.09)
	
Amounts below the rounding off norms adopted by the Company are presented as “0.00”.
	
Note:
	
(i) Stock options have been granted to KMPs of the Company. The number of stock options granted to such KMPs 
outstanding as at 31 December 2024: 35,000 (31 December 2023 : 145,000). However as the liability has not been 
determined for individual employees, the charge thereof for the individual employees is not disclosed above. 
Previous year numbers are adjusted for shares splits during the current year (Refer note 17(g)).
Varun Beverages Limited
406
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
43B. Transactions with related parties	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Sale of goods
- 	Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 86.89 
 90.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 86.89 
 90.78 
- 	Ole Spring Bottlers 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 12.05 
 6.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.05 
 6.34 
-	 Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA
 - 
 - 
 2.00 
 2.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.00 
 2.99 
- 	Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.00 
 12.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.00 
 12.83 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 80.80 
 40.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80.80 
 40.28 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 517.31 
 448.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 517.31 
 448.14 
- 	Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 915.95 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 915.95 
 - 
- 	SMV Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 119.19 
 105.41 
 - 
 - 
 119.19 
 105.41 
- 	Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 59.21 
 60.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 59.21 
 60.93 
-	 Alisha Torrent Closures 
(India) Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.45 
 11.35 
 - 
 - 
 11.45 
 11.35 
-	 Jai Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 115.85 
 170.49 
 - 
 - 
 115.85 
 170.49 
- Devyani International 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 38.37 
 59.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 38.37 
 59.15 
- Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.57 
 30.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.57 
 30.19 
- Devyani Airport Services 
(Mumbai) Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
- Lineage Healthcare Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.11 
- Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.63 
 20.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.63 
 20.82 
-  RJ Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
Sale of raw materials and 
stores
- 	Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 10.87 
 17.54 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.87 
 17.54 
- 	Ole Spring Bottlers 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 85.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 85.02 
- 	Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 83.47 
 101.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 83.47 
 101.08 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
407
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
-  Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 145.58 
 24.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 145.58 
 24.09 
-   Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 21.04 
 2.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.04 
 2.98 
-   Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
-  Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 259.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 259.58 
 - 
-  Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00 
-  Jai Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 164.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 164.40 
 - 
-  Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 34.10 
 45.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 34.10 
 45.91 
-  SMV Beverages Private 
Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 99.45 
 172.40 
 - 
 - 
 99.45 
 172.40 
-  Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.50 
Purchase of goods
- SMV Beverages Private 
Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 449.81 
 575.53 
 - 
 - 
 449.81 
 575.53 
- Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 291.16 
 384.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 291.16 
 384.89 
Purchase of raw materials 
and stores
- Alisha Torrent Closures 
(India) Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
- Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 1,261.99 
 1,743.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,261.99 
 1,743.36 
- SMV Beverages Private 
Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.32 
 16.65 
 - 
 - 
 5.32 
 16.65 
- Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.61 
 60.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.61 
 60.45 
-  Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 43.30 
Varun Beverages Limited
408
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Loan given
- Varun Beverages RDC SAS
-
-
3,407.05
1,900.11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,407.05
1,900.11
- Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
-
-
1,720.69
83.29
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,720.69
83.29
- The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
-
-
2,866.50
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2,866.50
-
-  IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10.00
Interest income/(expense)
-	 Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA
 - 
 - 
 78.64 
 83.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78.64 
 83.99 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 71.81 
 98.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 71.81 
 98.59 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 58.56 
 58.72 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 58.56 
 58.72 
- 	SMV Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.00)
 (7.00)
 - 
 - 
 (4.00)
 (7.00)
-	 Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 234.44 
 80.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 234.44 
 80.36 
- 	Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 - 
 256.77 
 161.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 256.77 
 161.82 
- 	The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
 - 
 - 
 267.56 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 267.56 
 - 
- 	IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.68 
Contribution to corporate 
social responsibility activities
- 	RJ Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 308.11 
 158.50 
 - 
 - 
 308.11 
 158.50 
Guarantee commission income
-	 Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 1.27 
 3.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.27 
 3.36 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.06 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.06 
 1.29 
- 	Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 - 
 21.11 
 14.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.11 
 14.58 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
409
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
-	 Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 2.29 
 1.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.29 
 1.76 
.-	Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 15.41 
 7.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.41 
 7.87 
-	 The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
 - 
 - 
 50.35 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 50.35 
 - 
Dividend income
- 	Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 999.81 
 407.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 999.81 
 407.53 
- 	Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 316.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 316.19 
 - 
Equity investment
-	 IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 369.93 
 120.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 369.93 
 120.00 
-	 Clean Max Tav Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 32.82 
-	 Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 625.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 625.00 
-	 Varun Beverages South 
Africa (PTY) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
-	 Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
 21.24 
-	 Lunarmech Technologies Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 2,000.00
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 2,000.00
 100.00 
Conversion of loan into 
investment
-  IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
Professional charges paid
- Mr. Ravindra Dhariwal
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
Travelling expenses paid
- Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 - 
 271.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 271.42 
 - 
Licence Fee Paid
-	 Devyani Food Industries Ltd 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.50 
 0.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.50 
 0.90 
Varun Beverages Limited
410
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Dividend paid
-   RJ Corp Limited
 871.63 
 615.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 871.63 
 615.09 
-   Mrs. Dhara Jaipuria
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.03 
 0.02 
-   Mrs. Devyani Jaipuria
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78.78 
 55.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 78.78 
 55.15 
(Recovery of Expenses 
incurred by the Company on 
behalf of others)/expenses 
incurred by others on behalf 
of the Company)
- Devyani International Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.58 
 3.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.58 
 3.37 
- Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.12 
- RJ Corp Limited
 (1.73)
 (2.43)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1.73)
 (2.43)
- Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (24.70)
 (21.36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (24.70)
 (21.36)
- Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
- SMV Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.00 
Rent/ lease charges paid/
(received)
-	 RJ Corp Limited
112.80
112.80
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
112.80
112.80
-	 SVS India Private Limited
-
-
-
-
3.24
2.97
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.24
2.97
- 	SMV Beverages Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
27.00
27.00
-
-
27.00
27.00
-	 Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
-
-
-
-
(8.82)
(8.82)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(8.82)
(8.82)
-	 Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
-
-
(3.52)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(3.52)
-
Medical expenditure
Global Health Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 0.11 
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 0.11 
Financial guarantees given
- 	Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 -  1,004.65 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,004.65 
 - 
- 	Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 - 
 3,127.11 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,127.11 
 - 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
411
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
-  Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 152.92 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 152.92 
 - 
-	 Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 1,190.41 
 1,246.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,190.41 
 1,246.75 
- 	The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
 - 
 -  6,599.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
6,599.99 
 - 
Financial guarantees closed
- Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 897.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 897.66 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 331.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 331.66 
 - 
Sale of Property, Plant  
and equipment.
-  Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
 12.33 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.96 
 12.33 
-  Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 38.01 
 342.62 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 38.01 
 342.62 
-  Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 11.52 
 21.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.52 
 21.93 
-  Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 69.50 
 50.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 69.50 
 50.28 
-   Ole Spring Bottlers 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 15.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.14 
 - 
-   Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 17.50 
 75.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17.50 
 75.07 
Contribution to gratuity trust
- VBL Employees Gratuity 
Trust
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 300.00 
 250.00 
 300.00 
 250.00 
IT infrastructure support fee 
received
-	 Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.59 
 2.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.59 
 2.73 
Varun Beverages Limited
412
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
- 	Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 8.67 
 4.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.67 
 4.96 
- 	Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 6.67 
 5.49 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.67 
 5.49 
-	 Devyani International 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.13 
 4.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.13 
 4.41 
-	 Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 7.60 
 4.95 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.60 
 4.95 
- 	Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA
 - 
 - 
 10.08 
 4.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.08 
 4.99 
- 	Rj Corp Limited
 1.75 
 0.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.75 
 0.84 
- 	Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 2.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.81 
 2.06 
-	 Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 0.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.57 
 0.30 
- 	The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
 - 
 - 
 3.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.63 
 - 
-	 Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.22 
 11.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16.22 
 11.96 
-	 Cryoviva Biotech Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.94 
 3.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.94 
 3.16 
-	 Lineage Healthcare Limited 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.49 
 0.57 
 - 
 - 
 0.49 
 0.57 
-	 Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 - 
 0.56 
 0.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.56 
 0.09 
Advance paid for acquisition 
of assets
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.00 
 - 
Capital commitments
- SMV Beverages Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 156.60 
 201.60 
 - 
 - 
 156.60 
 201.60 
Deemed Investment (Cross 
Charge of shared based 
payments)
-  Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.61 
 0.12 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.61 
 0.12 
-  Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 0.17 
 0.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.17 
 0.20 
-  Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 4.23 
 2.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.23 
 2.93 
-  Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA
 - 
 - 
 7.79 
 6.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.79 
 6.53 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
413
Annual Report 2024
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
-  Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 - 
 3.37 
 2.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.37 
 2.45 
-  Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 2.88 
 1.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.88 
 1.24 
-  Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 3.14 
 2.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.14 
 2.28 
Utilility charges
-  Clean Max Tav Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67.40 
 28.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67.40 
 28.24 
-  Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 41.02 
 26.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 41.02 
 26.53 
-  Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.58 
 13.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 39.58 
 13.34 
Balances outstanding at the 
end of the year, net including 
loan outstanding
A. Receivable/(payable),net
- 	Varun Beverages Morocco 
SA
 - 
 - 
 1,168.27 
 1,188.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,168.27 
 1,188.75 
-	 Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 958.33 
 399.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 958.33 
 399.13 
-  Ole Spring Bottlers 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (0.00)
-	 Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
 - 
 - 
 59.40 
 52.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 59.40 
 52.61 
- 	Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
 - 
 -  1,059.92 
 931.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,059.92 
 931.32 
- 	Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 1,414.68  1,669.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,414.68 
 1,669.74 
- 	The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
 - 
 -  3,209.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  3,209.83 
 - 
- Devyani International 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.35 
 11.90 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.35 
 11.90 
-  RJ Corp Limited
 67.19 
 36.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67.19 
 36.24 
-	 Lunarmech Technologies 
Private Limited
 - 
 -  (160.58)
 (78.19)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (160.58)
 (78.19)
-	 SMV Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 129.42 
 100.23 
 - 
 - 
 129.42 
 100.23 
-	 Varun Food and Beverages 
Zambia Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
- Alisha Torrent Closures 
(India) Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.29 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 4.29 
 0.00 
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
Varun Beverages Limited
414
(` in million)
Description
Parent and ultimate 
parent
Subsidiaries/ step 
down subsidiary
Fellow subsidiaries 
and entities 
controlled by parent
Joint Venture and 
Associates (or an 
associate of any 
member of the 
company)
Relatives of KMPs
Entities in which a 
director or his/her 
relative is a member/
director/trustee
Entities which are 
post employment 
benefits plans
Total
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
For year ended
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
- Jai Beverages Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
 1.05 
 - 
 - 
 (0.13)
 1.05 
- Devyani Food Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.07 
 4.95 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.07 
 4.95 
-	 Lineage Healthcare Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.59 
 0.39 
 - 
 - 
 0.59 
 0.39 
-	 Devyani Food Industries 
(Kenya) Ltd
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.66 
 15.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.66 
 15.27 
- Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 - 
 - 
 5,719.56 
 2,212.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  5,719.56 
 2,212.98 
- Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 - 
 -  4,030.81  2,198.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  4,030.81  2,198.40 
-	 SVS India Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.58)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.58)
-	 Cryoviva Biotech Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.88 
 4.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.88 
 4.78 
-	 IDVB Recycling Operations 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
-	 Clean Max Tav Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (1.88)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (1.88)
-	 Huoban Energy 7 Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2.27)
 (1.70)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2.27)
 (1.70)
-	 RJ Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
B. Financial guarantees
- Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
-
-
385.30
374.02
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
385.30
374.02
- Varun Beverages (Nepal) 
Private Limited
-
-
280.98
280.98
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
280.98
280.98
- Varun Beverages (Zambia) 
Limited
-
-
1,027.48
332.47
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,027.48
332.47
- Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
-
-
4,495.22
1,246.75
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4,495.22
1,246.75
- Varun Beverages Lanka 
(Private) Limited
-
-
290.27
114.79
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
290.27
114.79
- The Beverages Company 
Propritary limited
-
-
6,814.08
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6,814.08
-
- Varun Beverages RDC SAS
-
-
2,483.07
1,246.75
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2,483.07
1,246.75
Amounts below the rounding off norms adopted by the Company are presented as "0.00".
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information on the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2024
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
415
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
44. Disclosure on lease transactions pursuant to Ind AS 116 - Leases	
	
 The Company’s lease asset class primarily consists of leases for land, buildings and plant and equipment. With the 
exception of short-term leases, leases of low-value and cancellable long-term leases underlying assets, each lease 
is reflected on the balance sheet as a right of use asset and a lease liability.
	
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the weighted 
average borrowing rate ranging 5.44-8.22% (31 December 2023: 5.44-8.22% ).
	
Each lease generally imposes a restriction that, unless there is a contractual right for the Company to sublet the 
asset to another party, the right of use asset can only be used by the Company. Leases are either non-cancellable 
or may only be cancelled by incurring a substantive termination fee. Some leases contain an option to extend 
the lease for a further term. The Company is prohibited from selling or pledging the underlying leased assets 
otherthan leasehold lands as security against the Company’s other debts and liabilities.
i. 	
Lease liabilities are presented in the balance sheet is as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
 31 December 2023
Current maturities of lease liabilities (Refer note 19D)
 77.10 
 176.29 
Non-current lease liabilities (Refer note 19C)
 419.61 
 1,043.65 
Total
 496.71 
 1,219.94 
ii. 	
The recognised right of use assets relate to land, buildings and plant and equipments as at 31 December 2024 and 
31 December 2023: 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
 31 December 2024
As at 
 31 December 2023
Right of use assets - land, buildings and plant and equipments
Balance at the beginning of the year
 8,875.89 
 8,267.06 
Additions for the year
 602.11 
 773.13 
Rebate/grant related to asset received
 - 
 (16.61)
Amortisation charge for the year
 (162.59)
 (147.69)
Balance at the end of the year
 9,315.41 
 8,875.89 
iii. 	 The following are amounts recognised in Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
As at
 31 December 2024
As at 
 31 December 2023
Amortisation charge on right of use assets
 162.59 
 147.69 
Interest expense on lease liabilities*
 104.75 
 115.23 
Total 
 267.34 
 262.92 
	
*During the year ended 31 December 2024, interest expense on leasehold lands acquired were capitalised as pre-operative 
expense amounting to ` 15.43 million.	
	
iv. 	 Lease payments not recognised as a liability	
	
	
The Company has elected not to recognise a lease liability for short-term leases (leases with an expected term of 12 
months or less), cancellable long-term leases and for leases of low value assets. Payments made under such leases 
are expensed on a straight-line basis. The expense relating to payments not included in the measurement of the 
lease liability for short term leases is ` 782.07 million (31 December 2023 ` 711.51 millon).	 	
	
v. 	
Refer Standalone Cash Flow Statement for total cash outflow for leases.		
	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
416
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
vi. 	 Maturity of lease liabilities	
	
	
Future minimum lease payments were as follows for 31 December 2024:		
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Lease payments 
 Interest expense 
 Net Present value 
Not later than 1 year
 114.16 
 37.06 
 77.10 
Later than 1 year not later than 5 years
 314.16 
 90.76 
 223.40 
Later than 5 years
 1,193.65 
 997.44 
 196.21 
Total
 1,621.97 
 1,125.26 
 496.71 
Future minimum lease payments were as follows for 31 December 2023:		
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
 Lease payments 
 Interest expense 
 Net Present value 
Not later than 1 year
 282.21 
 105.92 
 176.29 
Later than 1 year not later than 5 years
 1,026.78 
 235.34 
 791.44 
Later than 5 years
 829.45 
 577.24 
 252.21 
Total
 2,138.44 
 918.50 
 1,219.94 
45. 	Segment Information
	
The business activities of the Company predominantly fall within a single reportable business segment, i.e., 
manufacturing and sale of beverages within India. There are no separately reportable business or geographical 
segments that meet the criteria prescribed in Ind AS 108 on Operating Segments. The aforesaid is in line with 
review of operating results by the chief operating decision maker. The sale of products of the Company is seasonal.
46. Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises 
	
The dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development 
(“MSMED”) Act, 2006 to the extent information available with the Company is given below:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining 
unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each accounting year 
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,232.13 
 767.25 
Interest due
 6.56 
 4.83 
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 
of the MSMED Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment 
made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each 
accounting year*
 949.98 
 522.67 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in 
making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed 
day during the year) but without adding the interest specified 
under the MSMED Act 2006.
 14.82 
 8.67 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of 
each accounting year
 48.59 
 27.21 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even 
in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as 
above are actually paid to the micro and small enterprise for the 
purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 
23 of the MSMED Act 2006
 48.59 
 27.21 
*includes principal amounting to ` 949.98 million (31 December 2023: ` 522.67 million).	
	
The above amounts includes due to micro and small enterprises included within other financial liabilities.	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
417
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
47. Details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure 
	
In accordance with the provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Company 
had constituted CSR Committee. The detail for CSR activities is as follows.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
For the year ended 
 31 December 2024
For the year ended 
 31 December 2023
a) 	 Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the 
year
 308.11 
 158.50 
b) 	 Amount approved by Board to be spent during the year
 308.11 
 158.50 
c) 	 Amount spent during the year on the following
 	
1. 	
Construction / Acquisition of any asset
 0.98 
 14.59 
 	
2. 	
On purpose other than 1 above
 307.13 
 143.91 
d) 	 Excess amount spent on CSR as per Section 135(5) of 
Companies Act, 2013:
 	
1. 	
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
 	
2. 	
Amount required to be spent during the year
 308.11 
 158.50 
 	
3. 	
Amount spent during the year
 308.11 
 158.50 
 	
4. 	
Closing balance
 - 
 - 
e) 	 Total of previous year shortfall
 - 
 - 
f) 	
Reason for shortfall
 Not Applicable 
 Not Applicable 
g) 	 Nature of CSR activities
Promoting 
healthcare, 
Education, 
Environmental 
substantiality, 
Animal welfare, 
Water conservation, 
Vocational skills etc.
Promoting 
healthcare, 
Education, 
Environmental 
sustainability, 
Gender equality, 
Animal welfare etc.
	
1. 	
Refer note 43B for amounts paid to RJ Foundation (CSR implementing agency registered with Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, Office of the Registrar of Companies, New Delhi) having objects to carry on CSR activities 
as per requirements laid down under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
2. 	
The Company does not carry any provisions for Corporate Social Responsibility expenses for current year and 
previous year.		
48. 	Share-based payments 
	
a.	
Description of share based payment arrangements	
	
	
	
	
	
	
i)	
Share Options Schemes (equity settled)	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2016 (“ESOS 2016 or scheme”)
	
The ESOS 2016 was approved by the Board of Directors and the shareholders on 27 April 2016 and further ratified 
and amended by the shareholders in their meetings held on 17 April 2017 and 07 April 2022 respectively. Further, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited have accorded their in principle approvals for issue 
and allotment of upto 41,737,880 equity shares (“Ceiling Limit”). The scheme was formulated with the objective to 
enable the Company to grant Options for equity shares of the Company to certain eligible employees as defined 
Varun Beverages Limited
418
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
in the Scheme at a pre-determined price.	 	
	
	
	
	
The Options were granted on the dates as mentioned in the table below:
	
31 December 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
Scheme
Grant Date
Number of 
Options Granted
Exercise 
Price
Vesting 
Conditions
Vesting 
Period
Contractual 
period
ESOS 2016
05-Feb-24
 7,500 
 453.60 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
05 Feb 2025 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.92 Years
ESOS 2016
13-May-24
 30,000 
 563.20 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
13 May 2024 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.67 Years
ESOS 2016
16-Sep-24
 6,250 
 626.00 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
16 Sep 2024 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.25 Years
ESOS 2016
27-Sep-24
 20,000 
 626.00 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
27 Sep 2024 
to 
01 Jan 2028
0-3.25 Years
	
31 December 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
Scheme
Grant Date
Number of 
Options Granted
Exercise 
Price
Vesting 
Conditions
Vesting 
Period
Contractual 
period
ESOS 2016
06-Feb-23
 135,000 
 251.00 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
06 Feb 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.92 Years
ESOS 2016
02-May-23
 30,000 
 257.20 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
02 May 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.67 Years
ESOS 2016
03-Aug-23
 125,000 
 320.40 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
03 Aug 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.42 Years
ESOS 2016
06-Nov-23
 65,000 
 359.60 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
06 Nov 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.17 Years
ESOS 2016
23-Nov-23
 75,000 
 359.60 
Graded 
vesting over 
4 
years
23 Nov 2023 
to 
01 Jan 2027
0-3.09 Years
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
419
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
b. 	 Measurement of fair values		
	
	
	
	
	
The fair values are measured based on the Black-Scholes-Merton model. The fair value of the options and 
inputs used in the measurement of the grant date fair values of the equity-settled share based payments are 
as follows:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
31 December 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Options 
granted on 
05 February 
2024
Options 
granted on 
13 May 2024
Options 
granted on 
16 September 
2024
Options 
granted on 
27 September 
2024
Fair value per Option at grant date 
(in `)
 187.97 
 183.34 
 165.54 
 165.54 
Share price at grant date (in `)
 514.30 
 585.32 
 626.85 
 626.85 
Exercise price (in `)
 453.60 
 563.20 
 626.00 
 626.00 
Expected volatility
34.20%-37.95%
31.26%-36.48%
30.39%-35.07%
30.39%-35.07%
Expected life (in years)
1.57-4.47
1.57-4.20
1.57-3.83
1.57-3.83
Expected dividends
0.27%
0.17%
0.40%
0.40%
Risk-free interest rate
6.67%-6.75%
6.72%-6.76%
6.33%-6.37%
6.33%-6.37%
	
31 December 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Options 
granted on 
06 February 
2023
Options 
granted on 
02 May 2023
Options 
granted on 
03 August 
2023
Options 
granted on 
06 
November 
2023
Options 
granted on 
23 November 
2023
Fair value per Option at grant date (in `)
68.80
105.55
97.43
116.17
139.01
Share price at grant date (in `)
230.98
289.04
323.24
380.74
412.54
Exercise price (in `)
251.00
257.20
320.40
359.60
359.60
Expected volatility
38.03%-40.07% 37.33%-39.95% 36.65%-39.12% 35.77%-37.09% 35.71%-36.46%
Expected life (in years)
1.6-4.5
1.6-4.2
1.6-4.0
1.57-3.72
1.57-3.68
Expected dividends
0.22%
0.24%
0.43%
0.37%
0.34%
Risk-free interest rate
6.57%-6.91%
6.60%-6.69%
6.67%-6.80%
6.82%-6.96%
6.75%-6.89%
The risk-free interest rate (continuous compounding) being considered for the calculation is the interest rate 
applicable for maturity equal to the expected life of the options on the date of grant of options based on the 
zero-coupon yield curve for Government Securities available as on Valuation date taken from www.ccilindia.com.
The measure of volatility used in the Option-Pricing Model is the annualised standard 
deviation of the continuous rates of return on the stock over a period of time.	
	
 
Varun Beverages Limited
420
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
c.	
Effect of employee stock option schemes on the standalone statement of profit and loss
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
Share based payment to employees*
 140.25 
 63.35 
	
*included in employee benefits expense (net of share based payments in relation to employees of subsidiaries amounting to ` 22.18 
(31 December 2023: 15.75) (Refer note 32)
	
d.	
Reconciliation of outstanding share options	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options under the schemes is as follows:	
As at 
31 December 2024
As at 
31 December 2023
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (`)
Number of options granted, exercised and forfeited
Options outstanding as at the beginning of the year
 3,083,035 
 159.82 
 3,054,875 
 159.82 
Add: Options granted during the year
 63,750 
 576.16 
 430,000 
 306.97 
Less: Options exercised during the year
 729,215 
 159.82 
 289,340 
 159.82 
Less: Options forfeited/lapsed during the year
 10,000 
 159.82 
 112,500 
 159.82 
Options outstanding as at the end of the year
 2,407,570 
 170.84 
 3,083,035 
 159.82 
Options exercisable at the end of the year
 563,877 
 159.82 
 180,750 
 159.82 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Weighted average remaining life of options outstanding at the end 
of year (in years)
 1.75 
 2.70 
Also refer note 17(g) on sub-division/split of equity shares of the Company during the year. The outstanding stock 
options (whether vested or unvested as on the Record Date) and exercise prices as above has been adjusted to 
ensure fair and reasonable adjustment to the entitlement of the Eligible Employees under the Schemes due to the 
sub-division/split of equity shares.	
	
	
	
	
	
49.	Capital management	
	
	
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity share capital, securities 
premium and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company.
	
The Company’s capital management objectives are:
	
- to ensure the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern
	
- to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level 
of risk.
	
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and 
the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust 
the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Company monitors 
capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Company includes within 
net debt, non-current and current borrowings,current maturity of long-term debts and lease liabilities, less cash 
and cash equivalents, excluding discontinued operations, if any..	
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
421
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
The amounts managed as capital by the Company for the reporting periods are summarised as follows:	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Non-current borrowings (Refer note 19A)
 1,442.10 
 30,105.49 
Current borrowings (Refer note 19B)
 6,873.31 
 17,495.56 
Lease liabilities (Refer note 19C)
 419.61 
 1,043.65 
Current portion of lease liabilities (Refer note 19D)
 77.10 
 176.29 
 8,812.12 
 48,820.99 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 12)
 (20,580.80)
 (494.80)
Net debt                                            (A)
 (11,768.68)
 48,326.19 
Equity share capital (Refer note 17)
 6,763.02 
 6,496.07 
Other equity (Refer note 18)
 158,824.03 
 64,261.97 
Total capital                                         (B)
 165,587.05 
 70,758.04 
Capital and net debt                              (C=A+B)
 153,818.37 
 119,084.23 
Gearing ratio                                      (A/C)
-7.65%
40.58%
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to 
ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital 
structure requirements.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 
December 2024 and 31 December 2023.
There’s no breaches in the financial covenants of the borrowing that would permit the banks to immediately call 
loans and borrowings in the reporting periods.”	
	
	
50.	Assets pledged as security
The carrying amount of assets pledged as security are:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Inventories and trade receivable (Refer note 10 and 11)
 18,884.68 
 17,488.16 
Other bank deposits (Refer note 8 and 13)
 15.89 
 28.29 
Other current financial assets (Refer note 15)
 9,772.54 
 7,695.02 
Other current assets (Refer note 16)
 3,589.05 
 3,645.00 
Other intangible assets (Refer note 5B)
 5,460.04 
 5,450.74 
Property, plant and equipment (Refer note 4A)*
 75,467.69 
 53,955.78 
Capital work-in-progress (Refer note 4B)
 9,556.64 
 15,759.99 
Right of use assets (Refer note 4C)*
 7,116.13 
 6,223.14 
Intangible assets under development (Refer note 5C)
 43.69 
 - 
	
*Exclusive of land for which no mortgages has been created.	
Varun Beverages Limited
422
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
51.	 Information under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 34 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), 2015 	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
(i)
Name of the Loanee
Rate of Interest
Secured/ 
Unsecured
Maximum 
balance 
outstanding 
during the 
year 2024
As at 
31 
December 
2024
Maximum 
balance 
outstanding 
during the 
year 2023
As at
 31 December 
2023
Varun Beverages 
Morocco SA
 2% +3 month 
SOFR*
Unsecured
 1,110.25 
 1,110.25 
 1,077.74 
 1,077.74 
Varun Beverages 
(Zambia) Limited
 2% +3 month 
SOFR*
Unsecured
 826.71 
 826.71 
 802.51 
 802.51 
Varun Beverages 
(Zimbabwe) (Private) 
Limited
 2% +3 month 
SOFR*
Unsecured
 1,013.78 
 1,013.78 
 1,229.38 
 984.10 
Varun Beverages 
RDC SAS
 2% +3 month 
SOFR*
Unsecured
 5,655.41 
 5,655.41 
 2,124.71 
 2,123.62 
Varun Beverages 
International DMCC
 2% +3 month SOFR*
Unsecured
 3,844.48 
 3,844.48 
 2,011.42 
 2,011.42 
The Beverage 
Company Proprietary 
Limited
Variable prime rate
Unsecured
 3,168.67 
 2,952.77 
 - 
 - 
IDVB Recycling 
Operations Private 
Limited
10% Unsecured
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
 - 
	
	
*Rate of interest revised w.e.f 01 July 2023
	
The above loans are given for business purposes.
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
(ii) Name of the Investee
As at 
31 December 2024#
As at
 31 December 2023#
Varun Beverages Morocco SA
 6,179.18 
 6,179.18 
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
 1,423.91 
 1,423.91 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
 3,149.55 
 3,149.55 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
 3,231.01 
 3,231.01 
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 0.06 
 0.06 
Lunarmech Technologies Private Limited
 2,262.94 
 262.94 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 0.74 
 0.74 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
 20.68 
 20.68 
Varun Beverages South Africa (PTY) Ltd.
 0.05 
 0.05 
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
 4,037.26 
 - 
VBL Mozambique, SA
 1.32 
 - 
Varun Foods Zimbabwe (Private) Limited
 0.84 
 - 
Clean Max Tav Private Limited
 32.85 
 32.85 
Huoban Energy 7 Private Limited
 21.24 
 21.24 
IDVB Recycling Operations Private Limited
 500.00 
 130.07 
Lone Cypress Ventures Private Limited
 31.50 
 31.50 
Huoban Energy 11 Private Limited
 29.04 
 - 
The Margao Urban Co-operative Bank Limited
 0.01 
 0.01 
The Goa Urban Co-operative Bank Limited*
 0.00 
 0.00 
	
	
*Rounded off to nil
	
	
#Exclusive of deemed investment (Refer note 6)
	
The above investments are made for business purposes.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
423
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
(iii) Guarantees outstanding, given on behalf of
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Varun Beverages (Nepal) Private Limited
 280.98 
 280.98 
Varun Beverages (Zimbabwe) (Private) Limited
 385.30 
 374.02 
Varun Beverages (Zambia) Limited
 1,027.48 
 332.47 
Varun Beverages International DMCC
 4,495.22 
 1,246.75 
Varun Beverages RDC SAS
 2,483.07 
 1,246.75 
Varun Beverages Lanka (Private) Limited
 290.27 
 114.79 
The Beverage Company Proprietary Limited
 6,814.08 
 - 
	
The above financial guarantees are given on behalf of subsidiaries for business purposes and are in ordinary 
course of business.
52.	Financial instruments risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Financials risk management objectives and policies 	
	
The Company is exposed to various risks in relation to financial instruments. The main types of financial risks are 
market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The management of the Company monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the 
Company on a continuous basis. The Company’s risk management is coordinated at its head office, in close 
cooperation with the management, and focuses on actively securing the Company’s short to medium-term cash 
flows and simultaneously minimising the exposure to volatile financial markets. Long-term financial investments 
are managed to generate lasting returns.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company does not engage in the trading of financial assets for speculative purposes. The most significant 
financial risks to which the Company is exposed are described below.	
	
	
52.1	Market risk analysis	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market prices. The Company is exposed to market risk through its use of financial instruments and 
specifically to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk which result from its operating, 
investing and financing activities. Contracts to hedge exposures in foreign currencies, interest rates etc. are 
entered into wherever considered necessary by the management.
Foreign currency risk
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of 
changes in foreign exchange rates. The functional currency of the Company is Indian Rupees (‘INR’ or ‘`’). Most of 
the Company’s transactions are carried out in Indian Rupees. Exposures to currency exchange rates mainly arise 
from the Company’s overseas sales and purchases, lending to overseas subsidiary companies, external commercial 
borrowings etc. which are primarily denominated in US Dollars (‘USD’), Pound Sterling (‘GBP’), Australian Dollars 
(‘AUD’), Euro (‘EUR’), Emirati Dirham (‘AED’) and South African Rand (‘ZAR’).
	
The Company has limited exposure to foreign currency risk and thereby it mainly relies on natural hedge. To 
further mitigate the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk, non-INR cash flows are continuously monitored 
and derivative contracts are entered into wherever considered necessary.
Varun Beverages Limited
424
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign currency denominated monetary items are restated at the end of 
each reporting period. Foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities which expose the Company 
to currency risk are as follows: 
(in million)
31 December 2024
USD
AUD
EUR
AED
GBP
ZAR
Financial assets 
(i) 	 Loans (non-current and current)
	
(a) 	 Loans to related parties
 145.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
650.00 
(ii) 	 Trade receivables (current)
 4.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) 	Other financial assets (current)
	
(a) 	 Interest accrued on loan to related parties
 10.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 52.09 
	
(b) 	 Guarantee commission receivable
 0.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.14 
	
(c) 	 Other receivables
 0.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.35 
Total financial assets
 160.27 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  706.58 
Financial liabilities
(i) 	 Trade payables
 5.14 
 0.00* 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	 Other current financial liabilities
	
(a) 	 Payable for capital expenditure
 3.77 
 - 
 3.32 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
Total financial liabilities
 8.91 
 - 
 3.32 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
*Rounded off to Nil
31 December 2023
USD
AUD
EUR
AED
GBP
ZAR
Financial assets
(i) 	 Loans (non-current and current)
	
(a) 	 Loans to related parties
 84.21 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	 Trade receivables (current)
 9.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) 	Other financial assets (current)
	
(a) 	 Interest accrued on loan to related parties
 6.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
(b) 	 Guarantee commission receivable
 0.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
(c) 	 Other receivables
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total financial assets
 99.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Financial liabilities 
(i) 	 Trade payables
 5.57 
 -  0.00* 
 0.00* 
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	 Other current financial liabilities
	
(a) 	 Payable for capital expenditure
 3.46 
 - 
 9.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total financial liabilities
 9.03 
 - 
 9.63 
 0.00* 
 - 
 - 
*Rounded off to Nil
	
The following table illustrates the foreign currency sensitivity of profit and equity with regards to the Company’s 
financial assets and financial liabilities considering ‘all other things being equal’ and ignoring the impact of taxation. 
It assumes a +/- 1% change of the INR/USD, INR/AUD, INR/GBP, INR/EUR, INR/AED and INR/ZAR exchange rate 
for the year ended at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: 1%). These are the sensitivity rates used when 
reporting foreign currency exposures internally to the key management personnel and represents management’s 
assessment of the reasonably possible changes in the foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes 
only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items at end of each period reported upon. A positive 
number indicates an increase in profit or equity and vice-versa.
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
425
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
If the INR had strengthened against the USD by 1% (31 December 2023 1%), GBP by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), 
AUD by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), EUR by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) AED by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) and 
ZAR by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), the following would have been the impact:
(` in million)
Particulars
Profit/(Loss) for the year
Equity
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
USD
 (129.60)
 (75.26)
 (129.60)
 (75.26)
GBP
 0.01 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
Euro
 2.96 
 8.86 
 2.96 
 8.86 
AED
 - 
0.00*
 - 
 - 
AUD
0.00*
 - 
0.00*
 - 
ZAR
 (32.10)
 - 
 (32.10)
 - 
	
*Rounded off to Nil
	
If the INR had weakened against the USD by 1% (31 December 2023 1%), GBP by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), AUD 
by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), EUR by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) AED by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%) and ZAR 
by 1% (31 December 2023: 1%), the following would have been the impact:
(` in million)
Particulars
Profit/(Loss) for the year
Equity
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
USD
 129.60 
 75.26 
 129.60 
 75.26 
GBP
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
Euro
 (2.96)
 (8.86)
 (2.96)
 (8.86)
AED
 - 
 0.00* 
 - 
 0.00* 
AUD
0.00*
 - 
0.00*
 - 
ZAR
 32.10 
 - 
 32.10 
 - 
*Rounded off to Nil
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the year depending on the volume of the overseas transactions. 
Nonetheless, the analysis above is considered to be representative of the Company’s exposure to currency risk.
	
Interest rate risk	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market interest rates. The Company’s policy is to minimise interest rate cash flow risk exposures on 
long-term financing. The Company is exposed to changes in market interest rates as some of the bank and other 
borrowings are at variable interest rates and also loans have been advanced to subsidiary companies at variable 
interest rates. All the Company’s term deposits are at fixed interest rates. 
	
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit and equity to a reasonably possible change in interest 
rates of +/- 1% (31 December 2023: +/- 1%). These changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on 
management’s assessment. The calculations are based on a change in the average market interest rate for each 
period, and the financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. All 
other variables are held constant.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Profit/(Loss) for the year
Equity
+1%
-1%
+1%
-1%
31 December 2024
 (133.00)
 133.00 
 (133.00)
 133.00 
31 December 2023
 (320.71)
 320.71 
 (320.71)
 320.71 
Varun Beverages Limited
426
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Commodity price risk	 	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is affected by the price volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing 
purchase of pet chips and sugar and therefore require a continuous supply. In view of volatility of pet chips and 
sugar prices, the Company also executes into various advance purchase contracts.
Commodity price sensitivity		
	
	
	
	
	
The following tables shows the effect of price change in sugar and pet chips	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
Change in yearly average price
Effect on profit before tax
Effect on equity
31 December 2024
Sugar
+1%
-1%
 (143.00)
 143.00 
 (143.00)
 143.00 
Pet chips
+1%
-1%
 (148.30)
 148.30 
 (148.30)
 148.30 
(` in million)
Particulars
Change in yearly average price
Effect on profit before tax
Effect on equity
31 December 2023
Sugar
+1%
-1%
 (127.44)
 127.44 
 (127.44)
 127.44 
Pet chips
+1%
-1%
 (112.53)
 112.53 
 (112.53)
 112.53 
	
Other price sensitivity		
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is not exposed to any listed equity or listed debt price risk as it does not hold any investments in 
listed entities.
	
52.2 Credit risk analysis	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to discharge an obligation to the Company. The Company is operating 
through a network of distributors and other distribution partners based at different locations. The Company is 
exposed to this risk for various financial instruments, for example loans granted, receivables from customers, 
deposits placed etc. The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial 
assets recognised at end of each reporting period, as summarised below:
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Classes of financial assets-carrying amounts:
Investments (non-current)
 20,960.11 
 14,499.54 
Loans (current and non-current)
 15,403.40 
 6,999.39 
Trade receivables
 1,997.63 
 2,129.42 
Cash and cash equivalents
 20,580.80 
 494.80 
Bank balances other than mention above
 6.28 
 28.29 
Other financial assets (current and non-current)
 10,574.63 
 8,259.87 
 69,522.85 
 32,411.31 
The Company continuously monitors receivables and defaults of customers and other counterparties, and 
incorporates this information into its credit risk controls. Appropriate security deposits are kept against the 
supplies to customers and balances are reconciled at regular intervals. The Company’s policy is to deal only with 
creditworthy counterparties.
In respect of trade and other receivables, the Company is not exposed to any significant credit risk exposure to 
any single counterparty. Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers of various scales and in different 
geographical areas. Based on historical information about customer default rates, management considers the 
credit quality of trade receivables. In case the receivables are not recovered even after regular follow up, measures 
are taken to stop further supplies to the concerned customer. The expected credit loss is based on the five years 
historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward 
looking estimates. Further, the Company has assessed the recoverability of grants receivable classified under 
other current financial assets and accordingly provided for balance overdue for more than three years, amounting 
to ` 236.45 million (31 December 2023: Nil).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
427
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Movement in expected credit loss allowance on trade receivables	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 286.72 
 289.03 
Loss/(Reversal) allowance measured at lifetime expected credit loss
 3.10 
 (2.31)
Balance at the end of the year
 289.82 
 286.72 
	
The credit risk for cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits including interest accrued thereon and Government 
grant receivables is considered negligible, since the counterparties are reputable banks with high quality external 
credit ratings and State Government bodies. The credit risk for loans advanced to subsidiary companies including 
interest accrued thereon is also considered negligible since operations of these entities are regularly monitored by 
the Company and these companies have shown considerable growth.
	
In respect of financial guarantees provided by the Company, the maximum exposure which the Company is 
exposed to is the maximum amount which the Company would have to pay if the guarantee is called upon. Based 
on the expectation at the end of each reporting period, the Company considers that it is more likely than not that 
such an amount will not be payable under the guarantees provided.
	
52.3 Liquidity risk analysis
	
Liquidity risk is that the Company might be unable to meet its obligations. The Company manages its liquidity needs by 
monitoring scheduled debt servicing payments for long-term financial liabilities and considering the maturity profiles 
of financial assets and other financial liabilities as well as forecast of operational cash inflows and outflows. Liquidity 
needs are monitored in various time bands, on a day-to-day basis, a week-to-week basis and a month-to-month basis. 
Long-term liquidity needs for a 180-day and a 360-day lookout period are identified monthly. Net cash requirements 
are compared to available borrowing facilities in order to determine headroom or any shortfalls.
	
Funding for long-term liquidity needs is additionally secured by an adequate amount of committed credit facilities 
and the Company’s ability to avail further credit facilities subject to creation of requisite charge on its assets. The 
Company assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low.
	
As at 31 December 2024, the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities have contractual undiscounted maturities 
as summarised below:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024	
Carrying 
value
1 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Later than 
5 years
Total 
contractual 
cash flow
Borrowings (current and non-current)
 8,315.41 
 6,885.51 
 1,285.57 
 275.29 
 8,446.37 
Lease liabilities (current and non-current)
 496.71 
 114.15 
 314.17 
 1,193.65 
 1,621.97 
Trade payables 
 5,578.28 
 5,578.28 
-
-
 5,578.28 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 5,883.00 
 5,883.00 
-
-
 5,883.00 
Total 
 20,273.40 
 18,460.94 
 1,599.74 
 1,468.94 
 21,529.62 
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2023	
Carrying 
value
1 to 12 
months
1 to 5 years
Later than 
5 years
Total 
contractual 
cash flow
Borrowings (current and non-current)
 47,601.05 
 17,510.27 
 29,669.00 
 580.82 
 47,760.09 
Lease liabilities (current and non-current)
 1,219.94 
 282.21 
 1,026.78 
 829.45 
 2,138.44 
Trade payables 
 4,918.61 
 4,918.61 
 - 
 - 
 4,918.61 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 6,678.70 
 6,678.70 
 - 
 - 
 6,678.70 
Total 
 60,418.30 
 29,389.79 
 30,695.78 
 1,410.27 
 61,495.84 
Varun Beverages Limited
428
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
53.	Fair value measurements
	
Financial instruments by categories	 	
	
	
	
The carrying values and fair values of financial instruments by categories are as follows:	
(` in million)
Particulars
Notes
31 December 2024
31 December 2023
FVTPL
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Amortised cost
Financial assets
(i) 	 Non-current financial assets
	
(a) 	Investment (non-current)
6
 60.55 
 20,899.56 
 31.51 
 14,468.03 
	
(b) 	Loans 
7
 - 
 15,403.40 
 - 
 6,999.39 
	
(c) 	Other financial assets
8
 - 
 802.09 
 - 
 564.85 
(ii) 	 Current financial assets
	
(a) 	Trade receivables
11
 - 
 1,997.63 
 - 
 2,129.42 
	
(b) 	Cash and cash equivalents
12
 1,319.21 
 19,261.59 
 - 
 494.80 
	
(c) 	Bank balances other than (b) above
13
 - 
 6.28 
 - 
 28.29 
	
(d) 	Other financial assets
15
 - 
 9,772.54 
 - 
 7,695.02 
Total
 1,379.76 
 68,143.09 
 31.51 
 32,379.80 
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Non-current borrowings 
19A
 - 
 1,442.10 
 - 
 30,105.49 
(ii) 	 Non-current lease liabilities
19C
 - 
 419.61 
 - 
 1,043.65 
(iii) 	Current financial liabilities
 - 
	
(a) 	 Borrowings 
19B
 - 
 6,873.31 
 - 
 17,495.56 
	
(b) 	 Lease liabilities
19D
 - 
 77.10 
 - 
 176.29 
	
(c) 	 Trade payables
23
 - 
 5,578.28 
 - 
 4,918.61 
	
(d) 	 Other
24
 - 
 5,883.00 
 - 
 6,678.70 
Total
 - 
 20,273.40 
 - 
 60,418.30 
	
Valuation technique to determine fair value	
	
	
	
	
	
“Cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, trade receivables, loans, other current financial assets, trade 
payables, current borrowings and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due 
to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is the amount 
at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced 
or liquidation sale. 
	
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:	
	
	
	
• 	
The fair values of the long term borrowings, loans and other deferred payments are determined by using 
discounted cash flow method using the appropriate discount rate. The discount rate is determined using 
other similar instruments incorporating the risk associated.	
	
	
	
	
Fair value hierarchy	
	
	
	
	
	
The financial assets measured at fair value are grouped into the fair value hierarchy as on 31 December 2024 and 
31 December 2023 as follows: (also refer note 3.1)	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2024	
Date of valuation
Total
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices 
in active 
markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
(Level 2)
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
(Level 3)
Assets measured at fair value:
Investment (non-current)
31 December 2024
60.55
-
-
60.55
Cash and cash equivalents
31 December 2024
1,319.21
1,319.21
-
-
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
429
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
There have been no transfers of financial assets and financial liabilities between the levels during the year 2024
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
31 December 2023	
Date of valuation
Total
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices 
in active 
markets 
(Level 1)
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
(Level 2)
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
(Level 3)
Assets measured at fair value:
Investment (non-current)
31 December 2023
 31.51 
 - 
 - 
 31.51 
54.	Details of unhedged exposure in foreign currency denominated monetary items
Exposure in foreign currency - unhedged
Outstanding foreign currency exposure not being hedged against adverse currency fluctuation:
Particulars
Period
Foreign currency
Local currency
Trade receivable
31 December 2024
USD
 4.30 
INR
 367.92 
31 December 2023
USD
 9.04 
INR
 751.19 
Loan given
31 December 2024
 USD 
 145.41 
 INR 
 12,450.63 
31 December 2023
USD
 84.21 
 INR 
 6,999.39 
31 December 2024
 ZAR 
 650.00 
 INR 
 2,952.77 
31 December 2023
 ZAR 
 - 
 INR 
 - 
Other receivables
31 December 2024
 USD 
 10.56 
 INR 
 903.93 
31 December 2023
USD
 6.32 
 INR 
 525.45 
31 December 2024
 ZAR 
 56.59 
 INR 
 257.06 
31 December 2023
 ZAR 
 - 
 INR 
 - 
Trade payables
31 December 2024
USD
 5.14 
 INR 
 439.81 
31 December 2023
USD
 5.57 
INR
 462.62 
31 December 2024
EUR
 - 
 INR 
 - 
31 December 2023
EUR
 0.00* 
INR
 0.12 
31 December 2024
AUD
 0.00* 
INR
 0.15 
31 December 2023
AUD
 0.00* 
INR
 0.16 
Payable for capital expenditure
31 December 2024
USD
 3.77 
 INR 
 322.90 
31 December 2023
USD
 3.46 
INR
 288.67 
31 December 2024
EUR
 3.32 
 INR 
 295.85 
31 December 2023
EUR
 9.63 
 INR 
 886.46 
31 December 2024
GBP
 0.01 
 INR 
 0.68 
31 December 2023
GBP
 - 
 INR 
 - 
	
*Rounded off nil.
Varun Beverages Limited
430
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
55. Financial ratios
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Ratio 
Measurement 
unit
Numerator
Denominator
As at 
31 December 
2024
As at 
31 December 
2023
Change
Reason 
for 
variance if 
more than 
25%
Ratio
Ratio
Current ratio
Times
Current assets
Current liabilities 
(inclusive of 
current maturities 
of long-term 
debts)
 2.46 
 0.89 
175.56%
Refer note 
below i
Debt-equity 
ratio
Times
"Total debt 
[Non-current 
borrowings 
+ Current 
borrowings+Lease 
liabilities]"
Total equity
0.05
0.69
-92.29%
Refer note 
below i
Debt service 
coverage ratio
Times
Earnings available 
for debt service 
[Profit/(loss) after 
tax + Depreciation 
and amortisation 
+ impairment + 
finance cost + 
profit on sale of 
property, plant 
and equipment, 
investment + 
other non cash 
adjustments]
Debt service 
(interest and 
lease payments 
+ principal 
repayments)
 3.19 
 1.28 
148.30%
Refer note 
below i
Return on 
equity ratio
Percentage
Net profit after tax
"Average 
shareholder's 
equity 
[(opening 
shareholder's 
equity + closing 
shareholder's 
equity)/2]"
19.64%
28.19%
-30.35%
Refer note 
below i
Inventory 
turnover ratio
Times
Costs of materials 
consumed + 
Purchases of 
stock-in-trade 
+ Changes in 
inventories of 
traded goods
"Average 
inventories  
[(opening 
inventories 
+ closing 
inventories) /2]"
 4.84 
 4.70 
2.81%
Not 
applicable
Trade 
receivables 
turnover ratio
Times
Revenue from 
operations
Average trade 
receivables 
[(opening trade 
receivables 
+closing trade 
receivables )/2]
 69.53 
 69.57 
-0.05%
Not 
applicable
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
431
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Ratio 
Measurement 
unit
Numerator
Denominator
As at 
31 December 
2024
As at 
31 December 
2023
Change
Reason 
for 
variance if 
more than 
25%
Ratio
Ratio
Trade 
payables 
turnover ratio
Times
Net purchases
"Average trade 
payables 
[(opening trade 
payables + closing 
trade payables 
)/2]"
 13.00 
 11.72 
10.97%
Not 
applicable
Net capital 
turnover ratio
Times
Revenue from 
operations
"Working capital 
[current assets - 
current liabilities 
inclusive of 
current maturities 
of long-term 
debts]"
 4.53 
 (35.31)
-112.84%
Refer note 
below i
Net profit 
ratio
Percentage
Net profit after tax
Revenue from 
operations
16.17%
14.05%
15.08%
Not 
applicable
Return 
on capital 
employed
Percentage
Earnings before 
interest and taxes
Capital employed 
= Tangible net 
worth* + total 
debt** + deferred 
tax liabilities
19.19%
21.26%
-9.77%
Not 
applicable
Return on 
investment 
(ROI)
Percentage
Earnings before 
interest and tax 
Total assets
17.55%
18.62%
-5.77%
Not 
applicable
Note:
	
i. During the year company had repaid majority of its borrowings from the proceeds of Qualified institutions 
placement (QIP), due to which ratios are impacted significantly.
	
*Tangible net worth- equity share capital + other equity
	
**Total debt- non-current and current borrowings + non-current and current lease liabilities
56. Disclosure relating to provision:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
As at 
31 December 2024
As at
 31 December 2023
Opening balance
 503.72 
 - 
Addition
 41.16 
 503.72 
Reversal
 (250.76)
 - 
Closing balance
 294.12 
 503.72 
	
The Company has made GST provision during the year 31 December 2023 towards tax rate difference based on the demand 
order amounting to ` 120.08 million issued by Central GST Commissionerate, Jalandhar for the period 01 July 2017 to 30 
September 2021 in the State of Punjab. Considering the demand order, Company has provided for GST liability on entire 
sales of a product for the said period. The Company has not recovered the additional GST liability from its customers. 
During the current year, the Company has accrued interest on above GST provision and also reversed provisions that has now 
become time-barred as at reporting date.	 	
	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
432
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
i.	
This provision represent estimates made mainly for probable claim arising out of dispute pending with 
authority. The probability and the timing of the outflow with regard to the matter depend on the final 
outcome of the dispute. Hence, the Company is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
ii. 	
Discounting obligation has not been considered as the dispute relates to Government Authority.	
57. Additional regulatory information not disclosed elsewhere in the financial information during 
current and previous financial year.
	
a)	
The Company does not have any Benami property and no proceedings have been initiated or pending against 
the Company for holding any Benami property, under the Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 (45 
of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
	
b)	
The Company does not have any transactions with struck off companies under section 248 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 or section 560 of the Companies Act, 1956, except for the parties mentioned below:	
	
	
	
Name of the struck 
off company 
Nature of 
transactions with 
struck off company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31 December 2024
Relationship with 
the struck off 
company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31 December 2023
Relationship 
with the struck 
off 
company
Ace Polypet Private 
Limited
Sale of goods
(0.00)* No relationship
(0.00)* No relationship
C A Trade Links 
Private Limited
Security deposit 
received
(0.09) No relationship
(0.09) No relationship
Ngen Auto Private 
Limited
Purchases
- No relationship
0.00* No relationship
Thermadyne 
Private Limited
Purchases
(0.38) No relationship
- No relationship
	
	
*Rounded off to Nil
	
c)	
The Company does not have any charges which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period. 
	
d)	
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency.
	
e)	
The Company has not advanced or provided loan to or invested funds in any entity(ies) including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries) or to any other person(s), with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
	
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries	 	
	
f)	
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries,
	
g)	
The Company has not undertaken any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has 
been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
433
Annual Report 2024
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
	
h)	
The Company has not been declared a ‘Wilful Defaulter’ by any bank (as defined under the Companies Act, 
2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India.
	
i)	
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Act 
read with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
	
j)	
The borrowings obtained by the company from banks have been applied for the purposes for which such 
loans were taken.
	
k)	
The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible 
assets or both.
	
l)	
The Company has borrowings from banks on the basis of security of current assets. The quarterly returns 
or statements of current assets filed by the Company with banks are in agreement with the books of 
accounts.	
58. 	a)	
On 13 November 2024, the Company has entered into a binding agreement to acquire 100% stake in the 
business conducted by SBC Beverages Tanzania Limited, Tanzania (SBCT), subject to approvals from PepsiCo 
Inc., Fair Competition Commission (FCC) Tanzania and other regulatory approvals (if any) for a proposed 
purchase consideration amounting to USD 154.50 million.  The indicative time period for completion of the 
acquisition is on or before 31 March 2025.
	
	
SBCT is engaged in the business of manufacturing and distribution of licensed (PepsiCo Inc.) branded 
non-alcoholic beverages in Tanzania. SBCT has five manufacturing facilities located at one each in 
Dar-es-Salaam, Mbeya, Arusha and two in Mwanza. 
	
b) 	 On 13 November 2024, the Company has entered into a binding agreement to acquire 100% stake in the 
business conducted by SBC Beverages Ghana Limited, Ghana (SBCG), subject to approvals from PepsiCo 
Inc. and other regulatory approvals (if any) for a proposed purchase consideration amounting to USD 15.06 
million. The indicative time period for completion of the acquisition is on or before 28 February 2025.
	
	
SBCG is engaged in the business of manufacturing and distribution of licensed (PepsiCo Inc.) branded 
non-alcoholic beverages in Ghana. SBCG has one manufacturing facility located at Accra, Ghana.
59. 	During the year ended 31 December 2024, pursuant to Qualified institutions placement (QIP), the Company has 
raised ` 75,000 million through fresh issue of 132,743,362 equity shares of ` 2 each at a premium of ` 563 per share 
on 19 November 2024. The Audit, Risk Management and Ethics Committee and the Board of Directors noted the 
utilisation of funds raised through such fresh issue of equity shares to be in line with the object of the issue, the 
details of which are as follows: 	
	
	
	
	
	
(` in million)
Particulars
 Amount as 
per placement 
document 
 Amount utilised 
upto 31 December 
2024 
 Amount Unutilised/
(Excess spent) as at 
31 December 2024 
Repayment / pre-payment, in part or in full, of 
certain outstanding borrowings  
availed by our Company and/or one of our 
Subsidiaries
 56,000.00 
 50,475.46 
 5,524.54 
Inorganic acquisitions and general corporate 
purposes
 18,390.00 
 3,858.42 
 14,531.58 
Share issue expenses#
 610.00 
 611.10 
 (1.10)
Total
 75,000.00 
 54,944.98 
 20,055.02 
	
#excludes expenses of ` 4.28 million which is paid subsequent to year ended 31 December 2024.
	
Unutilised amounts have been kept in fixed deposits, mutual funds and QIP monitoring account.
Varun Beverages Limited
434
Summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 December 2024
60.	Audit Trail	
	
	
	
	
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a new requirement for companies under the 
proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, inserted by the Companies (Accounts) 
Amendment Rules 2021 requiring companies covered under the Act, which uses accounting software for 
maintaining its books of accounts, shall only use such accounting software which has a feature of recording 
audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an edit log of each change made in the books of account 
along with the date when such changes were made and ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled. 
The Company uses two accounting software’s , which includes an accounting software for payroll processing 
which is operated by the third party software service provider, for maintaining its books of account.
	
During the year, the audit trail (edit log) feature at the application level was operating for all relevant transactions 
recorded in such softwares. However, the audit trail (edit log) feature was not enabled at the database level to log any 
direct data changes for one accounting software operated by Company, used for maintenance of books of account.
61.	 Subsequent events occurred after the balance sheet date:
	
i	
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on 10 February 2025 have approved a payment of final dividend 
of ` 0.50 (Rupee fifty paisa only) per equity share of the face value of ` 2 each, subject to the approval of 
equity shareholders in ensuing annual general meeting of the Company.
	
ii	
The Company has invested in the equity shares of one of its subsidiaries named The Beverage Company 
Proprietary Limited amounting to ` 4,128.04 million as on 02 January 2025.
62.	 The amounts of previous reported period have been regrouped/reclassified wherever considered necessary in 
order to comply with financial reporting requirements.
The accompanying notes 1 to 62 are an integral part of the standalone financial statements. 
As per our report of even date attached.
For J C Bhalla & Co 	
For O P Bagla & Co LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Chartered Accountants	
Chartered Accountants	
	
Varun Beverages Limited
Firm’s Registration No.: 001111N	
Firm’s Registration No.: 000018N/N500091	
	
Akhil Bhalla	
Neeraj Kumar Agarwal	
Varun Jaipuria	
Raj Pal Gandhi
Partner	
Partner	
Whole Time Director	
Whole Time Director 
Membership No.: 505002 	
Membership No.: 094155	
DIN 02465412	
DIN 00003649
	
	
Rajesh Chawla	
Ravi Batra
	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Chief Risk Officer and  
Place : Gurugram	
	
	
Group Company Secretary 
Dated : 10 February 2025	
	
	
Membership No. F- 5746
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
435
Annual Report 2024
ASSURANCE STATEMENTS
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
437
Annual Report 2024
Certificate No. DEKRABRSR2025C01R0 
DEKRA India Private Limited 
Page 1 of 4 
105D, 1st Floor, Vatika Mindscapes, Tower D, Sector 27D, Faridabad, Haryana, India – 121003 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 
STATEMENT 
 
INDEPENDENT REASONABLE ASSURANCE REPORT TO VARUN BEVERAGES LIMITED ON 
NON-FINANCIAL BRSR CORE DISCLOSURES IN THE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024 
 
To, 
The Board of Directors, 
Varun Beverages Limited 
 
 
We (“DEKRA India Private Limited” of “DEKRA”) have undertaken a reasonable assurance 
engagement for Varun Beverages Limited (“the Company” or “VBL”) on VBL’s Sustainability Information 
as Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting Core attributes included in the Business 
Responsibility & Sustainability Report (the “BRSR” or the “Report”) for the year ended December 31, 
2024. Our assurance engagement does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods or to any 
other information included. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including 
assurance 
practitioners 
and 
engineers 
and 
experts, 
as 
per 
SEBI 
mandated 
Circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 July12, 2023. 
Reporting Requirement - Standard/Framework 
The disclosures of Sustainability Information are prepared by VBL in accordance as mentioned under; 
• 
Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (the “SEBI”) (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015 as amended; 
• 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting Requirements for listed entities per Master 
Circular  No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/ CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023; and 
• 
SEBI 
Circulars 
(SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/ 
CIR/2023/122 
dated 
July 
12, 
2023; 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024 and clarifications 
thereto issued by SEBI. 
• 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
Professional Standards Applied 
We performed a reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information. 
Scope, Boundary & Limitation 
Scope 
The scope of work includes the assurance of the following 09 attributes as per Annexure I - Format of 
BRSR Core disclosed in the BRSR report. The BRSR core requirements encompass essential 
disclosures pertaining to the organization’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG). 
 
Varun Beverages Limited
438
Certificate No. DEKRABRSR2025C01R0 
DEKRA India Private Limited 
Page 2 of 4 
105D, 1st Floor, Vatika Mindscapes, Tower D, Sector 27D, Faridabad, Haryana, India – 121003 
 
Boundary 
Reporting boundary of Sustainability Information includes 36 Nos. Plants for manufacturing Beverages, 
3 Nos. Plants for Backward Integration, 1 No. Registered Office, 1 No. Corporate Office and 67 Nos. 
Sales Offices, Depot & Warehouse across India. 
Limitations 
We conducted a reasonable assurance engagement on select BRSR Core attributes, as defined within 
the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) framework. Certain limitations 
inherent to the subject matter and the assurance process were identified, as detailed below; 
• 
Assurance engagement did not include procedures related to the Report's prospective 
information, encompassing targets, expectations, and ambitions. Consequently, no assurance 
conclusion is offered regarding such prospective information. Additionally, matters pertaining to 
Intellectual Property Rights and competitive issues are outside the scope of this assurance 
• 
DEKRA's assurance process proceeded without any limitations impacting the defined scope. 
• 
Data verification was conducted by DEKRA using a sampling methodology. The reporting 
organization, VBL, bears sole responsibility for the authenticity of all data presented. 
• 
Any reliance placed by a person or third party on the BRSR Report is entirely at their own risk.  
• 
DEKRA did not evaluate the company's financial data or performance. DEKRA referenced 
financial figures from the audited financial reports, and VBL will be responsible for the 
appropriate application of this financial data. DEKRA assumes no liability for the accuracy or 
completeness of the financial data contained within the Company's audited financial report. 
• 
This assurance statement's applicability is restricted to the context defined by SEBI circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 (July 12, 2023) and the Industry Standards for 
BRSR Core reporting, as specified in SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2024/177 
(December 20, 2024). 
• 
The assessment is limited to data and information within the defined Reporting Period. Any data 
outside the period in not considered within the scope of assurance. 
• 
The assessment does not include a review of the Company’s strategy, or other related linkages 
expressed in the report. These aspects are not within the scope the assurance engagement. 
• 
The assurance does not extent to mapping the report with reporting frameworks other than 
those specifically mentioned. Any assessments or comparisons with frameworks beyond the 
specified ones are not considered in this engagement. 
• 
Legal compliance is outside the scope of this assurance. The Company retains full responsibility 
for compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. 
• 
This assurance is based on the assumption that the Company's data is complete, sufficient, and 
authentic.  
Inherit Limitation 
Inherent limitations in preparing the Company’s BRSR information requires the management to 
establish or interpret the criteria, make determinations about the relevancy of information to be 
included, and make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported information. 
Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR Core metrics, some of which are estimates, is subject 
to substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example, GHG emissions, water footprint, 
energy footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion/conclusion does not 
reduce the uncertainty in the amounts and metrics. 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
439
Annual Report 2024
Certificate No. DEKRABRSR2025C01R0 
DEKRA India Private Limited 
Page 3 of 4 
105D, 1st Floor, Vatika Mindscapes, Tower D, Sector 27D, Faridabad, Haryana, India – 121003 
Responsibilities for the VBL’s Management 
Management of the Company is responsible for: 
• 
Selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the Sustainability Information, taking into 
account applicable law and regulations related to reporting the Sustainability Information, if any, 
related to reporting on the Sustainability Information, Identification of key aspects, engagement 
with stakeholders, content, preparation and presentation of the Identified Sustainability 
Information in accordance with the reporting requirement. 
• 
The preparation and fair presentation of the Sustainability Information in accordance with the 
SEBI BRSR Framework. 
• 
Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of the 
Sustainability Information in accordance with the SEBI BRSR Framework, to enable the 
preparation of such information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s sustainability reporting 
process. 
Our Responsibility 
We are responsible for: 
• 
Planning and performing the engagement to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; 
• 
Forming an independent opinion, based on the evidence we have obtained; and 
• 
Reporting our opinion to the Directors of VBL. 
As we are engaged to form an independent opinion on the Sustainability Information as prepared by 
management, we are not permitted to be involved in the preparation of the Sustainability Information 
as doing so may compromise our independence.  
Our Independence, Quality Control and Statement of Competency 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirement of the Code of Ethics for 
Professional issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality 
and professional behavior. DEKRA applied Internal Quality Control and accordingly maintains a 
comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. 
 
Our work was carried out by an independent and multidisciplinary team including assurance 
practitioners, engineers, and experts, in particular, to assist with determining the reasonableness of 
VBL’s Sustainability Information. DEKRA assurance team, to the best of knowledge, was not involved 
in any non-audit / non-assurance work with the Company and its entities could lead to any Conflict of 
Interest. DEKRA was not Involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report 
except the Assurance Statement for the VBL. Dekra maintains complete impartiality during the 
assurance process. We did not provide any services to VBL in the scope of assurance for the reporting 
period that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. 
Varun Beverages Limited
440
Certificate No. DEKRABRSR2025C01R0 
DEKRA India Private Limited 
Page 4 of 4 
105D, 1st Floor, Vatika Mindscapes, Tower D, Sector 27D, Faridabad, Haryana, India – 121003 
Summary of the Work we Performed as the Basis for our Assurance Opinion 
A reasonable assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the 
Sustainability Information. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on professional 
judgment, including the assessment of risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, in 
the Sustainability Information. In making those risk assessments, we considered internal control 
relevant to VBL’s preparation of the Sustainability Information. A reasonable assurance engagement 
also includes: 
• 
Evaluating the suitability in the circumstances of VBL’s use of the Standard/Framework, as the 
basis for preparing the Sustainability Information; 
• 
Evaluating the appropriateness of measurement and evaluation methods, reporting policies 
used and the reasonableness of estimates made by VB; 
• 
DEKRA conducted interviews with key representatives, including data owners and decision-
makers from different functions of VB; 
• 
DEKRA performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing Sustainability-
related policies and data management (qualitative and qualitative); and 
• 
Evaluating the disclosures in, and overall presentation of, the Sustainability Information. 
We believe that the evidences we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. Onsite audit for verification conducted at VBL’s Corporate Office on 17th to 19th, Noida Plant 1 
on 20th February and Noida Plant 2 on 21st February of 2025, Online audit of Greater Noida – 1, Greater 
Noida – 2 & Sandila Plants on 3rd March and desk review for the remaining plants data. 
Assurance Conclusion 
In our opinion, VBL’s Sustainability Information as Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
Core attributes included in the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (the “BRSR” or the 
“Report”) for the year ended December 31, 2024 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the Reporting Requirement.  
Purpose and Restriction on Distribution and Use 
Our Reasonable Assurance report has been prepared and addressed to the Board of Directors of the 
Company at the request of the Company solely, to assist the Company in reporting on Company’s 
sustainability performance and activities. Accordingly, we accept no liability to anyone, other than the 
Company. Our Reasonable Assurance report should not be used for any other purpose or by any 
person other than the addressees of our report. We neither accept nor assume any duty of care or 
liability for any other purpose or to any other party to whom our report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come without our prior consent in writing.  
 
 
 
 
 
Kanwaldeep Singh Sachdev  
 
 
 
 
Vivek Nigam 
General Manager Audit Division  
 
 
 
 
Head Sustainability Services 
 
DEKRA India Private Limited 
Certificate No. : DEKRABRSR2025C01R0 
Date 
 
: 4th March 2025 
Place 
 
: Faridabad 
Email 
 
: vivek.nigam@dekra.com 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
441
Annual Report 2024
 
 
Deutsch Quality Systems (India) 
Private Limited 
Vaishnavi Tech Park, Sy.No.16/1 and 17/2, 
Bellandur Gate, Sarjapur Main Road, Ambalipura, 
Bengaluru - 560102 Karnataka, India 
www.dqsglobal.com 
BR. No. 50255790 
Independent Assurance Statement 
 
To the Management and Stakeholders of Varun Beverages Limited 
DQS India have been engaged by Varun Beverages Limited (VBL) to provide limited assurance of their Sustainability 
Report for 2024’. The engagement took place in February 2025 and concluded in March 2025.  
Scope of Assurance 
The scope of our assurance engagement encompassed the ‘Sustainability Report’ part of the ‘Annual report 2024’ (final 
version submitted on 10th March 2025) and focused on all figures, statements and claims related to sustainability during 
the reporting period 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024. More specifically, this included: 
• 
Non-financial statements, information and performance data contained within the Sustainability Report. 
• 
VBL management approach of material issues; and 
• 
VBL reported data and information as per the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. 
Our Limited level assurance engagement was performed in accordance with: 
• 
ISAE 3000 (Revised): International Standard on Assurance Engagements (Assurance on Non-Financial 
Information) 
• 
ISO 14064:2019 Part 3: Specification with guidance for the verification and validation of greenhouse gas 
statements 
The scope of the assurance engagement covered 36 plants for manufacturing beverages, 3 plants for backward 
integration in India and 12 plants for manufacturing in International territories.   
The audit was conducted remotely on the corporate functions and on selected sampled sites. The site selections followed 
the risk-based approach and tried to ensure representativeness of various processes and geographical boundaries within 
the organization.  
Additionally, the scope of the audit included review of the immediate corrections made in the report where gaps were 
identified as part of the assessment process. 
Responsibility of Varun Beverages Limited 
The preparation and presentation of the selected KPIs in the VBL Sustainability Report 2024 are the responsibility of the 
management of Varun Beverages Limited. VBL’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining the internal 
controls and processes to ensure the collection, calculation, and reporting of accurate and reliable data for these KPIs. 
Our Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion based on the work performed regarding the accuracy and 
completeness of the selected KPIs as presented in the VBL Sustainability Report 2024.  
 
Varun Beverages Limited
442
 
 
Deutsch Quality Systems (India) 
Private Limited 
Vaishnavi Tech Park, Sy.No.16/1 and 17/2, 
Bellandur Gate, Sarjapur Main Road, Ambalipura, 
Bengaluru - 560102 Karnataka, India 
www.dqsglobal.com 
BR. No. 50255790 
Assurance Methodology 
The limited assurance engagement was conducted through the following steps: 
• 
Reviewing the Sustainability Report with respect to the in-accordance criteria of GRI requirements, including 
verification of material topics identification by the organization and if they have been adequately disclosed along 
with additional disclosures relevant to their operations. 
• 
Evaluation of the data and information underlying the selected KPIs for accuracy and consistency. 
• 
Interviews with key personnel responsible for the collection, monitoring, and reporting of sustainability data. 
• 
Review of internal documentation, data records, and the control environment for managing the relevant 
sustainability metrics. 
• 
Examination of the reporting and calculation methodologies used to present the selected KPIs in the 
sustainability report. 
• 
DQS verification process included the following GRI disclosures: 
o 
General disclosures: GRI-2 
o 
Materiality assessment and disclosures: GRI-3 
o 
Disclosures of Material topics as listed below: 
▪ 
Water Management : GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-3, GRI 303-4, GRI 303-5; 
▪ 
GHG Emissions: GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4, GRI 305-5; 
▪ 
Corporate Citizenship: GRI 304-3, GRI 413-1, GRI 413-2. 
▪ 
Business Ethics & Corporate Governance: GRI-2, GRI 205-1, GRI 205-2, GRI 205-3, GRI 206-1 
GRI 406-1 
▪ 
Business Performance: GRI 201-1* 
▪ 
Employee Health & Safety: GRI 403-1 to GRI 403-7, GRI 403-8*, GRI 403-9*, GRI 403-10* 
▪ 
Product Safety & Quality and Consumer Health & Nutrition: GRI 416-1, GRI 416-2. 
▪ 
Packaging Lifecycle Management: GRI 301-3. 
o 
In addition to material topics the following disclosures were also evaluated: 
▪ 
Material Management: GRI 301-1, GRI 301-2, GRI 301-3 
▪ 
Energy mangement: GRI 302-1*, GRI 302-2, GRI 302-3, GRI 302-4, GRI 302-5 
▪ 
Waste management – GRI 306-1, GRI 306-2, GRI 306-3*, GRI 306-4*, GRI 306-5* 
▪ 
Supplier environmental assessment – GRI 308-1*, GRI 308-2 
▪ 
Employment – GRI 401-1, GRI 401-2, GRI 401-3 
▪ 
Labour/management relation – GRI 402-1 
▪ 
Training & education – GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2, GRI 404-3 
▪ 
Diversity & equal opportunity – Gri 405-1*, GRI 405-2* 
▪ 
Freedom of association and collective bargaining – GRI 407-1 
▪ 
Supplier Social assessment – GRI 414-1*, GRI 414-2 
▪ 
Marketing & labelling – GRI 417-1, GRI 417-2, GRI 417-3 
▪ 
Customer Policy – GRI 418-1 
▪ 
Market Presence – GRI 202-1, GRI 202-2 
▪ 
Indirect economic impacts – GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2 
▪ 
Procurement Practices – GRI 204-1 
* Verified by third party    
 
 
STATUTORY REPORTS
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
443
Annual Report 2024
 
 
Deutsch Quality Systems (India) 
Private Limited 
Vaishnavi Tech Park, Sy.No.16/1 and 17/2, 
Bellandur Gate, Sarjapur Main Road, Ambalipura, 
Bengaluru - 560102 Karnataka, India 
www.dqsglobal.com 
BR. No. 50255790 
Observations and Findings 
In addition to providing limited assurance, we noted the following observations during our engagement: 
• 
Stakeholder Inclusivity: 
We found no evidence of any key stakeholder groups being excluded from VBL's stakeholder engagement 
process. VBL has demonstrated a proactive and inclusive approach, ensuring that diverse stakeholder 
perspectives are considered throughout their sustainability strategy and reporting efforts. 
• 
Materiality: 
We are not aware of any significant material issues concerning VBL’s sustainability performance that have been 
omitted from the report. VBL has thoroughly identified and addressed relevant material sustainability topics, 
ensuring transparency and alignment with both stakeholder expectations and industry standards. 
• 
Responsiveness: 
VBL has established robust processes to effectively respond to stakeholder concerns and manage its material 
sustainability issues. However, the assessment was focused on the verification of the selected KPIs and did not 
extend beyond the agreed scope of assurance. 
• 
Impact: 
VBL has implemented effective processes to measure, evaluate, and manage the environmental and social 
impacts associated with its operations. These processes are aligned with key performance indicators (KPIs) 
relevant to the nature of its business and identified material sustainability issues. 
• 
Reliability: 
Data management systems are established and centralized for the collection and calculation of data associated 
with the selected KPIs. These systems provide an adequate foundation for the reliability of the reported data, 
though certain operational data depend on measurement arrangements at the site level. 
Limitations and Exclusions 
Excluded from the scope of our work is assurance of information relating to: 
• 
Activities outside the defined assurance period. 
• 
Positional statements of a descriptive or interpretative nature, or of opinion, belief, aspiration, or commitment 
to undertake future actions. 
• 
Other information included in the report other than the universal disclosures (GRI-2 and GRI-3) and disclosures 
related to material topics and mentioned disclosures. 
• 
Since VBL had a conclusive third-party verification report available for selected key performance indicators of 
few material topics, as part of Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) Core reporting, the same 
were not repeated during DQS verification.   
The following limitations should be noted: 
• 
This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample of sustainability data and the 
associated limitations that this entails. 
• 
The reliability of the reported data is dependent on the accuracy of metering and other production measurement 
arrangements employed at site level, which were not addressed as part of this assurance. 
Varun Beverages Limited
444
 
 
Deutsch Quality Systems (India) 
Private Limited 
Vaishnavi Tech Park, Sy.No.16/1 and 17/2, 
Bellandur Gate, Sarjapur Main Road, Ambalipura, 
Bengaluru - 560102 Karnataka, India 
www.dqsglobal.com 
BR. No. 50255790 
•
This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions, or misstatements that 
may exist. 
Conclusion 
Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs), as outlined above and reported in the VBL Sustainability Report 2024, are not presented fairly, 
in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. 
Statement of Independence, Integrity, and Competence 
DQS ensures that appropriately qualified individuals are selected for assurance engagements based on their 
qualifications, training, and experience. The outcome of all verification and assurance assessments is internally reviewed 
by senior management to ensure a rigorous and transparent approach is consistently applied. DQS provided assurance 
services to review VBL’s sustainability data and processes, ensuring alignment with relevant ISO standards and risk 
management principles. The assurance assessments are the only work undertaken by DQS for VBL, thus safeguarding 
our independence and impartiality throughout the engagement. 
 
On behalf of the assurance team 
11th March 2025  
Bengaluru, India 
 
 
Dr. Murugan Kandasamy 
CEO & Managing Director 
Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited
w w w.v a r u n b e v e r a g e s . c o m
