 
ACC Limited 
Registered Ofﬁce: 
Cement House 
121, Maharshi Karve Road 
Mumbai–400020 
Maharashtra, India 
Ph +91 22-4159 3321 
www.acclimited.com 
 
CIN: L26940MH1936PLC002515 
 
 
Date: August 19, 2023 
 
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited Phiroz 
Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street,  Mumbai – 400 023 
Scrip Code: 500410 
National Stock Exchange of India 
Ltd., Plot No.C/1 'G' Block 
Bandra – Kurla Complex Bandra 
East, Mumbai 400 051 
Scrip Code: ACC 
 
Dear Sirs / Madam, 
 
Sub: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the financial 
year 2022-23  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
as amended, please find enclosed the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report for the financial year 2022-23, which forms an 
integral part of the Integrated Annual Report for the financial year 2022-
23.  
 
You are requested to kindly take the above on records. 
 
Thanking you,  
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
For ACC Limited 
 
 
 
 
Vinod Bahety 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VINOD 
MOHANLA
L BAHETY
Digitally signed by 
VINOD MOHANLAL 
BAHETY 
Date: 2023.08.19 
12:54:46 +05'30'
H
H 
H
Independent Assurance Statement 
The Directors and Management,  
ACC Limited, 
121, Maharshi Karve Road,  
Mumbai - 400 020, India. 
ACC Limited (hereafter 'ACC') commissioned TUV India Private Limited (TUVI) to conduct independen
external assurance of non-financial information disclosed in ACC's Integrated Report (hereinafter 'the
Report') based on the principles of the IIRC Integrated Reporting Framework and Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) standards. The reporting period runs from January 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023. This engagemen
comprised "limited assurance" of ACC's sustainability information following the ISAE 3000 (Revised
standard applied for assurance of the Report. 
 Management’s Responsibility 
ACC has developed the <IR> Report content and is responsible for identifying materiality, and related
sustainability issues, establishing, reporting performance management, data management, and quality.
The management of ACC is responsible for the information provided in the <IR> Report and the process
of collecting, analysing, and reporting the information presented in web-based and printed Reports,
including website maintenance and its integrity. The ACC's management is responsible for accurately
preparing the <IR> Report following the applied criteria so that it is free of intended or unintended material
misstatements. ACC will be responsible for archiving and reproducing the disclosed data for the
stakeholders upon request. 
Scope and Boundary 
In particular, the assurance engagement included the following: 
1. Verification of the application of the Report content and principles as mentioned in the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and the quality of information presented in the Report over 
the reporting period;  
2. Review of the policies, initiatives, practices, and performance described in the Report 
3. Review of the non-financial disclosures made in the Report against the requirements of the GRI 
Standards  
4. Verification of the reliability of the GRI Standards Disclosure on environmental and social topics 
5. The specified information was selected based on the materiality determination and needs to be 
meaningful to the intended users. 
TUVI has verified the below-mentioned disclosures given in the Report as per GRI Std 2021:  
Topic 
Indicator 
GRI Disclosure 
Governance 
Governance structure and composition 
2-9 
Materiality 
Disclosures on material topics 
3-1 to 3-3 
Economic 
Procurement Practices 
204-1 
Water 
Water withdrawal 
303-3 
Water discharge 
303-4 
Water consumption 
303-5 
Waste 
Waste generated 
306-3 
Waste diverted from disposal 
306-4 
Emissions 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 
305-1 
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 
305-2 
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 
305-3 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air 
emissions 
305-7 
Energy 
Energy consumption within the organization 
302-1 
Energy intensity 
302-3 
Employment  
Employee hires and turnover 
401-1 
Parental leave 
401-3 
Occupational health 
and safety 
Work related injuries  
403-9 
Occupational health and safety management system 
403-1 
Topic 
Indicator 
GRI Disclosure 
Training and education 
Training hours 
404-1 
Communities 
Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs 
413-1 
Onsite Assessment was performed at one Integrated Cement Plant followed by remote verification (via
Microsoft teams) for other sites and head office as below 
1) Integrated Cement Plants, Chanda, Maharashtra (date: 01-02 June 2023, onsite) 
2) Corporate Sustainability Team, Ahmedabad, (date: 08 and 09/06/2023, remote) 
The reporting aspect boundaries are set out in the Report covering the sustainability performance of the 
ACC encompassing 11 integrated cement plants and 6 grinding units. 
Limitations 
TUVI did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective information disclosed in the Report, 
including targets, expectations, and ambitions. Consequently, TUVI draws no conclusion from the 
prospective information. During the assurance process, TUVI did not come across any limitations to the 
agreed scope of the assurance engagement. TUVI is contracted by the ACC and answerable to the ACC's 
management only. TUVI verified the data on a sample basis; the responsibility for the authenticity of the 
data entirely lies with ACC. TUVI expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility in the case of 
erroneous data reported or for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance 
statement. 
Our Responsibility 
TUVI's responsibility in relation to this engagement is to perform assurance and express a conclusion 
based on the work performed. Our engagement did not include an assessment of the adequacy or 
effectiveness of ACC's strategy, management of ESG-related issues, or sufficiency of the Report against 
the principles of the GRI Standards, and ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard, other than those mentioned in the 
scope of the assurance. TUVI's responsibility regarding this verification is in reference to the agreed scope 
of work, which includes non-financial quantitative and qualitative information (KPIs) disclosed by ACC. The 
intended users of this assurance statement are the management of ‘ACC’. This assurance engagement is 
based on the assumption that the data and information provided to TUVI by ACC are complete and true. 
Verification Methodology 
During the assurance engagement, TUVI adopted a risk-based approach, focusing on verification efforts
with respect to disclosed KPI’s. TUVI has verified the KPIs and assessed the robustness of the underlying 
data management system, information flows, and controls. In doing so: 
1. TUVI examined and reviewed the documents, data, and other information made available by ACC
for all disclosed KPIs (non-financial disclosures).  
2. TUVI conducted interviews with key representatives, including data owners and decision-makers 
from different functions of the ACC, during the onsite verification.  
3. Review the level of adherence to the principles of the GRI standards.  
Opportunities for Improvement 
The following are the opportunities for improvement reported to ACC; however, they are generally 
consistent with the management’s objectives and programme. 
1. An internal audit of ESG data can be conducted. 
2. Supplier assessment can be performed in reference to ISO 20400. 
3. Online monitoring of electricity consumption data for the RMX division can be implemented. 
Our Conclusion 
In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the "disclosures on ESG performance" 
and reference information provide a fair representation of the material topics, meet the general content and 
quality requirements of the GRI Standards.  
Disclosures: TUVI is of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meet the GRI Standards 
reporting requirements. ACC refers to universal disclosure to report contextual information, while the 
‘Management Approach’ is discussed to report the management approach for each material topic.  
Universal Standard: ACC followed GRI 1: Foundation 2021: Requirements and principles for using the 
GRI Standards; GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021: Disclosures about the reporting organisation. General 
Disclosures were followed when reporting information about an organisation’s reporting practices, activities 
and workers, governance, strategy, policies, practices, and stakeholder engagement. GRI 3: Material 
Topics 2021: Disclosures and Guidance about the Organisation's Material Topics GRI3 was selected for 
the determination of material topics and the disclosure of the material topics.  
Topic Specific Standard: 300 series (Environmental topics) and 400 series (Social topics); these Topic-
specific Standards were used to report information on the organization's impacts related to environmental 
and social topics. TUVI is of the opinion that the reported material topics and Topic-specific Standards that 
ACC used to prepare its <IR> Report are appropriately identified and addressed.  
Assurance Conclusion: Based on the procedures we have performed; nothing has come to our attention 
that causes us to believe that the information subject to the limited assurance engagement was not 
prepared in all material respects. In the context of Assurance, the following contemporary principles have 
been observed: 
TUVI confirms that ACC has transparently reported major material information pertaining to all its six 
capitals in line with the <IR> framework, as below:  
Financial Capital: net worth, capex, investment spent, the economic value generated, gross revenue, etc. 
Manufactured Capital: Manufacturing facilities, R & D centres, new and improved products launched, new 
plants, buildings, infrastructure, etc.  
Intellectual Capital: Knowledge-based intangibles, including intellectual property, R & D activities, patents, 
designs, registered new product development, etc.  
Human Capital: ACC's Engineers, technicians, skilling and re-skilling of employees to enhance their 
competencies, safety performance, capabilities, experience, motivations to innovate, etc.  
Social and Relationship Capital: ACC's relationship with stakeholders such as customers, business 
partners, regulators, suppliers, business partners, communities, legislators, policy-makers, and benefits 
associated with brand and reputation, along with ACC's ability to share information to enhance wellbeing. 
Natural Capital: Sourcing responsibilities for most renewable and non-renewable environmental resources 
and processes that provide goods or services. Reporting of circular economy, emissions, water 
consumption, waste disposal, etc. 
Independence: TUVI follows IESBA (International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants) Code which, 
adopts a threats and safeguards approach to independence. It is confirmed that the assurance team is
selected to avoid situations of self-interest, self-review, advocacy and familiarity. The assessment team was 
safeguarded from any type of intimidation. 
Quality control: The assurance team complies with the code of ethics for professional accountants issued
by the IESBA, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of 
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. In 
accordance with International Standard on Quality Control, TUVI maintains a comprehensive system of 
quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our Assurance Team and Independence 
TUVI is an independent, neutral third party providing sustainability services with qualified environmental and 
social specialists. TUVI states its independence and impartiality and confirms that there is "no conflict of 
interest" with regards to this assurance engagement. In the reporting year, TUVI did not work with ACC on 
any engagement that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our findings, conclusions, and 
recommendations. TUVI was not involved in the preparation of any content or data included in the Report, 
with the exception of this assurance statement. TUVI maintains complete impartiality towards any
individuals interviewed during the assurance engagement. 
 
For and on behalf of TUV India Private Limited 
 
 
Manojkumar Borekar 
Project Manager and Reviewer 
Head – Sustainability Assurance Service 
Date: 19-06-2023
Place: Mumbai, India
Project Reference No: 8121613437
 www.tuv-nord.com/in
