 
 
Ambuja Cements Ltd 
Registered office: 
Adani Corporate House 
Shantigram, S.G. Highway 
Khodiyar, Ahmedabad – 382 421 
Gujarat, India 
Ph +91 79-2555 5555 
www.ambujacement.com 
CIN: L26942GJ1981PLC004717 
 
 
 
 
August 19, 2023 
 
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited  
Phiroz Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 023 
Scrip Code: 500425 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.,  
Plot No.C/1 'G' Block Bandra – Kurla 
Complex Bandra East, Mumbai 400 051. 
Scrip Code: AMBUJACEM 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange, S A. 35A, Boulevard Joseph II, L-1840 Luxembourg,  
"Luxembourg Stock Ex-Group ID " < ost@bourse.lu 
 
 
Dear Sirs / Madam, 
 
Sub: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2022-23  
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, please find 
enclosed the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the financial year 
2022-23, which forms an integral part of the Integrated Annual Report for the financial 
year 2022-23.  
You are requested to kindly take the above on records. 
 
Thanking you,  
For Ambuja Cements Limited  
 
 
 
Vinod Bahety  
Chief Financial Officer 
 
Encl: As above 
VINOD 
MOHANLA
L BAHETY
Digitally signed 
by VINOD 
MOHANLAL 
BAHETY 
Date: 2023.08.19 
13:49:08 +05'30'
` 
` 
24. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your
 
 
 
 
 principle.
5.
 
 
 
 targets
any.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 are 
 
met.
7.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H
 
H
 recalls
 recalls
TÜV® 
1 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Independent Assurance Statement 
 
 
The Directors and Management,  
Ambuja Cements Limited 
Adani Corporate House  
Shantigram, S. G. Highway, Khodiyar, Ahmedabad - 382 421, Gujarat, India 
 
Ambuja Cements Limited (hereafter 'ACL') commissioned TUV India Private Limited (TUVI) to conduct 
independent external assurance of non-financial information disclosed in ACL's Integrated Report 
(hereinafter 'the Report') based on the principles of the IIRC Integrated Reporting Framework and Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. The reporting period runs from January 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023. 
This engagement comprised "limited assurance" of ACL's sustainability information following the ISAE 3000 
(Revised) standard applied for assurance of the Report. 
Management's Responsibility 
ACL has developed the <IR> Report content and is responsible for identifying materiality, and related 
sustainability issues, establishing, reporting performance management, data management, and quality. The 
management of ACL is responsible for the information provided in the <IR> Report and the process of 
collecting, analysing, and reporting the information presented in web-based and printed Reports, including 
website maintenance and its integrity. The ACL's management is responsible for accurately preparing the 
<IR> Report following the applied criteria so that it is free of intended or unintended material misstatements. 
ACL will be responsible for archiving and reproducing the disclosed data for the stakeholders upon request. 
Scope and Boundary 
In particular, the assurance engagement included the following: 
1. Verification of the application of the Report content, and principles as mentioned in the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and the quality of information presented in the Report over the 
reporting period;  
2. Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in the Report;  
3. Review of the non-financial disclosures made in the Report against the requirements of the GRI 
Standards  
4. Verification of the reliability of the GRI Standards Disclosure on environmental and social topics  
5. Specified information was selected based on the materiality determination and needs to be 
meaningful to the intended users;  
6. Confirmation of the fulfilment of the GRI Standards and IIRC framework 
TUVI has verified the below-mentioned disclosures given in the Report as per GRI Std 2021:  
Topic 
Indicator 
GRI Disclosure 
Governance 
Governance structure and composition 
2-9 
Materiality 
Disclosures on material topics 
3-1 to 3-3 
Economic 
Procurement Practices 
204-1 
Water 
Water withdrawal 
303-3 
Water discharge 
303-4 
Water consumption 
303-5 
Waste 
Waste generated 
306-3 
Waste diverted from disposal 
306-4 
Emissions 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 
305-1 
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 
305-2 
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 
305-3 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air 
emissions 
305-7 
Energy 
Energy consumption within the organization 
302-1 
Energy intensity 
302-3 
Employment  
Employee hires and turnover 
401-1 
Parental leave 
401-3 
Occupational health and 
safety 
Work related injuries  
403-9 
Occupational health and safety management system 
403-1 
TÜV® 
2 | P a g e 
 
Topic 
Indicator 
GRI Disclosure 
Training and education 
Training hours 
404-1 
Communities 
Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs 
413-1 
Onsite Assessment was performed for at one Integrated Cement Plant followed by remote verification (via 
Microsoft teams) for corporate function as below 
1) Integrated Cement Plants, Bhatapara, Chhattisgarh (date: 05 and 06 June 2023, onsite) 
2) Corporate Sustainability Team, Ahmedabad, (date: 12 and 14/06/2023, remote) 
The reporting aspect boundaries are set out in the Report covering the sustainability performance of the 
ACL encompassing below sites. 
Integrated Cement Plants with limestone mines: 1. Ambujanagar (Gujarat) 2. Darlaghat (Himachal Pradesh) 3. 
Maratha Cement Works (Maharashtra) 4. Rabriyawas (Rajasthan) 5. Bhatapara (Chhattisgarh) 6. Marwar (Rajasthan) 
Grinding Stations: 1. Roopnagar (Ropar) (Punjab) 2. Bathinda (Punjab) 3. Sankrail (West Bengal) 4. Roorkee 
(Uttarakhand) 5. Farakka (West Bengal) 6. Dadri (Uttar Pradesh) 7. Nalagarh (Himachal Pradesh) 8. Magdalla (Surat) 
(Gujarat).  
Limitations 
TUVI did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective information disclosed in the Report, 
including targets, expectations, and ambitions. Consequently, TUVI draws no conclusion from the 
prospective information. During the assurance process, TUVI did not come across any limitations to the 
agreed scope of the assurance engagement. TUVI is contracted by the ACL and answerable to the ACL's 
management only. TUVI verified the data on a sample basis; the responsibility for the authenticity of the 
data entirely lies with ACL. TUVI expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility in the case of erroneous 
data reported or for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. 
Our Responsibility 
TUVI's responsibility in relation to this engagement is to perform assurance and to express a conclusion 
based on the work performed. Our engagement did not include an assessment of the adequacy or 
effectiveness of ACL's strategy, management of ESG-related issues, or sufficiency of the Report against 
the principles of the GRI Standards, and ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard, other than those mentioned in the 
scope of the assurance. TUVI's responsibility regarding this verification is in reference to the agreed scope 
of work, which includes non-financial quantitative and qualitative information (KPIs) disclosed by ACL. The 
intended users of this assurance statement are the management of ‘ACL’. This assurance engagement is 
based on the assumption that the data and information provided to TUVI by ACL are complete and true. 
Verification Methodology 
During the assurance engagement, TUVI adopted a risk-based approach, focusing on verification efforts 
with respect to disclosed KPI’s. TUVI has verified the KPIs and assessed the robustness of the underlying 
data management system, information flows, and controls. In doing so: 
1. TUVI examined and reviewed the documents, data, and other information made available by ACL 
for all disclosed KPIs (non-financial disclosures).  
2. TUVI conducted interviews with key representatives, including data owners and decision-makers 
from different functions of the ACL, during the onsite verification.  
3. Review the level of adherence to the principles of the GRI standards.  
Opportunities for Improvement 
The following are the opportunities for improvement reported to ACL; however, they are generally consistent 
with the management’s objectives and programme 
i. 
An internal audit of ESG data can be conducted. 
ii. 
ACL may consider embracing next-generation digital technologies such as the Internet of Things 
(IoT), blockchain, and artificial intelligence (AI) to automate and streamline plant maintenance and 
supply chain operations, resulting in increased efficiency and effectiveness; 
iii. 
Internal carbon pricing can be established and utilized as instrument to appraise the renewable and 
less GHG intensive projects. 
Our Conclusion 
In our opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement, the "disclosures on ESG performance" 
and reference information provide a fair representation of the material topics and meet the general content 
and quality requirements of the GRI Standards.  
Disclosures: TUVI is of the opinion that the reported disclosures generally meet the GRI Standards 
reporting requirements. ACL refers to universal disclosure to report contextual information, while the 
‘Management Approach’ is discussed to report the management approach for each material topic.  
TÜV® 
3 | P a g e 
 
Universal Standard: ACL followed GRI 1: Foundation 2021: Requirements and principles for using the GRI 
Standards; GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021: Disclosures about the reporting organisation. General 
Disclosures were followed when reporting information about an organisation’s reporting practices, activities 
and workers, governance, strategy, policies, practices, and stakeholder engagement. GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021: Disclosures and Guidance about the Organisation's Material Topics GRI3 was selected for the 
determination of material topics and the disclosure of the material topics.  
Topic Specific Standard: 300 series (Environmental topics) and 400 series (Social topics); these Topic-
specific Standards were used to report information on the organization's impacts related to environmental 
and social topics. TUVI is of the opinion that the reported material topics and Topic-specific Standards that 
ACL used to prepare its <IR> Report are appropriately identified and addressed.  
Assurance Conclusion: Based on the procedures we have performed; nothing has come to our attention 
that causes us to believe that the information subject to the limited assurance engagement was not prepared 
in all material respects. In the context of Assurance, the following contemporary principles have been 
observed: 
TUVI confirms that ACL has transparently reported major material information pertaining to all its six capitals 
in line with the <IR> framework, as below:  
Financial Capital: net worth, capex, investment spent, the economic value generated, gross revenue, etc.  
Manufactured Capital: Manufacturing facilities, R & D centres, new and improved products launched, new 
plants, buildings, infrastructure, etc.  
Intellectual Capital: Knowledge-based intangibles, including intellectual property, R & D activities, patents, 
designs, registered new product development, etc.  
Human Capital: ACL's Engineers, technicians, skilling and re-skilling of employees to enhance their 
competencies, safety performance, capabilities, experience, motivations to innovate, etc.  
Social and Relationship Capital: ACL's relationship with stakeholders such as customers, business 
partners, regulators, suppliers, business partners, communities, legislators, policy-makers, and benefits 
associated with brand and reputation, along with ACL's ability to share information to enhance wellbeing.  
Natural Capital: Sourcing responsibilities for most renewable and non-renewable environmental resources 
and processes that provide goods or services. Reporting of circular economy, emissions, water 
consumption, waste disposal, etc. 
Independence: TUVI follows IESBA (International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants) Code which, 
adopts a threats and safeguards approach to independence. It is confirmed that the assurance team is 
selected to avoid situations of self-interest, self-review, advocacy and familiarity. The assessment team was 
safeguarded from any type of intimidation. 
Quality control: The assurance team complies with the code of ethics for professional accountants issued 
by the IESBA, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of 
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. In 
accordance with International Standard on Quality Control, TUVI maintains a comprehensive system of 
quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our Assurance Team and Independence 
TUVI is an independent, neutral third party providing sustainability services with qualified environmental and 
social specialists. TUVI states its independence and impartiality and confirms that there is "no conflict of 
interest" with regards to this assurance engagement. In the reporting year, TUVI did not work with ACL on 
any engagement that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our findings, conclusions, and 
recommendations. TUVI was not involved in the preparation of any content or data included in the Report, 
with the exception of this assurance statement. TUVI maintains complete impartiality towards any individuals 
interviewed during the assurance engagement. 
For and on behalf of TUV India Private Limited 
 
Manojkumar Borekar 
Project Manager and Reviewer 
Head – Sustainability Assurance Service 
Date: 21-06-2023 
Place: Mumbai, India 
Project Reference No: 8121626560 
 www.tuv-nord.com/in   
