1
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the 42nd Annual General Meeting of the Members of ASHAPURA MINECHEM LIMITED will be held on Friday, 29th 
September, 2023 at 3.30 pm through Video Conferencing / other Audio Visual Means (VC/OAVM) to transact the following businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
	 1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements of the Company (including Consolidated Financial Statements) for the 
Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023, together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon.
	 2.	
To re-appoint a director in place of Mr. Chetan Shah (DIN-00018960) who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for re-
appointment.	
SPECIAL BUSINESS: 
	 3.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT, pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read with 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), 
consent of the shareholders of the Company be and is hereby accorded to ratify the remuneration of Rs.1,62,565/- (Rupees One Lakh Sixty-
Two Thousand Five Hundred Sixty-Five only) per annum plus Goods and Service Tax (GST), to be paid to M/s. Priyank Vyas & Associates, Cost & 
Management Accountants, the Cost Auditor appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, to conduct 
audit of the cost accounting records relating to the Company’s Products for the Financial Year 2023-2024.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised to do all acts and take all such steps as may be necessary, proper or 
expedient to give effect to this resolution.
	 4.	
To Consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution:
Re-appointment of Shri Hemul Shah as an Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the provisions of Sections 196, 197, 198 and 203 read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof, for the time being in force) and in terms of recommendations of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee and approval of the Board of Directors, the Company hereby accords its approval and consent for the re-
appointment of Shri Hemul Shah as an Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Company, for a further period of 2 years with effect 
from 16th February, 2024 till 15th February, 2026 on terms and conditions including remuneration as are set out in the Statement pursuant to 
Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 annexed to this Notice and which forms part of the Agreement between the Company & Shri Hemul 
Shah, with liberty to the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as “the Board” which term shall be deemed to include the duly authorized 
Committee of the Board including the Nomination & Remuneration Committee) to alter and vary the terms and conditions of the said re-
appointment, including the remuneration, subject to ceiling as specified in Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board or any Committee thereof be and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds and things as it may 
in its absolute discretion think necessary, expedient or desirable; to settle any question or doubt that may arise in relation thereto in order to 
give effect to the foregoing resolution and to seek such approval/consent from the concerned/appropriate authorities, as may be required 
in this regard.”
	 5.	
To Consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
	
To approve existing as well as new material related party transactions with M/s Ashapura Holdings UAE FZE:
	
	
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of Regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time to time, the applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rules made thereunder, other applicable laws/statutory provisions, if any, (including any statutory modification(s) 
or amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the Company’s Policy on Related Party Transactions and subject to 
such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as may be necessary from time to time and on the basis of approval and recommendation of the 
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, the approval of the Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded for 
entering into and/or carrying out and/or continuing with existing contracts/arrangements/transactions or material modification(s) of earlier 
arrangements/transactions or as fresh and independent transaction(s) or otherwise (whether individually or series of transaction(s) taken 
together or otherwise), with M/s Ashapura Holdings UAE FZE , Step Down Subsidiary, a related party of the Company, as per the details set 
out in the explanatory statement annexed to this notice, notwithstanding the fact that the aggregate value of all these transaction(s), whether 
undertaken directly by the Company, may exceed the prescribed thresholds as per provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations as applicable from 
time to time, provided, however, that the said contract(s)/arrangement(s)/ transaction(s) shall be carried out at an arm’s length basis and in 
the ordinary course of business of the Company. 
2
Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the aforesaid approval shall be valid for 1 year i.e. from the date of this Annual General Meeting till the conclusion 
of the 43rd Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in the year 2024 in terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the circulars issued 
by the SEBI in this regard.
	
RESOLVED FINALLY THAT the Board or any Committee thereof be and is hereby severally authorised to execute all such agreements, documents, 
instruments and writings as deemed necessary, with power to alter and vary the terms and conditions of such contracts/ arrangements/ 
transactions, settle all questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this regard.”
    By Order of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
SD/- 
 	
	
  	
    SACHIN POLKE
   COMPANY SECRETARY &
 PRESIDENT (CORPORATE AFFAIRS)
Mumbai, 10th August, 2023
3
NOTES 
1.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) setting out material facts concerning the business under 
Item Nos. 3 to 5 of the Notice, is annexed hereto. Further, the relevant details with respect to Item No. 2 & 4 pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard on General 
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in respect of Director seeking re-appointment at this AGM are also annexed.
2.	
Pursuant to the General Circular numbers 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020 read with General Circular nos. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020; 17/2020 
dated April 13, 2020 ; 02/2021 dated January 13, 2021; 19/2021 dated December 08, 2021; 21/2021 dated December 14, 2021, 02/2022 
dated May 05, 2022 and 10/2022 dated December 28, 2022   issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) and Circular number SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021, SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD 2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated May 13, 2022 and SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/
CIR/2023/4 dated January 5, 2023   issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) (hereinafter collectively referred to as “the 
Circulars”), companies are allowed to hold Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through video conferencing (VC) or other audio visual means 
(OAVM), without the physical presence of members at a common venue and dispatch of Annual Report only in electronic mode. In compliance 
with the said Circulars, the AGM of the Company is being held through VC/OAVM. 
3.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/
her behalf and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company. Since this AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC /
OAVM, physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the Members will not be 
available for the AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice.
4.	
Institutional/Corporate Shareholders (i.e. other than individuals / HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of its 
Board or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., authorizing its representative to attend the AGM on its behalf and to vote through remote 
e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by email through its registered email address to bhattvirendra1945@
yahoo.co.in with a copy marked to cosec@ashapura.com.
5.	
Pursuant to Section 91, Company’s Transfer Books will remain closed from 23rd  September, 2023 (Saturday) to 29th September, 2023 (Friday) 
(both days inclusive)).   
	
ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT AND PROCESS FOR REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR OBTAINING COPY OF ANNUAL 
REPORT
6.	
In compliance with the said requirements of the MCA Circulars, electronic copy of the Notice along with the Annual Report for the Financial Year 
ended 31st March, 2023 have been sent only to those members whose e- mail ids are registered with the Company or the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent or the Depository Participants(s) through electronic means and no physical copy of the Notice has been sent by the Company to 
any member. 
7.	
Those shareholders who have not yet registered / updated their email address / Contact details are requested to get them registered / updated 
by following the procedure given below:
Physical Holding 
Please Send a request to the Registrar and Share Transfer Agents of the Company at rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.
co.in along with Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share certificate (front and back), PAN 
(self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card).
Demat Holding
Please contact your Depository Participant (DP) and register your email address and bank account details in your 
demat account, as per the process advised by your DP.
8.	
If there is any change in the e-mail ID already registered with the Company, members are requested to immediately notify such change to the 
Company or its RTA in respect of shares held in physical form and to DPs in respect of shares held in electronic form.
9.	
The Notice has also been hosted on the website of the Company www.ashapura.com. The Notice can also be accessed from the websites of the 
Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com  and www.nseindia.com.
10.	 In compliance with the said Circulars, the Company has also published a public notice by way of an advertisement made dated 5th September, 
2023 in Free Press Journal and Navashakti both having a wide circulation in Mumbai, inter alia, advising the members whose e-mail ids and 
bank Account details are not registered with the Company, its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) or Depository Participant(s) (DPs), as the 
case may be, to register their e-mail ids with them. 
	
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND PROCEDURE FOR JOINING THE AGM THROUGH VC / OAVM
	
11.	  The Company has entered into an agreement with Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) for conducting Annual General Meeting 
through electronic means, as the authorized e-voting’s agency.
12.	  The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time of the commencement of the Meeting by 
following the procedure mentioned hereafter. The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available to at least 1000 
members on first come first served basis. This will not include large Shareholders (Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoters, 
Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on account of first come first 
served basis.
4
Ashapura Minechem Limited
13.	  The attendance of the Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of ascertaining the quorum under Section 
103 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING ARE AS UNDER:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 (as amended), and MCA 
Circulars dated April 08, 2020, April 13, 2020, May 05, 2020, January 13, 2021, December 08, 2021, December 14, 2021, May 05, 2022 
and 28th December, 2022, the Company is providing facility of remote e-voting to its Members in respect of the business to be transacted at 
the AGM. For this purpose, the Company has entered into an agreement with Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) for facilitating 
voting through electronic means, as the authorized e-Voting agency. The facility of casting votes by a member using remote e-voting as well as 
the e-voting system on the date of the AGM will be provided by CDSL.
	
THE INTRUCTIONS OF SHAREHOLDERS FOR E-VOTING AND JOINING VIRTUAL MEETINGS ARE AS UNDER:
(i)	 The voting period begins on 26th September, 2023 (Tuesday) at 9.00 a.m. and end on 28th September, 2023 (Thursday) at 5.00 p.m. 
During this period, shareholders’ of the Company, holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on the cut-off date 
i.e. 22nd September, 2023 (Friday) may cast their vote electronically. The e-voting module shall be disabled by CDSL for voting thereafter.
(ii)	 Shareholders who have already voted prior to the meeting date would not be entitled to vote at the meeting venue.
(iii)	Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 09, 2020, under Regulation 44 of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, listed entities are required to provide remote 
e-voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions. However, it has been observed that the participation by the 
public non-institutional shareholders/retail shareholders is at a negligible level.
	
Currently, there are multiple e-voting service providers (ESPs) providing e-voting facility to listed entities in India. This necessitates 
registration on various ESPs and maintenance of multiple user IDs and passwords by the shareholders. In order to increase the efficiency 
of the voting process, pursuant to a public consultation, it has been decided to enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, by way of 
a single login credential, through their demat accounts/ websites of Depositories/ Depository Participants. Demat account holders would 
be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the ESPs, thereby, not only facilitating seamless authentication but also 
enhancing ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process. 
(iv)	In terms of SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on e-voting facility provided by Listed 
Companies, Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id in their demat accounts in 
order to access e-voting facility
	
Pursuant to aforesaid SEBI Circulars, Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meetings for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in Demat mode CDSL/NSDL is given below:
Type of 
shareholders
 Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
Demat mode with 
CDSL
1)	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and password. 
Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any further authentication.  The URL for users 
to login to Easi / Easiest are requested to visit cdsl website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & select 
New System Myeasi Tab.
2)	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-voting option for eligible companies 
where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking the e-voting 
option, the user will be able to see e-voting page of the e-voting service provider for casting your vote during 
the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also 
links provided to access the system of all e-voting Service Providers i.e. CDSL/NSDL/KARVY/LINKINTIME, so 
that the user can visit the e-voting service providers’ website directly.
3)	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration
4)	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN No. 
from e-voting link available on  www.cdslindia.com home page or click on https://evoting.cdslindia.com/
Evoting/EvotingLogin. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option 
where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-voting Service providers.
5
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
NSDL
1)	
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open 
web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or 
on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under 
“Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User 
ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services. Click on “Access 
to e-voting” under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting page. Click on company name or 
e-voting service provider name and you will be re-directed to e-voting service provider website for casting 
your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2)	
If the user is not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com. 
Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click   at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.
jsp 
3)	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.
com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, 
click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. 
You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/
OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected 
to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service 
provider name and you will be redirected to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding securities 
in demat mode) 
login through 
their Depository 
Participants
      You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility.  After Successful login, you will be able to see e-voting option. 
Once you click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature. Click on company name or e-voting service provider 
name and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote 
e-voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option 
available at above mentioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. 
CDSL and NSDL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding securities in Demat mode with 
CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com 
or contact at 1800225533.
Individual Shareholders holding securities in Demat mode with 
NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at toll 
free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30 . 
(v)	
Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meetings for Physical shareholders and shareholders other than individual holding 
in Demat form.
1)	
The shareholders should log on to the e-voting website www.evotingindia.com.
2)	
Click on “Shareholders” module.
3)	
Now enter your User ID 
	
a. For CDSL: 16 digits beneficiary ID, 
	
b. For NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digits Client ID, 
	
c. Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form should enter Folio Number registered with the Company.
4)	
Next enter the Image Verification as displayed and Click on Login.
5)	
If you are holding shares in demat form and had logged on to www.evotingindia.com and voted on an earlier e-voting of any company, then 
your existing password is to be used.
6)	
If you are a first-time user follow the steps given below:
6
Ashapura Minechem Limited
For Physical shareholders and other than individual shareholders holding shares in Demat.
PAN
Enter your 10 digit alpha-numeric PAN issued by Income Tax Department (Applicable for both demat shareholders as 
well as physical shareholders)
Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the Company/Depository Participant are requested to use the 
sequence number sent by Company/RTA or contact Company/RTA.
Dividend 
Bank 
Details
OR Date of Birth 
(DOB)
Enter the Dividend Bank Details or Date of Birth (in dd/mm/yyyy format) as recorded in your demat account or in the 
company records in order to login.
If both the details are not recorded with the depository or company, please enter the member id / folio number in the 
Dividend Bank details field.
(vi)	 After entering these details appropriately, click on “SUBMIT” tab.
(vii)	 Shareholders holding shares in physical form will then directly reach the Company selection screen. However, shareholders holding shares 
in demat form will now reach ‘Password Creation’ menu wherein they are required to mandatorily enter their login password in the new 
password field. Kindly note that this password is to be also used by the demat holders for voting for resolutions of any other company on 
which they are eligible to vote, provided that company opts for e-voting through CDSL platform. It is strongly recommended not to share 
your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password confidential.
(viii)	For shareholders holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for e-voting on the resolutions contained in this Notice.
(ix)	 Click on the EVSN for the relevant <Company Name> on which you choose to vote.
(x)	 On the voting page, you will see “RESOLUTION DESCRIPTION” and against the same the option “YES/NO” for voting. Select the option YES 
or NO as desired. The option YES implies that you assent to the Resolution and option NO implies that you dissent to the Resolution.
(xi)	 Click on the “RESOLUTIONS FILE LINK” if you wish to view the entire Resolution details.
(xii)	 After selecting the resolution, you have decided to vote on, click on “SUBMIT”. A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm 
your vote, click on “OK”, else to change your vote, click on “CANCEL” and accordingly modify your vote.
(xiii)	Once you “CONFIRM” your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
(xiv)	You can also take a print of the votes cast by clicking on “Click here to print” option on the Voting page.
(xv)	 If a demat account holder has forgotten the login password then Enter the User ID and the image verification code and click on Forgot 
Password & enter the details as prompted by the system.
(xvi)	Additional Facility for Non – Individual Shareholders and Custodians –For Remote Voting only.
• Non-Individual shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to log on to www.evotingindia.com 
and register themselves in the “Corporates” module.
• A scanned copy of the Registration Form bearing the stamp and sign of the entity should be emailed to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com.
• After receiving the login details a Compliance User should be created using the admin login and password. The Compliance User would 
be able to link the account(s) for which they wish to vote on.
• The list of accounts linked in the login should be mailed to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com and on approval of the accounts they would 
be able to cast their vote. 
• A scanned copy of the Board Resolution and Power of Attorney (POA) which they have issued in favour of the Custodian, if any, should 
be uploaded in PDF format in the system for the scrutinizer to verify the same.
• Alternatively Non Individual shareholders are required to send the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. together with attested 
specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer and to the Company at the email 
address viz; cosec@ashapura.com, if they have voted from individual tab & not uploaded same in the CDSL e-voting system for the 
scrutinizer to verify the same.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM & E-VOTING DURING MEETING ARE AS UNDER:
	
1.	
The procedure for attending meeting & e-voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for e-voting.
	
2.	
The link for VC/OAVM to attend meeting will be available where the EVSN of Company will be displayed after successful login as per the 
instructions mentioned above for e-voting.
 
	
3.	
Shareholders who have voted through Remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the meeting. However, they will not be eligible to vote at 
the AGM.
	
4.	
Shareholders are encouraged to join the Meeting through Laptops / IPads for better experience.
7
	
5.	
Further shareholders will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the meeting.
	
6.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience 
Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
	
7.	
Shareholders who would like to express their views/ask questions during the meeting may register themselves as a speaker by sending their 
request in advance atleast 3 days prior to meeting mentioning their name, demat account number/folio number, email id, mobile number 
at company email id. The shareholders who do not wish to speak during the AGM but have queries may send their queries in advance 3 
days prior to meeting mentioning their name, demat account number/folio number, email id, mobile number at company email id. These 
queries will be replied to by the company suitably by email. 
	
8.	
Those shareholders who have registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask questions during the 
meeting.
	
9.	
Only those shareholders, who are present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not casted their vote on the Resolutions through 
remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting system available during the AGM.
	
10.	 If any Votes are cast by the shareholders through the e-voting available during the AGM and if the same shareholders have not participated 
in the meeting through VC/OAVM facility, then the votes cast by such shareholders shall be considered invalid as the facility of e-voting 
during the meeting is available only to the shareholders attending the meeting.
	
PROCESS FOR THOSE SHAREHOLDERS WHOSE EMAIL/MOBILE NO. ARE NOT REGISTERED WITH THE COMPANY/DEPOSITORIES:
1 	
For Physical shareholders- please provide necessary details like Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share certificate (front 
and back), PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by email to Company/RTA 
email id.	
2. 	 For Demat shareholders -, Please update your email id & mobile no. with your respective Depository Participant (DP) 
3. 	 For Individual Demat shareholders – Please update your email id & mobile no. with your respective Depository Participant (DP) which is 
mandatory while e-Voting & joining virtual meetings through Depository.
	
	
	
If you have any queries or issues regarding attending AGM & e-Voting from the CDSL e-Voting System, you can write an email to helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 1800225533
	
All grievances connected with the facility for voting by electronic means may be addressed to Mr. Rakesh Dalvi, Sr. Manager, (CDSL) Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited, A Wing, 25th Floor, Marathon Futurex, Mafatlal Mill Compounds, N M Joshi Marg, Lower Parel (East), Mumbai 
- 400013 or send an email to helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or call  on 1800225533
14.	 Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and becomes member of the Company after dispatch of the notice and holding shares as of 
the cut-off date i.e. 22nd September, 2023 (Friday) may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or cosec@ashapura.com.
15.	 A person, whose name is recorded in the register of members or in the register of beneficial owners maintained by the Depositories as on the 
cut-off date only shall be entitled to avail the facility of remote e-voting as well as voting at the AGM.
16.	 Shri Virendra Bhatt, Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. 1157) has been appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting at the 
AGM and remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner. 
	
PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS:
17.	 All the documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and Explanatory Statements, shall be available for inspection through electronic mode, 
basis the request being sent on cosec@ashapura.com.
18.	 The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of the Act and the Register of 
Contracts or Arrangements in which the directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 of the Act, will be available electronically for 
inspection by the members during the AGM. Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an email to cosec@ashapura.com.
OTHER INSTRUCTIONS :
19.	 As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Companies Act and SEBI Circular, the facility for making nomination is available for the Members in 
respect of the shares held by them. Members who have not yet registered their nomination are requested to register the same by submitting 
Form No. SH-13. If a Member desires to opt out or cancel the earlier nomination and record a fresh nomination, he/ she may submit the same 
in Form ISR-3 or SH-14 as the case may be. The said forms can be downloaded from the Company’s website www.ashapura.com. Members are 
requested to submit the said details to their DP in case the shares are held by them in dematerialized form and to the Company/RTA in case the 
shares are held in physical form.
20.	 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has adopted/implemented “Green Initiative in Corporate Governance” allowing paperless compliances 
by Companies through electronic mode. The Companies are now permitted to send various notices/documents to its shareholders through 
electronic mode to the registered email addresses of the shareholders.  
8
Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
To support this green initiative and to receive communication from the Company through electronic mode, members who have not registered their 
e-mail addresses and holding shares in physical form are requested to contact the Company’s Registrar & Share Transfer Agent and register their 
e-mail ID and Members holding shares in dematerialised form are requested to contact their Depository Participant (DP). Members may please 
note that notices, annual reports, etc. will also be available on the Company’s website viz. www.ashapura.com.  
21.	 Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated 3rd November, 2021, SEBI has mandated all the listed 
companies to record the PAN, Nomination, KYC data and Bank Account details of first holder. Accordingly, Members are requested to update their 
Nomination and KYC details on RTA’s Website viz. www.linkintime.co.in.
	
Members holding shares in physical form are therefore, requested to submit their PAN and Bank Account Details to the Company’s RTA, viz. M/s. 
Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd., by sending self-attested copy of PAN Card along with self-attested legible copy of Aadhar/passport/utility bill (not older 
than 3 months) and Original cancelled cheque leaf containing the Bank A/c No., Bank Name, type of account, IFSC Code, MICR Code and the 
name of the shareholder printed on the cheque leaf.  
	
In cases wherein the cancelled cheque leaf does NOT contain the shareholder’s name printed on it, Members are requested to submit the Original 
cancelled cheque leaf along with legible copy of the bank passbook / bank statement specifying the KYC details of the registered shareholder 
such as the name, address, bank account number etc. duly attested by the Officer of the same Bank with his signature, name, employee code, 
designation, bank seal & address stamp, phone no. and date of attestation.
22.	 Since the AGM will be held through VC / OAVM, the Route Map is not annexed in this Notice.
23.	 The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast during the AGM, thereafter unblock the 
votes cast through remote e-voting and make, not later than 48 hours of conclusion of the AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report of the total 
votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorized by him in writing, who shall countersign the same.
24.	 The Results declared along with the report of the Scrutinizer shall be placed on the website of the Company www.ashapura.com and on the 
website of CDSL www.evotingindia.com immediately after the declaration of result by the Chairman or a person authorized by him in writing. The 
results shall also be immediately forwarded to the BSE Limited & the National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
By Order of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
SD/- 
 	
	
  	
    SACHIN POLKE
   COMPANY SECRETARY &
 PRESIDENT (CORPORATE AFFAIRS)
Mumbai, 10th August, 2023
Registered Office:
Jeevan Udyog Building, 
3rd Floor, 278, 
Dr. D. N. Road, Fort,
Mumbai – 400 001
CIN: L14108MH1982PLC026396
9
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 3.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
the Company is required to appoint a cost auditor to conduct an audit of the cost records of Company for the Financial Year 2023-2024 and the 
remuneration payable to him has to be ratified/approved by the members of the Company.
Accordingly, as recommended by the Audit Committee, the Board has appointed Priyank Vyas & Associates, Cost & Management Accountants, as 
the Cost Auditor of the Company, for the Financial Year 2023-2024 on a remuneration of Rs.1,62,565/- (Rupees One Lakh Sixty Two Thousand Five 
Hundred Sixty Five only) per annum plus Goods and Service Tax (GST), for conducting the cost audit. The remuneration fixed for the cost auditor is 
required to be ratified by the Members, as provided under Rule 14 (a) (ii) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
Accordingly, consent of the members is sought for passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out in the Notice for ratification of the remuneration payable 
to the Cost Auditors. 
None of the Directors/Key Managerial Personnel of the Company/their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in 
this resolution.
The Board recommends the resolution set out at Item No. 3 for the approval of members to be passed as an Ordinary Resolution.
Item No 4:
	
The Board of Directors, on recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, at its meeting held on 10th August, 2022, has re-appointed 
Shri Hemul Shah (DIN: 00058558) as an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) w.e.f. 16th February, 2023, for a period of 1 year. 
Accordingly, his tenure ends on 15th February, 2024. 
Considering, his expertise and profound knowledge in the mining industry, the Board has in its meeting dated 10th August, 2023 decided to extend 
his tenure by further period of 2 years as an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company w.e.f 16th February, 2024 to 
15th February, 2026 on such terms and conditions that forms part of the agreement, the key excerpts of same are reproduced below and which are 
subject matter of Member’s approval.
Accordingly, the approval of the Members through Special Resolution pursuant to Sections 196, 197, 198, 203 read with Schedule V of the Companies 
Act, 2013 as amended from time to time is now sought for the re-appointment of Shri Hemul Shah as the Executive Director & CEO of the Company 
for the period starting from 16th February, 2024. 
a.
Salary
:
Upto Rs. 80,00,000/- (Rupees Eighty Lakhs only) p.a., with authority to the Board to sanction increments, 
subject to the overall limits and the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
b.
Perquisites & other 
Allowances
:
Perquisites & other allowances shall be paid in addition to the Salary as per the policy of the Company but 
within the overall limit, if any, prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time. He 
shall also be entitled to receive the following: -
a)  Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund and Gratuity as per the rules of the Company.
b)  Encashment of leave at the end of tenure.
The above details may be treated as an abstract of terms under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
The specified information required under Section II of Part II of the Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013, while seeking approval/consent of the 
shareholders, for Payment of Remuneration to Shri Hemul Shah, Executive Director and CEO, is listed out below:
I
General Information :
1.
Nature of Industry
Mining and Mineral Processing Industry
2.
Date or expected date of commencement of commercial 
production
19th February, 1982
3.
In case of new companies, expected date of commencement 
of activities as per project approved by financial institutions 
appearing in the prospectus
Not applicable
10
Ashapura Minechem Limited
4.
Financial performance based on given indicators:
 (Rs. in Lakhs)
2021-2022
2022-2023
Paid up Capital
1,829.72
1,829.72
Reserves & Surplus
1,827.49
661.21
Revenue from Operations
59,815.12
22,269.17 
Other Income
2,647.23
4,001.41 
Total Expenditure
(64,027.77)
(26,852.93)
Exceptional Items
-
-
Profit before Taxation
(1,565.42)
(582.34)
Tax Expenses including Deferred Tax
-
(118.77)
Profit after Taxation
(1,565.42)
(701.12)
Managerial Remuneration (Total)
138.33
164.34
5.
Foreign investments or collaborators, if any
The holdings of Foreign Portfolio Investor (Corporate), Foreign Institutional 
Investors and NRIs Repatriable as on 31st March, 2023 is 17.66% of the 
equity share capital.
II
Information about the Appointee :
1.
Background details
Shri Hemul Shah is a Commerce Graduate. He has been associated with 
the Ashapura Group at different levels for more than 3 decades. He has 
strong business acumen, strategic intelligence, execution abilities and also 
has rich experience in Planning, Operational and General Management. 
2.
Past remuneration
Details has been mentioned in Corporate Governance Report 
3.
Recognition or awards
-
4.
Job profile and his suitability 
Being an Executive Director and CEO, he is entrusted with the responsibility 
of overall supervision and day to day management of the affairs of the 
Company, subject to superintendence and directions of the Board of 
Directors of the Company.
5.
Remuneration proposed
As stated in the explanatory statement above.
6.
Comparative remuneration profile with respect to industry, size 
of the Company, profile of the position and person
The remuneration proposed to be paid to Shri Hemul Shah has been 
determined after taking into consideration the current state of affairs; 
financial performance of the Company viz-a-viz his experience & expertise 
in the business of the Company.
7.
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with the Company or 
relationship with the managerial personnel, if any
Shri Hemul Shah has no pecuniary relationship with the Company except 
for the proposed remuneration paid to him as an Executive Director and 
CEO of the Company.
Shri Hemul Shah is not related to any of the Managerial Personnel of the 
Company. 
III
Other Information:
1.
Reasons of loss or inadequate profits
During the financial year the Company’s operating and development 
expenses exceeded its revenue which resulted into loss at standalone 
level. Loss may also be attributable to commodity cycles, environmental 
risk, certain relative difficulties in industry, both in india and overseas, with 
additional pressure on the world economy.
The more detailed explanation is provided in Director’s report and 
Management Discussion & Analysis. 
2.
Steps taken or proposed to be taken for improvement & expected 
increase in productivity and profits in measurable terms
The Company is actively working to wards augmenting its revenues and 
is also endeavoring to explore inventive concepts & theories to improve 
the quality of its products; target & seize opportunities both at domestic 
& international market for better stability, expansion & payback for the 
Company.
IV.
Disclosures:
The elements of remuneration to be paid to Shri Hemul shah are as stated in explanatory statement above. 
Further, pursuant to provisions of Section 203 of the Companies Act, 2013, he shall be recognized as Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) of the Company. 
In view of above and pursuant to provisions of Section 196 of the Companies Act, 2013, approval of the shareholders is sought for his re-appointment 
as an Executive Director and CEO of the Company, on terms & conditions of his appointment and remuneration that forms part of the agreement 
executed by and between the Company and Shri Hemul Shah.
11
The aggregate of the remuneration and perquisites/benefits, including contributions towards Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund and Gratuity Fund, 
payable to the Managerial Personnel of the Company taken together, shall be in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013, or any amendment thereto 
or modification thereof.
The copy of the agreement containing terms & conditions of the re-appointment between the Company and Shri Hemul Shah is available for inspection 
as stated in the notice above.
Shri Hemul Shah is not disqualified from being appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 of the Act and has given his consent to act as 
an Executive Director and CEO of the Company. Brief Profile of Shri Hemul Shah as stipulated in Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 forms part of this Notice.
Shri Hemul Shah is concerned or interested in the said resolution as set out in Item No. 4 of the accompanying Notice. 
Save and except the above, none of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives is/are, in any way, concerned or 
interested financially or otherwise in the said resolution, except to the extent of their shareholding in the Company, if any.
The Board of Directors of your Company accordingly recommend the Resolution as set out in Item No. 4 accompanying the Notice for the approval of 
Shareholders of the Company as a Special Resolution.
Item No 5 : 
Pursuant to the amended Regulation 23 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘‘SEBI Listing Regulations’’), 
the threshold limit for determination of material Related Party Transactions is the lower of Rs.1,000 crores (Rupees One thousand crores) or 10% (ten 
percent) of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last Audited Financial Statements of the listed entity and such material 
related party transactions exceeding the limits, would require prior approval of Members by means of an ordinary resolution.
The related party transactions as mentioned below, in the aggregate, are expected to cross the applicable materiality thresholds. Accordingly, as per 
the SEBI Listing Regulations, prior approval of the Members is being sought for all such arrangements / transactions to be undertaken by the Company. 
All the transactions to be entered with related party would be in the ordinary course of business and on an arm’s length basis.
The Company proposes to enter into transactions with its related party as mentioned in Resolutions mentioned in item no. 5 of the Notice, as per 
the terms and conditions as mutually agreed between the parties. The Audit Committee of the Company has granted omnibus approval for the said 
related party transactions at its meeting held on 9th February, 2023 and has noted that although the proposed related party transactions are in the 
ordinary course of business of the Company and shall be entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may, in aggregate, cross the applicable materiality 
thresholds as mentioned above. 
Accordingly, as per the SEBI Listing Regulations, prior approval of the Members is being sought for entering into and/or carrying out and/or continuing 
with existing contracts/arrangements/transactions or material modification(s) of earlier arrangements/transactions or as fresh and independent 
transaction(s) or otherwise (whether individually or series of transaction(s) taken together or otherwise) undertaken or to be undertaken by the 
Company and that shall be valid for one year i.e. from the date of this Annual General Meeting till the conclusion of the 43rd  Annual General Meeting 
of the Company to be held in the year 2024.
Details required under Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circular dated 22nd November, 2021 is provided herewith:
Information pertaining to Item No 5:  
1
Name of the Related Party
M/S Ashapura Holdings UAE FZE
2
Type of transaction
Purchase of goods, Sale of goods, rendering of services and receiving of 
services, leasing; any transfer of resources/services/obligations and such 
other transactions mentioned in the Companies Act, 2013.
3
Material terms and particulars of the proposed transaction
Material terms and conditions are based on the contracts which inter 
alia include the rates which are based on prevailing market price and 
commercial terms as on the date of entering into the contract.
4
Nature of Relationship with the Company including nature of its 
concern or interest (financial or otherwise)
Step Down Subsidiary of the Company
5 
Tenure of the proposed transaction (particular tenure shall be 
specified) 
The Approval Shall be valid for one year i.e. from the date of this Annual 
General Meeting till the conclusion of the 43rd  Annual General Meeting of 
the Company to be held in the year 2024.
6
Value of the proposed transaction
Rs. 300 Crores  (Approx)
7
The percentage of the listed entity’s annual consolidated 
turnover, for the immediately preceding financial year, that is 
represented by the value of the proposed transaction (and for 
a RPT involving a subsidiary, such percentage calculated on the 
basis of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on a standalone basis 
shall be additionally provided) 
In excess of 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company as 
per the last Audited Financial Statements. 
12
Ashapura Minechem Limited
8
Whether the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate 
deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed 
entity or its subsidiary 
NA
a)
details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed 
transaction; 
 -
b)
where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give 
loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments, 
- nature of indebtedness; 
- cost of funds; and 
- tenure; 
 -
c)
applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest rate and 
repayment schedule, whether secured or unsecured; if secured, 
the nature of security; 
-
d)
the purpose for which the funds will be utilized by the ultimate 
beneficiary of such funds pursuant to the RPT. 
-
9)
Justification as to why the RPT is in the interest of the listed entity Arrangement is commercially beneficial and logistically convenient.
10)
A statement that the valuation or other external report, if any, 
relied upon by the listed entity in relation to the proposed 
transaction will be made available through the registered email 
address of the shareholders; 
NA
11)
Percentage of the counter-party’s annual consolidated turnover 
that is represented by the value of the proposed RPT on a 
voluntary basis; 
-
12)
Any other information relevant or important for the members to 
take a decision on the proposed transaction.
-
13) 
Name of the Director or Key Managerial Personnel, who is 
related
 Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, Smt. Himani Shah 
The said transaction(s)/contract(s)/arrangement(s) have been recommended by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors of the Company for 
consideration and approval by the Members.
It is pertinent to note that no related party shall vote to approve this Resolution whether the entity is a related party to the particular transaction or not.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or its respective relatives, other than as mentioned above, is concerned or 
interested, in the resolutions.
  By Order of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
	
	
SACHIN POLKE
 COMPANY SECRETARY & 
PRESIDENT (CORPORATE AFFAIRS)
Mumbai, 10th August, 2023
Registered Office:
Jeevan Udyog Building, 
3rd Floor, 278, 
Dr. D. N. Road, Fort,
Mumbai – 400 001
CIN: L14108MH1982PLC026396
E & OE regretted
13
‘Annexure - A’
Details of Director(s) seeking Appointment/Re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
(Pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015
Name of Director
Shri Chetan Shah
Shri Hemul Shah
Date of Birth
28/01/1955
04/01/1961
Qualification
Commerce Graduate
Commerce Graduate
Brief Profile & Expertise in specific 
functional areas
He has been associated with the Ashapura Group 
for more than 4 decades. Under his guidance and 
tutelage, the Ashapura Group has metamorphosed 
from a single product – single location company 
into a multi-mineral solutions conglomerate spread 
over 8 countries across the globe offering more 
than 120 products. He has varied experience in the 
mining industry and is responsible for the overall 
management of Ashapura Group. 
He has been associated with the Ashapura Group at 
different levels for more than 3 decades. He has strong 
business acumen, strategic intelligence, execution 
abilities and also has rich experience in Planning, 
Operational and General Management.
Directorship 
in 
other 
Public 
Companies
1.	
Ashapura Claytech Ltd
2.	
Ashapura Industrial Finance Ltd
3.	
Ashapura Aluminium Ltd
4.	
Bombay Minerals Limited (BML)
5.	
Ashapura International Limited (AIL)
6.	
Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
1. Orient Ceratech Limited (OCL) (Formerly known    
as Orient Abrasives  Limited)
2.Ashapura Claytech Limited
3.Ashapura International Limited
4.Prashansha Ceramics Limited
5.Bombay Minerals Limited
6.Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
7.Ashapura Aluminium Limited
Chairmanship / Membership of the 
Committees of the Board*
Membership
SRC – Ashapura Minechem Limited (AML)
Chairmanship
SRC - OCL, 
ACM- BML, 
ACM - AIL
Membership
SRC - AML
ACM - OCL
No. of shares held in the Company 
as on 31.03.2023
1,35,93,814 Equity Shares
1,007 Equity Shares
* 	
Represents Membership and Chairmanship of Indian Public Companies of the Audit Committee (AC) and the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee (SRC).
14
Ashapura Minechem Limited
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
To
The Members,
Your Directors are pleased to present the 42nd Annual Report of the Company together with the Audited Financial Statements (Standalone & 
Consolidated) for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
1.	
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE:
                                                                                                                                               (Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
 
2022-2023
2021-2022
2022-2023
2021-2022
Net Sales / Income from Operations
22,269.17
59,815.11
183,084.84
127,784.31
Less: Total Expenditure
25,314.58
62,075.74
172,260.24
123,390.80
Profit /(Loss) from Operations before Dep., Other Income and Exceptional 
Items
(3,045.41)
(2,260.63)
10,824.60
4,393.51
Less: Depreciation
1,538.35
1,952.03
7,256.36
5,812.84
Profit /(Loss) from Operations before Other Income and Exceptional Items
(4,583.76)
(4,212.66)
3568.24
(1,419.32)
Add: Other Income
4,001.41
2,647.24
8,612.37
9,559.76
Profit/(Loss) before Exceptional Items, share of net profit of investments 
accounted for using the equity method and Tax
(582.35)
(1,565.42)
12180.61
8,140.45
Share of net profit of Joint Ventures & associates accounted for using the equity 
method
-
-
1,765.61
1,638.71
Profit/(Loss) before exceptional items
(582.35)
(1,565.42)
13,946.22
9,779.16
Add: Exceptional Items
-
-
-
-
Profit /(Loss) before tax
(582.35)
(1,565.42)
13,946.22
9,779.16
Tax Expenses
  Current Tax
-
-
2,385.53
1,361.87
  Earlier Year’s Tax
118.77
-
578.02
91.53
  Deferred Tax
-
-
9.32
(327.48)
Profit/(Loss) after tax
(701.12)
-
10,973.35
8,653.24
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest
-
-
(727.29)
1.50
Profit/(Loss) for the year 
(701.12)
(1,565.42)
10,973.35
8,653.24
a)	
Performance of the company & Future Outlook:
At Standalone level, the Income from Operations and other income stood at Rs. 26,271 lakhs and that the total expenses stood at Rs. 26,853 Lakhs 
which resulted into loss of Rs. 701.12 Lakhs During the Financial Year, the Company’s operating and development expenses exceeded its revenues 
which led to negaive bottomline. However, the Company is actualy working towards augmenting its revenues. 
At Consolidated level, the Income from Operations and other income stood at Rs. 1,91,697 Lakhs  as against Rs.1,37,344 Lakhs for the previous 
financial year ended 31st March, 2022 and that total expenses stood at Rs. 1,79,517 Lakhs which resulted into Net profit. As compared to the previous 
financial year, on a consolidated basis, the Company’s total revenue in FY 2022-23 increased by 40 %, whereas the Profit After Tax for FY 2022-23 was 
Rs. 10,973 Lakhs versus a profit Rs. 8,653 Lakhs in the previous financial year. The net increase in profit after tax is approximately 27%. All business 
segments of the company have largely performed well resulting in higher revenues and profits for the company on a consolidated basis. 
The outlook for FY 2023-24 is set to be positive on account of two more Bauxite mines becoming operational in Guinea from the second half of the 
financial year, which would enable the company to export higher volumes.  
The Company shall continue its constant endeavour to move up the value chain by introducing a new line of animal feed products which are value-
added from quality Bentonite. Furthermore, the Company’s Kaolin products are consolidating its position in the overseas market making up for the 
supply that has been lost because of the turmoil in Ukraine.
15
2.	
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FY 2022-23 AND TILL THE DATE OF REPORT:	
	
A)	
Allotment of Warrants to Mr Manan Shah & M/S Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited:
The Company has issued & allotted 40,40,000 Convertible Warrants @ Rs. 95.96 per Warrant, Convertible into Equity Shares of Rs. 2 each to Mr 
Manan Shah & M/s Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited on 14th February, 2023. Consequently, the corporate action was executed and the warrants 
were credited to the allottees on 9th March, 2023. The said warrants were issued with an option to convert it to equity. 
Brief Particulars of the issue are given below: 
Name of Security 
Convertible Warrants 
Date of Issue and Allotment
14th February 2023
Number of warrants
40,40,000
Method of allotment
Preferential Issue 
Name of Allottees
1. Mr Manan Shah 
2. M/S Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
Issue Price 	
Rs. 95.96 (Rupees Ninety Five Ninety Six Paisa) per warrant
Maturity Date
Any time after the date of allotment but on or before the expiry of 18 (eighteen) months
Amount raised
25% of the consideration has been collected upfront from the holders of the warrants
Terms and conditions 
• 
Subject to lock- in as per SEBI Regulations. 
• 
Warrants shall not be sold, transferred, hypothecated or encumbered in any manner during the period of 
lock-in provided under SEBI (ICDR). 
• 
Warrants shall be issued only in dematerialized form. 
• 
In case Warrant Holder do not exercise Warrants within the Warrant Exercise Period, the Warrants shall 
lapse and the amount paid shall stand forfeited by the Company 
• 
The Warrants by itself until converted into Equity Shares, do not give to the Warrant Holder any special 
voting rights in the Company in respect of such Warrants.
B)	
Increase in the limits for extending loans, making investments and providing guarantees or security under section 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013:
The Company, in order to support & supplement ongoing and/or future financial and operational commitments/requirements / exigencies of the 
Company and/or its subsidiaries/step down subsidiaries/associate companies/group companies, has been making investments in, giving loans and 
guarantees to and providing securities in connection with loans to various persons and bodies corporate (including its subsidiary) from time to time, in 
compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act.
Section 186 (2) of the Companies Act 2013 provides that where the giving of any loan or guarantee or providing any security or the acquisition as 
provided under Section 186(2) of the Act, exceeds the limits specified therein, prior approval of shareholders by means of a Special Resolution is 
required to be passed at a general meeting. Since the Aggregate amount of the loans and investments so far made, along with the loans, investments 
and guarantees to be made / provided by the Company in the near future, may exceed the limits prescribed under the provision of section 186 (2) of 
the Companies Act, 2013, shareholders’ approval were sought to enhance the limit upto Rs. 300 Cr over and above the limit Spcified under section 186 
of the companies Act, 2013. Shareholders approved the said resolution on 1st February 2023 and the result of which declared on 2nd February 2023. 
C)	
Sale/transfer of chammotte plant of the company: 
After the end of Financial Year 2022-2023, the Company in terms of section 180(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013, sought shareholders’ approval 
by way of postal ballot for sale/transfer of Chammotte Plant of the Company to an Associate Company i.e. Orient Ceratech Limited (formerly known 
as Orient Abrasives Limited). Shareholders approved the said resolution on 25th May 2023 and the result of which was declared on 26th May, 2023. 
Brief Particulars of the transactions are given below: 
Particulars 
Remarks 
Name of the related party
Orient Ceratech Limited
Name of the Director or Key Managerial Personnel who is related, if any Shri Chetan Shah & Smt. Himani Shah 
and Shri Hemul Shah, being common Director 
Nature of relationship
Associate Company
Nature, material terms, monetary value and the above transaction for 
purchase of land and particulars of the contract or arrangement
Transaction Amount: - Rs. 21 Crores Other material terms as mutually 
decided and agreed by the parties. 
3.	
DIVIDEND:
The Board of Directors does not recommend any Dividend for the Financial Year 2022-23 considering the losses during the year. 
The Company has its Dividend Distribution Policy which has been approved by the Board of Directors. The said policy is uploaded on the website of 
the Company at https://www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php.
16
Ashapura Minechem Limited
4.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES:
During the financial year under review, no amount has been transferred to the General Reserve.
5.	
IEPF:
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended from time to time, Dividends that are unpaid/unclaimed for a period of seven years are required to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund administered by the Central Government. Your Company has initiated the process of 
transferring the balance lying with the unpaid/unclaimed dividend accounts, in accordance with the above provisions.
6.	
SHARE CAPITAL:
The paid-up Equity Share Capital as on 31st March, 2023 was Rs. 1,829.72 lakhs. 
Further, the Company did not grant stock options or sweat equity shares to employees. The details of the shareholding of the Directors as on 31st March, 
2023 are as mentioned below:
Name
No. of Shares
% of Holdings
Shri Chetan N. Shah
13,593,814
14.85
Smt. Himani Shah
142,980
0.1563
Shri Harish Motiwalla
500
0.0005
Shri Hemul Shah
1007
0.0011
7.	
DEPOSITS: 
Your Company has not accepted any amount as deposits within the meaning of provisions of “Chapter V – Acceptance of Deposits by Companies” of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014.
8.	
DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL:
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Company as on 31st March 2023 is as below.
Sr. No.
Name of Director
Designation
DIN
1
Shri Chetan Shah
Executive Chairman
00018960
2
Shri Hemul Shah
Executive Director & CEO
00058558
3
Smt. Himani Shah
Non-Executive Director
02467277
4
Shri Harish Motiwalla
Non-Executive, Independent Director
00029835
5
Shri Abhilash Munsif
Non-Executive, Independent Director
02773542
6
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
Non-Executive, Independent Director
01773295
7
Smt. Neeta Shah
Non-Executive, Independent Director
07134947
a)	
Retirement by Rotation:
 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association of your Company, Mr. Chetan Shah (DIN-
00018960), retires by rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting and being eligible has offered himself for re-appointment. 
The details as required under the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Regulations are provided in the Notice convening the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting wherever required. 
b)	
Declaration by Independent Directors:
 
• 
The Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors of the Company confirming that they meet the criteria of 
independence as prescribed under the provisions of section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with schedules & rules issued thereunder 
as well as regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in 
force). The same shall be available for inspection upon request by Shareholders. 
 
• 
The Independent Directors have complied with the Code for Independent Directors prescribed in Schedule IV to the Act.
c)	
Re-appointment of Shri Hemul Shah, as an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer:
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 10th August 2022, on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, appointed 
Shri Hemul Shah (00058558) as an Executive Director and CEO w.e.f. 16th February, 2023. His tenure ends on 15th February 2024 according to the 
agreed terms. 
17
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee has recommended his re-appointment considering his long association with the Company; varied 
experience in planning, execution abilities and strategic intelligence. Accordingly, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 10th August, 2023, 
proposed that he should be re-appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the company for a further period of one year. 
A Special resolution seeking approval of the shareholders for his re-appointment as an Executive Director and CEO of the Company forms part of the 
Notice convening 42nd Annual General Meeting. The relevant details of Shri Hemul Shah as required pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Listing Regulations are furnished in the Notice of the 42st Annual General Meeting.
d)	
Board’s opinion regarding Integrity, Expertise and Experience (including the proficiency) of the Independent Directors appointed 
during the year:
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors appointed during the year under review are person(s) of integrity and possess core skills/
expertise/competencies (including the proficiency) as identified by the Board of Directors as required in the context of Company’s business(es) and 
sector(s) for the Company to function effectively.
e)	
Appointment of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP):
a.	
From the date of appointment of Shri Chetan Shah as an Executive Chairman w.e.f. 24th October, 2019, he is forthwith considered as a Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMP) of the Company.
b.	
From the date of appointment of Shri Hemul Shah as an Executive Director & CEO w.e.f. 16th February, 2020, he is forthwith considered as a KMP 
of the Company.
c.	
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 2(51) and 203 of the Companies Act, 2013, Shri Ashish Desai as CFO and Shri Sachin Polke, 
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs) are recognized as the KMP of the Company.
d.	
In addition, the following Executives of your Company have been recognized as whole-time Key Managerial Personnel to perform such duties/
functions as may be assigned to them under their prescribed designation and/or generally and specifically assigned to them by the Board of 
Directors and/or its Committee from time to time:
	
Shri Sandeep Deshpande - Group Head - Human Resources & Administration
9.	
DISCLOSURES RELATING TO SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES:
a)	
Business Performance & overview of principal Subsidiaries & Joint Venture Companies:
	
Ashapura International Limited (AIL): 
	
The Company’s revenue decreased by 9% from Rs. 55,880 lakhs in FY 2021-22 to Rs.50,832 lakhs in FY 2022-23 however the Profit After Tax
increased by 7% from Rs. 3497 lakhs in FY 2021-22 to Rs. 3742 lakhs in FY 2022-23.
Although there was a marginal decrease in the revenue, the Company achieved better profitability & margins on account of a shift towards
value added product sales.
Bombay Minerals Limited (BML):
The Company’s revenue in FY 2022-23 was Rs. 11,121 lakhs, 23% higher than the revenue of Rs. 9,046 lakhs in FY 2021-22. The Profit After Tax
in FY 2022-23 was Rs. 425 lakhs versus a loss of Rs. 1,003 lakhs in FY 2021-22.
The Company has had some success in tapping alternate sources of raw material which has allowed it to scale up its operations as compared to
the previous year.
Ashapura Perfoclay Ltd. (APL):
	
The Company’s revenue in FY 2022-23 increased by about 5% to Rs. 36,431 Lakhs as compared to the previous financial year, whereas the profit 
after tax was Rs. 2,904 lakhs i.e. 11% higher than the previous financial year. 
	
The Company continued to maintain its leadership position in the domestic market despite the macro headwinds and the competition from 
low-cost domestic producers. it posted a healthy 12.6% growth Y-O-Y basis. A lot of initiatives have been undertaken by the Company to develop 
cost effective and more efficient grades.
	
Other Overseas Subsidiaries:
	
	
The other overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company on the whole exhibited an increases in revenues. The Company’s step-down 
subsidiary in Guinea has shown reasonable growth as compared to the pervious year.
b)	
Companies which have become and ceased to be subsidiary, associate and/or joint venture:
During the year under review, Orient Advanced Material FZE became associate of the Company through indirect acquisition/transfer of shares by the 
company’s associate company. Further, Ashapura Acticlay SDN BHD (Wos of company’s step down an subsidiary ceased to be Associate Company 
during the year under review. 
18
Ashapura Minechem Limited
c)	
Material Subsidiaries:
As required under Regulations 16(1)(c) and 46 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 (Listing Regulations), 
the Board of Directors have approved the Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries. The details of the Policy are available on the Company’s website 
at www. ashapura.com/investor-corner.php 
10.	 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
& associates, have been prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards, which forms part of this Annual Report.  Further, pursuant to 
the provisions of the said section, a statement containing salient features of the Financial Statements of the Company’s subsidiaries and associate 
companies (in Form AOC-1) is given in this Annual Report.
In accordance with Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Audited Financial Statements including Consolidated Financial Statements, Financial 
Statements of subsidiaries and all other documents required to be attached to this Report have been uploaded on the website of the Company at www. 
ashapura.com/investor-corner.php.
11.	 MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY WHICH HAVE OCCURRED 
BETWEEN 31st MARCH, 2023 AND 10TH AUGUST 2023 (DATE OF THE REPORT): 
Other than as stated elsewhere in this report, there are no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company between 
the end of the current financial year and the date of this report. 
12.	 SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS BY THE REGULATIONS:
Other than as stated elsewhere in this report, during the year under review, the Company has not received any significant or material order passed by 
any regulatory authority, court or tribunals which shall affect the going concern status of the Company.
13.	 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
The Board of the Company comprised of seven Directors as on 31st March, 2023. During the year, 5 meetings of the Board of Directors were held. 
The details of meetings held and attended by each Director are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of this Annual Report. 
The maximum time gap between two Board meetings was not more than four months.
14.	 COMMITTEES:
The composition of committees constituted by Board along with changes, if any, forms part of the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of 
this Annual report.
15.	 DIRECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
In pursuance of Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the rules made there under, including any enactment or re-enactment thereon, 
the Directors hereby confirm that:
a.	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable Indian Accounting Standards had been followed along with proper explanation relating 
to material departures; 
b.	
the directors had selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the loss of the Company 
for that period;
c.	
the directors had taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
d.	
the directors had prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis; 
e.	
the directors had laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; 
f.	
the directors had devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems were adequate 
and operating effectively.
16.	 PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND RELATED DISCLOSURES:
The information required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is set out in “Annexure - A” to this Report.
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees in terms of section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 5(2) and 5(3) of 
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate statement and that forms part of the 
Annual Report. 
19
Considering the provisions to section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Annual Report, excluding the aforesaid statement required to be given 
under rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is being sent to the shareholders 
of the Company and others entitled thereto. The said statement is available for inspection of members will be available electronically for inspection. 
Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an email to cosec@ashapura.com.
17.	 PARTICULARS OF LOANS GIVEN, INVESTMENTS MADE, GUARANTEES GIVEN AND SECURITIES PROVIDED:
Particulars of loans given, investments made, guarantees given and securities provided in accordance with the provisions of Section 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, are given in the Notes to Financial Statements (Please refer to Note no. 5 & 6).
18.	 DISCLOSURES ON POLICIES ADOPTED BY THE COMPANY:
a)	
Nomination & Remuneration Policy:
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, the Board of Directors, based on the recommendations of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee, adopted a Policy for selection and appointment of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel & Senior Management 
and for determining their remunerations, qualifications, positive attributes and independence of Directors. The policy also ensures that the relationship 
of remuneration to performance is clear so as to meet appropriate performance benchmark. 
The Policy on Nomination & Remuneration is available on the website of the Company viz. www. ashapura.com/investor-corner.php. The details about 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and payment of remuneration to the Directors are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance which 
forms part of this Annual Report.
b)	
Performance Evaluation Policy and Annual Performance Evaluation:
The Board of Directors adopted the performance evaluation policy with an objective of evaluating the performance of the each and every Director of the 
Board, Committees of the Board including the performance of the Board as a whole, which would contribute significantly to performance improvements 
at all the three levels i.e. the organizational, the board and the individual director level, which in turn would help in increased accountability, better 
decision making, enhanced communication and more efficient Board operations.
Accordingly, pursuant to the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, Listing Regulations and Performance Evaluation Policy of the Company, the Board of 
Directors, in consultation with the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and Independent Directors, carried out & analysed the annual performance 
evaluation of all the Directors, the Board as a whole and its Committees. 
The annual performance evaluation was carried out based on detailed questionnaires drafted in accordance with the guidance note issued by SEBI. 
The performance of the individual Directors was evaluated after seeking inputs from all the Directors other than the one who is being evaluated. 
The evaluation was based on the criteria such as Director’s knowledge and understanding of their role, Company’s vision and mission, Director’s 
commitment, qualification, skill and experience, assertiveness in communication, etc.
The performance of the Board was evaluated on the basis of various criteria such as composition of the Board, information flow to the board, matters 
addressed in the meeting, strategic issues, roles and functions of the Board, relationship with the management, engagement with the Board and 
external stakeholders and other development areas. 
The performance of the Committees was evaluated after seeking the inputs of committee members on the criteria such as understanding the terms of 
reference, Committee composition, Independence, contributions to Board’s decisions etc.
Further, the performance of Chairman & Executive Director were evaluated on certain additional parameters depending upon their roles and 
responsibilities such as leadership, relationship with stakeholders, execution of business plans, risk management, development of plans and policies 
in alignment with the vision and mission of the Company etc. 
Similarly, criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors include effective deployment of knowledge and expertise, willingness to devote time and 
efforts towards his/her role, high ethical standards, adherence to applicable codes and policies, effective participation etc.
The Independent Directors had met separately on 27th March, 2023 and discussed, inter-alia, the performance of the Chairman, Executive Director & 
Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Board as a whole. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has also carried out evaluation of 
every Director’s performance. 
The Board evaluation report on performance of each individual Director and the Board as a whole was placed before the Board of Directors for 
appropriate analysis and confirmation. Based on the annual performance evaluation, the Board expressed its satisfaction with the performance 
evaluation process.
c)	
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy:
The Company has adopted the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy in accordance with the provisions of Section 135 and Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013. The CSR Policy lays down the guiding principles for social welfare programs/projects for the benefit of different segments of 
the society, especially the deprived, under-privileged and differently abled persons. The Policy is available on the website of the Company viz. www. 
ashapura.com/investor-corner.php. The Composition of the CSR Committee is given in the Report on Corporate Governance
The company does not satisfy any of the conditions laid down under Section 135(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 during F.Y.2021-22 (being the 
immediately preceding F.Y), consequently, it was not mandatory for the Company to spend on CSR for F.Y.2022-23. However, at the group level the 
company has undertaken various CSR initiatives. Further, a detailed report is attached as  “Annexure D” to this report. 
20
Ashapura Minechem Limited
d)	
Vigil Mechanism - Whistle Blower Policy:
The Company has vigil mechanism named a Whistle Blower Policy, in compliance with the provisions of Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Listing Regulations, wherein the employees/directors can report the instances of unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, mismanagement or 
any violation of the Code of Conduct and/or laws applicable to the Company and seek redressal. This mechanism provides appropriate protection to 
a genuine Whistle. 
The said Policy is available on the website of the Company viz. www.ashapura.com/investorcorner.php. During the year under review, no complaint 
has been received under the Whistle Blower Policy (Vigil Mechanism). 
e)	
Risk Management Policy:
A well-defined risk-management framework is integral to our business strategy. Company has an independent and dedicated Risk Management 
Committee to identify, manage and mitigate business risks. The team has a risk Management policy and processes for risk evaluation and measurement, 
whereas business units focus on developing and implementing mitigation measures, while taking controlled risks. Specific risk approaches are in 
place for financial and non-financial businesses. Risk management, internal controls and assurance processes are embedded into all activities of the 
Company.
The board in its meeting held on 12th August 2021 has duly constituted the Risk Management Committee and approved the below-mentioned policy. 
The above mentioned Policy is available on the website of the Company viz. www.ashapura.com/investorcorner.php
f)	
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace: 
The Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment of women at workplace and has adopted a Policy for prevention, prohibition and redressal of 
sexual harassment at workplace, in terms of provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013 and the rules framed thereunder and constituted Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) for safe working environment where all employees treat 
each other with courtesy, dignity and respect, irrespective of their gender, race, caste, creed, religion, place of origin, sexual orientation, disability, 
economic status or position in the hierarchy.
The ICC which has been constituted as per the policy in this regard’s, provides a forum to employees to lodge Complaints, if any, therewith for 
appropriate redressal.
During the year, no complaint was lodged with the ICC nor any such instance was reported and the management is happy to take the same on record. 
The said Policy is available on the website of the Company viz. www. ashapura.com/investor-corner.php.
g)	
Related Party Transactions Policy: 
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, the Company has in place the Policy on Related Party 
Transactions and the same is uploaded on Company’s website at www. ashapura.com/investor-corner.php. This policy deals with the review and 
approval of related party transactions. 
All transactions with related parties are approved by the Audit Committee prior to entering into any kind of transactions. The Audit Committee has after 
obtaining approval of the Board of Directors, laid down the criteria for granting omnibus approval for transactions which are repetitive in nature and 
entered in the ordinary course of business and at an arm’s length basis which also forms part of the Policy. The said omnibus approval is granted for 
one financial year at a time. Moreover to monitor due compliance, all related party transactions are placed before the Audit Committee & the Board 
on a quarterly basis, specifying the nature, value and terms & conditions of the transactions for their review and confirmation.
During the year under review, all the transactions entered pursuant to the contracts and arrangements with related parties under Section 188 (1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 in were on arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business. Further, no material Related Party transactions,  as per the 
materiality threshold mentioned in the related party policy of the Company were entered during the year by the company. Accordingly, the disclosure 
of RPT as required under section 134 (3)(h) of the Company Act, 2013, in form AOC-2 is not applicable. 
The Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and dealing with Related Party Transactions was revised in line with the amendment in SEBI 
(LODR) 2015 and the same is available on the Company’s website.
The details of related party transaction are disclosed in the notes to Financial Statements. (Note No. 37)
19.	 FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
Refer Report on Corporate Governance para on Familiarisation Programme.
20.	 AUDIT COMMITTEE:
The Company has in place an Audit Committee in terms of the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the rules made thereunder and 
Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations. Detailed information pertaining to the Audit Committee including its composition, meeting, etc. has been 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of this Annual Report. 
21
21.	 AUDITORS AND AUDITORS’ REPORT:
A. 	 Statutory Auditors:
M/s. P A R K & Co., Chartered Accountants were appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company to hold office till the conclusion of Annual General 
Meeting to be held in the year 2027. M/s. P A R K & Co., have confirmed their eligibility and qualification required under Section 139, 141 and other 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force).
The Auditors’ Report for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023 on the financial statements (standalone & consolidated) of the Company forms 
part of this Annual Report.
The Notes to the financial statements referred in the Auditors’ Report are self-explanatory. There are no qualifications or reservations or adverse 
remarks given by Statutory Auditors of the Company and therefore do not call for any comments under Section 134 of the Act. 
B. 	 Cost Auditors:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, M/s Priyank Vyas and Associates, Cost Accountants were appointed as the Cost 
Auditors of the Company to conduct audit of the Company’s Cost Accounting Records in respect of the products of the Company for the financial year 
2023-2024 at the remuneration of Rs.1,62,565 per annum plus Goods and Service Tax (GST).
Your Company has received consent from , M/s Priyank Vyas and Associates , to act as the Cost Auditors of your Company for the Financial Year 2023-
2024 along with a certificate confirming their independence. As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, a resolution seeking approval of the 
Shareholders for the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors forms part of the Notice convening Annual General Meeting. 
The Company has maintained the cost accounts and records in accordance with Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder. 
The Cost Audit Report for the Financial Year 2021-2022 was filed with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs on 07-09-2022. 
C. 	
Secretarial Auditors:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014, your Company had engaged the services of Shri Virendra Bhatt, Company Secretary in Practice to undertake the 
Secretarial Audit of the Company for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023.
The Secretarial Audit Report in Form No.: MR – 3 for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023 is annexed with this report as “Annexure - B”. 
There are no qualifications or reservations or adverse remarks given by Secretarial Auditors of the Company and therefore do not call for any 
comments under Section 134 of the Act. 
22.	 FRAUDS REPORTED BY AUDITOR
During the year under review, no instance of fraud in the Company was reported by the Auditors.
23.	 INTERNAL (FINANCIAL) CONTROL SYSTEM & THEIR ADEQUACY:
The Company has an adequate Internal Control System commensurate with the size, scale and nature of its operation. The Audit Committee reviews 
the adequacy and effectiveness of Internal Control System. The Company continues to improve the present internal control systems by implementation 
of appropriate policy and processes evaluated based on the recommendation of Internal Auditors.
The Company had appointed M/s. Atul HMV & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants as its Internal Auditors for Financial Year 2022-2023 which 
carried out the periodic audit as per the Scope of Work approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the 
Company periodically reviews the Internal Audit Reports submitted by the Internal Auditors. Internal Audit observations and corrective action taken by 
the Management are presented to the Audit Committee. The status of implementation of the recommendations are reviewed by the Audit Committee 
on a regular basis and concerns, if any, are reported to the Board. The Company is taking due action to ensure that the Internal Control is strengthened 
in all the areas of operations. 
Besides this, the Company has also implemented ‘SAP’ Systems, an advanced IT business solution platform, to achieve standardized operations that 
ensures seamless data and information flow. This would further ensure ease in working environment & style and shall enable the Company to be in 
line with the best global practices.
24.	 COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
The Company has complied with the Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India on:
1. Meetings of the Board of Directors 
2. General Meetings 
3. Reports of the Board of Directors
22
Ashapura Minechem Limited
25.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
The particulars relating to conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo, as required to be disclosed under the 
Companies Act, 2013, are provided in “Annexure - C” to this Report.
26.	 EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN:
Further, in accordance with the provisions of Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the copy of Annual Return of the Company is available on its 
website at www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php
27.	 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT:
A report on ‘Corporate Governance’ along with the Certificate from M/s. P A R K & Co., Chartered Accountants regarding its compliance and 
‘Management Discussion and Analysis’ Report as stipulated under Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations are set out separately which forms part of 
this Report.
28.	 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT:
The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the year ended 31st March, 2023 as stipulated under Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations is set out separately which forms part of this Report.
29.	 NO APPLICATION MADE OR ANY PROCEEDING PENDING UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016 DURING THE 
YEAR UNDER REVIEW.
30.	 THERE WERE NO ONE-TIME SETTLEMENTS WITH BANKS OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DURING THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW.
31.	 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:
Your Directors wish to express their appreciation for the assistance and co-operation received from the financial institutions, banks, employees, 
investors, customers, members & shareholders and all other business associates for the continuous support given by them to the Company and their 
confidence in its management during the year under review and look forward for their contributed support in future.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
	
	
	
	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH	
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CEO
                                                               	
(DIN: 00018960)	
(DIN: 00058558)
  	
Place    : Mumbai
Date     : 10th August 2023
E. & O.E. are regretted
23
“ANNEXURE – A”
INFORMATION UNDER SECTION 197 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 5(1) OF THE COMPANIES 
(APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014 FOR THE FY 2022-2023.
a)	 the ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the company for the financial year :
	
Chairman                                   	
: 37.20 times
	
Whole-time Director & CEO  	
: 24.81 times 
	
NOTE:
i) 	
“median” means the numerical value separating the higher half of a population from the lower half and the median of a finite list of numbers may 
be found by arranging all the observations from lowest value to highest value and picking the middle one
ii) 	
If there is an even number of observations, the median shall be the average of the two middle values
b)	 	 the percentage increase in remuneration of each director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, 
in the financial year : 16.76%
c)	 	 the percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 3.4 %
d)	 	 the number of permanent employees on the rolls of company: 439 (Previous year 396)
e)	 	 average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year and its 
comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional 
circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
	
Overall Increased in salary	
:	
 19.34%
	
Increase in salary for Managerial person	
:	
12.72%
	
Increase in salary for other than Managerial person	
:	   20.42%
NOTE:
i) 	
The Managerial Personnel include the other Whole Time Key Managerial Personnel recognized by the Board of Directors of the Company.
ii) 	
Overall increase in salary of 19.34% as on 31.03.2023   
 
f)	
	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the company.
	
It is affirmed that the remuneration paid to Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and other employees is as per the remuneration policy of 
the Company.
                                                                         For ASHAPURA MINECHEM LIMITED
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sd/-                                                Sd/-
	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH 
	
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CEO
	
 (DIN: 00018960)	
(DIN: 00058558)
Place: Mumbai
Date: 10th August, 2023
24
Ashapura Minechem Limited
“ANNEXURE B”
Form No.: MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.: 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Ashapura Minechem Limited
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by the 
Ashapura Minechem Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”). The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provides me a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s statutory registers, minute books, forms and returns filed with the Registrar of Companies (‘the ROC’), 
soft copy of the various records sent over mail as provided by the Company and other relevant records maintained by the Company and also the 
information provided by the Company, its Officers and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my 
opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 (“audit period”), prima facie complied with 
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the statutory registers, minute books, forms and returns filed with the ROC and other relevant records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made there under;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed there under;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made there under to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas 
Direct Investment - applicable only to the extent of Foreign Direct Investments and Overseas Direct Investment;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
	
Though the following laws are prescribed in the format of Secretarial Audit Report by the Government, the same were not applicable to the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023:-
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies 
Act and dealing with client;
(vi)	 I further report that, based on the Compliance Report of various Laws submitted by Department Heads of the Company, I am of the opinion that 
the Company has prima facie proper system to comply with the applicable laws. 
(vii)	 I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following and I am of the opinion that the Company has prima facie complied 
with the applicable provisions:
	
(a)	
Secretarial Standards 1 and 2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
	
	
(b)	
The Listing agreements entered into by the Company with the Stock Exchanges read with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
During the audit period, I am of the opinion that the Company has prima facie complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. as mentioned.
25
I further report that:-
1.	
I have not examined the Financial Statements, Financial books and related financial Act like Income Tax, Sales Tax, Value Added Tax, Goods and 
Services Tax, ESIC, Provident Fund, Professional Tax, Foreign Currency Transactions, Related Party Transactions, including reconciliation of Bank 
Statements etc., For these matters, I rely on the report of statutory auditor’s and their observations, if any, and notes on accounts in Financial 
Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
2.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review were prima facie carried out 
in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
3.	
As per the information provided, the company has prima facie given adequate notice to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on agenda items before the Meeting and for meaningful participation at the Meeting.
4.	
I was informed and I observed from the minutes of the Board and Committee Meetings that all the decisions at the Meetings were prima facie 
carried out unanimously.
5.	
There are prima facie adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines subject to observations and qualifications, if any made by the 
Statutory Auditors in their report.
6.	
The management is responsible for compliances of all Statutory laws as Applicable. This also includes maintenance of statutory registers/files 
required by the concerned authorities and internal control of the concerned department. 
7.	
During the audit period, the Company has allotted 40,40,000 Convertible Warrants on preferential basis on 14th February, 2023.
8.	
I further report that during the audit period, there were no instances of:
	
i.	
Public/ Rights / debentures / sweat equity etc.;
	
ii.	
Issue of equity shares under Employee Stock Option Scheme;
	
iii.	
Redemption / Buy- back of securities;
	
iv.	
Major decisions taken by the Members in pursuance to Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013 which would have major bearing on the 
Company’s affairs;
	
v.	
Merger / Amalgamation / Reconstruction etc.;
	
vi.	
Foreign Technical Collaborations.
I further report that:
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
Secretarial Records based on my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of 
the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in the Secretarial records. I believe that 
the processes and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
Where ever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of Laws, Rules and Regulations and happening of 
events etc.
4.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of Company.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations, Standards is the responsibility of the Management. 
My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
Management has conducted the affairs of the company.
7.	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk that some Misstatements 
or material non-compliances may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the Standards.
Date: 10th August, 2023	
	
                                                  Virendra G. Bhatt 
Place: Mumbai	
                                                                Practicing Company Secretary
	
	
                                                                                 ACS No.: 1157 / COP No.: 124 Peer Review Cert. No.: 1439/ 2021
UDIN: A001157E000777328
 
26
Ashapura Minechem Limited
ANNEXURE-C
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
A.  CONSERVATION OF ENERGY:
a.   Energy Conservation measures taken:
1.	
Use of Solar energy in terms of light and power using Turbo Fans and Transparent sheets installation. Its use in hot section, obviate the need of 
power consumption and provide natural ventilation.
2.	
Installation of Regulators and Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in equipment’s such as Bead Mill, rotatory glass bead furnace and Roller Mill.
3.	
Introduction of different types of process equipment such as vibro and screw feeder replace manual feeding of material.
4.	
Installation of smart sensors and related automation for optimum use of power components such as bulbs, tube light and fans in many critical 
and non-critical areas.
5.	
Regular check-up of the working of electrical components and ensure the replacement of starter and switches by MCB saves cost and energy. 
6.	
Reduced energy consumption by Optimized the AC usage, which in all over the IKC premises.
7.	
Introduce the appropriate equipment’s such as hammer crusher and ultra-fine mill achieve required fineness for hard materials sizing - save time 
and energy.
8.	
Modified/installed the machinery/equipment of required capacities i.e. Granulator, Pulverizer, Ball Mill, Jaw Crusher, Filter Press and grinding 
mills.
9.	
Maintained Power Factor from 88 to 91, by introduction of capacitor and periodic maintenance of power sources such as transformer, generator, 
etc.
10.	 Inventories and maintenance of the Air Condition/Cooling units to follow the preventive maintenance procedures.
11.	 Assessment and Implementation of preventive maintenance plan and workout troubleshooting record reduces energy consumption and 
breakdown maintenance cost too. 
b.  	 Impact of above measures:
	
All above mentioned steps in power saving measures are imminent. It leave a big impact on overall power consumptions, in spite of high cost per 
unit of power from grid.
27
B. TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION:
2021-22
2022-23
1. Efforts made 
towards technological 
absorption.
1)	 Specialty Mineral Products
a.	 Development of Clay Based Phosphorus removal 
degumming Aid from Edible oil as an alternate of 
Phosphoric Acid.
b.	 Development of Clay based 3MCPD Removal 
adsorbent and performance validation from the 
Crude Palm Oil.
c.	
Upgradation of Inferior grade Bentonite for Bleaching 
Clay through the additive and process modification.
d.	 Improvement of Net Acidity, Surface Area, and Pore 
Volume of ACTAL product by using Inorganic and 
Clay additive.
e.	 Improvement of Loose Bulk Density of BTX product by 
Mechanical process and Fractionation.
f.	
Development of White and Bright Opacifier for 
Pharma, Cosmetic, Paint etc as an alternate of TiO2.
g.	 Development of Pharma Grade Purified Bentonite 
with Pb <2ppm, and As <1ppm content by 
Beneficiation and Purification.
h.	 Development of Direct Compressive grade Calcium 
Carbonate for Pharmaceutical Industry to make a 
direct tablet.
i.	
Study to improve the Foam Value of Soap nut Powder 
by natural means.
j.	
Study to optimize the extraction process of Natural 
Herbal Extract to improve the Quality and Yield.
k.	 Study to improve the stability of Juices like Aloe vera, 
Amal, Wheatgrass etc without chemical preservative.
l.	
Study to extract the proteins from Soybean, Peas, and 
other protein rich source.
m.	 Plant level manufacturing of ISP – 20/40 and 30/50 
using lean grade bauxite material of 10000 psi 
proppant.
n.	 Development of Light-weight proppant – 20/40 
(7500 psi) by using available clay and Bauxite 
material
o.	 Study of Binders/Additives – Organic/Inorganic lab 
level and conducted plant level trials to reduce the 
temperature and improve the strength.
p.	 Development of tabular form of Mg-Al spinel 
aggregates and the performance in castable.
q.	 Development of HFST aggregates (non-spherical 
form) using extrusion, briquetting and tablet method.
r.	
Fused Calcium Aluminate flux development using 
low grade raw materials.
1)	 Specialty Mineral Products
a.	 Development of water-based Paints – Interior/Exterior with 
special features or properties.
b.	 Development of replacement of TiO2 for Paint and plastic 
application.
c.	
Bleaching clay product with low Chloride content for edible 
oil purification.
d.	 Development of Phosphorous removal adsorbent used for 
palm oil purification.
e.	 High-purity Bentonite development for Pharma application.
f.	
Identification, process optimisation and specification cease 
out of raw bentonite for high Net Acidity value.
g.	 New Product development using minerals such as Bentonite, 
Pumice, Calcite for cosmetic and Herbal application.
h.	 Development of Bleaching Clay provide low MCPD value and 
its performance validation.
i.	
Development of Premier and Economy grade primer for 
construction application.
k.	 Development of Artic X product as replacement of TiO2.
j.	
Mineral based viscosity modifier (acidic / alkaline pH) work in 
neutral, saline and alcoholic condition of water.
2)	 Industrial Functional & White Mineral.
a.	 Development of high strength cementitious grout i.e. more 
than 100 MPa strength.
b.	 Multi-purpose single tile-adhesive with binding properties 
with Wood and concrete tile.
c.	
Development of various color grout with sparkling features.
d.	 High thickness and high strength putty development for new 
construction practices i.e. plaster cum putty.
e.	 SOP development for casting rate using Ball Clay.
f.	
Color based impurity i.e. Iron and Titania – an evaluation 
study of various sources of Quartz.
g.	 Frac-sand (Silica) resource development from various mines 
for Oil/gas exploration.
h.	 Color aggregates development for road marking applications.
i.	
Development of high fineness kaolin i. e. 4 – 6, micron size 
using Jet milling process.
j.	
Pilot scale study of high-density kaolin product using spray 
drier process.
k.	 Scale up study of developed - Rainbow color Cat litter at 
commercial scale.
28
Ashapura Minechem Limited
2)	 Industrial Functional & White Mineral.
a.	 Beneficiation study of Kaolin for Iron reduction.
b.	 Study of very fine Kaolin with micron size using 
decanter/ centrifuge technique.
c.	
Development of Sealing Bentonite for grouting 
application 
with 
enhance 
impermeability 
and 
strength.
d.	 Exploration, evaluation and Testing of Rajasthan Ball 
clay for Ceramic application.
e.	 Construction grade silica sand – Testing of 
parameters/ properties of Silica sand.
f.	
Optimization and Suitability study of Quartz for 
Ferrosilicon application.
g.	 Leachability study of Titanium from Titania-Sand and 
Illuminite.
h.	 Development of Non-shrink Grout for construction 
application.
i.	
Development and performance evaluation of Geo-
polymer concrete and also determine the usability 
bottlenecks for its scaleup and commercialization 
aspect.
j.	
Development and evaluation of Epoxy resin tile grout 
for Building Material Application.
k.	 Study on the evaluation and suitability of Bentonite 
for Nuclear waste disposal application.
l.	
Beneficiation study of Bauxite for making sintered/
Fused products.
m.	 Upgradation of Kutchh Kaolin from B-Grade to 
A-Grade by introduction of various processing-steps 
and properties enhancement i.e.  whiteness and 
brightness.
n.	 Plant level study and optimization of process of 
making Color Cat-litter.
o.	 Glue development for compressed wood pallet.
p.	 Characterization and evaluation of various types of 
Ball Clay, Bauxite, Silica, Iron Ore, etc. for mineral 
and mines exploration.
3)	 Water Treatment and Catalysis development
a.	 Development of phosphate adsorbent from spent 
acid – an Industrial by product.
b.	 Performance evaluation study for Ammonia removal 
using in-house developed Zeolites-4A.
c.	
Scale up the technology of Iron removal at Pilot Scale 
and establishment of 20 Kl / day work on gravity 
filtration setup in R&D-premises.
d.	 Development of high performance and effective 
water impurities removal media using Iron and 
alumina rich minerals and spent acid such as 
Ferrihydrite, treated minerals, etc.
l.	
Developed of epoxy resin tile grout.
m.	 Development of High Purity Alumina (HPA) - 3N.
n.	 Development of r-GO with high surface area – 350 to 400 
m2/gm.
o.	 Improvement of optical properties of Kaolin using 3.5 Tesla 
magnetic and validate its commercial viability.
3)	 Advanced Ceramic & Castable
a.	 Development of various color pigments useful for ceramic 
application.
b.	 Development of Glass beads for road safety.
c.	
Lab level study of Barium Ferrite material for magnet 
application.
d.	 Development of Ceramic Sand for Foundry applications such 
as Injection molding and Sand Casting.
e.	 Study for development of Ultra High Strength Proppant 
(UHSP) at lab level.
f.	
Study and manufacturing of High and Intermediate strength 
proppant study using lean grade bauxite at plant level.
g.	 Study of High strength ceramic grain for Castable 
development.
h.	 Finer grade Ceramic Sand development for Zirconia 
replacement in foundry application.
i.	
Development of calcium silicate board using energy intensive 
method.
j.	
Intermediate and High – Strength proppant development 
using low alumina raw bauxite.
k.	 Study and explore the possibility of making proppant using 
low temperature treated raw bauxite.
l.	
Use of low melting metal oxides in developing - White and 
Brown fused alumina.
4)    Technology Absorption Centre
a.	 Optimization of operational parameters of various grinding 
mills and define the output efficiency at standard operation 
condition.
b.	 Scalable production of Activated Bauxite is established with 
SOP.
c.	
Various types of water treatment products are manufactured 
at Technology Adsorption Center.
d.	 Installation and commissioning of various equipment/
machinery such as glass bead rotatory tube furnace, ultra 
fine mill, high capacity pulverizer, Jet Mill Spray drier, etc.
5)   Accreditation & Recognition:
a.	 Desktop audit completion with extension of NABL scope for 
additional water testing parameters – 38 Nos.
b.	 Reports preparation and submission to DSIR for period of 
2022-23.
29
e.	 Development of Salt tablet for regeneration of Resin 
used for removal of Hardness.
f.	
Soluble Silica removal study from water and 
established its method of analysis.
g.	 Preparation & characterization of Cordierite used as 
substrate for catalysis application.
h.	 Development of value-added products such as low 
temperature 
ceramics, 
coagulant, 
pH-adjuster, 
aluminium sulphate,  etc using spent acid – An 
industrial by-product.
i.	
Adsorbent media development for Hardness removal 
and its performance evaluation study using column 
study.
j.	
Environmental study laboratory establishment along 
with - NABL accreditation for water testing.
4)	 Technology Absorption Center
a.	 Scale up of the product development and process 
optimization in Technology Absorption Center (TAC) 
save cost, energy and time and make the company 
self-reliant in terms of scale up and SOPs finalization 
process.
b.	 Grindability study of the various crushing units (with 
various minerals) is assessed per metric ton.
c.	
Implemented maintenance plant for equipment/
machinery as per the schedule on scheduled periodic 
calendar.
d.	 Installation of optimum capacity machinery i.e. Jaw 
Crusher and roller crusher unit to cater the trial order 
and SOPs optimization.
e.	 Establishment of pilot setups for study helps to 
understand the bottle necks in ceasing out the plant 
level SOPs.
5) Accreditation& Recognition:
a.	 National 
Accreditation 
Board 
for 
Testing 
& 
Calibration (NABL) - renewal completed successfully 
& accreditation is valid for 2 years (till 26.04.2024). 
Additional 30 parameters were included for water 
analysis accreditation process.
b.	 DSIR intermittent report submitted for yearly 
extension for year 2022-23 (Period – 2022-25)
c.	
5S – certification process implementation done 
followed standard work practices and maintained.
d.	 Training completed for ISO/IEC 17025: 2017 and 
completed with NABL - certification process.
e.	 Conceptually adapted cross functional audits among 
departments and self-audit methodology is adapted 
at plant and units. Also introduces standard - method 
of testing at QC laboratories.
f.	
To 
create 
awareness 
on 
Safety 
and 
Waste 
management – Presentation and Field training given 
to the staff. Maintained all safety & Hazards norms 
for Fire, Electrical & Chemicals.
c.	
Filed Publication and Patent at National/International level.
d.	 Initiated the various training for Mineral and Products 
parameters, Operational and QC excellence under Ashapura 
Learning Forum
6)   Other Activities:
a.	 Extension of Refractory laboratory testing laboratory and add 
testing facilities for ceramic sand used for foundry application.
b.	 Establishment of Paint Testing Laboratory with small scale 
R&D lab setup for paint synthesis.
c.	
A separate, sections as Heating Zone and Crushing Zone are 
established.
d.	 Extension of water treatment facilities from 12 k to 20 k liters 
per day capacity for in-house consumption.
e.	 Developed green belt in open land within the premises.
f.	
NABL scope expanded for water parameters.
30
Ashapura Minechem Limited
6.   Other Activities:
a.	 Extended the testing capabilities for Organic 
compound/Coal analysis by introduction of new 
Facilities such as HPLC, CHNS & Microwave Digestor.
b.	 Introduction of new Instrument/equipment facilities 
to enhance the testing capacity in process laboratory.
c.	
Separate Section for High temperature equipments 
i.e. Furnaces, Autoclave & Driers.
d.	 Increases the Safety, Health & Environment friendly 
system at work place.
e.	 Environmental monitoring laboratory establishment 
along with - NABL accreditation for water testing.
f.	
Plantation work promoted to increase the green area 
development within premises.
2. Benefits derived 
like product 
improvement, cost 
reduction, product 
development, import 
substitution etc.
a.	 In-house development of pilot plant setups for 
Bleaching Clay and BTX grade catalysis to validate 
product performance at pilot scale and cease out 
the plant SOP.
b.	 Cost reduction and Waste minimization done by 
utilization of lean-grade raw materials/rejects in 
making ceramic materials.
c.	 Pilot scale trials and small- scale production 
of adsorbent and catalysis obviate the need of 
imported product.
d.	 Generated Internal reference Material (IRMs) 
obviate the need of Certified reference Materials 
(CRMs) reduces the import requirement and saves 
the cost also.
e.	 Refractory aggregates product development and 
manufacturing at plant through sintering/fusion 
method saves energy.
f.	
Engineered Building product development and 
manufacturing  at plant scale for construction 
industries.
g.	 To cater the packaging need of all the material 
Pellet manufacturing plant indigenously and extend 
its supply to other companies.
a.	 Various trials at R&D and Plant – provide break-through for 
value added product development in sintered and fused 
product range.
b.	 Utilization of lean grade raw material not only reduces the 
inventory but also save cost and natural resources.
c.	
SOP development with pilot trials at Technology Adsorption 
Center (TAC) save cost in terms of energy, time, and cost.
d.	 Internal training and development program enhanced the 
technical competency of Quality and R&D staff.
e.	 A range of new product development ceramic, refractory 
and building construction enhance the overall product 
portfolio and generated business.
f.	
Niche products in road marking and making applications 
open up chance of new window for future.
  Expansion of new analytical and processing facility 
support to characterize the new materials for successful 
implementation of research projects.
3. In case of imported 
technology (imported 
during the last 3 
years reckoned from 
the beginning of 
the financial year), 
following information 
may be furnished:
a.	 Details of 
technology 
imported
b.	 Year of import
c.	 Whether the 
technology been 
fully absorbed
d.	 If not fully 
absorbed, 
areas where 
absorption has 
not taken place, 
and the reasons, 
therefore.
Indigenously dealt with technical requirement in terms 
of Projects and Testing.
No technology has been imported in the last 3 years.
No technology has been imported in the last 3 years.
31
C. EXPENDITURE ON RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT:
 
2021-22
(Rs. In Lakhs)
2022-23 
(Rs. In Lakhs)
a)   Capital
90.50
62.53
b)   Recurring
437.70
508.92
c)   Depreciation and Amortization
96.14
111.60
d)   Total
624.34
683.05
e) Total R&D Expenditure as a Percentage of total turnover 
1.04%
3.07%
D.    FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING OUTGO:
2021-22 
(Rs. In Lakhs)
2022-23 
(Rs. In Lakhs)
a. Foreign Exchange earned in terms of actual inflows during the year(F.O.B.)
33,056.63
10,015.33
b. Foreign Exchange outgo during the year in terms of actual outflows
39,743.61
1,999.13
                                                            For and on Behalf of Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sd/-                                                Sd/-
	
	
	
	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
	
	
	
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CEO
	
	
	
	
                                                  (DIN: 00018960)  	
(DIN: 00058558)
Place: Mumbai
Date: 10th August, 2023
32
Ashapura Minechem Limited
“Annexure-D”
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES
(AS PER SECTION 135 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013)
The Corporate Social Responsibility “CSR” Committee of the Company was constituted on 14th  October, 2014 in terms of provisions of Section 135 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility), Rules 2014 (the Rules).
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
	
The Company has framed a CSR Policy in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
	
Pursuant to Section 135 of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder it was a mandatory commitment for a corporate to contribute and operate 
in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner and also establish a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (‘CSR Policy’) 
with an ‘Aim and Objective’ and guiding principles for selection, implementation, and monitoring of the activities and a Committee to track the 
transactions relating to CSR initiatives. Hence, it is a continuing commitment for a Company to perform ethically and contribute to economic 
development of the society. CSR, therefore, is not a mere philanthropic activity but also comprises of activities that require a Company to 
integrate social, environmental and ethical concerns into the Company’s vision and mission through such activities. 
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee: 
Sr. No.
Name of Director
Designation /
Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee held during the 
year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1
Shri Harish Motiwalla (Chairman)
Non-Executive, Independent
1
1
2
Shri Chetan Shah
Executive Chairman
1
1
3
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
Non-Executive, Independent
1
1
3.	
The web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed on the 
website of the company.
       The Link to the website is https://www.ashapura.com
4.	
The details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
	
Not applicable to the Company as the obligation on the contribution to CSR activities is less than Rs. 10 crores.
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year :-
Sr. No
Financial Year
Amount Available For Set off
Amt. Set off in financial year, if any
Balance Amt.
1
22-23
12.12 Lakhs
0
12.12 Lakhs
6.	
Average net profit of the company as per section 135 (5) :- Rs. 17,003 lakhs 
7.	
Total amount spent during the year 2022-2023:- NA
	
a. Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) :- NA
	
b. Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years. :- NIL
	
c. Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any :- Rs. 12.12 lakhs 
	
d. Total CSR obligation for the financial year:- NIL
8.
a. 	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: 
Total Amount Spent for 
the Financial Year.
(in Rs.)
Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6).
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to section 135(5).
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
NA
NA
NA
b. 	
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: NA
c.  	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: 
	
The company does not satisfy any of the conditions laid down under Section 135(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 during F.Y.2021-22 (being the 
immediately preceding F.Y), consequently, it was not mandatory for the Company to spend on CSR for F.Y.2022-23. However, at the group level 
the company has undertaken various CSR initiatives.
33
d. 	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: N.A.
e. 	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: N.A.
	
f. 	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year: N.A
g. 	
Excess amount for set off, if any:
Sr. No.
Particulars
Amount (Rs. in Lakhs)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
NA
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
NA
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
NA
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
NA
(v)
Amount available for set off over three succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
12.12
9.
a. 	
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: NA
b. 	
Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):NA
10. 	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR 
spent in the financial year (asset-wise details):- NA
a. 	
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s).
b. 	
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset.
c. 	
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address etc.
d. 	
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the capital asset).
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5):- NA
For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
               Sd/- 	
	
	
	
Sd/-
 	
	
	
	
	
     Chetan Shah	
	
	
	
HEMUL SHAH
	
	
	
	
                 Executive Chairman	
	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CEO
       	
	
	
	
	
    (DIN: 00018960)                   	
	
(DIN: 00058558)
Date: 10TH August, 2023
Place: Mumbai
34
Ashapura Minechem Limited
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1.	
ASHAPURA’S PHILOSOPHY ON CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
Corporate Governance covers a set of principles, process and systems to be followed by Directors, Management and Employees of the Company 
for increasing the shareholders’ value, keeping in view interest of other stakeholders. While adhering to the above, your Company is committed to 
integrity, accountability, transparency and compliance with laws and in dealings with the Government, customers, suppliers, employees and other 
stakeholders. The Corporate Governance framework at Ashapura is followed seriously and in spirit. It ensures timely disclosures of all mandatory & 
reportable events, based on performance/activities undertaken by the Management under the guidance of the Board of Directors of the Company and 
is committed to meet the aspirations of all the Stakeholders be it Shareholders, Employees, Suppliers, Customers, Investors, Banks, Government and 
Community at large. 
The Company is in compliance with the requirements stipulated under the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). The Company presents the Report on Corporate Governance for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2023 in compliance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the Listing Regulations.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A.	
Composition and category of Board of Directors:
The composition of the Board of Directors was in conformity with the provisions of Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 17 of the 
Listing Regulations during the period under review. The strength of the Board of Directors as on 31st March, 2023 consisted of Seven (7) Directors which 
apart from Executive Chairman being a Promoter-Director, comprised of One (1) Executive Director, One (1) Non-Executive Non-Independent Woman 
Director and Four (4) Non-Executive Independent Directors (including One Independent Woman Director). The Board meets the requirement of not 
less than half of the Board being Independent Directors, the Chairman being Executive Promoter Director. 
The Company has obtained the requisite disclosures from the Directors in respect of their Directorships and Memberships in Committees of other 
Companies.
Key Information pertaining to Directors as on 31st March, 2023 is given below:
Name
DIN
Category of Directors
Attendance at
No. of 
Directorships 
in other 
companies1
No. of Committee 
Positions held in 
Indian Public Limited 
Companies2
 Board 
Meetings
Last AGM held 
on 29th Sept, 
2022
Member
Chairman
Shri Chetan Shah3
00018960
E.C
5
Yes
7
2
-
Shri Hemul Shah4
00058558
E.D & CEO
4
Yes
8
5
3
Shri Harish Motiwalla
00029835
I.N.E.D
4
Yes
6
9
5
Shri Abhilash Munsif
02773542
I.N.E.D
5
Yes
1
2
-
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
01773295
I.N.E.D
5
Yes
4
6
2
Smt. Himani Shah
02467277
N.E.D
4
Yes
-
-
-
Smt. Neeta Shah
07134947
I.N.E.D
3
Yes
1
-
-
E.C. : Executive Chairperson; E.D. : Executive Director; N.E.D. : Non-Executive Director; I.N.E.D: Independent Non-Executive Director , CEO: Chief 
Executive Officer 
1	
Excludes directorships in Private Limited Companies, LLPs, Foreign Companies, Companies incorporated under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Alternate Directorships.
2   	 Represents only Membership and Chairmanship of Indian Public Limited Companies of the Audit Committee and the Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee including Ashapura Minechem Limited.
3  	
Shri. Chetan Shah was re-appointed as an Executive Chairman for a period of 3 years w.e.f. 24th October, 2022 in the Annual General Meeting 
held on 29th September, 2022.
4    	 Shri Hemul Shah was re-appointed as an Executive Director & CEO for a period of 1 year w.e.f. 16th February, 2023 in the Annual General 
Meeting held on 29th September, 2022.
35
As required under Para C(2) of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations, based on the latest disclosures received by the Company, following are the 
number of other directorships and the names of the listed entities where the Directors of the Company are also a Director and the category of their 
directorships therein:
Name of Directors
Directorships and its category in listed entities other than the Company
Shri Chetan Shah
Nil
Not Applicable
Shri Hemul Shah
Orient Ceratech Limited (Formerly known as Orient Abrasives Limited) 
Non-Executive,
Non-Independent Director
Smt. Himani Shah
Nil
Not Applicable
Shri Harish Motiwalla
Multibase India Limited
Independent Director
Excel Industries Limited
Independent Director
Orient Ceratech Limited (Formerly known as Orient Abrasives Limited)
Independent Director
Hitech Corporation Limited
Independent Director
Shri Abhilash Munsif
Nil
Not Applicable
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
Asit C Mehta Financial Services Limited
Independent Director
Smt. Neeta Shah
Orient Ceratech Limited (Formerly known as Orient Abrasives Limited)
Independent Director
B.	
Inter-se relationships among Directors:
None of the Directors of the Company have any inter-se relationships except Smt. Himani Shah who is a daughter of Shri Chetan Shah, Chairman of 
the Company.
C.	
Number of shares held by Non-Executive Directors:
The details of number of shares held by the Non-Executive Directors as on 31st March, 2023 is given below:
Name 
Designation
Number of Shares Held
Shri Harish Motiwalla
I.N.E.D
500
Smt. Himani Shah
N.E.D
1,42,980
D.	
Board Meetings:
The Board met Five (5) times during the Financial Year 2022-2023 on 30th May, 2022, 10th August, 2022, 14th November, 2022, 02nd January, 2023 
and 09th February, 2023 and that the time elapsed between any two consecutive meetings did not exceed 120 days. The necessary quorum was present 
for all the meetings.
E.	
Core Skills / Expertise / Competencies:
The Board as on 31st March, 2023 comprises of qualified members who bring in the required skills, competence and expertise that allow them to make 
effective contributions to the Board and its Committees.
The table below summarizes the list of core skills, expertise, competencies identified by the Board as required in the context of the Company’s business 
and as possessed by individual members of the Board. 
Each Director may possess varied combinations of skills/ expertise within the described set of parameters and it is not necessary that all Directors 
possess all skills/ expertise listed therein.
Expertise in
Description
Name of the Directors
Mining Industry expertise 
and experience
Knowledge and experience of Mining industry structure, manufacturing, 
operations and Research & Development activities
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah
Business
Management &
Leadership
Knowledge and experience in corporate strategy, planning, risk 
Management and business Sustainability.
Leadership experience in advisory and supervising corporate 
management.
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, 
Smt. Himani Shah
Sales & Marketing
Expert Knowledge & experience in Selling and Marketing.
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, 
Smt. Himani Shah
Financial Management
Expert knowledge and understanding in Accounts, Finance, Banking, 
Auditing and Financial Control.
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, 
Shri Harish Motiwalla, Shri Abhilash 
Munsif, Shri Pundarik Sanyal
36
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Legal
Compliances
Knowledge in the field of law and legal compliance   Management.
Shri Hemul Shah, Shri Harish 
Motiwalla
Corporate
Governance
Experience in developing good governance practices, serving the best 
interests of all stakeholders, maintaining board and management 
accountability, building long term effective stakeholder engagements and 
driving corporate ethics and values.
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, 
Shri Harish Motiwalla, Shri Abhilash 
Munsif, Shri Pundarik Sanyal, Smt. 
Neeta Shah
Global
Business
Development
Expertise in global business development, operation and strategy.
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, 
Shri Abhilash Munsif, Shri Pundarik 
Sanyal
Corporate
Social
Responsibility
Experience and knowledge in the matters of Corporate Social 
Responsibility including environment protection and social development.
Shri Chetan Shah, Shri Hemul Shah, 
Shri Harish Motiwalla, Shri Abhilash 
Munsif, Shri Pundarik Sanyal, Smt. 
Neeta Shah
F.	
Independent Directors:
a.	
The Company has received necessary declarations from the Independent Directors of the Company, confirming that they meet the criteria of 
independence as prescribed. Further, in the opinion of the Board, Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified in the Listing Regulations 
and are independent of the Management.
b.	
During the year, the Independent Directors separately met on 27TH March, 2023 without the attendance of Non-Independent Directors and 
Management Personnel of the Company. The meeting was held with the objective of reviewing the performance of Non-Independent Directors, 
the Board as a whole and the Chairman of the Company. The Independent Directors also assessed the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the Management of the Company and the Board of Directors that is necessary for the Board of Directors to effectively and 
reasonably perform their duties. 
c.	
Familiarization Program of Independent Directors:
Whenever any new Independent Director is appointed, he/she is made familiar to the business and its operations through familiarization 
programs enabling them to familiarize and get acquainted with operational performance and forward going business formulations/strategies, 
so as to gain a better understanding of their roles, rights and responsibilities for the purpose of providing appropriate assistance, counselling & 
directions in order to achieve growth of the Company, the details of which are available on the website of the Company at www.ashapura.com.
As a part of such program, the Independent Directors have an opportunity to interact with Management Personnel and are provided with all the 
relevant information and documents required and/or sought by them enabling them to have a good understanding of the Company, its business 
model and various operations.
d.	
CEO/CFO Certification:
A Compliance Certificate, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations read with Part B of Schedule II thereunder, duly 
signed by Shri Hemul Shah, CEO & Shri Ashish Desai, CFO in respect of the financial year ended 31st March, 2023 was taken on record by the 
Board of Directors of the Company.
e.	
Code of Conduct:
The Company has adopted Ashapura’s Code of Conduct for the Board Members, Senior Management and all employees above Officers level 
and the same has been posted on the website of the Company at www.ashapura.com. The duties of the Independent Directors as laid down in 
the Companies Act, 2013 have been framed separately and forms part of Ashapura’s Code of Conduct.
A declaration from the CEO that all Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for 
the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, forms part of the Annual Report.
The Company is in due compliance of all the provisions of Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations for the Financial Year 2022-2023.
3.	
COMMITTEE(S) OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The following Committee(s) were constituted by the Board of Directors, the basic structure of which is detailed herein below:
A.	
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
	
The Board has constituted a qualified and independent Audit Committee in line with the provisions of Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations, 
read with Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and is in due compliance of all the provisions stated therein.
a.	
Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are in line with the regulatory requirements which amongst others are specified herein below:
	
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the financial statement 
is correct, sufficient and credible;
37
	
Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors of the Company; 
	
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory auditors; 
	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements and auditor’s report thereon before submission to the board for approval, 
with particular reference to: 
1.	
Matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included in the board’s report in terms of clause 
(c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013; 
2.	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same; 
3.	
Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management; 
4.	
Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings; 
5.	
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements; 
6.	
Disclosure of any related party transactions; 
7.	
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report; 
	
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission to the board for approval; 
	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential 
issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document / prospectus / notice and the 
report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board to take up steps in this matter; 
	
Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and performance, and effectiveness of audit process; 
	
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with related parties; 
	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments; 
	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary; 
	
Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems; 
	
Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems; 
	
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and seniority of 
the official heading the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
	
Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there on; 
	
Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a 
failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board; 
	
Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post-audit discussion to 
ascertain any area of concern; 
	
To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment 
of declared dividends) and creditors if any; 
	
To review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism; 
	
Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer after assessing the qualifications, experience and background, etc. of the candidate; 
	
Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the audit committee;
	
Reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances from/investment by the Company in its subsidiaries exceeding rupees 100 Crore or 10% 
of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans / advances / investments;
	
To consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the 
Company and its shareholders.
b.	
Composition:
As on 31st March, 2023, the Audit Committee comprised of Three (3) Independent Directors. The members of the Audit Committee are eminent 
professionals and financially literate. The composition of the Audit Committee and the details of meetings attended by its members are given below:
Name
Category
Number of meetings Attended
Shri  Harish Motiwalla (Chairman)
I.N.E.D
4
Shri Abhilash Munsif
I.N.E.D
5
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
I.N.E.D
5
Shri Harish Motiwalla, the Chairman of the Audit Committee was present at the 41st Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 29th September, 
2022. 
The CFO, the representative of Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors are the regular invitees to the Audit Committee Meetings.
	
Shri Sachin Polke, Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs) acts as the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
c.	
Meetings:
During the year under review, the Audit Committee met Five (5) times on 30th May, 2022, 10th August, 2022, 14th November, 2022, 02nd January, 
2023 and 09th February, 2023 and that the time elapsed between any two consecutive meetings did not exceed 120 days. The necessary quorum was 
present for all the meetings.
38
Ashapura Minechem Limited
B.	
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE:
The Board has constituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee in line with the provisions of Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations read 
with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and is in compliance of all the provisions stated therein. 
a.	
Terms of Reference:
The terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are in line with the regulatory requirements which among other are specified 
herein below:
	
Formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend to the Board 
of Directors a policy relating to the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees; 
	
For every appointment of an Independent Director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required 
of an independent director. The person recommended to the Board for appointment as an Independent Director shall have the capabilities 
identified in such description. 
For the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, the Committee may: 
1.	
use the services of external agencies, if required; 
2.	
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and 
3.	
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance of Independent Directors and the Board of Directors; 
	
Devising a policy on diversity of Board of Directors; 
	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance with the criteria 
laid down, and recommend to the Board of Directors their appointment and removal. 
	
Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the Independent Director, on the basis of the report of performance evaluation 
of Independent Directors. 
	
Recommend to the board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.
b.	
Composition:
	
As on 31st March, 2023, the Nomination & Remuneration Committee comprised of three (3) Directors. The composition of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee and the details of meetings attended by its members are appearing hereinafter:
Name
Category
Number of meetings Attended 
Shri Harish Motiwalla (Chairman)  
I.N.E.D
2
Shri Abhilash Munsif
I.N.E.D
2
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
I.N.E.D
2
c.	
Meetings:
	
During the year under review, Two (2) meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee were held on 10th August, 2022 and 27th March, 
2023.
d.	
Performance Evaluation:
	
Pursuant to applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations, the Board, in consultation with its Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee, has carried out the annual performance evaluation of its own performance, as well as the evaluation of the working 
of its Committees.
	
As a part of the nomination & remuneration policy, a structured questionnaire for evaluation was prepared after taking into consideration various 
aspects depending on the category of Director, Board & Committee, whose performance is to be evaluated. Accordingly, the annual performance 
evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each Director was carried out for the financial year 2022-2023 by Independent Directors at their 
separate Meeting held on 27th March, 2023, as also by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the same was analyzed & confirmed by 
the Board of Directors.
	
Details of methodology adopted for performance evaluation of Directors including that of the Board as a whole and its Committee have been 
provided in the Board’s Report.
e.	
Remuneration of Directors:
	
The Non-Executive Directors have no pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company in their personal capacity except that the Sitting 
Fees is paid for attending the Board Meetings, Audit Committee Meetings & Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings (detailed herein 
below) as recommended by the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules framed thereunder. Besides payment of 
sitting fees, no other fees/compensation /commission is paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
39
	
The details of sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31st March, 2023 are as under: 
(Amount in Rs.) 
Name 
Board Meetings
Audit Committee Meetings
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee Meetings
Shri Harish Motiwalla
2,00,000/-
2,00,000/-
50,000/-
Shri Abhilash Munsif
2,50,000/-
2,50,000/-
50,000/-
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
2,50,000/-
2,50,000/-
50,000/-
Smt. Neeta Shah
1,50,000/-
-
-
Smt. Himani Shah
2,00,000/-
-
-
	
The criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Directors is covered in Nomination and Remuneration Policy.
	
	
The details of Remuneration paid to Executive Director for the year ended 31st March, 2023 are as under:
Name 
Salaries & Perquisites 
including allowance 
Tenure as per agreement 
upto
Notice period 
Shri Chetan Shah
Rs. 1,25,00,000/-
23rd October, 2025
3 months
Shri Hemul Shah
Rs. 80,00,000 /-
15th  February, 2024
3 months
	
The Company does not have stock option scheme for grant of stock options either to the Executive Directors or employees.
C.	
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE:
	
The Board has constituted the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in line with the provisions of Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations, read 
with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and is in due compliance of all the provisions stated therein.
a.	
Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are in line with the regulatory requirements which among other are specified 
herein below:
	
	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the listed entity including complaints related to transfer/transmission of shares, non-
receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.
	
	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders. 
	
	
Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the listed entity in respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar & 
Share Transfer Agent. 
	
	
Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring 
timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders of the company.
b.	
Composition:
	
As on 31st March, 2023, the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee comprised of three (3) Directors. The composition of the Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee and the details of meetings attended by its members are given below:
Name
Category
Number of meetings Attended 
Shri Pundarik Sanyal (Chairman)
I.N.E.D
2
Shri Chetan Shah 
E.C
2
Shri Hemul Shah
E.D & CEO
2
c.	
Meetings:
	
During the year under review, the members of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee met two (2) times on 14th September, 2022 and 
2nd January 2023.
d.	
Name, Designation and Address of Compliance Officer:
	
Shri Sachin Polke, Company Secretary & President acts as the Compliance Officer and is available at ‘Ashapura Minechem Limited’, Jeevan Udyog 
Building, 3rd Floor, 278, D. N. Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001.
e.	
Details of investor complaints received and redressed during the financial year 2022-2023 are as follows:
Opening balance
Received during the year
Resolved during the year
Closing balance
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
40
Ashapura Minechem Limited
D.	
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
	
The Board has constituted the Risk Management Committee in line with the provisions of Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations, read with 
Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and is in due compliance of all the provisions stated therein.
a.	
Terms of Reference:
	
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee are in line with the regulatory requirements which among other are specified herein 
below:
 
	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include: 
	
a)	
A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the Company, in particular including financial, operational, 
sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks or any other risk as may be determined by the 
Committee. 
	
b)	
Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks.
	
c)	
Business continuity plan. 
	
	
	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with the business 
of the Company; 
	
	
	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk management 
systems; 
	
	
	
To periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity; 
	
	
	
To keep the board of directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions to be taken; 
	
	
	
The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by the Risk Management 
Committee. 
b.	
Composition:
	
As on 31st March, 2023, the Risk Management Committee comprised of four (4) Members. The composition of the Risk Management Committee 
and the details of meetings attended by its members are given below:
Name
Category
Number of meetings Attended 
Shri Hemul Shah (Chairman)
E.D & CEO
2
Shri Harish Motiwalla 
I.N.E.D
2
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
I.N.E.D
2
Shri Ashish Desai
CFO
2
c.	
Meetings:
	
During the year under review, the members of the Risk Management Committee met two (2) times on 10th August, 2022 and 03rd February, 2023.
E.	
COMMITTEE OF DIRECTORS:
	
The Board has constituted the Committee of Directors in line with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, read with relevant sections of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and is in due compliance of all the provisions stated therein.
a.	
Terms of Reference:
	
	
The terms of reference of the Committee of Directors are as follows:
	
	
Reviewing various day to day administrative, operational and finance matters requiring urgent decisions.
	
	
Availing/making of loans, raising of funds, giving of corporate guarantees/securities considering the limits and provisions as specified in the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
	
To consider and approve intrinsic & time bound policy decisions such as investment/ disinvestment in other body corporate(s)/firm(s), 
leasing/disposing off the Company’s assets within the group & such other decisions where time is of essence and that the said decisions are 
placed before the Board of Directors for ratification.
	
	
Such other matters as may be delegated by the Board to the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and such 
other Acts.
41
b.	
Composition:
	
As on 31st March, 2023, the Committee of Directors comprised of four (4) Directors. The Composition of the Committee of Board of Directors and 
the particulars of attendance of the Committee Members are as follows:
Name 
Category
No. of Meetings Attended 
Shri Chetan Shah (Chairman)
E.C
7
Shri Hemul Shah
E.D & CEO
6
Shri Harish Motiwalla
I.N.E.D
7
Smt. Himani Shah*
N.E.D
1
Shri. Pundarik Sanyal#
I.N.E.D
6
	
*  Smt. Himani Shah ceased to be a Member of the Committee w.e.f. 30th May, 2022.
	
# Shri Pundarik Sanyal was co-opted as Member of Committee w.e.f. 30th May, 2022.
c.	
Meetings:
	
During the year under review, Seven (7) meetings of the Committee of Directors were held on 25th April, 2022, 30th June, 2022, 14th  September, 
2022, 02nd December, 2022, 20th January, 2023, 14th February, 2023 and 24th March, 2023.
F.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE:
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Company is constituted in line with the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and is in due compliance of all the provisions stated therein.
a.	
Terms of reference:
 
	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy indicating the activities to be undertaken by the 
Company after taking into consideration Schedule VII of the Act.
 
	
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred above.
	
	
Monitor the CSR activities of the Company from time to time.
	
	
To finalize the budget for CSR expenditure and recommend the same to the Board for approval considering the applicable rules/regulations.
b.	
Composition:
	
The composition of the CSR Committee and details of the meetings attended by its members during the year under review are given below:
Name
Category
 No. of Meetings Attended
Shri Harish Motiwalla (Chairman)
I.N.E.D
1
Shri Chetan Shah
E.C
1
Shri Pundarik Sanyal
I.N.E.D
1
c.	
Meetings:
	
During the year under review, One (1) meeting of the CSR Committee was held on 09th February, 2023.
4.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS:
	
Details of Annual General Meetings (AGMs) held during the last three years, are as follows:
Financial Year
Date
Time
Location
Special Resolution Passed
2021-2022
29th Sept, 2022
12:30 p.m.
Video Conferencing
Yes
2020-2021
29th Sept, 2021
12:00 p.m.
Video Conferencing
No
2019-2020
30th Dec, 2020
3.00 p.m.
Video Conferencing
Yes
	
42
Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
Details of Special Resolutions passed in the previous three Annual General Meetings:
Date of AGM
Special Resolution Details
29th September, 2022
 
Re-appointment of Shri Chetan Shah (DIN: 00018960)  as an Executive Chairman of the 
Company
 
Re-appointment of Shri Hemul Shah (DIN: 00058558)  as an Executive Director & Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company
29th September, 2021
 
 No Special Resolution was passed
30th December, 2020
 
Appointment of Shri Hemul Shah (DIN: 00058558) as an Executive Director & CEO 
 
Re-appointment of Shri Pundarik Sanyal (DIN:01773295) as Non-Executive, Independent 
Director of the Company for the second term
 
Reclassification of the Authorized Share Capital of the Company
	
Details of Special Resolution passed during the year through postal ballot:
	
	
During the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, 2 (two) Special Resolutions were passed through postal ballot for below mentioned matters:
	 1. Issue of Convertible Warrants on preferential basis 
	 2.  Enhance the limits for extending loans, making investments and providing guarantees or security under section 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013.
	
The details of voting are as follows:	
Resolution
Percentage of number of valid votes 
cast in assent
Percentage of number of valid votes 
cast in dissent
Issue of Convertible Warrants on preferential 
basis
99.7231
0.2609
Enhance the limits for extending loans, making 
investments and providing guarantees or 
security under section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
99.9892
0.0108
	
Procedure followed for Postal Ballot:
	
The Board at its meeting held on 02nd January, 2023, had approved the Notice of Postal Ballot / E-Voting for passing of special resolution to obtain 
approval of shareholders for Issue of Convertible Warrants on preferential basis and enhance the limits for extending loans, making investments 
and providing guarantees or security under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
Person Conducting the Postal Ballot Exercise:
	
Shri Chetan Shah, Executive Chairman, Shri Sachin Polke, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer were appointed as persons responsible for 
the entire postal ballot / e-voting process. Shri Virendra Bhatt (ACS No. 1157, COP No. 124), Practicing Company Secretary was appointed as 
the Scrutinizer for conducting the postal ballot / e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
	
Procedure followed:
	 1.   In compliance with the Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Section 108, 110 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the rules made thereunder, the Company provided electronic voting 
facility to all its members, to enable them to cast their votes through electronic means only (remote e- voting). The Company engaged the 
services of Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) for the purpose of providing e-voting facility. 
	 2.  	The Company emailed the postal ballot notice dated 03rd January, 2023 containing draft resolutions together with the explanatory statements 
to the members whose names appeared in the register of members / list of beneficiaries as on cut-off date i.e. Saturday, 31st December, 2022. 
The Company also published a notice in the newspaper declaring the details of completion of dispatch on 04th January, 2023 as mandated 
under the Act and applicable rules.
	 3.  	The Company emailed Corrigendum to the postal ballot notice on 12th January, 2023 and also published the corrigendum to the postal ballot 
notice in the newspaper on 13th January, 2023 as mandated under the Act and applicable rules.
	 4.  	Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) vide it’s General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020, 17/2020 dated 13th April, 2020, 
39/2020 dated 31st December, 2020, 10/2020 dated 23rd June, 2021, 20/2021 dated 8th December, 2021, 3/ 2022 dated 5th May, 2022 and 
11/2022 dated 28th December, 2022 provided relaxation with the requirement of providing physical copies of the Notice, postal ballot forms 
and pre-paid Business Reply Envelopes to Members on account of the threats posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, members were 
requested to provide their assent or dissent through e-voting only.
	 5.	 The Scrutinizer submitted his report on 01st February, 2023, after the completion of scrutiny.
43
6.	
The results of the postal ballot were announced by the Company Secretary, being duly authorised by the Chairman of the Company on 02nd 
February, 2023. The last date specified for closure of e-voting i.e. 01st February, 2023, was taken as the date of passing the resolution.
	
The result of the postal ballot along with the scrutinizer’s report was displayed at the registered office of the Company, hosted at the Company’s 
website at www.ashapura.com and on the website of CDSL and was also communicated to the Stock Exchanges.
Apart from the above announcement of the results, the postal Ballot resolution was passed after the end of the financial year 22-23, the details 
there of given in Directors Report. Further there is no other proposal for passing any special Resolution through postal Bullot before ensuing 
Annual General Meeting.
5.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION:
The quarterly, half yearly and annual financial results
Published in one English daily newspaper in ‘Business Standard’ and one 
Marathi newspaper in ‘Sakal or Navshakti’
Any Website, where displayed
https://www.ashapura.com
Whether it also displays official news release
The Management issues press release as and when necessary on  
https://www.ashapura.com and on both the stock exchanges  
Presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts 
-
	
All other statutory information as may be prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and/or Listing Regulations are displayed on the website of 
the Company. 
6.	
DETAILS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL:
	
SEBI Vide its notification dated 14th June 2023 has mandated listed companies to provide particulars of senior management including the 
changes there in since the close of the Previous Financial Year. Your company is having following officers in senior management position in the 
Company.	
	
 Name
Designation
 Date of joining in the 
Company
Date of Cessation / Change 
along with details
Shri Chetan Shah
E.C
24th October, 2019
-
Shri Hemul Shah
E.D & CEO
16th February, 2020
-
Shri Ashish Desai
CFO
13th July, 2010
-
Shri Sachin Polke
Company Secretary & President 
(Corporate Affairs)
15th September, 1999
-
Shri Sandeep Deshpande
Group Head HR-Human Resource & 
Administration 
1st November 2021 
-
	
Further in terms of regulation 30A of the listing regulation there are no such agreements which are required to be disclosed in the Annual Report.
7.	
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION:
Annual General Meeting:
29th September, 2023 at 3.30 p.m. through Video Conferencing (VC) / other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM)
Financial Year:
1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023
Date of Book Closure:
23rd September, 2023 (Saturday) to 29th September, 2023 (Friday) (Both days inclusive)
Record Date for Dividend:
NA
Dividend Payment Date:
NA
Listing Details:
Equity Shares are listed on the following Stock Exchanges:
1.	
BSE Limited, Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001.
2.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited, “Exchange Plaza”, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra 
(East), Mumbai – 400051.
The Annual Listing Fees for the year 2022-2023 has been paid to the said Stock Exchanges.
Stock Code:
BSE Ltd. - 527001
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. - ASHAPURMIN
ISIN Number:
INE348A01023 
Corporate Identification Number (CIN):
L14108MH1982PLC026396
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent:
M/s. Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.	
	
C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai–400 083
44
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Share Transfer System:
	
The Board-level Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee examines and redresses investors’ 
grievances. The status of investors’ grievances and share transfers are reported to the Board.
As mandated by SEBI, securities of the Company can be transferred /traded only in dematerialised 
form. Further, SEBI vide its circular dated January 25, 2022, mandated that all service requests 
for issue of duplicate certificate, claim from unclaimed suspense account, renewal/ exchange of 
securities certificate, endorsement, subdivision/splitting/consolidation of certificate, transmission 
and transposition which were allowed in physical form should be processed in dematerialised 
form only. The necessary forms for the above request are available on the website of the Company.
Shareholders holding shares in physical form are advised to avail the facility of dematerialisation.
Shareholders should communicate with Link Intime India Private Limited, the Company’s Registrars 
& Share Transfer Agent at rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in quoting their folio number or Depository 
Participant ID and Client ID number, for any queries relating to their securities. 
The average time taken for processing and registration of relodged share transfer requests is 
less than 15 days. The Stakeholders Relationship Committee considers the transfer proposals 
generally on a weekly basis.
Distribution of Shareholding & 
Category-wise distribution:
Refer Table A & B
Dematerialization of shares and 
liquidity:
As on 31st March, 2023, 99.77% of the paid-up share capital (face value of Equity Shares of Rs. 2 
each) is held in Demat form with NSDL and CDSL.
Mode
No. of equity shares
% to the Total Share Capital
Physical
207493
0.23%
Electronic:
(A) NSDL
(B) CDSL
51113059 
40165546
55.87 %
43.90%
TOTAL
91486098
100.00%
Outstanding GDR / ADR / Warrants or 
any Convertible Instruments and their 
likely impact on Equity:
NIL
Plant Locations:
1.	
Village Baraya, Bhuj-Mundra Highway, Tal. Mundra, Kutch, Gujarat.
2.	
Village Paddhar, Taluka - Bhuj, Dist. Kutch, Gujarat.
3.	
Mamuara, Taluka - Bhuj, Dist. Kutch, Gujarat.
4.	
KINFRA Apparel Park, Menamkulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.
Address for Correspondence:
The Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent viz. M/s Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. provides all 
shareholder related services. 
Any query relating to shares and requests for transactions such as transfers, transmissions and 
nomination facilities, duplicate share certificates, change of address and also dematerialization of 
shares may please be taken up with:
M/s. Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.
C-101, 247 Park, 
L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West),
Mumbai – 400 083
Tel.: +91-22-49186000 Fax: +91-22-49186060. 
E-mail: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in
8.	
OTHER DISCLOSURES:
a.	
The Company has formulated a policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions and has been uploaded on the website of the Company at 
http://www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php. The Board of Directors has entrusted responsibility on the Audit Committee to grant omnibus 
approval for the transactions which are repetitive in nature and to confirm that they meet the criteria of having entered into ordinary course 
of business and at arm’s length basis. Related party transactions have been disclosed under Note 37 the Accounts for the year under review. 
A Statement in summary form of transactions with related parties in the ordinary course of business are placed periodically before the Audit 
Committee/Board for review and approval. None of the transactions with any related parties were in conflict with the Company’s interest.
b.	
The Company has duly complied with all the requirements of the provisions of the Listing Regulations, as well as other relevant regulations and 
guidelines of SEBI, as issued from time to time and applicable to the Company during last three years except for late submission of Annual Report 
under Regulation 34 for financial year ended 31st March, 2014 and for delayed submission of scrutinisers report under regulation 44(3) for postal 
ballot held in February, 2020. Consequently, Bombay Stock Exchange imposed penalty for delaying in such appointment. The Company paid the 
same on 25th January, 2023.
c.	
In line with Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations and Section 177 of the Act, Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism has been formulated for 
Directors and employees to report genuine concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code 
of Conduct. The mechanism provides for adequate safeguard against victimization of Director(s)/employee(s) who avail the mechanism, by 
providing for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases. No person has been denied access to the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. The Policy is available on the Company’s website http://www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php.
45
	
During the year under review, no complaint has been received under the Vigil Mechanism /Whistle Blower Policy.
d.	
Details of Compliance with Mandatory requirements and adoption of Non - Mandatory Requirements. 
	
	
The Company has complied with mandatory requirements under SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015.
	
	
Disclosure with regard to discretionary requirements as specified in Part E of Schedule II to the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 is as under:
Sr.
No
Discretionary Requirement
Discretionary Requirement - to the extent adopted
1
The Board :
A Non-Executive Chairperson may be entitled to maintain a 
chairperson’s office at the Company’s expense and also allowed 
reimbursement of expenses incurred in the performance of his/
her duties.
The Company has an Executive Chairperson.
2
Shareholder Rights :
A half yearly declaration of Financial performance including 
summary of the significant events in last six months may be sent to 
each household of shareholders.
As the half yearly results are published in English newspapers 
having wide circulation all over India and in a Marathi newspaper 
(having circulation in Mumbai), the same are not sent to the 
shareholders of the Company. Annual audited financial results are 
taken on record by the Board and then published in newspapers as 
aforesaid and also communicated to the shareholders through the 
Annual report. Further the financial results and significant events, 
if any, are communicated by the Company to the Stock Exchange 
and are also uploaded on its website i.e. www.ashapura.com
3
Modified opinion(s) in audit report
The Company is in the regime of unqualified financial statements.
4
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing Director or the 
Chief Executive Officer
The Company has appointed separate persons to the post of 
Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors 
and Shareholders had unanimously approved an Executive 
Director to be the Chairperson of the Company.
5
Reporting of Internal Auditor
The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee and 
attends the Audit Committee meetings and interacts directly with 
the Audit Committee members.
e.	
The Company has in place a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information to regulate, monitor and report trading by Insiders as prescribed under SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, as approved by the Board of Directors.
f.	
Details of Utilization of Funds raised through Preferential Allotment: - During the year under review company had raised funds through preferential 
allotment of 40,40,000 Convertible warrants at Rs. 95.96 per warrant to be converted into Equity Shares to Mr. Manan Shah and M/s Ashapura 
Industrial Finance Limited. Out of the total proceed the Company has received 25% of the price per warrant on allotment which were utilised by 
the Company for general corporate purpose i.e. to cater the need of working capital requirement of the company as a part of financial strategy. 
g.	
In terms of Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations, the Company has in place a policy on Determining Material Subsidiary, approved by the 
Board and the same has been displayed on the Company’s website at http://www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php. 
h.	
Pursuant to regulation 24A, the secretarial Audit report of Company’s material unlisted subsidiaries incorporated in India has been attached as 
Annexure I & II. 
i.	
Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice on Non-Disqualification of Directors of the Company:
A Certificate has been received from Shri Virendra Bhatt, Practicing Company Secretary, that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company 
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such Statutory Authority. The said certificate has been attached.
j.	
Fees Paid to Statutory Auditors:
The details of fees paid by the Company to the Statutory Auditor is mentioned in Note No. 28 of the Standalone Financial Statements.
k.	
Disclosures in Relation to Sexual Harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013:
The details have been disclosed in the Directors Report forming part of this Annual Report.
l. 	
Disclosure regarding any ‘Loans and Advances’ in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which directors are interested by the Company or 
any of it’s subsidiaries is mentioned in Note no 6
46
Ashapura Minechem Limited
m.	
Details of Material Subsidiaries:
Sr. No.
Name of Material Subsidiary
Date of 
Incorporation
Place of 
Incorporation 
Name of Statutory 
Auditor
Date of Appointment 
of Statutory Auditor
1.
Ashapura International Limited
18/12/1989
Mumbai
Sanghavi & Co.
26-09-2019
2.
Bombay Minerals Limited
24/01/1953
Ahemdabad
Sanghavi & Co.
28-09-2019
	
Market Price data: 
Period
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Sensex (Rs.)
AML Share price (Rs.)
Nifty (Rs.)
AML Share price (Rs.)
High
Low
High
Low
High
Low
High
Low
Apr-22
60845.10
56009.07
175.00
127.95
18114.65
16824.70
175.25
127.55
May-22
57184.21
52632.48
141.75
100.05
17132.85
15735.75
141.80
99.70
Jun-22
56432.65
50921.22
116.30
89.95
16793.85
15183.40
117.00
90.00
Jul-22
57619.27
52094.25
119.85
98.40
17172.80
15511.05
119.75
99.00
Aug-22
60411.20
57367.47
118.00
102.00
17992.20
17154.80
117.95
101.80
Sep-22
60676.12
56147.23
128.45
85.85
18096.15
16747.70
129.40
85.70
Oct-22
60786.70
56683.40
96.35
87.75
18022.80
16855.55
96.35
88.10
Nov-22
63303.01
60425.47
94.05
72.70
18816.05
17959.20
93.50
70.80
Dec-22
63583.07
59754.10
98.00
72.70
18887.60
17774.25
98.00
72.20
Jan-23
61343.96
58699.20
121.00
90.95
18251.95
17405.55
122.00
90.95
Feb-23
61682.25
58795.97
117.95
99.50
18134.75
17255.20
117.75
99.10
Mar-23
60498.48
57084.91
118.00
96.80
17799.95
16828.35
118.10
96.65
	
Share Performance of the Company in comparison to BSE Sensex
47
Share Performance of the Company in comparison to NSE Nifty:
9.	
COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS:
The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements as contained in the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
10.	 UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE DEMAT ACCOUNT:
In accordance with the Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations, the Company has Unclaimed Suspense Demat Account with Stock Holding 
Corporation of India Limited and whenever any request for said unclaimed shares are received, equity shares either in electronic or physical forms 
are issued to the claimant concerned after debiting said Demat Account.  
Particulars 
No. of Shareholders
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying as 
on 1st April, 2022
38
37000
Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares from suspense account during 
the year
NIL
NIL
Shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense account during the year
NIL
NIL
Shares transferred to Demat Account of IEPF Authority during the year
NIL
NIL
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying as 
on 31st March, 2023
38
37000
	
The voting rights on the said shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owners of such shares claim the shares.
“TABLE A”
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON 31ST MARCH, 2023
No. of Equity Shares held
No. of Shareholders 
% of Shareholders
No. of Shares
% of Shareholding 
1-500
21563
80.4229
2743979
2.9993
501-1000
2231
8.3209
1849920
2.0221
1001-2000
1400
5.2215
2252414
2.4620
2001-3000
469
1.7492
1217815
1.3311
3001-4000
230
0.8578
836628
0.9145
4001-5000
178
0.6639
844289
0.9229
5001-10000
356
1.3278
2649278
2.8958
10001 & above
385
1.4359
79091775
86.4522
TOTAL
26812
100
91486098
100
48
Ashapura Minechem Limited
“TABLE B”
CATEGORY-WISE DISTRIBUTION AS ON 31ST MARCH, 2023
Categories
Total No. of Shares
% of Holdings
A)  Promoters Holding
 
 
       Individuals
26563454
29.04
       Bodies Corporate
14906774
16.29
Total (A) ..
41470228
45.33
B)  Public Holding
 
 
1)   Institutions (Domestic)
 
 
       a.  Mutual Fund
118000
0.13
       b.  Banks
8000
0.01
       c.   NBFCs registered with RBI
1600
0.00
Total (B)(1)
127600
0.14
2)   Institutions (Foreign)
 
 
      a.  Foreign Portfolio Investors Category I
13850479
15.14
      b.  Foreign Portfolio Investors Category II
1696071
1.85
Total (B)(2)
15546550
16.99
3)  Central Government/ State Government(s)
0
0.00
Total (B)(3)
0
0.00
4)   Non-Institutions
 
 
     a.  Directors and their relatives (excluding
          Independent Directors and nominee Directors)
1007
0.00
     b.  Key Managerial Personnel
1144
0.00
     c.  Investor Education And Protection Fund
1200
0.00
     d.  Public
26422459
28.88
     e.  Non Resident Indians (NRIs)
1286886
1.41
     f.  Bodies Corporate
5345971
5.84
     g.  Any Other :
 
         Trust
200
0.00
         Body Corporate - Ltd Liability Partnership
199890
0.22
         Hindu Undivided Family
1054789
1.15
         Clearing Members
27674
0.03
         Other (Independent Director)
500
0.00
Total (B)(4)
34341720
37.54
Total (B)= (B)(1)+(B)(2)+(B)(3)+(B)(4)
50015870
54.67
Grand Total .. ..
91486098
100.00
  For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
            
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   	
                
                                                                  	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CEO
	
(DIN: 00018960)  	
(DIN: 00058558)
Place: Mumbai
Date: 10th August, 2023
49
Annexure I
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Ashapura International Limited
CIN : U14108MH1989PLC054664
Jeevan Udyog Bldg., D.N.Road,
Fort, Mumbai – 400001.
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of compliance of applicable Statutory Provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by Ashapura 
International Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provides me a reasonable basis for 
evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on verification of the Company’s  books, papers, minutes, statutory registers, records, forms and returns filed with the Registrar of Companies (‘the 
ROC’)  and other records maintained by the Company ( on physical and online basis) and also the information provided by the Company, its Officers, 
Agents and Authorized Representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, the explanations and clarifications given and the representations made 
by the Management I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company during the audit period covering the financial year 1st April, 2022 to  31st  March, 
2023, (“audit period”) has prima facie complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minutes, statutory registers, records, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company ( on 
physical and online basis) for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the applicable provisions of : 
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made there under; as also Secretarial Standards 1 & 2 Issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed there under;
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 & the Rules & Regulations made there under. 
(iv)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
• 
Though the following laws are prescribed in the format of Secretarial Audit Report by the Government, the same were not applicable to the 
Company for the financial year ended  March 31, 2023:-
(a)	
The Securities And Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; 
(c)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Issue & listing of Debt securities) Regulations, 2008;
(d)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
(e)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(f) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(g) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(h) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
(i) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021
(j) 	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client; 
(v)	
I further report that, based on the discussion had with the Management and the Management Representation Letter furnished, the Company has 
inter-alia complied with the following laws: 
(a)	
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947
(b)	
The Payment of Wages Act, 1936
(c)	
The Minimum Wages Act, 1948
(d)	
The Employees Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952
(e)	
The Payment Of Bonus Act, 1965
(f)	
The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972
(g)	
The Contract Labour (Regulations & Abolition) Act, 1970 
(h)	
Mines Act, 1952
(i)	
Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961
(j)	
Water (Prevention & Control) of Pollution Act, 1974
(k)	
Air (Prevention & Control) of Pollution Act, 1981
(l)	
Customs Act, 1962 
(m)	
Hazardous Wastes (M&H) Rules
(n)	
Environment Protection Rules, 1986
(o)	
Mineral Conservation & Development Rules, 1988
(p)	
Factories Act, 1948
I further report that I have relied on the Statutory Auditor’s Reports in relation to the financial statements and accuracy of financial figures for, Sales 
Tax, Wealth Tax, Value Added Tax, Related Party Transactions, Provident Fund, ESIC, etc. as disclosed under financial statements, Indian Accounting 
Standard 24 & note on foreign currency transactions during the audit period and I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the books 
of accounts of the Company.
50
Ashapura Minechem Limited
I further report that: 
1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted as on 31st March, 2023. There was no change in the Board of Directors during the year 
under review and upto the date of this Report. 
2.	
The Directors have complied with the requirements as to disclosure of interests and concerns in contracts and arrangements, shareholdings and 
directorships in other Companies and interest in other entities;
3.	
As per the information provided, the company has prima facie given adequate notice in respect of the Board Meetings, agenda & detailed notes 
on agenda were sent in advance. Further as per the information provided and observed, majority decisions are carried unanimously while the 
dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured & recorded as part of the minutes.
4.	
the Company has obtained all necessary approvals under various provisions of the Act where necessary; 
5.	
there was no prosecution initiated against or show cause notice received by the Company during the year under review under the Companies Act 
and rules, regulations and guidelines under these Acts.
6.	
the Company’s Management and Board of Directors are also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate systems and process, 
commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to identify, monitor and ensure compliances with the applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines, subject to observations and qualifications, if any made by the Statutory Auditors in their report.
7.	
the Management is responsible for compliances of all business laws. This responsibility includes maintenance of statutory registers/records 
required by the concerned authorities and internal control of the concerned department. 
I report the following OBSERVATION during the Audit:
1.	
The Company has complied with provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Act in respect of loans, Investment, guarantees and security, to the 
extent applicable, except that no interest is charged on unsecured loans granted to a fellow subsidiary company.
2.	
The Company has not accepted and deposits or deemed deposits within the manings of Section 73 to 76 of the Act and the Rules thereunder 
except for advances from customers aggregaing to Rs.871.56 lacs, in the opinion of the management, are accepted in the ordinary course of 
business.
I further report that during the audit period the Company had no specific events like Public/Right/Preferential issue of shares/debentures/sweat equity, 
Issue of equity shares under Employee Stock Option Scheme; Redemption / Buy- back of securities; Merger / Amalgamation / Reconstruction; Foreign 
Technical Collaborations, etc.
I further report that:-
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
Secretarial Records based on the audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of 
the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in the Secretarial records. I believe that 
the processes and practices I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of Laws, Rules and Regulations and happening of 
events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations, Standards is the responsibility of the Management. 
My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
7.	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk that some Misstatements 
or material non-compliances may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the Standards.
Dipti Gohil
ACS No –14736
COP No – 11029P. R. No. 2026/2022
UDIN : A014736E000778763
Place: Mumbai
Date:  10th August, 2023
51
Annexure II
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Bombay Minerals Limited
CIN : U14100GJ1953PLC000699
Dwarka Highway Opp. Ashok Petrol Pump, 
Khambhalia, Jamnagar - 361001
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of compliance of applicable Statutory Provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by Bombay 
Minerals Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provides me a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on verification of the Company’s  books, papers, minutes, statutory registers, records, forms and returns filed with the Registrar of Companies (‘the 
ROC’)  and other records maintained by the Company ( on physical and online basis) and also the information provided by the Company, its Officers, 
Agents and Authorized Representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, the explanations and clarifications given and the representations made 
by the Management I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company during the audit period covering the financial year 1st April, 2022 to  31st  March, 
2023, (“audit period”) has prima facie complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent , in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minutes, statutory registers, records, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company ( on 
physical and online basis) for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the applicable provisions of :
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made there under; as also Secretarial Standards 1 & 2 Issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
(ii)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed there under;
(iii)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 & the Rules & Regulations made there under. 
(iv)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
• 
Though the following laws are prescribed in the format of Secretarial Audit Report by the Government, the same were NOT applicable to the 
Company for the financial year ended  March 31, 2023:-
(a)	
The Securities And Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,2018;
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
(c)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Issue & listing of Debt securities) Regulations, 2008;
(d)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
(e)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(f)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(g)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(h)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
(i)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;
(j)	
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies 
Act and dealing with client; 
(v)	
I further report that, based on the discussion had with the Management and the Management Representation Letter furnished, the Company 
has inter-alia complied with the following laws:   
(a)	
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947
(b)	
The Payment of Wages Act, 1936
(c)	
The Minimum Wages Act, 1948
(d)	
The Employees Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952
(e)	
The Payment Of Bonus Act, 1965
(f)	
The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972
(g)	
The Contract Labour (Regulations & Abolition) Act, 1970 
(h)	
Mines Act, 1952
(i)	
Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961
(j)	
Water (Prevention & Control) of Pollution Act, 1974
(k)	
Air (Prevention & Control) of Pollution Act, 1981
(l)	
Customs Act, 1962 
(m)	
Hazardous Wastes (M&H) Rules
(n)	
Environment Protection Rules, 1986
(o)	
Mineral Conservation & Development Rules, 1988
(p)	
Factories Act, 1948
I further report that I have relied on the Statutory Auditor’s Reports in relation to the financial statements and accuracy of financial figures for Sales 
Tax, Wealth Tax, Value Added Tax, Related Party Transactions, Provident Fund, ESIC, etc. as disclosed under financial statements, Indian Accounting 
Standard 24 & note on foreign currency transactions during the audit period and I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the books 
of accounts of the Company.
52
Ashapura Minechem Limited
I further report that: 
1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted as on 31st March, 2023.. There was no change in the Board of Directors during the 
year under review and upto the date of this Report. 
2.	
the Directors have complied with the requirements as to disclosure of interests and concerns in contracts and arrangements, shareholdings and 
directorships in other Companies and interest in other entities;
3.	
As per the information provided, the company has prima facie given adequate notice in respect of the Board Meetings, agenda & detailed notes 
on agenda were sent in advance. Further as per the information provided and observed, majority decisions are carried unanimously while the 
dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured & recorded as part of the minutes.
4.	
the Company has obtained all necessary approvals under various provisions of the Act where necessary; 
5.	
there was no prosecution initiated against or show cause notice received by the Company during the year under review under the Companies Act 
and rules, regulations and guidelines under these Acts.
6.	
the Company’s Management and Board of Directors are also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate systems and process, 
commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to identify, monitor and ensure compliances with the applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines, subject to observations and qualifications, if any made by the Statutory Auditors in their report.
7.	
the Management is responsible for compliances of all business laws. This responsibility includes maintenance of statutory registers/records 
required by the concerned authorities and internal control of the concerned department. 
I report the OBSERVATIONS during the Audit:
1)	
The Company has complied with provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Act in respect of loans, Investment, guarantees and security, to the 
extent applicable, except that no interest is charged on unsecured loans granted to a subsidiary company.
2)	
The Company has not accepted and deposits or deemed deposits within the meanings of Sections 73 to 76 of the Act  and the Rules thereunder 
except for the advances from customers aggregating to Rs. 1145.05 Lakhs, which in the opinion of the Management are in the ordinary course 
of business.
I further report that during the audit period the Company had no specific events like Public/Right/Preferential issue of shares/debentures/sweat equity, 
Issue of equity shares under Employee Stock Option Scheme; Redemption / Buy- back of securities; Merger / Amalgamation / Reconstruction; Foreign 
Technical Collaborations, etc.
I further report that:-
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
Secretarial Records based on the audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of 
the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in the Secretarial records. I believe that 
the processes and practices I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Where ever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of Laws, Rules and Regulations and happening of 
events etc.
 
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations, Standards is the responsibility of the Management. 
My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficacy or effectiveness with which the 
Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
7.	
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk that some Misstatements 
or material non-compliances may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the Standards.
Dipti Gohil
ACS No –14736
COP No – 11029
P. R. No. 2026/2022
Place: Mumbai	
	
UDIN : AO14736E000773241
Date:  09th August, 2023
53
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Jeevan Udyog Bldg., 3rd Floor,
278, D. N. Road, Fort, 
Mumbai - 400001, Maharashtra, India.
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Ashapura Minechem Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as “the Company”), having CIN: L14108MH1982PLC026396 and having registered office at Jeevan Udyog Bldg., 3rd Floor, 278, D. N. 
Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400001, Maharashtra, India, produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance 
with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C sub-clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal 
www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its Officers, I hereby certify that none of the Directors 
on the Board of the Company as stated below for the financial year ending on 31st March, 2023 have been disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India and Ministry of Corporate Affairs:
Sr. No.
Name of the Director
DIN
Date of 
Appointment at 
current Designation
Original Date of 
Appointment
1
Chetan Navnitlal Shah
00018960
24/10/2022
19/02/1982
2
Harish Narendra Motiwalla
00029835
25/09/2019
29/07/2009
3
Hemul Ramesh Shah
00058558
16/02/2023
16/02/2020
4
Pundarik Sanyal
01773295
09/02/2021
09/02/2016
5
Himani Chetan Shah
02467277
30/12/2020
10/02/2020
6
Abhilash Nandaprasad Munsif
02773542
25/09/2019
29/07/2009
7
Neeta Sunil Shah
07134947
30/12/2020
11/11/2020
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. 
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Date: 16th May, 2023                                                                                                                                                          Virendra G. Bhatt 
Place: Mumbai	
                                                                                 Practicing Company Secretary
	
	
                                                                                                  ACS No.: 1157 / COP No.: 124
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
    Peer Review Cert. No.: 1439/ 2021
UDIN: A001157E000314481
54
Ashapura Minechem Limited
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To
The Members of 
ASHAPURA MINECHEM LIMITED
1	
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Ashapura Minechem Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 
31st March, 2023 as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27 and clause (b) to (i) of regulation 46 (2) and para C, D and E of schedule V of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”).
Managements’ Responsibility 
2	
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company. This responsibility includes 
the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of the Corporate 
Governance stipulated in Listing Regulations.
Auditors’ Responsibility 
3.	
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the 
conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
4.	
We have examined the books of account and relevant records and documents maintained by the Company for the purposes of providing 
reasonable assurance on the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by the Company. 
5.	
We have carried out an examination of the relevant records of the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate 
Governance issued by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”) and Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate and as per the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for 
Special Purposes issued by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
6.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that perform 
Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
7.	
Based on our examination of the relevant records and according to the information and explanations provided to us and the representation 
provided by the Management, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated 
in Listing Regulations for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
8.	
We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on Use
9.	
The certificate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling the Company to comply with the 
requirement of the Listing Regulations and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or 
assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands it may 
come without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this certificate for events and circumstances occurring after the 
date of this certificate.
	 	
	
For P A R K & COMPANY
	 	
	
Chartered Accountants
	 	
	
FRN: 116825W
	 	
	
PRASHANT VORA
	 	
	
Partner
	 	
	
Membership No. 034514
 		
	
UDIN: 23034514BGZEMT3259 
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 10, 2023
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF CONDUCT
This is to confirm that Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for all the Board Members, Senior Management and all employees above Officer 
Level. These Codes are available on the Company’s website.
I further confirm that the Company has in respect of the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2023, received from all the Board Members and Senior 
Management Personnel of the Company, a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
	
For Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
Sd/-	
	
	
	
Hemul Shah
	
Executive Director & CEO
	
Place    : Mumbai
Date     : August 10, 2023
55
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OVERVIEW:
This report is an integral part of the Board’s Report and covers management perspective on economic environment, industrial scenario, business 
performance, opportunities, threats, risks & concern, internal control etc. during the Financial Year 2022-2023. This should be read in conjunction with 
the Company’s Financial Statements, the schedules and notes thereto and other information included elsewhere in the Annual Report. 
ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT:
Nearly all the major economies in the world have tried to bottle the stubborn inflation genie by maintaining high interest rates, growth rates have 
been relatively stable despite the rising rates. 
It all started with the pandemic-induced contraction of the global output, followed by the Russian-Ukraine conflict leading to a worldwide surge in 
inflation. Then, the central banks across economies led by the Federal Reserve responded with synchronised policy rate hikes to curb inflation. The 
rate hike by the US Fed drove capital into the US markets causing the US Dollar to appreciate against most currencies. This led to the widening of the 
Current Account Deficits (CAD) and increased inflationary pressures in net importing economies.
The rate hike and persistent inflation also led to a lowering of the global growth for 2022 and forecasts for 2023 by the IMF. The frailties of the Chinese 
economy further contributed to weakening the growth forecasts. Slowing global growth apart from monetary tightening may also lead to a financial 
contagion emanating from the advanced economies where the debt of the non-financial sector has risen the most since the global financial crisis. 
With inflation persisting in the advanced economies and the central banks hinting at further rate hikes, downside risks to the global economic outlook 
appear elevated.
The IMF expects global growth to moderate from 3.2 percent in 2022 to 2.7 percent in 2023. 
The Indian economy did reasonably well to grow at 7 per cent (as per the Economic Survey) in FY 2022-23, relatively muted against the previous year’s 
growth of 8.7 percent which was largely attributable to a post Covid bump.   
INDUSTRY SCENARIO:
The earlier-than-expected end of Covid restrictions in China led to a rapid rebound in consumption-driven economic expansion. Since more than 50% 
of major mining commodities are consumed in China, the returning demand had a positive impact on volumes. Globally the mining sector grew by 
6.1% in 2022.
Miners have maintained robust investment discipline since the 2015-2016 commodity downturn, postponing investment projects when returns were 
uncertain. Supply and demand in major mining commodities remain balanced with no concerns about fundamental oversupply, leading to broadly 
unchanged short-term prices.
Copper and Aluminium prices are responsive to economic growth and sentiment and so they both held up during 2022.
Nickel & Lithium discoveries world over have been receiving their fair share of attention, how many of those actually translate into commercially viable 
& sustainable sources needs to be seen.
OPPORTUNITIES:
The increasing use of Aluminium in global decarbonizing efforts, right from Electric Vehicles, solar panels bode well for the Company’s Bauxite 
operations.
Ukraine has been a large global exporter of white performance minerals, the continuing conflict in the region has seen India emerge as an alternate 
strategic supplier of quality Kaolin products.
  
THREATS:
The global interest rate cycle may continue to hamper demand across economies, this in turn may lead to a sluggish demand for the Company’s value-
added products. Furthermore, China the world’s second largest economy continues to remain under a cloud, global mineral & commodity volumes & 
prices are very sensitive to Chinese demand.    
The continuing conflict in Ukraine may lead to higher oil prices which could in turn have implications on inflation and on costs.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE:
The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2023, have been prepared in accordance with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rule, 2015 (Ind AS) prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other recognized accounting practices and policies to the extent 
applicable. 
For the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, revenue at a standalone level stood at Rs. 26,271 lakhs with a pre-tax loss of Rs. 701 lakhs.
At the Consolidated level, the total revenue increased by 40% and stood at Rs. 1,91,617 lakhs as against Rs. 1,37,344 lakhs for the previous financial 
year ended 31st March, 2022 with a profit of Rs. 10,973 Lakhs  before exceptional items and tax, an increase of 3.5% over the previous financial year.
OUTLOOK:
The outlook for FY 2023-24 is set to be positive on account of two more Bauxite mines becoming operational in Guinea from the second half of the 
financial year, which would enable the company to export higher volumes.  
56
Ashapura Minechem Limited
The Company shall continue its constant endeavour to move up the value chain by introducing a new line of animal feed products which are value-
added from quality Bentonite. Furthermore, the Company’s Kaolin products are consolidating its position in the overseas market making up for the 
supply that has been lost because of the turmoil in Ukraine. 
RISK & CONCERNS:
The mining industry remains fraught with several challenges such as commodity cycles, environmental risks, regulatory & compliance risks; the 
Company has a well-oiled risk management apparatus. 
Any turbulence in large commodity hungry Asian economies such as India and China could significantly affect demand for the company’s products. 
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND ITS ADEQUACY:  
In keeping with the size and nature of its business and complexity of its operations, commensurate internal control procedures are implemented by 
the Company. The guidelines are set by the Audit Committee Members and Board of Directors who are responsible for the internal control system. 
They carry out periodic reviews of the internal audit plan, verify the adequacy of the control system, marks its audit observations, and monitors the 
sustainability of the remedial measures. 
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Company appointed M/s Atul HMV & Associates LLP as the Internal Auditors of the Company 
for the financial year 2022-2023. Observations made in internal audit reports on business processes, systems, procedures and internal controls and 
implementation status of recommended remedial measures by the Internal Auditors, are presented quarterly to the Audit Committee.
The Company’s internal control system is designed to ensure management efficiency, measurability and verifiability, reliability of accounting and 
management information, compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and the protection of the Company’s assets. This is to timely identify 
and manage the Company’s operational, compliance-related, economic and financial risks.
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT:
Company’s Research and Development (R&D) capabilities are playing an important role towards furthering your company’s vision and goals. Its 
Knowledge & Innovation Center at Bhuj, Gujarat, has come up with several marketable world-class value-added products. During the year, the R&D 
Centre has done extensive work on advanced refractory materials and on certain B2C value-added products.
The brief details of the R & D activities during the year are given under ‘Annexure - C’ forming part of the Directors’ Report.
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT: 
Human Resource is Company’s greatest asset and your Company believe that in the roadmap for building the future, employee involvement is crucial 
to be continually creative and drive organizational excellence. The organizational excellence depends on the quality of people employed. Therefore, 
your Company focus on the culture of recognition, innovation in technology, engagement of right people for the right job and process improvements. 
Your company’s ethics, principles and ideals have fostered a positive work culture among the employees across all its plants and offices.
The employees are treated with respect and dignity at all times and senior management is easily accessible for counseling and redressal of grievances. 
Your Company had a dedicated human asset of over 439 employees spread across locations in the organization as on 31st March, 2023. 
Key Financial Ratios:
The Key Financial Ratios for FY 2022-2023 and FY 2021-2022, along with explanation for significant changes (change of 25% or more) are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
2022-2023
2021-2022
% change
1
Debtors turnover Ratio (Days)*
Sale/Average Debtors 
223
112
99%
2
Inventory turnover Ratio (Days)*
Sales /Average Inventory 
204
74
176%
3
Interest coverage ratio **
(EBIT: Profit before Exceptional Item and tax + interest on borrowing) / 
Interest Expenses
0.74
0.48
54%
4
Current ratio
Current assets /Current Liability
1.60
1.18
36%
5
Operating Profit Margin **
(EBIT-other Income) /Net revenue from Operation
-11%
-2%
450%
6
Net Profit Margin**
(Net Profit /Revenue from Operation)
-3.15%
-2.62%
20%
7
Return on Net worth **
(Net Profit /Average net worth )
-28%
-35%
20% 
8
Debts Equity Ratio 
Total debts /Shareholders fund 
2.35
1.87
26%
Notes:
Exceptional items are excluded from Net profit.
*   Due to reduction in sales by 63% during the financial year 22-23 compared to previous year. 
57
** Due to significant reduction in purchase of trading goods and selling & distribution overheads Profit has increased during the FY 22-23 compared 
to FY 21-22 by 55%.
*** Due to decreased in current liabilities
*** Due to decreased in shareholder fund
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT:
Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives, projections, estimates, expectations may be “forward-
looking statements” within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or 
implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the Company’s operations include, among others, downtrend in the industry, economic 
conditions affecting demand/supply and price conditions in the domestic market in which the Company operates, changes in political and economic 
environment in India, changes in the Government regulations, tax laws and other statutes, litigations and incidental factors.
 
	
	
	
	
           For and on Behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
            
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   	
                
                                                                  	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH	
	
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & CEO
	
(DIN: 00018960)  	
(DIN: 00058558)
Place: Mumbai
Date: 10th August, 2023
E & OE regretted
58
Ashapura Minechem Limited
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
59
60
Ashapura Minechem Limited
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity - L14108MH1982PLC026396
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity - Ashapura Minechem Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation - 1982
4.	
Registered office address - Jeevan Udyog Building, 278, 3rd Floor, D. N. Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400001, Maharashtra.
5.	
Corporate address - Jeevan Udyog Building, 278, 3rd Floor, D. N. Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400001, Maharashtra.
6.	
E-mail -  cosec@ashapura.com
7.	
Telephone - 22-66651700
8	
Website - http://www.ashapura.com/ 
9.	
Financial year for which reporting is being done - 2022-23
10.	
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
Name of the Exchange
Stock Code
BSE Ltd.
527001
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
ASHAPURMIN
11.	
Paid-up Capital - Rs. 18,29,72,196/-
12.	
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report – 
	
Name: Shri Hemul Shah
	
Designation: - Executive Director and CEO
	
Contact Details: 022-66221700
	
Email ID: cosec@ashapura.com 
13.	
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated 
basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken together). – 
	
The disclosure under this report are made on a Standalone Basis, unless otherwise specified.
II.	
Products/services
14.	
Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of  Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
 Trade
Wholesale Trading
18.27
2.
Manufacturing, Mining and quarrying
Other manufacturing, mining and 
Quarrying Activities
81.73
15.	
Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Bauxite
4662
7.45
2.
Bentonite
Group 239 and 810
10.24
3.
Calcined China Clay (CCC)
2399
53.00
4.
Trading
4662
18.27
5.
Silika
2399
7.31
6.
Kaolin
2399
3.73
III.	
Operations
16.	
Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
4
1
5
International
-
-
-
61
17.	
Markets served by the entity:
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
 Number
National (No. of States)
4
International (No. of Countries)
8
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
The Company’s contribution of exports is 65.25% of total turnover of the entity.
c.	
A brief on types of customers:
	
The Company follows a B2B business model, offering multi-mineral solutions to numerous global and Indian industry leaders in fiberglass, paint, 
cement, and civil engineering sectors.
IV.	
Employees
18.	
Details as at the end of Financial Year: 
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S.
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
360
328
91.11
32
8.89
2.
Other	
than
Permanent (E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.
Total employees
(D + E)
360
328
91.11
32
8.89
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
79
73
92.40
6
7.60
 5.
Other	
than
Permanent (G)
148
126
85.13
22
14.87
 6.
Total workers
(F + G)
227
199
87.67
28
12.33
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S.
No
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.
Total differently abled employees (D+E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5.
Otherthan permanent (G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
6.
Total differently abled workers (F+G)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
62
Ashapura Minechem Limited
19.	
Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total
(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
7
2
28.58
Key Management Personnel
2
Nil
Nil
20.	
Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22 
FY 2020-21 
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
16.37
13.11
14.74
14.43
10.91
12.67
14.36
27.12
20.74
Permanent Workers
28.17
75.00
51.58
15.95
100.00*
57.98
24.69
100.00*
62.35
	
* Note: The total turnover rate of permanent female workers in FY 2021-22 represents 100% as there were 4 female workers employed at the 
starting of the year, 3 left during the year and 2 were employed at the end of the year.  Further, the turnover rate is 100% for FY 2020-21 as 
there were 2 female workers employed at the starting of the year, 3 left during the year and 4 were employed at the end of the year. 
V. 	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.	
(a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. No.
Name of the  holding/ 
subsidiary/  associate 
companies/  joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by  listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at column 
A, participate in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No) 
Please refer the details of Company’s Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures as on March 31, 2023, as provided in the Annual Report of 
2022-23. Further none of the entity indicated, participates in the Business Responsibility initiatives.
V.	
CSR Details
22.	
(i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: 
	
For the current reporting year the CSR spend is not applicable.  
	
(ii)	
Turnover (in Rs.)	
- 26,271  Lakhs
	
(iii)	
Net worth (in Rs.) 	
- 3,460 Lakhs
VI.	
Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23.	
Complaints/ Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then provide web-link 
for grievance redress policy)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number of 
complaints  
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number 
of com-
plaints 
filed 
during 
the year
Number 
of com-
plaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Employees and 
workers
Yes, the Company has 
grievance redressal 
mechanism. The concerned 
person can reach out to HR.
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Shareholders
Shareholders can lodge their  
grievances through cosec@
ashapura.com  & through SEBI 
SCORES mechanism
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Communities
Yes, the Company has grievance 
mechanism in place, and the 
concerned aggrieved can raise 
their concern at support@
ashapura.com
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Customers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Value Chain 
Partners
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
63
24.	
Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk 
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Material 
issue iden-
tified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
oppor-
tunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/  opportunity
In case of  risk, approach to  adapt or  
mitigate
Financial implica-
tions of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or  negative 
implications)
1. 
GHG 
Emissions
Risk
Mining operations are ener-
gy-intensive and generate sig-
nificant direct greenhouse gas 
(GHG) 
emissions, 
including 
carbon dioxide from fuel used 
during mining, ore processing, 
and smelting activities. The im-
pact of climate change has in-
creased in frequency and sever-
ity over the years and has be-
come an emerging global risk.
In order to mitigate the risk associat-
ed with GHG emissions, the Company 
is focusing on the importance of GHG 
reduction and effective utilization of 
energy by selecting appropriate envi-
ronmentally friendly technologies. The 
Company, therefore, to reduce GHG 
emissions, is using very low Sulphur 
coal and has also installed twin bag fil-
ters and cyclone separator.
Furthermore, it has also set target for 
being net zero emission company by 
2050, and for achieving the same the 
Company is taking necessary steps.
Negative
2. 
Employee 
Health & 
Safety
Risk
Safety is critical to mining op-
erations due to the often haz-
ardous working conditions. The 
Mining industry has relatively 
high fatality rates compared to 
other industries. Fatalities or 
injuries can result from a num-
ber of hazards associated with 
the industry, including powered 
haulage and machinery as well 
as mine integrity. Poor health 
and safety records can result 
in fines and penalties, and an 
increase in regulatory compli-
ance costs from more stringent 
oversight.
Providing a safe workplace to the em-
ployees is a vital responsibility & the 
Company is therefore constantly striv-
ing to provide and maintain safe prem-
ises, machinery, systems and processes 
at its operating locations It has open-
cast surface mining as such risk is sub-
stantially low.
Negative
3.
Waste & 
Hazardous 
Materials 
Manage-
ment
Risk
	
Mining industry generates large 
volumes of non-mineral and 
mineral waste, including waste 
rock, tailings, slurries, slags, 
sludge’s, smelting, and indus-
trial wastes, some of which may 
contain substances that are 
toxic, hazardous, or chemical-
ly reactive. Mineral processing 
sometimes also requires the 
use of hazardous materials for 
metal extraction.
Waste produced during mining oper-
ations, depending on its type, can be 
treated, disposed of, or stored on- or 
off-site in impoundments or old mine 
pits. Improper disposal or storage of 
hazardous materials or mining waste 
can present a significant long-term 
threat to human health and ecosys-
tems through potential contamination 
of groundwater or surface water that 
is used for drinking or agriculture pur-
poses. Thereby at operational level, the 
Company maintains and takes prop-
er measures for waste disposal. None 
of the company’s operations create 
sludge, slags etc. The overburden is re-
sponsibly used for backfilling of mines.
Negative
4.
Air Quality
Risk
Mining 
industries 
generates 
Non-greenhouse gas (GHG) 
air emissions, which can have 
significant, 
localized 
human 
health and environmental im-
pacts. Depending on the metal, 
uncaptured sulfur dioxide, lead, 
mercury, cadmium, and arsenic 
are among the chief pollutants, 
along with particulate matter.
The emissions of SOx, NOx, SPM and 
particulate matter have become severe 
health issues across India's urban land-
scape. The Company monitors its SOx, 
NOx and SPM emissions. The Company 
also has systems in place to control the 
air pollutants emitted into the atmo-
sphere and comply with the applicable 
laws and regulations. Further, the Com-
pany does not carry out any smelting or 
refinery activity. 
Negative
64
Ashapura Minechem Limited
S. 
No.
Material 
issue iden-
tified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
oppor-
tunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/  opportunity
In case of  risk, approach to  adapt or  
mitigate
Financial implica-
tions of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or  negative 
implications)
5.
Manage-
ment of 
the Legal 
and Regu-
latory En-
vironment 
Compli-
ances
Risk
Continuous upgradations with 
respect to mining and environ-
mental laws may impact the 
company's operations; thereby 
creating a non-compliance risk.
The company has a comprehensive 
compliance management framework, 
which is updated at regular intervals, 
and is integrated with business pro-
cesses, risks and controls &, changes in 
regulations are tracked and integrated 
within the Compliance Management 
System.
Negative
6
Employ-
ment op-
portunities 
for locals
O p -
portu-
nity
Since the company operates in 
mining it needs to closely work 
with the locals; which helps it 
in the creation of employment 
opportunities which can have 
a positive impact on the liveli-
hood and earning capacity and 
skill development thereof.
NA
Positive
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
	
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles 
and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle 
and its  core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b.	
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.       Web Link of the Policies, if available 
Web-links for the policies available:
• 
Policy on Prevention of Insider Trading: |P1, P4, P7
• 
Risk Management Policy:  |P1, P2
• 
Dividend Distribution Policy: |P3, P4
• 
Social Audit Policy: |P3, P5                                                                    
• 
Code of Practices & Procedures for Fair Disclosure of UPSI: |P1
• 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy: |P4, P8                              
• 
Material Disclosure Policy |P1, P4                                                                  
• 
Nomination & Remuneration Policy:  |P3, P4                                                        
• 
Performance Evaluation Policy: |P3
• 
Policy on Related Party Transactions:  |P1, P4, P7
• 
Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment:  |P5
• 
Preservations of Docs policy:  |P1
• 
Vigil Mechanism- Whistle Blower Policy: |P1
• 
Policy for Determining Material Subsidiary:  |P1
• 
EHS Policy: Internal |P6
• 
IT Policy: Internal |P9
Few of the companies’ policies form the part of HR manual accessible to all employees which covers all the Principles of NGRBC.
2.   Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. 
(Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.   Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/No)
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
4. Name of the national and international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
Policies as mentioned above are based on Principles of 
NGRBC. Additionally, they are in conformity with the 
international certifications obtained by the Company viz.:
For Environment Management System ISO 14001:2015; 
Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems ISO 
45001:2018; Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015
}
https://www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php
65
5.	
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
The company is trying to endeavor its ESG journey by 
establishing a tangible data driven ESG strategy and sharing 
the progress with key stakeholders to show the ability to 
manage risks, remain profitable and operate responsibly.
6.   Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, 
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements 
We, at Ashapura Minechem Limited, are committed towards bettering our efforts at Environment, Social and Governance practices that we 
follow in our thoughts and actions. We understand the significance of responsible mining and strive to negate impact of our operations on 
ecological footprints through efficient resource utilization, waste management, and reclamation efforts. We have a set target to achieve 
net-zero emission by 2050, for which the Company aims to lower indirect emissions and invest in carbon-reduction projects to offset 
them. Through risk identification and formulating mitigation measures, we already have started our journey to be a more responsible and 
sustainable Company for a better future of the planet.
Further, our operations are conducted with utmost regard for the welfare and safety of our employees, as well as the communities 
we operate in. We promote diversity, inclusivity, and ethical practices, fostering a positive and transparent work culture. With a robust 
governance framework, we ensure accountability, integrity, and sound decision-making. Through our integrated approach towards 
technological development and advancement we strive to deliver a broad range of sustainable outcomes across the three pillars of ESG.
8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
Shri Hemul Shah
Executive Director and CEO
cosec@ashapura.com
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? 
(Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
The Company has Risk Management Committee, responsible for 
making decision relating to issues on Sustainability. 
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/
Any other Committee
Frequency
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any 
other – please specify)
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
Performance	
against
above	
policies and follow up action
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Annually
Compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles, and, rectification 
of any
non-compliances
The Company being a regulated company, 
complies with all major compliances with 
statutory requirements of relevance to the 
principles, there has not been any major 
non-compliance within the Company and the 
report of the same is sent to the BoD.
Quarterly
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Dhir & Dhir Associates, a Law Firm, has assessed the efficiency of 
the operations and sufficiency of the policies. The evaluation was 
conducted based on the functionality of the policies. Additionally, 
department heads and business heads periodically review and revise 
the policies, which are then approved by the management or board. 
The processes and compliances, however, may be subject to scrutiny 
by internal auditors and regulatory compliances, as applicable.
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business (Yes/
No)
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
66
Ashapura Minechem Limited
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes and 
decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every 
entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in 
their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year: 
Segment
Total Number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the training 
and its impact
% age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors
4
During the year, the Board engaged in various updates 
pertaining to business, regulatory, safety, ESG matters, etc. 
100.00
Key Managerial Personnel
14
100.00
Employees other than 
BoD and KMPs
44
Behavioural Training skill development, personal finance, 
interpersonal relationship Functional Training knowledge 
sharing, emergency response, data Analysis, human rights, 
regulatory compliance, Leadership & Managerial Skills, 
health and Safety 
13.00
Workers
15
General safety awareness, PPE use, emergency 
preparedness, fire training, electrical safety training, 
machinery training , risk management, good working 
practices, etc.
100.00
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format 
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30  of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (in INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Settlement
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Compounding Fee
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Non-Monetary
Imprisonment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Punishment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not applicable, as no such instance reported
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link to 
the policy.
	
Yes, the Company strongly believes in conducting its business in a fair and transparent manner. Therefore, it has implemented an anti-corruption 
and anti-bribery policy as part of its code of conduct and vigil mechanism. This policy applies to all directors and employees of the Company. It 
emphasizes the importance of maintaining employee confidentiality while also ensuring that protection is not misused for personal grievances.
	
The web-link for the Company’s Vigil Mechanism is as follows: https://www.ashapura.com/investor-corner.php   
67
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the 
charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of conflict of interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/ law 
enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
The company has robust policies, processes, systems, and monitoring to ensure compliance. Regular reviews and updates with best practices are 
carried out, and corrective actions are implemented as needed. As no compliance issues were reported, no corrective actions were necessary.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness programs 
held
Topic/principles covered under the 
training
% age of value chain partners covered 
(by value of business done with such 
partners) under the awareness programs
Value chains partners are from time and again are being made aware of policies and conduct however no formal trainings are being 
conducted, the same shall be assessed and taken up from upcoming year. 
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If yes, 
provide details of the same.
	
Yes, the Company upholds transparent and fair business conduct, exemplified by its Conflict of Interest Policy as part of the code of conduct. This 
policy allows personal transactions and investments while diligently preventing potential conflicts of interest. The Company remains committed 
to taking all necessary measures to ensure ethical practices and avoid any compromise in its operations.
	
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social 
impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Details of improvements in the environmental and social impacts
R&D
2.79
0.89
During the reporting year, the company allocated funds to several ongoing and new 
projects, with a particular focus on investments in specific technological advancements. 
These initiatives encompassed fluoride removal from drinking water and water 
conservation strategies, with the ultimate aim of enhancing environmental and social 
impacts.
Capex
0.28
0.15
2.	
a. 	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, the Company operates within the domains of mining, mineral processing, and logistics, relying significantly on minerals sourced from open 
cast mines. To ensure responsible practices, the Company engages in responsible sourcing from local accredited mine owners. Adhering to all 
required regulations and guidelines, the Company upholds responsible and sustainable mining practices both in letter and in spirit.
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
The Company is committed to ensuring efficiency in the procurement of goods, and therefore, suppliers are asked to adhere to the general 
practices adopted by the industry. However, the percentage for the same is currently  not ascertainable. Nevertheless, the Company will ensure 
data collection on this matter in the coming years.  
68
Ashapura Minechem Limited
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics 
(including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
	
The company has been taking numerous steps to improve waste management practices across its operations. For the disposal of waste, the 
Company has set SOP wherein different departments are given responsibility of safe disposal of waste to authorized vendors and for the finished 
products which are over size, under size or rejected - are crushed and then reused.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection 
plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps 
taken to address the same.
	
No, considering nature of operations, EPR is not applicable  to us.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its 
services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of Product/
Service
% of total Turnover 
Contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain 
(Yes/No)
If yes, provide the 
web-link.
At present, the company does not conduct life cycle assessment; nevertheless, it has plans to undertake one in the forthcoming years
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products 
/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/ concern
Action Taken
Not applicable, as there were no assessments conducted during the reporting period.
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or 
providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Nil
Nil
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Plastics 
(including packaging)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
E-waste
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Hazardous Waste
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other waste
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 
as % of total products sold in respective category
Nil
Nil
69
	
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Insurance
Paternity Benefits
Day care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
328
328
100.00
328
100.00
Nil
Nil
328
100.00
Nil 
Nil
Female
32
32
100.00
32
100.00
32
100.00
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
360
360
100.00
360
100.00
32
8.89
328
91.11
Nil
Nil
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
b. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
	
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity 
Insurance
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(D)
% (D/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/A)
Number 
(F)
% (F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
73
73
100.00
73
100.00
Nil
Nil
73
100.00
Nil 
Nil
Female
6
6
100.00
6
100.00
6
100.00
Nil
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Total
79
79
100.00
79
100.00
6
7.60
73
92.40
Nil
Nil
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100.00
100.00
Y
100.00
100.00
Y
Gratuity
100.00
100.00
Y
100.00
100.00
Y
ESI
1.00
32.00
Y
2.00
17.00
Y
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard
	
The Company strongly advocates for equality and recognizes numerous benefits of a diverse workforce. Though it currently lacks such facilities, 
it has plans in the near future to provide accessibility for differently abled employees and workers. 
70
Ashapura Minechem Limited
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-
link to the policy.
	
The Company upholds a policy that firmly supports equal opportunities for employment across all sections of society, acknowledging its 
responsibility towards diversity, inclusion, and equality. This policy is an integral part of the Company’s HR manual, accessible to all employees. 
It reflects the commitment of the Company to foster a fair and inclusive workplace for everyone.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent Employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
During the reporting period, no parental leave was availed
Female
Total
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If yes, 
give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
The Company firmly upholds the principle of fostering a productive and supportive work environment, 
ensuring that grievances are addressed fairly. To achieve this, a grievance redressal mechanism is 
implemented as part of the vigil mechanism and code of conduct, which applies to all employees and 
workers associated with the Company.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category
(A)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category
(C)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union
(D)
% 
(D / C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total Permanent Worker
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total
(A)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total
(D)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
328
Nil
Nil
34
10.37
295
Nil
Nil
179
60.68
Female
32
Nil
Nil
11
34.38
29
Nil
Nil
3
10.34
Total
360
Nil
Nil
45
12.50
324
Nil
Nil
182
56.17
Workers
Male
73
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
69
Nil
Nil
45
65.21
Female
6
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
79
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
72
Nil
Nil
45
62.50
71
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Total
(A)
No. 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Total
(C)
No.
(D)
% 
(D/C)
Employees
Male
328
328
100.00
295
295
100.00
Female
32
32
100.00
29
29
100.00
Total
360
360
100.00
324
324
100.00
Workers
Male
73
73
100.00
69
69
100.00
Female
6
6
100.00
3
3
100.00
Total
79
79
100.00
72
72
100.00
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the 
coverage such system?
	
The Company is dedicated to the well-being of its employees and workers, evident through its occupational health and safety management 
system. This system encompasses various components such as the EHS policy, work permit system, and incident & accident reporting, ensuring a 
safe working environment. Additionally, the Company employs HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment) to identify and evaluate work-
related hazards, implementing and monitoring appropriate measures for risk mitigation.
	
	
Regular internal safety audits are conducted at the plant level to assess the efficiency of the occupational health and safety mechanism and 
identify areas for improvement. Furthermore, the Company maintains the standard of OHSAS 18001:2007, underscoring its commitment to 
adhering to the highest occupational health and safety standards.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
	
Yes the Company, realizing its responsibility towards identifying work-related hazards conducts hazard identification and risk assessment study 
at plant level to identify hazard associated and has thereby set process which is as under:
	
i.	
Identification of the hazards.
	
ii.	
Identify who is at risk or what can be damaged and how.
	
iii.	
Evaluate the risk and identify any additional control measures necessary to reduce the risk to as Low as Reasonably Practicable (ALARP).
	
iv.	
Implement control measures at the workplace.
	
v.	
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the control measures.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. (Y/N)
	
Yes, the Company has a process in place where workers can report any work-related hazards to their department head. Additionally, according 
to the HIRA (Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment) study book, ensuring that all workplace risks are appropriately managed requires the 
active participation, consultation, and communication of both employees and contractors.
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes, the Company, towards working for the betterment of its employees conducts annual health check-ups and consultation facility is extended 
to employees and their spouses.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employees
1.16
Nil
Workers
Nil
18.47
Total recordable work-related  injuries
Employees
1
Nil
Workers
Nil
9
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
72
Ashapura Minechem Limited
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
The Company ensures that risk management is embedded in Company’s culture and practice and thereby adopt a systematic approach to risk 
management wherein hazards are identified, risks are evaluated and appropriate control measures are implemented and monitored. 
	
Currently the Company has identified certain potential hazards and accordingly safety measures like that of usage of PPE kits, designing escape 
routes, availability of rescue equipment at appropriate places etc. are provided. Additionally internal audits are conducted to ensure adequate 
health measures are taken by the Company. 
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
Nil, since during the year, there were no complaints received.
Health & Safety
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100.00
Working Conditions
100.00
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks / 
concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
Nil. No significant risk/ concerns reported during the reporting period.  
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers 
(Y/N).
	
The Company has a process in place for the settlement of dues in the unfortunate event of an employee’s death, which follows the company’s 
policy. Additionally, in specific special cases or under certain additional scenarios, financial assistance is also provided based on the individual 
circumstances.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value chain 
partners.
	
The Company ensures that their value chain partners follow the necessary statutory compliances pertaining to payment of statutory dues. 
However, a formal mechanism is currently not fomulated.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated and placed 
in suitable employment or whose family members have been 
placed in suitable employment
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings 
resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
73
	
The Company provides transition assistance by appointing the relevant individuals as consultants for a period of 1 or 2 years. This program is 
designed to facilitate ongoing employability and assist in managing career transitions resulting from retirement or termination of employment.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil, since during the current reporting period no such assessment was conducted.
Working Conditions
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health 
and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not applicable since no such assessment was undertaken during the reporting period.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company has identified its internal and external stakeholders which includes Investors, Customers, Employees, Clients, Statutory Authorities 
and Vendors. The said identification of stakeholders is an ongoing process.  
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder Group
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable 
& Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community, Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website, Other)
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly/ 
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key topics 
and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Employees
No 
- Emails, Meetings 
Regularly 
- 
Update on policies 
- 
Achievement
- 
Awards
- 
Trainings 
- 
Employee engagement 
initiatives.
Shareholders
No
- Press release, Website 
- Publications, 
- Newspaper publications,  
- Annual reports,
- Annual General Meetings 
Annually, Quarterly 
& Need basis 
- 
Update on Financial 
Performance
- 
Business Performance
- 
Company’s new Initiatives.
Customers
No
- Email, Telephonic 
communications, Personal 
meetings, 
- Virtual meetings 
Regularly 
- 
Communication & engagement 
during the entire cycle of 
obtaining, execution and feed-
back of a contract/ order/ 
despatch.
Suppliers/ Vendors
No
- Email, Telephonic 
communication, Personal 
meetings, Virtual meetings
Regularly
- 
Communication & engagement 
during the entire cycle of 
awarding, execution and feed-
back of a contract/ order/ 
despatch.
Communities
Yes
- Community Meetings
From time to time 
- 
Requisite engagement under 
the mining regulations and for 
CSR objectives.
Government 
Authorities
No
- Statutory filings
From time to time
- 
Submissions of compliances 
and receipt of approvals
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if 
consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Company follows a well-defined procedure in which individual departments, each with specific roles and responsibilities, regularly interacts 
with key stakeholders, such as investors, customers, suppliers, and employees. Additionally, there is stakeholder relationship committee that 
keeps the Management updated on the progress of actions and seeks inputs periodically on a quarterly basis.
74
Ashapura Minechem Limited
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics (Yes 
/ No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into 
policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes, the Company utilizes a combination of formal and informal mechanisms to actively engage with its stakeholders and comprehend their 
concerns and expectations. Nevertheless, this process is continually evolving, and the stakeholders’ suggestions undergo thorough consideration 
through Board discussions and are considered while formulation of company’s internal policies.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
	
The Company during the reporting period do not have any such instance, however the Company through their respective department heads have 
regular interactions with its stakeholders and necessary modifications are being made on need basis. 
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essentials Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following 
format:*
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% 
(B/A)
Total 
(C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% 
(D/C)
Employees
Permanent
360
46
12.78
324
Nil
Nil
Other than 
permanent
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total 
Employees
360
46
12.78
324
Nil
Nil
Workers
Permanent
79
Nil
Nil
72
Nil
Nil
Other than permanent
148
Nil
Nil
131
Nil
Nil
Total Workers
227
Nil
Nil
203
Nil
Nil
	
* The Company conducts regular awareness sessions on Human Rights issues and includes element of human right in its internal policies, 
however the data for the same is currently not being quantified. Efforts are underway to record the data from upcoming years.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
360
Nil
Nil
360
100.00
324
Nil
Nil
324
100.00
Male
328
Nil
Nil
328
100.00
295
Nil
Nil
295
100.00
Female
32
Nil
Nil
32
100.00
29
Nil
Nil
29
100.00
Other than 
Permanent
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Permanent
79
Nil
Nil
79
100.00
72
Nil
Nil
72
100.00
Male
73
 Nil
Nil
73
100.00
69
Nil 
Nil
69
100.00
Female
6
 Nil
Nil
6
100.00
3
Nil 
Nil 
3
100.00
Other than 
Permanent
 148
148
100.00
Nil 
Nil
131
131 
100.00
Nil
Nil 
75
Male
126
126
100.00
Nil
Nil
115
115
100.00
 Nil 
Nil 
Female
22
22
100.00
Nil 
Nil
16
16
100.00
 Nil 
Nil 
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format (INR p.a.):
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
Salary/ Wages of respective 
category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
Salary/ Wages of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD)
2
1,04,18,000
Nil
Nil
Key Managerial Personnel
5
80,93,262
Nil
Nil
Employees other than BoD and KMP
323
3,78,941
32
9,33,705
Workers
73
1,95,974
6
1,93,584
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed 
to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
The Company aims towards providing better work environment to its employees, and thereby for addressing any concerns related to Human 
Rights, HR personnel can be contacted. 
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
	
The Company with the objective of facilitating its employees has in place, grievance redressal mechanism as a part of its code of conduct and 
vigil mechanism, wherein the concerns or grievance are addressed.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Sexual harassment
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil 
NA
Forced Labour/ Involuntary 
Labour
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Wages
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
7.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
	
The Company maintains a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment in the workplace and has adopted a comprehensive Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment policy to create a safe working environment, where all employees treat each other with courtesy and dignity. The Company 
has established a well-defined procedure and guidelines to prevent harassment, complemented by an internal complaints committee responsible 
for timely resolution of such complaints. Additionally, the Company has implemented a whistle-blower policy to safeguard the interests of the 
complainants.
8.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?  (Yes/No) 
	
Yes, the Company lays huge emphasis on human rights and thereby in all its business agreement and contracts which the Company enters, 
relevant clauses related to observance of human rights are included.
9.	
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and Offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child Labour
100.00
Forced/involuntary labour
100.00
76
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Sexual Harassment
100.00
Discrimination at workplace
100.00
Wages
100.00
10.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at 
Question 9 above.
	
Nil, since no significant risk/concerns were raised during the reporting period. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaints
	
	
The Company works towards the betterment of its employees and, therefore, has a grievance redressal policy as a part of its code of conduct in 
place. However, during the reporting period, no human rights issues were reported. The Company firmly believes that it has upheld the basic 
principles of human rights in all its dealings.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Not applicable, since during the reporting period no such due-diligence was conducted.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
The Company strongly advocates for equality and recognizes the numerous benefits of a diverse workforce. While we currently lack such facilities, 
we have plans in the near future to provide accessibility for differently abled visitors 
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners 
(by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Child Labour
Nil
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Nil
Wages
Nil
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at 
Question 4 above.
	
Not applicable, as no such assessment is currently being undertaken for Value Chain Partners
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in GJ) and energy intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter 
FY 2022-23
(In GJ)
FY 2021-22
(In GJ)
Total electricity consumption (A) 
22,606.82 
25,763.21 
Total fuel consumption (B) 
1,56,464.44 
1,62,642.63
Energy consumption through 
other sources (C) 
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumption 
(A+B+C) 
1,79,071.26
  1,88,405.84
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(GJ of consumption/ turnover of  lakhs in rupees)
 6.82
 3.02
	
* Note: The above table does not include fuel consumed for owned vehicles for some locations.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
77
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) 
Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case 
targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
	
Not Applicable. The Company is not identified as a Designated Consumer under the PAT Scheme.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format: 
Parameter 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres) 
(i) Surface water 
Nil
Nil
(ii) Groundwater 
15,644.50
12,500.50
(iii) Third party water (Tanker) 
24,895.00
31,239.00
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 
Nil
Nil
(v) Others  
Nil
Nil
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 
40,539.50
43,739.50
Total volume of water consumption 
(in kilolitres)  
53,264.50
59,266.50
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (KL of consumption/ turnover of  lakhs in rupees)
2.02
0.94
	
* Note: Total amount of water consumed includes amount of water recycled.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. 
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation. 
	
The company’s manufacturing and mining process does not involve contamination of water since the water used is mainly for cooling, domestic 
activities and thereby the waste water generated is either reused after filtration through filter press or is disposed off through soak pit/ safety 
tank.
5.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
NOx 
Kg
10,956.63
10,145.23
SOx 
Kg
20,912.87
24,657.03
Particulate matter (PM) 
Kg
22,800.00
25,353.27
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 
 
The three parameters were not assessed for both the 
financial years.
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
	
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
	
Yes, at the plant level, the Company conducts independent assessments through external agencies for various locations. For the Baraya location, 
monitoring is performed by Enpro Envirotech, while for Kaolin location monitoring is performed by Royal Environment Auditing. Similarly, Gaheli 
Environmental Laboratory conducts monitoring for Dapoli location. These measures demonstrate the Company’s commitment to maintaining 
environmental standards and ensuring responsible practices at different sites.
78
Ashapura Minechem Limited
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:  
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
Metric tonnes of
CO2 equivalent 
  1,83,198.07
1,02,503.26
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
  5,086.53
5,796.72
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover 
 
 7.17
1.73
	
* Note: The Company has not quantified data for owned vehicles for some locations and the calculations includes only the electricity consumption 
data from the Head Office. 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
Yes, the Company has implemented a project called “Reduction In FO Consumption,” which aims to decrease Furnace Oil (FO) consumption by 
finding new process routes for material drying and conveying. Through the utilization  of natural sources, such as sun drying material, a total of 
912 MT of Furnace Oil consumption has been successfully reduced.
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A) 
 Nil
Nil
E-waste (B) 
 0.400
0.006
Bio-medical waste (C) 
 Nil
Nil
Construction and  demolition waste (D) 
 Nil
Nil
Battery waste (E)  
 Nil
Nil
Radioactive waste (F)  
 Nil
Nil
Other Hazardous waste. (Used Oil) (G) 
 0.070
0.075
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). (Earth Waste)
 5450.00
Nil* 
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)  
 5450.47
0.081 
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations
(in metric tonnes)
Category of waste 
(i) Recycled 
Nil
Nil
(ii) Re-used 
0.07
0.08
(iii) Other recovery operations 
Nil
Nil
Total  
0.07
0.08
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration 
 Nil
 Nil
(ii) Landfilling 
 Nil
 Nil
(iii) Other disposal operations 
 5450.00
Nil
Total 
 5450.00
Nil 
	
* Note: Nil since Dapoli location of the Company has revived its operation during current financial year
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
	
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
 
79
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your company 
to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such 
wastes.
	
The Company’s manufacturing and mining process does not involve hazardous or toxic chemicals waste, the other waste like that of E-waste is 
send to recycler and oil or overburden waste so generated during mining operations are used for backfilling of mined out-pits.    
10.	  If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as  national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere 
reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are 
required, please specify details in the following format: 
S.
No.
Location of operations/
offices
Types of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are 
being complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Nil, since none of the organization’s entity is located in ecologically sensitive area.
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial 
year: 
Name and brief details 
of project 
EIA 
Notification No. 
Date 
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No) 
Results communicated 
in public 
domain  (Yes / No) 
Relevant Web 
link 
The Company during the current financial year has not undertaken any such assessments.
12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention and 
Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, and Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). 
If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: 
Serial Number
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was not complied 
with
Provide details of the 
non-
compliance
Any fines / penalties 
/ action taken by 
regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control 
boards or by courts
Corrective taken, 
if any action
Yes, the Company is compliant with all applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the 
following format: 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption 
(A) 
 Nil
Nil 
Total fuel consumption (B) 
 Nil
 Nil
Energy consumption through other sources (C) 
 Nil
Nil 
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 
 Nil
 Nil
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) 
22,606.82 
25,763.21 
Total fuel consumption (E) 
1,56,464.44 
1,62,642.63
Energy consumption through other sources (F) 
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 
1,79,071.26
  1,88,405.84
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. 
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
80
Ashapura Minechem Limited
2.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) 
(i) To Surface water 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The stored water which is 12,725.5 for 2022-23 and 15,527 
for 2021-2022 is recycled, hence there is no discharge of waste 
water in any of the given sources by the Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- 	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(ii) To Groundwater 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- 	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iii) To Seawater 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- 	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iv) Sent to third-parties  
	 - 	
No treatment 
- 	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(v) Others 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- 	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. 
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
3.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:  
	
(i)	
Name of the area 
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations 
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water 
Not Applicable, since the company does not withdraw, consume, or 
discharge water in Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) notified 
areas of water stress.
(ii) Groundwater 
(iii) Third party water 
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 
(v) Others  
Total volume of water withdrawal 
(in kilolitres) 
Total volume of water consumption 
(in kilolitres)  
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / 
turnover) 
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
81
(i) Into Surface water 
 
 
 
Not Applicable, since the company does not withdraw, consume, or 
discharge water in Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) notified 
areas of water stress. 
 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(ii) Into Groundwater 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iii) Into Seawater 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iv) Sent to third-parties  
	 - 	
No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(v) Others 
	 - 	
No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. 
	
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
4.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:  
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Total Scope 3 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available) 
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent 
The company did not measure its Scope 3 emissions 
in the reporting year. However, it is working towards 
providing the relevant data in the upcoming years.
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover 
 
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity 
 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. 
	
No, evaluation is not being conducted by any external agency.
5.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant 
direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.  
	
Not Applicable, since the Company’s none of the operations are located in ecologically sensitive area.
6.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or 
reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of 
such initiatives, as per the following format: 
Sr. No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of
the initiative
 1
RWH facilities
All the mined out pits are used as RWH 
facilities
Improvement in the ground water levels in 
the core and buffer zone
7.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.  
	
The Company has a Business Continuity Plan as a part of its Risk Management Policy wherein the Company has identified its internal and 
external risks that includes financial, operation, sustainability, information, cyber security  risks or any other risk as may be determined by the 
Risk management committee. These identified risks can disrupt the continuity of the business, thereby the Company has mitigation plans in place 
and it reviews the same every year.
8.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation 
measures have been taken by the entity in this regard? 
	
Not applicable, since there has been no adverse impact to the environment arising from the value chain of the entity has occurred.
82
Ashapura Minechem Limited
9.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts. 
	
Not applicable, since during the year, no value chain partners were assessed.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent 
Essential Indicators
1.	
a)	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
The Company has 7 affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
b)	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the entity is a 
member of/ affiliated to.
S. No
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Chemicals & Allied Products Export Promotion Council (CAPEXIL)
National
2
Federation of Indian Export Organizations (FIEO)
National
3
Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC)
National
4
Generalized System Of Preferences (GSP)
National
5
Bombay Chamber Of Commerce & Industry (BCCI)
State
6
Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI)
National
7
Directorate General Of Foreign Trade (DGFT)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the entity, based on 
adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective active taken
Not applicable, since no adverse orders received from regulatory authorities.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr. No
Public policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in 
public domain? 
(Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by 
Board (Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly / Others 
– please specify)
Web Link, 
If available
The Company did not advocate any public policy positions during the reporting period
.
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial 
year.
Name and Brief 
details of project
SIA Notification No.
Date of notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes/
No)
Relevant Web Link
No such projects were undertaken by the company for which SIA was required as per applicable laws. 
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in 
the following format:
83
S. No
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. pf Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
5 of PAFs covered by 
R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (in INR)
Not applicable, since no such projects were undertaken.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Company believes in the inclusive and equitable development of the local community and, therefore, interacts through formal and informal 
mechanisms to work for their betterment. The Company also provides an open forum on its website where any member of the community can 
address their concerns or grievances. At a group level, the company proactively engages with the community as part of its CSR initiatives.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers: 
 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22  
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
The Company sources certain input materials directly from MSME and within the 
district, however, the same is not quantified, it is working towards providing the 
relevant data in the upcoming years.
Sourced directly from within the district and 
neighbouring districts
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: 
Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable, since no SIA was undertaken  
 
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by 
government bodies:
S. No
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
Not applicable, since for the current financial year CSR is not applicable
3.	
(a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalized 
/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
Considering the nature of operations, the Company currently is not in the position to give preference to marginalized/ vulnerable group.
      	 (b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
Not applicable, since the Company do not procure from marginalized/ vulnerable group.
      	 (c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Not applicable, since the Company do not procure from marginalized/ vulnerable group
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current financial 
year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. No
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating benefit 
share 
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action taken
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. No
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
Not applicable for the current financial year.
84
Ashapura Minechem Limited
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
As the Company operates in the B2B sector, the process of addressing and attending to customer grievances is real-time. While customer 
grievances are infrequent, if any arise, they are reported through the respective marketing channels and promptly communicated to the logistics, 
QC, or production department based on the nature of the complaint. To ensure effective grievance redressal, a well-established mechanism is 
in place. This involves recalling product samples, conducting batch sample testing at mines or the factory, or sending technical personnel to the 
customer’s site for resolution. These proactive steps demonstrate our commitment to delivering excellent customer service and resolving issues 
promptly.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
 
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
 100.00%
Safe and responsible usage
 100.00%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
 100.00%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2022-23
Remarks
FY 2021-22
Remarks
Received 
during the 
Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data Privacy
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Advertising
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Cyber-security
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Delivery of essential services
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
 
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Nil
Nil
Forced recalls
Nil
Nil
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-
link of the policy
	
The Company has formulated a comprehensive Cyber Security policy to offer clear guidelines for addressing and mitigating cyber security risks. 
This policy is readily available on the Company’s intranet, ensuring accessibility for all employees.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; 
cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory 
authorities on safety of products / services.
	
Not Applicable, as no such incidents were reported. 
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available).
	
Yes, the Company provides information on products and services on its website. 
	
Web-link: https://www.ashapura.com/products.php?section=industrial-functional-minerals
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
The Company is dedicated to informing and educating its consumers by consistently updating its website. Additionally, it uses the website as 
a platform to educate customers about safe and responsible product usage. By providing valuable and up-to-date information, the Company 
prioritizes customer safety and satisfaction.
85
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services.
	
The company proactively communicates with its consumers via emails and phone calls to notify them about any potential risks of service 
disruption or discontinuation in essential services.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not 
Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the 
major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
As a highly regulated industry, the company adheres to and fulfils all statutory and mandatory labelling requirements for its products. While 
meeting these obligations, the Company does not specifically provides any voluntary information on the product. 
5.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a)	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
	
Since no such instance of data breach has occurred during the year, it is not applicable.
b)	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
Not applicable, since no such incidents were reported.
86
Ashapura Minechem Limited
87
88
Ashapura Minechem Limited
89
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To
The Members of 
ASHAPURA MINECHEM LIMITED
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Ashapura Minechem Limited  (“the Company”) which comprise the balance 
sheet as at 31st March 2023, the statement of profit and loss including other comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and the 
statement of cash flows for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the standalone financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial statements give 
the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (‘Ind 
AS”) and the other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March 2023, of its loss including 
other comprehensive income, changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) 
of the Act.  Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“the ICAI”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on 
the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in our forming 
of opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit 
matters to be communicated in our report:
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is one of the key profit drivers and is, therefore, susceptible to 
misstatement. Cut-off is the key assertion in so far as revenue recognition 
is concerned, since inappropriate cut-off can result in material 
misstatement of results for the year. 
Assessment of litigations and related disclosure of contingent 
liabilities
The Company is subject to large number of various ongoing legal and tax 
related claims as stated under note no. 34 – Contingent Liabilities.
Significant judgment is required to assess such matters to determine 
the probability of occurrence of material outflow of economic resources 
and whether a provision should be recognized or a disclosure should be 
made. The management judgment is also supported with legal advice in 
certain cases as considered appropriate. 
As the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain and material in 
nature, it is considered to be a Key Audit Matter.
We carried out testing controls around dispatches and deliveries, 
inventory reconciliation and substantive testing for cut-offs and analytical 
review procedures. 
We understood, assessed and tested the operating effectiveness of key 
controls surrounding assessment of litigations and discussed with the 
management the recent developments and the status of the material 
litigations;
We evaluated management’s assessment by understanding precedents 
set in similar cases and assessed the reliability of the management’s past 
estimates and judgments;
We reviewed the disclosures made by the Company in the financial 
statements in this regard and obtained representation letter from the 
management on the assessment of these matters.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, Management Discussion and Analysis, Business Responsibility Report, Corporate 
Governance Report, Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the standalone financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The Board’s 
Report and other information are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
90
Ashapura Minechem Limited
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it becomes 
available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
When we read the aforesaid reports and information, if we conclude that there is material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the 
matter to those charged with governance.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of these standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other comprehensive income, changes in 
equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the Ind AS and accounting principles generally accepted in India. This responsibility also 
includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is high level of assurance, but is not a 
guarantee that audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users 
taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.  
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatements of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of the internal control.
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company has adequate 
internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by 
management.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to 
continue as going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are 
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company 
to cease to continue as a going concern.
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosure, and whether the 
standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be 
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
91
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India terms of sub-section 
(11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure – A,  a statement on the matters specified in clause 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable.
2.	
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purpose of our audit;
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books;
c) 	
The balance sheet, the statement of profit and loss including other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and 
the cash flow statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act, read 
with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2015;
e)	
On the basis of written representations received from the directors as on 31st March 2023, and taken on record by the Board of 
Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31st March 2023, from being appointed as a director in terms section 164(2) 
of the Act;
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and operating effectiveness 
of such controls, our separate report in annexure – B may be referred; 
g)	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, remuneration paid by the 
Company to its directors during the year is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read schedule V of the Act
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanation given to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements;
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivatives contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses;
iii.	
There were no amounts required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
	
iv.     a.	 The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note no, 38(i) to the 
accounts, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
	
	
b. 	 The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note no. 38 ( j ) to the 
accounts, no funds have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material misstatement.
	
v . 	 The Company has not declared any dividend during the year.
	
vi . 	 Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for maintaining books of account using accounting software 
which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility is applicable to the Company with effect from April 1, 2023, and 
accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2023.
For P A R K & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 116825W
Mumbai	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
PRASHANT VORA
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Membership No. 034514
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
UDIN: 23034514BGZEMJ7641
92
Ashapura Minechem Limited
ANNEXURE – A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
On the basis of such checks as we considered appropriate and in terms of information and explanations given to us, we state that:
1	
In respect of property, plant and equipment: 
a.	
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars including quantitative details and situation of property, plant 
and equipment.
b.	
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
c.	
Property, plant and equipment were physically verified by the management at reasonable intervals in a phased manner in accordance 
with a programme of physical verification. No material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
d.	
The title deeds of immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly 
executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in the financial statements included under property, plant and equipment are held in the 
name of the Company. 
e.	
The Company has not revalued any of its property, plant and equipment (including right of use assets) or intangible assets during the 
year. 
f.	
There are no proceedings initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Benami 
Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 as amended and Rules made thereunder.
2	
a.	
The physical verification of inventory has been conducted at reasonable intervals by the management during the year and, in our 
opinion, the coverage and procedure of such verification by the management is appropriate. The discrepancies noticed on physical 
verification of inventory as compared to book records were not 10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory.
b.	
The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of Rs.5 crore, in aggregate, at any point of time during the 
year, from banks or financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets. The requirement to report under clause 3(ii)(b) of 
the Order is, therefore, not applicable.
3	
In respect of investments, guarantees or securities provided or loans or advances in the nature of loans granted by the Company:
a.	
The Company has not provided any loans or advances in the nature of loans or stood guarantee or provided security to any other 
entity during the year except:
Particulars
Loans (` in lacs)
Aggregate amount of loans granted during the year – subsidiary company
1,982.00
Aggregate amount of loans granted during the year - others
16.98
Aggregate amount of security provided during the year – subsidiary company
268.00
Aggregate amount of securities/guarantees given during the year – associate company
500.00
Balances outstanding of loan given as on balance sheet date – subsidiaries
3552.24
Balances outstanding of loan given as on balance sheet date – others
11.71
Balances outstanding of guarantee/security given as on balance sheet date – subsidiaries
3,403.00
Balances outstanding of guarantee given as on balance sheet date – associate/joint venture companies
3,700.00
b.	
The terms and conditions of the grant of these loans and guarantees are not prejudicial to the interest of the Company. 
c.	
In respect of loans granted by the Company, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest have not been stipulated 
and the repayments are generally regular. However, receipts of interest and principal for loans of ` 1,570.24 lacs granted to one of the 
subsidiaries are not regular.   
d.	
There is no overdue amount in respect of loans granted. 
e.	
No loans or advances in the nature of loans granted by the Company that have fallen due during the year, have been renewed or 
extended or fresh loans granted to settle the overdues of existing loans given to the same parties except loan granted to one of the 
subsidiaries aggregating to Rs.1,570.24 lacs. 
 
f.	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans that are either repayable on demand or without specifying 
any terms or period of repayment.
93
4	
The Company has complied with provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Act in respect of loans, investments, guarantees and securities, to 
the extent applicable. 
5	
The Company has not accepted any deposits from public or any amounts which are deemed to be deposits within the meaning of sections 73 
to 76 of the Act and rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable, except for advances from customers aggregating to ` 320.10 lacs, which, 
in the opinion of the management, are accepted in the ordinary course of business. No order has been passed by the Company Law Board or 
National Company Law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India or any Court or any other Tribunal.
6	
We have broadly reviewed the cost records maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 148(1) of the Act and are of the opinion that, 
prima facie, the prescribed cost records have been maintained. We have, however, not made a detailed examination of the cost records with 
a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
7	
In respect of statutory and other dues:
a.	
The Company has generally been regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues, including provident fund, employees state insurance, 
income tax, cess, goods & service tax and other statutory dues, to the extent applicable, with the appropriate authorities during the 
year. There are no undisputed statutory dues outstanding for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
b.	
There are no statutory dues, which have not been deposited on account of dispute except for the followings:
Nature of Dues
Statute
` in lacs
Relevant
 Year
Forum where dispute is pending
Income Tax
Income Tax Act
2,701.63
2018-19
The Commissioner of Income Tax 
(Appeals) 
8	
The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
9	
a.	
The Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of  interest thereon to any lender except 
for `1,694.74 lacs related to the borrowing from financial institution. (refer note no. 16). 
b. 	
The Company has not been declared willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority. 
c.   	
The term loans have been applied for the purposes for which they were obtained. 
d.  	
On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, funds raised on short-term basis have, prima facie, not been 
used for long-term purposes by the Company. 
e.  	
On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person 
on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries or associate or joint venture companies.
f.  	
The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. .
10	
a.	
The Company has not raised any money during the year by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments). 
b.	
The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during 
the year under review and hence, the requirement to report under clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
11	
a.	
No fraud by the Company or no fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
b.	
 No report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government, during the year and up to the date of this report. 
c. 	
The Company has not received any whistle blower complaint during the year and up to the date of this report. 
12	
The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions of the Act. The requirement to report under clause 3 (xii) of the Order is, therefore, 
not applicable.
13	
Transactions with the related parties are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the Act, wherever applicable and the details have been 
disclosed in the financial statements as required by the applicable accounting standards. 
94
Ashapura Minechem Limited
14	
a.	
The Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
b.	
We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date for the period under audit.
15	
The Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors. 
16	
a. 	
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
b. 	
The Company has not conducted any non-banking financial or housing finance activities without obtaining a valid certificate of 
registration (CoR) from the Reserve Bank of India as per the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
c.  	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. 
	
d.  	
There is no core investment company within the Group (as defined in the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) 
and accordingly the requirement to report under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable.
17	
The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current and in the immediately preceding financial year.
18	
There has been no resignation by the statutory auditors of the Company during the year. 
19	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realization 
of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial statements, our knowledge of the Board 
of Directors and management plans and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of 
meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the 
facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
20	
The Company does not fulfil the criteria as specified under section 135(1) of the Act read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 for the current year. The requirement to report under of clause 3 (xii) of the Order is, therefore, not applicable to the 
Company.
For P A R K & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 116825W
Mumbai	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
PRASHANT VORA
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Membership No. 034514
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
UDIN: 23034514BGZEMJ7641
95
ANNEXURE – B TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Ashapura Minechem Limited (“the Company”) as of 31st March, 2023 in 
conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, issued by the ICAI and prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting were 
established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over financial reporting 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of 
the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal 
financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that -
(1) 	 Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
Company; 
(2)	
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the Company; and 
(3)	
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets 
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial reporting may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such internal 
financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31st March, 2023, based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For P A R K & COMPANY
Chartered Accountants
FRN: 116825W
Mumbai	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
PRASHANT VORA
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Membership No. 034514
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
UDIN: 23034514BGZEMJ7641
96
Ashapura Minechem Limited
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors		
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          sd/-	
           sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
 	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
	
	
	
             sd/-	
	
          sd/-	
            sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
	
	
	
Mumbai	
	
	
	 	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	 	
	
May 25, 2023	
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31st MARCH, 2023
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  Note 
No. 
 As at 31st March 
2023 
 As at 31st March 
2022 
 ASSETS: 
 Non-Current Assets 
 Property, plant and equipment 
2
10,547.68
12,658.47
 Capital work in progress 
2
188.25
274.24
 Investment properties 
3
2,049.36
2,121.94
 Intangible assets 
4
14.71
35.10
 Financial assets 
    Investments
5
3,951.45
3,951.45
    Loans
6
3,553.29
5,101.78
    Other financial assets
7
1,271.32
1,116.52
 Other non-current assets
8
9.07
74.41
21,585.13
25,333.91
 Current Assets 
 Inventories 
9
10,448.83
11,487.68
 Financial assets 
    Investments
5
                             - 
                             - 
    Trade receivables
10
11,806.09
            15,416.73 
    Cash and cash equivalents
11
2,430.48
                  910.10 
    Other bank balances
12
331.49
                  382.65 
    Loans
6
10.66
                       5.49 
    Other financial assets
7
864.84
                  166.74 
 Current tax assets (net)
13
884.11
                  750.25 
 Assets classified as held for sale
40
943.85
                             - 
 Other current assets 
8
9,392.58
10,192.57
37,112.93
39,312.21
 Total Assets 
58,698.06
64,646.12
 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES: 
 Equity 
 Equity share capital 
14
1,829.72
               1,829.72 
 Other equity 
15
661.21
               1,827.49 
 Money received against share warrants  
39
969.20
                             - 
                3,460.13 
               3,657.21 
 Liabilities 
 Non-current liabilities 
 Financial Liabilities 
    Borrowings 
16
1,686.49
4,216.22
    Other financial liabilities 
17
29,699.88
22,723.99
 Provisions 
18
681.80
680.74
 Other non-current liabilities 
19
                              - 
           - 
32,068.17
27,620.95
 Current liabilities 
 Financial Liabilities 
    Borrowings 
16
4,178.64
               2,629.73 
    Trade payables 
20
        Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises 
                              - 
                             - 
        Total outstanding dues of  creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises 
5,110.44
            10,604.41 
    Other financial liabilities 
17
7,609.41
            15,845.87 
 Current tax liabilities (net) 
13
                              - 
                             - 
 Other current liabilities 
19
6,056.70
               4,095.86 
 Provisions 
18
214.57
                  192.09 
23,169.76
            33,367.96 
 Total Liabilities 
58,698.06
            64,646.12 
97
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH , 2023
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  Note  
No. 
2022-2023
 2021-2022 
 REVENUE: 
    Revenue from operations 
21
22,269.17
59,815.12
    Other income 
22
4,001.41
2,647.23
 Total Income 
26,270.58
62,462.35
 EXPENSES: 
   Cost of materials consumed 
23
5,951.67
5,057.24
   Purchases of traded goods 
1,699.74
26,572.55
   Changes in inventories  
24
                    852.29 
225.22
   Employee benefits expenses 
25
2,933.16
2,648.28
   Finance costs 
26
2,239.39
3,010.97
   Depreciation and amortisation expenses 
27
1,538.35
1,952.04
   Other expenses 
28
11,638.33
24,561.47
 Total Expenses 
26,852.93
64,027.77
 Loss before exceptional items and tax 
         (582.35)
             (1,565.42)
 Exceptional Items  
                       - 
                          - 
 Loss before tax 
    (582.35)
           (1,565.42)
 Tax expenses 
    Current tax 
                       - 
                    - 
    Earlier years' tax  
13
           (118.77)
                   - 
    Deferred tax  
                      - 
                      - 
 Loss for the year 
            (701.12)
              (1,565.42)
 Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
   
    a. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans
                   (7.70)
              (75.64)
    b. Gains on Investments in equity instruments classified as FVOCI
                     - 
           (491.46)
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Other comprehensive income for the year
               (7.70)
            (567.10)
 Total Comprehensive Income for the year 
         (708.82)
      (2,132.52)
 Basic earning per share  
29
                     (0.77)
                      (1.75)
 Diluted earning per share 
29
                     (0.77)
                      (1.75)
 Face value per share  
2.00
            2.00 
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors		
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          sd/-	
           sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
 	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
	
	
	
             sd/-	
	
          sd/-	
            sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
	
	
	
Mumbai	
	
	
	 	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	 	
	
May 25, 2023	
98
Ashapura Minechem Limited
CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
 As at 31st March 2023 
 As at 31st March 2022 
 A  CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES : 
 Net loss for the year  
    (701.12)
 (1,565.42)
 Adjustments for - 
 Depreciation and amortization 
   1,538.35 
   1,952.04 
 Loss / (profit) on sale of investments 
      - 
          (1.63)
 Loss / (profit) on sale of property, plant & equipment 
       210.87 
       (32.78)
 Income tax expenses  
       118.77 
      - 
 Reversal of impairment loss/(profit) recognised on receivables  
  (2,215.04)
  (1,267.55)
 Dividend receipts 
     (144.91)
     (142.74)
 Interest income 
     (325.20)
     (186.92)
 Finance cost 
   2,239.39 
   3,010.97 
 Operating profit before working capital changes 
   1,422.23 
   3,331.39 
 Adjustments for - 
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 
   6,567.26 
   4,328.83 
 (Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets 
       865.33 
  (2,348.53)
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories 
   1,038.85 
       293.33 
 Increase/(decrease) in provisions 
         15.84 
         26.62 
 Increase/(decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities 
   1,960.84 
   1,621.15 
 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  
  (6,746.44)
  (1,105.29)
 Cash generated from operations 
   3,701.68 
   2,816.11 
 Direct taxes paid 
     (252.63)
  4,871.28 
     (433.19)
  5,714.31 
 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
  4,170.16 
  4,148.89 
 
99
 B  CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES : 
 Payments for property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 
   (405.60)
   (539.83)
 Net cash flow on purchase of investments 
              - 
     (64.75)
 Proceeeds from disposal of property, plant & equipment and CWIP 
         2.28 
       45.74 
 Dividend received 
144.91
     142.74 
 Interest received 
325.20
     186.92 
 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
      66.79 
  (229.18)
 C  CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES : 
 Proceeds from loans borrowed  
 1,548.91 
     817.68 
 Repayments of borrowings 
    (2,529.73)
 (2,529.73)
 Proceeeds from issue of share capital 
              - 
 1,078.31 
 Proceeeds from issue of share warrants  
     969.20 
  - 
 Dividend paid 
   (461.06)
   (445.76)
 Interest paid 
        (2,243.89)
      (2,994.34)
 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
(2,716.57)
(4,073.84)
 Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
       1,520.38 
  (154.13)
 Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of the year 
910.10
1,064.23
 Cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year 
2,430.48
910.10
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors		
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          sd/-	
           sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
 	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
	
	
	
             sd/-	
	
          sd/-	
            sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
	
	
	
Mumbai	
	
	
	 	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	 	
	
May 25, 2023	
100
Ashapura Minechem Limited
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023 
 A. SHARE CAPITAL 
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
As at 31st March 
2023
As at 31st March 
2022
At the beginning of the year
1,829.72
1,739.72
Changes in equity share capital during the year
     - 
   90.00 
At the end of the year
1,829.72
1,829.72
B. OTHER EQUITY
(Indian ` in lacs)
Other Comprehensive Income
Total
Particulars
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium
Net gain/
(loss) on 
fair value 
of equity 
instruments
Net gain/
(loss) on 
fair value 
of defined 
benefit plan
As at 1st April, 2021
1.00
(15,164.68)
17,734.59
491.46
 7.32 
 3,069.69 
Addition during the year 
     - 
     - 
1,347.75
        - 
      - 
 1,347.75 
Loss for the year
     - 
(1,565.42)
    - 
        - 
      - 
     
(1,565.42)
Other comprehensive income for the year 
     - 
     - 
    - 
   (491.46)
   (75.64)
   (567.10)
Dividend
       - 
      (457.43)
-
     - 
   - 
(457.43)
As at 31st March, 2022
            1.00 
(17,187.53)
19,082.34 
     - 
          
(68.32)
       
1,827.49 
Loss for the year
     - 
 (701.12)
 - 
 - 
    -        (701.12)
Other comprehensive income for the year
     - 
    - 
    - 
 - 
       (7.70)
  (7.70)
Dividend
     - 
    (457.46)
-
        - 
      - 
  (457.46)
As at 31st March, 2023
1.00
(18,346.11)
19,082.34
        - 
   (76.02)
     661.21 
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors		
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          sd/-	
           sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
 	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
	
	
	
             sd/-	
	
          sd/-	
            sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
	
	
	
Mumbai	
	
	
	 	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	 	
	
May 25, 2023	
101
Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
  
COMPANY INFORMATION
Ashapura Minechem Limited (‘’the Company’’) is a public limited company domiciled in India and incorporated on 19th February, 1982 under the 
provisions of the Companies Act applicable in India vide CIN: L14108MH1982PLC026396. The Company is engaged in the mining, manufacturing 
and trading of various minerals and its derivative products and related services. The registered office of the Company is located at Jeevan Udyog 
Building, 3rd Floor, D N Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001. The equity shares of the Company are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) as well as 
National Stock Exchange (NSE).
The standalone financial statements (‘the financial statements”) were authorized for issue in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors 
on 25th May, 2023.
 
1	
BASIS OF PREPARATION, MEASUREMENT AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.1	 Basis of preparation and measurement:
	
These financial statements are the separate financial statements of the Company (also called standalone financial statements) prepared in 
accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 ( “the Act”), read together 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as applicable.
	
These financial statements have been prepared and presented under the historical cost convention, on the accrual basis of accounting except for 
certain financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair values at the end of each reporting period, as stated in the accounting 
policies set out below. The accounting policies have been applied consistently over all the periods presented in these financial statements.
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non current as per the Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria as set out 
in the Division II of Schedule III to the Act. The Company considers 12 months as normal operating cycle.
	
The Company’s financial statements are reported in Indian Rupees, which is also the Company’s functional currency, and all values are rounded 
to the nearest lacs except otherwise indicated.
1.2	 Significant accounting policies: 
	
a.	
System of accounting
	
	
The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS), under the historical cost 
convention on the accrual basis as per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 (‘’Act”), except in case of significant uncertainties.
	
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/non-current classification. It is held primarily for the 
purpose of being traded: 
 
 
• 
  
It is expected to be settled in the Company’s normal operating cycle;
 
 
• 
  
It is cash or cash equivalent unless it is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after  
	
	
the reporting date.
 
 
• 
  
It is held primarily for the purpose of being traded; 
 
 
• 
  
There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
 
 
• 
  
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
 
 
• 
  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current only.
	
b.	
Key accounting estimates
	
	
The preparation of the financial statements, in conformity with the recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS, requires the 
management to make estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, income, expenses and disclosure of contingent liabilities as at the date of financial statements and the results of operation during 
the reported period. Although these estimates are based upon management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results 
could differ from these estimates which are recognised in the period in which they are determined. 
	
	
The Company based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing 
circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are 
beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the financial statements in the period in which changes are made and, 
if material, their effects are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
	
	
Estimates and judgements are regularly revisited. Estimates are based on historical experience and other factors, including futuristic 
reasonable information that may have a financial impact on the Company.
	
c.	
Property, plant and equipment
	
	
(i)	
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost of acquisition including attributable interest and finance costs, if any, till 
the date of acquisition/installation of the assets less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
102
Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
(ii)	
	
Subsequent expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment is capitalised only when it is probable that future economic 
benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance costs are charged to the statement of profit and loss as incurred.benefits associated with the item will flow to the 
Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the statement 
of profit and loss as incurred. 
	
(iii)	
       	 The cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the financial    statements, either on disposal or when retired 
from active use and the resultant gain or loss are recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
(iv)	
	
Capital work-in-progress, representing expenditure incurred in respect of assets under development and not ready for their intended 
use, are carried at cost. Cost includes related acquisition expenses, construction cost, related borrowing cost and other direct 
expenditure.
	
(v)	
      The Company depreciates property, plant and equipment on written down value method except for building, plant & machinery, 
laboratory equipment and excavators where depreciation is provided on straight line method over the estimated useful life prescribed 
in Schedule II of the Act from the date the assets are ready for intended use after considering the residual value. 
	
(vi)	
 	
Intangible assets mainly represent implementation cost for software and other application software acquired/developed for in-house 
use. These assets are stated at cost.  Cost includes related acquisition expenses, related borrowing costs, if any, and other direct 
expenditure.
	
(vii)	 	
Items of stores and spares that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are capitalized at cost and depreciated over their 
useful life. Otherwise, such items are classified as inventories.
	
(viii)	 	
Losses arising from the retirement of and gains or losses arising from disposal of property, plant and equipment which are carried at 
cost are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
(ix)	
	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value 
in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 
cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units).
	
d.	
Investments properties
	
	
a)	
Property which is held for long-term rental or for capital appreciation or both is classified as investment property. Investment properties 
are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss, if any.
	
	
b)	
Investment properties currently comprise of plots of land and buildings.
	
	
c)	
Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently withdrawn from use 
and no future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset is recognised in statement of profit and loss in the period in which the property is derecognised. 
	
e.	
Investments and financial assets
	
	
(i)	
Investments in subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies
	
	
	
Investments in subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies are recognised at cost and not adjusted to fair value at the end of 
each reporting period. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments. 
	
	
	
The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period, if there is any indication that the said investments may be impaired. If so, 
the Company estimates the recoverable value of the investments and provides for impairment, if any, i.e. the deficit in the recoverable 
value over cost.
	
	
(ii)	
Other investments and financial assets
	
	
	
Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
	
	
	
On initial recognition, a financial asset is recognised at fair value, in case of financial assets which are recognised at fair value 
through profit and loss (FVTPL), its transaction costs are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. In other cases, the transaction 
costs are attributed to the acquisition value of financial asset.  However, trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing 
component are measured at transaction price. 
	
	
	
Financial assets are subsequently classified measured at –
	
	
	
-	
amortised cost
	
	
	
-	
fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
	
	
	
-	
fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI).
103
	
	
	
Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their recognition except if and in the period the Company changes its business 
model for managing financial assets.
	
	
	
Financial asset is derecognised only when the Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset. 
Where the entity has transferred the asset, the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset. In such cases, financial asset is derecognised.
	
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies the expected credit loss (”ECL”) model for measurement and recognition 
of impairment loss on financial assets and credit risk exposures. The Company follows ‘simplifiled approach’ for recognition of 
impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. Simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECL at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. For 
recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines that whether there has been a 
significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition.
	
f.	
Inventories
	
	
((i)	
Raw materials and stores and spares are valued at weighted average cost including all charges in bringing the materials to the 
present location. 
	
	
(ii)	
Finished and semi-finished goods are valued at the cost plus direct expenses and appropriate value of overheads or net realizable 
value, whichever is lower.
	
	
(iii)	
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are written off/valued at net realisable value during the year as per policy consistently 
followed by the Company.
	
g.	
Cash and bank balances
	
	
Cash and equivalents:
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprises of balance with banks and cash on hand and short term deposits with an original 
maturity of three month or less, which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
	
	
Other bank balances:
	
	
Other bank balances include deposits with maturity less than twelve months but greater than three months and balances and deposits with 
banks that are restricted for withdrawal and usage.
	
h.	
Trade receivables
	
	
A receivable is classified as a trade receivable if it is in respect of the amount due on account of goods sold or services rendered in the 
normal course of business. Trade receivables are recognised initially at their transaction price and subsequently measured net of any 
expected credit losses.
	
i.	
Equity instruments:
	
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments which are issued for cash are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
	
j.	
Financial liabilities
	
	
(i)	
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial 
liabilities are initially measured at the amortised cost unless at initial recognition, they are classified as fair value through profit and 
loss. 
 
	
	
(ii)	
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method. Financial liabilities 
carried at fair value through profit and loss are measured at fair value with all changes in fair value recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss.
	
	
(iii)	
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
	
k.	
Trade payables
	
	
A payable is classified as a trade payable if it is in respect of the amount due on account of   goods purchased in the normal course of 
business. These amounts represent liabilities for goods provided to the Company prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid. 
These amounts are unsecured and are usually settled as per the payment terms. Trade and other payables are presented as current 
liabilities unless payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting period. 
104
Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
l.	
Revenue recognition	
	
	
	
(i)	
Revenue shall be recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 
consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
	
	
(ii)  	 Revenue is measured based on transaction price, which is the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, stated net of 
discounts, return and goods & service tax. Transaction price is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the 
estimated sales incentives/discounts.
	
	
(iii)	
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the discounts/rights of return, using the expected value method.
	
	
(iv)	
A return liability is recognised to expected return in relation to sales made corresponding assets are recognised for the products 
expected to be returned. 
	
	
(v)	
The Company recognises as an asset, the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer, if the Company expects to recover 
those costs. The said asset is amortised on a systematic basis consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customers.
	
	
(vi)	
Export incentives are accounted for on export of goods if the entitlements can be estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions 
precedent to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.
	
	
(vii)	 Revenue in respect of other income is recognised on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks 
reasonable certainty, revenue recognition is postponed to the extent of uncertainty.
	
m.	
Indirect taxes
	
	
Purchases of goods and fixed assets are accounted for net of Goods and Service Tax (GST) input credits. Custom duty paid on import of 
materials is dealt with in respective material accounts.
	
n.	
Mining expenses
	
	
Expenses incurred on mining including removal of overburden of mines are charged to the statement of profit & loss as mining cost on the 
basis of quantity of minerals mined during the year, overburden of removal and mining being carried out concurrently and relatively within 
a short period of time. Mining restoration expenses are annually reviewed and provided for.
	
o.	
Research and development expenses and receipts
	
	
Revenue expenditure on research and development is charged against the profit for the year in which it is incurred. Capital expenditure on 
research and development is shown as an addition to the fixed assets and is depreciated on the same basis as other fixed assets. Receipts 
of research & development centre of the Company are accounted for as revenue receipts.
	
p.	
Foreign currency transactions 
	
	
(i)	
Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of primary economic environment in which the company 
operates (“the functional currency”). The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupee (INR), which is the company’s functional 
and presentation currency.
	
	
(ii)	
Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in the reporting currency at foreign exchange rate on the date of the transaction. 
	
	
(iii)	
Monetary items of current assets and current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported using the closing rate at the 
reporting date. Non-monetary items which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign currency are reported 
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
	
	
(iv)	
The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates are recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss. 
 
 
	
q.	
Employee benefit expenses
	
	
(i)	
Contributions to defined contribution schemes such as provident fund, employees’ state insurance, labour welfare fund etc. are 
charged as an expense based on the amount of contribution required to be made as and when services are rendered by the 
employees. These benefits are classified as defined contribution schemes as the Company has no further obligations beyond the 
monthly contributions.
	
	
(ii) 	
The Company provides for gratuity which is a defined benefit plan, the liabilities of which are determined based on valuations, as at 
the reporting date, made by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Re-measurement comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, in respect of gratuity are recognised in the other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. The 
classification of the Company’s obligation into current and non-current is as per the actuarial valuation report.
       	 	
(iii)	
The employees are entitled to accumulate leave subject to certain limits, for future encashment and availment, as per the policy of the 
Company. The liability towards such unutilised leave as at the end of each balance sheet date is determined based on independent 
actuarial valuation and recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
105
 	
r.	
Leases
	
	
Company as lessee
	
	
The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of machinery and equipment (i.e., those leases 
that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease 
of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term 
leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
	
Company as lessor
	
	
Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are classified 
as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on 
the same basis as rental income. 
	
s.	
Borrowing costs
	
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that the Company incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Also, the effective 
interest rate amortisation is included in finance costs. Borrowing costs relating to acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying 
asset which takes substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are added to the cost of such asset to the extent they relate 
to the period till such assets are ready to be put to use. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the statement of profit and loss in the 
period in which they occur.
	
t.	
Impairment of non financial assets
	
	
As at each reporting date, the Company assesses whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired and also 
whether there is an indication of reversal of impairment loss recognised in the previous periods. If any indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company determines the recoverable amount and impairment loss is recognised when the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. If the amount of impairment loss subsequently decreases and the decrease 
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, then the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed through the statement of profit and loss.
	
u.	
Taxes on income
	
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the deferred tax during the year. Current and deferred taxes are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in 
which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
	
	
Current income tax is recognised based on the estimated tax liability computed after taking credit for allowances and exemptions in 
accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961. Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered 
from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively 
enacted, at the reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and 
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
	
	
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused tax 
losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which they can be used. In case of uncertainty of reversal of the deferred tax assets or when it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available in the foreseeable future, deferred tax assets, as a matter of prudence, are not recognised.
	
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each reporting date and measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied 
to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. The measurement of 
deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Company expects, at the reporting date, to 
recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
	
v.	
Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
	
The Company creates a provision when there is present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of past events that probably requires 
an outflow of resources and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of obligation. 
	
	
Contingent liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible obligations that arise from past events, whose existence would be confirmed by 
the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the 
financial statements.
106
Ashapura Minechem Limited
	
w.	
Earnings per share
	
	
(i)	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to the equity shareholders of the 
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period and for all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the 
conversion of potential equity shares that have changed the number of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change 
in resources. 
	
	
(ii)	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earning per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to the equity shareholders 
and the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares. 
 
	
x.	
Offsetting instruments
	
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the 
event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or the counterparty.
	
y.	
Events after the reporting period
	
	
Adjusting events are events that provide further evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period. The financial 
statements are adjusted for such events before authorisation for issue. Non-adjusting events are events that are indicative of conditions 
that arose after end of the reporting period. Non-adjusting events after the reporting date are not accounted, but disclosed.
	
z.	
Non- current assets held for sale
	
	
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather 
than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell. 
A gain is recognised for any subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of any cumulative impairment 
loss previously recognised. A gain or loss not previously recognised by the date of the sale of the non-current asset is recognised at the 
date of de-recognition. Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale. Interest and other 
expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised. Non-current assets classified 
as held for sale are presented separately from the other assets in the balance sheet.
	
aa.	 Segment reporting
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the operating decision makers. The 
decision makers regularly monitor and review the operating result of the whole Company. The activities of the Company, in the opinion 
of the management, primarily falls under a single segment of “Minerals and its derivative products” in accordance with the Ind AS 108 
“Operating Segments”.
	
ab.	 Recent pronouncements, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide notification dated 31st March, 2023 notified Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 (the ‘Rules’) which amends certain accounting standards, and are effective 1 April 
2023. The Rules predominantly amends Ind AS 1, Presentation of financial statements and Ind AS 12, Income taxes, whereas the other 
amendments notified by these rules are primarily in the nature of clarifications. The impact of the amendment on the Financial Statements, 
in the opinion of the management, is expected to be insignificant on the basis of the preliminary evaluation.
107
Note 2
 Property, plant and equipment 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Land (note 
no.d) 
 Buildings 
Plant & 
Equipment
Barges
 Office 
Equipment 
 Furniture & 
Fixtures 
 Vehicles 
 Total 
 Gross carrying value  
 As at 1st April, 2021 
1,512.19
5,370.52
23,187.28
75.98
1,050.15
1,422.22
739.41
   33,357.75 
 Additions  
 11.00 
95.32
222.45
 - 
42.07
0.15
   - 
 370.99 
 Disposals /transfers 
   - 
 - 
 (19.76)
 - 
  (5.67)
  (7.64)
  (10.39)
  (43.46)
 As at 31st March, 2022 
 1,523.19 
 5,465.84 
 23,389.97 
 75.98 
 1,086.55 
 1,414.73 
 729.02    33,685.28 
 Additions  
   - 
  37.02 
  290.56 
 - 
 20.42 
 0.14 
 2.07 
350.21
 Disposals/transfers 
  (61.31)
  (668.10)
 (3,950.75)
 - 
  (34.62)
  (23.30)
  (32.92)    (4,771.00)
 As at 31st March, 2023 
 1,461.88 
 4,834.76 
 19,729.78 
 75.98 
 1,072.35 
 1,391.57 
 698.17    29,264.49 
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 1st April, 2021 
   - 
1,083.89
15,166.28
73.54
973.50
1,267.29
684.03
   19,248.53 
 Depreciation charged 
   - 
81.12
1,671.47
 - 
19.92
29.90
6.37
 1,808.78 
 Disposals /transfers 
   - 
 - 
  (8.19)
 - 
  (5.39)
  (7.26)
  (9.66)
  (30.50)
 As at 31st March, 2022 
   - 
 1,165.01 
 16,829.56 
 73.54 
 988.03 
 1,289.93 
 680.74 
21,026.81
 Depreciation charged 
   - 
135.45
1,266.28
 - 
27.52
22.12
4.24
1455.61
 Disposals/transfers 
   - 
  (151.66)
 (3,529.15)
 - 
  (32.52)
  (21.59)
  (30.69)
  (3,765.61)
 As at 31st March, 2023 
   - 
 1,148.80 
 14,566.69 
 73.54 
 983.03 
 1,290.46 
 654.29    18,716.81 
 Net carrying value 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
 1,523.19 
 4,300.83 
 6,560.41 
  2.44 
 98.52 
 124.80 
 48.28    12,658.47 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
 1,461.88 
 3,685.96 
 5,163.09 
  2.44 
 89.32 
 101.11 
 43.88    10,547.68 
 Capital work in progress ageing schedule: 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Capital work in progress for a period of  
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
2-3 years
 More than 3 
years  
31st March, 2023
 Projects in progress  
 34.66 
  153.59 
 - 
 - 
 188.25 
34.66
153.59
 - 
 - 
188.25
31st March, 2022
 Projects in progress  
 174.94 
 - 
  11.28 
 - 
 186.22 
 Projects temporarily suspended 
  - 
 - 
 7.55 
  80.47 
 88.02 
174.94
 - 
18.83
80.47
274.24
Note:
a) There are no projects which are overdue for completion or has exceeded its cost as compared to the original plan.
b) Refer note no. 33 for disclosure of contractual commitment towards acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
c) Refer note no. 16 and 42 for property, plant and equipment mortgaged/hypthecated/pledged as securities against borrowings.
d) Charge is created on one of the assets, in favour of a financial institution against the finance availed by an associate company.
108
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 3
 Investment Properties 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
Land
 Building    
(note no. iv) 
Total
 Gross carrying value  
 As at 1st Aril, 2021 
257.50
2,803.13
3,060.63
 Additions  
      - 
        - 
  - 
 Disposals  
      - 
        - 
  - 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
257.50
2,803.13
3,060.63
 Additions  
      - 
        - 
  - 
 Disposals  
      - 
        - 
  - 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
  257.50 
   2,803.13 
   3,060.63 
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 1st Aril, 2021 
      - 
   811.87 
 811.87 
 Depreciation charged/transfer 
      - 
   126.82 
 126.82 
 Disposals  
-
        - 
  - 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
      - 
938.69
938.69
 Depreciation charged 
      - 
72.58
   72.58 
 Disposals  
      - 
        - 
  - 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
      - 
1,011.27
1,011.27
Net Carrying Amount
 As at 31st March, 2022 
257.50
1,864.44
2,121.94
 As at 31st March, 2023 
257.50
1,791.86
2,049.36
i) Amount recognised in profit or loss for investment properties                                                                                        (Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
31st March
31st March
2023
2022
Rental income
98.77
92.39
Direct operating expenses 
        - 
  - 
Gain from investment properties before depreciation
98.77
92.39
Depreciation
72.58
126.82
Gain from investment properties 
 26.19 
 (34.43)
ii) Contractual obligations
There are no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property.
iii) Fair Value
The fair value of the Investment Property as at March 31, 2023 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out by independent valuers 
registered with the authority which governs the valuers in India. All fair value estimates for investment properties are included in Level 2. Fair 
valuation of the investment properties as on 31st March, 2023 is ` 3,511.16 lacs.
iv) Charge is created on one of the assets, in favour of a financial institution against the finance availed by a wholly-owned subsidiary company.
109
Note 4
 Intangible assets 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Computer 
Software
 Total 
 
 Gross carrying value (at deemed cost) 
 As at 1st April, 2021 
250.28
250.28
 Additions  
 22.00 
 22.00 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
272.28
272.28
 Additions  
  - 
  - 
 Disposals  
     (22.32)
  (22.32)
 As at 31st March, 2023 
249.96
249.96
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 1st April, 2021 
220.74
220.74
 Amortisation 
16.44
16.44
 As at 31st March, 2022 
237.18
237.18
 Amortisation 
10.16
10.16
 Disposals  
     (12.09)
  (12.09)
 As at 31st March, 2023 
235.25
235.25
 Net carrying value 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
35.10
35.10
 As at 31st March, 2023 
14.71
14.71
 Note No. 5
 Investments 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March 
2022
 Non-current Investments 
 a. Investments valued at cost, fully paid up 
 Investments in subsidiaries in India 
 Ashapura International Limited1
327.27
    327.27 
 3,000,000  Equity Shares of ` 10 each
 Ashapura Claytech Limited
371.00
371.00
 3,560,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 Prashansha Ceramics Limited
147.00
147.00
 700,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 Bombay Minerals Limited1
961.54
961.54
 218,080 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 Ashapura Aluminum Limited
5.00
5.00
 50,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 Ashapura Consultancy Services Private Limited
1.00
1.00
 10,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 Ashapura Resources Private Limited
1.00
1.00
 10,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
110
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 Sharda Consultancy Private Limited
1.00
1.00
 10,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 Peninsula Property Developers Private Limited
1.00
1.00
 10,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
1,815.81
1,815.81
 Investments in subsidiaries outside India 
      Ashapura Minechem UAE FZE 
1,123.13
1,123.13
      68 Equity Shares of AED 1,50,000 each fully paid-up
      Ashapura Midgulf NV - Belgium
17.76
   17.76 
      30,750 Equity Shares of Euro 1 each fully paid-up
1,140.89
1,140.89
 Investments in joint ventures in India 
     Ashapura Perfoclay Limited1
896.66
 896.66 
      8,966,590 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
896.66
 896.66 
 Investments in associates in India 
     Ashapura Arcadia Logistics Private Limited
5.50
5.50
     55,000 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
     Shantilal Multiport Infrastructure Private Limited
91.38
   91.38 
     8,49,975 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
96.88
96.88
 b. Investment valued at cost 
  National Savings Certificates
1.21
1.21
  (under lien with VAT/mining authorities) 
1.21
1.21
Total non-current investments
3,951.45
3,951.45
1 investments in these equity shares are pledged with a creditor.
Aggregate amount of qouted investments
 - 
   - 
Market value of qouted investments
 - 
   - 
Aggregate amount of unqouted investments
  3,951.45 
  3,951.45 
111
Note 6
Loans
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
 Non-current 
 Current 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Unsecured, considered good 
 Loans to a wholly-owned subsidiary companies* 
         3,552.24 
           5,097.66 
                      - 
                       - 
 Employee loans 
                 1.05 
                   4.12 
               10.66 
    5.49 
 Total loans 
     3,553.29 
   5,101.78 
        10.66 
         5.49 
Disclosures for loans to subsidiries u/s 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 and disclosure as per Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
(Indian ` in lacs)
Name of the entity
Outstanding balances
Maximum balance  outstanding 
during the year
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Subsidiaries:
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
         1,570.24 
1,369.91
1,570.24
1,369.91
Ashapura International Limited
                     - 
2,115.75
                      - 
           2,115.75 
Bombay Minerals Limited 
         1,982.00 
1,612.00
1,982.00
           1,612.00 
 
         3,552.24 
5,097.66
 
* for working capital purposes
Note 7
Other financial assets
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars 
  
Non-current 
 Current 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
Term deposits with maturity of more than 12 months  *
416.99
267.51
    - 
- 
 Claims receivables 
                   - 
                       - 
            864.84 
              166.74 
 Security deposits 
842.38
836.66
                          - 
                       - 
 Interest receivables 
11.95
12.35
                        - 
                       - 
 Total other financial assets 
1,271.32
1,116.52
           864.84 
              166.74 
* under lien with banks against letter of credits and bank guarantees
112
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 8
Other assets
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
 Non-current 
 Current 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Trade advances to suppliers 
                          - 
                       -                9,590.46 
        10,063.15 
Less: Loss allowance for doubtful advances
                           - 
                       - 
2,782.07
           2,782.07 
6,808.39
           7,281.08 
 Capital advances 
             9.07 
                74.41                            - 
                       - 
 Employee advances 
-
-
12.89
6.50
 Prepaid expenses 
                           - 
                       - 
123.82
122.49
 Input credit receivables 
                           - 
                       - 
633.35
970.51
 Other advances 
                           - 
-
1,814.13
           1,811.99 
 Total other assets 
9.07
74.41
9,392.58
10,192.57
Security deposits:
Towards land and premises to directors, firms and companies 
in which some of the directors are interested 
45.00
45.00
      - 
                     - 
Towards premises to subsidiary companies
                           - 
51.00
                           - 
                       - 
Trade advances:
  - To subsidiary companies
                           - 
                       - 
4,971.40
2,451.40
  - To companies or firms in which some of the directors are 
interested
                           - 
                       -                   567.18 
            700.31 
 Note 9 
 Inventories 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
   
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Raw materials 
895.65
1,007.95
 Semi finished goods
1,276.79
1,669.89
 Finished goods
2,533.01
2,686.39
 Stock-in-trade 
4,963.72
5,269.53
 Stores & spares 
573.74
628.92
 Packing materials  
205.92
225.00
 Total inventories 
10,448.83
11,487.68
113
 Note 10 
 Trade Receivables 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
    Unsecured, considered good 
11,676.10
15,126.36
    Unsecured, significant increase in credit risk 
238.86
408.88
    Unsecured, considered doubtful 
1,035.97
1,354.93
    Less: Loss allowance for bad and doubtful debts 
       (1,144.84)
    (1,473.44)
 Total trade receivables 
11,806.09
15,416.73
Above includes due from related party
   - Subsidiaries
5,832.20
4,424.68
   - Joint ventures & associates
968.32
925.12
 10.1 Trade receivables ageing schedule: 
( Indian ` in lacs)
 Particular 
 Not  
 due 
 Outstanding for the following period from due date of payments 
 Total 
 < 6 Months 
6 months- 1 
year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
> 3 years
 31st March, 2023 
 Undisputed, considered good 
     4,999.33         1,748.06        2,195.00 
      1,685.96 
                  - 
    1,047.75 
   11,676.10 
 Undisputed having significant 
increase in credit risk 
                  -                               
- 
                               
-             35.18 
         203.68 
                 - 
         238.86 
 Undisputed trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
                  - 
                 - 
           - 
                   - 
                  - 
    1,035.97 
     1,035.97 
     4,999.33 
1,748.06 
2,195.00 
      1,721.14 
         203.68 
    2,083.72 
   12,950.93 
 Less: Allowance for credit losses 
    (1,144.84)
 Total trade receivables 
   11,806.09 
 31st March, 2022 
 Undisputed, considered good 
3,391.45
9,215.31 
1,426.91               5.68 
         241.11 
        845.90 
   15,126.36 
 Undisputed having significant 
increase in credit risk 
                  -                      -                      -           279.38 
         129.50 
                 - 
         408.88 
 Undisputed trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
                  - 
                - 
             - 
                   - 
                  - 
    1,354.93 
     1,354.93 
3,391.45
      9,215.31 
     1,426.91 
         285.06 
         370.61 
    2,200.83 
   16,890.17 
 Less: Allowance for credit losses 
    (1,473.44)
 Total trade receivables 
   15,416.73 
114
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 Note 11 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Balances with banks 
1,935.81
571.93
 Cash on hand 
14.19
46.07
 Other term deposits 
480.48
292.10
 Total cash and cash equivalents 
2,430.48
910.10
 Note 12 
 Other bank balances 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Margin money deposits * 
         323.42 
          370.98 
 Dividend accounts 
                 8.07 
              11.67 
 Total other bank balances 
    331.49 
      382.65 
 There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund as at 31st March, 2023.
* under lien against gurantees to mining authorities and letter of credits.
 Note 13 
 Income tax  
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
 31st March 
2023
31st March
2022
 The following table provides the details of income tax assets and liabilities : 
 Current income tax assets 
         884.11 
          750.25 
 Current income tax liabilities 
                   - 
                    - 
Net balance 
       884.11 
750.25
 The gross movement in the current tax asset / (liability) : 
 Net current income tax asset at the beginning 
          750.25 
              317.06 
        Income tax paid (net of refunds) 
            252.63 
             433.19 
        Tax expense  
              (118.77)
                        - 
 Net current income tax asset at the end 
       884.11 
750.25
115
 Note 14 
 Equity share capital 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
   
   
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
Authorised 
 30,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 2 each
6,000.00
6,000.00
 30,00,000 preference shares of ` 100 each
3,000.00
3,000.00
9,000.00
9,000.00
 Issued, Subscribed and Paid up
9,14,86,098  equity shares of ` 2 each
   1,829.72 
   1,829.72 
Total equity share capital
   1,829.72 
   1,829.72 
a. Equity shares issued as fully paid-up bonus shares or otherwise than by cash during the preceding five years: Nil
b. Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year :
(Indian ` in lacs )
Particulars 
 As on 31st March, 2023 
 As on 31st March, 2022 
 No. of shares 
 ` 
 No. of shares 
 ` 
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 9,14,86,098 
  1,829.72 
    8,69,86,098 
1,739.72
Issue of equity shares  on coversion of warrants during the year
  - 
 - 
 45,00,000 
   90.00 
Balance at end of the year 
 9,14,86,098 
  1,829.72 
    9,14,86,098 
   1,829.72 
c. Shares held by promoters and promoter group :
Name of Shareholder
As at  31st March ,2023
As at 31st March 2022
Change 
Nos.
% of holding
Nos.
% of holding
(%)
Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
1,47,81,734
16.16
1,41,61,612
15.48
 0.68 
Mr. Chetan Navnitlal Shah
1,35,93,814
14.86
1,35,43,814
14.80
 0.05 
Ms. Dina Chetan Shah
92,02,360
10.06
92,02,360
10.06
 - 
Mr. Manan Shah
22,39,220
2.45
22,39,220
2.45
 - 
Ms. Chaitali Salot
12,55,620
1.37
12,55,620
1.37
 - 
Ms. Himani Shah
1,42,980
0.16
1,42,980
0.16
 - 
Late Shri Navnitlal R Shah Estate 
1,29,460
0.14
1,29,460
0.14
 - 
Ashapura Overseas Private Limited 
1,20,000
0.13
1,00,000
0.11
 0.02 
Gurbarga Trading Co. Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 - 
Hemprabha Trading Co Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 - 
Name of Shareholder
As at  31st March ,2022
As at 31st March 2021
Change 
Nos.
% of holding
Nos.
% of holding
(%)
Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
1,41,61,612
15.48
95,14,331
10.94
 4.54 
Mr. Chetan Navnitlal Shah
1,35,43,814
14.80
1,35,43,814
15.57
  (0.77)
Ms. Dina Chetan Shah
92,02,360
10.06
92,02,360
10.58
  (0.52)
Mr. Manan Shah
22,39,220
2.45
22,39,220
2.57
  (0.13)
Ms. Chaitali Salot
12,55,620
1.37
12,55,620
1.44
   (0.07)
116
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Ms. Himani Shah
1,42,980
0.16
1,42,980
0.16
   (0.01)
Late Shri Navnitlal R Shah Estate
1,29,460
0.14
1,29,460
0.15
  (0.01)
Ashapura Overseas Private Limited 
1,00,000
0.11
 - 
 - 
 0.11 
Gurbarga Trading Co. Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 - 
Hemprabha Trading Co Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 - 
d. Shares held by each shareholder holding more than five percent shares :
Name of Shareholder
As at 31st March 2023
As at 31st March 2022
Nos.
% of holding
Nos.
% of holding
Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
1,47,81,734
16.16
1,41,61,612
 15.48 
Mr. Chetan Navnitlal Shah
1,35,93,814
14.86
1,35,43,814
14.80
Mrs. Dina Chetan Shah
92,02,360
10.06
92,02,360
10.06
Albula Investment Fund Limited
    47,57,017 
5.20
72,57,017
 7.93 
e. Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :
The company has one class of equity shares having a face value of ` 2 each ranking pari pasu in all respect including voting rights and entitlement 
to dividend. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. Dividend proposed by the board of directors and approved by the 
shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid to the shareholders.
 Note 15 
 Other equity 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
Capital Redemption Reserve
Balance at the beginning of the year
1.00
1.00
Additions during the year
  - 
    - 
Balance at the end of the year
1.00
1.00
Securities Premium Account
Balance at the beginning of the year
19,082.34
17,734.59
Additions during the year
   - 
1,347.75
Balance at the end of the year
19,082.34
19,082.34
Retained earnings
Balance at the beginning of the year
    (17,187.53)
  (15,164.68)
Loss for the year
 (701.12)
  (1,565.42)
Dividend
 (457.46)
 (457.43)
Balance at the end of the year
  (18,346.11)
  (17,187.53)
Other components of equity
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 
 (76.02)
   (68.32)
Total other equity
  661.21 
   1,827.49 
Capital redemption reserve: The Company has created capital redemption reserve from distributable profit upon redemption of preference 
shares in the past years.
117
Securities premium account:  Amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognized in securities premium account. The 
reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
Retained earnings:  Retained earnings are the profits/(loss) of the Company till date, less transfers to general reserve, dividends or other 
distributions paid to shareholders.
Net gain/(loss) on fair value of defined benefit plans:  The Company has recognised remeasurement gains/(loss) on defined benefit plans 
in OCI. These changes are accumalated within the OCI reserve within other equity. The Company transfers amount from this reserve to retained 
earning when the relevant obligations are derecognized.
Note 16
Borrowings
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
Secured
    Term loans from financial institution 
 1,686.49 
 4,216.22 
   - 
 - 
    Current maturities of long-term debt* 
    - 
    - 
 4,178.64 
2,529.73
   
1,686.49
4,216.22
  4,178.64 
    2,529.73 
* includes overdue borrowings of ` 1,694.74 lacs.
Unsecured
    Inter coprporate deposits 
 - 
    - 
 - 
    100.00 
 - 
    - 
 - 
    100.00 
Total borrowings
1,686.49
4,216.22
4,178.64
    2,629.73 
Note: Term loans from others are against hypothecation of plant & equipment and vehicles, inventories and book debts and further secured by 
equitable mortgage of certain immovable assets of the Company, pledged of shares held by some of the directors and also against personal 
gurantees of some of the directors. 
Note 17
Other financial liabilities
(Indian ` in lacs)
    Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Interest accrued and due on borrowings 
 - 
    - 
12.13
  16.63 
 Unpaid dividend  
 - 
    - 
8.07
  11.67 
 Derivatives and other claims payable (Refer note no. 42 ) 
 - 
    - 
2,500.00
2,500.00
 Payables towards services received 
 - 
    - 
56.71
67.57
 Shipping claims payable* 
29,699.88
 22,723.99 
5,032.50
13,250.00
Total other financial liabilities
29,699.88
 22,723.99 
7,609.41
  15,845.87 
* investments in  equity shares as stated in note no. 5 are pledged with one of the creditors.
118
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 18
Provisions
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
   Provision for leave encashment 
    73.36 
 77.28 
23.22
22.95
   Provision for minning restoration 
 555.15 
   555.16 
 - 
 - 
   Provision for bonus 
 - 
    - 
69.76
64.51
   Provision for gratuity 
    53.29 
 48.30 
103.77
86.81
   Provision for royalty 
 - 
    - 
17.82
17.82
Total provisions
 681.80 
   680.74 
    214.57 
    192.09 
Note 19
Other liabilities
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Advances from customers 
 - 
    - 
5,468.42
3,667.62
 Statutory liabilities 
 - 
    - 
184.83
80.63
 Other liabilities 
 - 
    - 
403.45
347.61
 Total other liabilities 
 - 
    - 
6,056.70
4,095.86
Note 20
Trade payables
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  
 Current 
  
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Trade payables 
   Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises  
 - 
 - 
   Total outstanding dues of  creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises 
5,110.44
10,604.41
Total trade payables
5,110.44
10,604.41
119
 20.1 Trade payables ageing schedule: 
( Indian ` in lacs)
 Particular 
 Not 
 Due  
 Outstanding for the following period from due date of 
payments 
 Total 
 Less than 1 
year 
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
> 3 years
 31st March, 2023 
 Outstanding dues to MSME  
   - 
   - 
   - 
  - 
   - 
   - 
 Others 
1,797.42
 1,246.33 
 931.77 
 27.89 
 1,107.03 
 5,110.44 
 Total…. 
 1,797.42 
 1,246.33 
 931.77 
 27.89 
 1,107.03 
 5,110.44 
 31st March, 2022 
 Outstanding dues to MSME  
   - 
   - 
   - 
  - 
   - 
   - 
 Others 
6,120.48
2,334.74
 29.94 
  348.53 
1,770.72
 10,604.41 
 Total…. 
6,120.48
2,334.74
 29.94 
  348.53 
 1,770.72 
10,604.41 
 
Note 21
Revenue from operations
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
 Sale of Products 
   Export sales 
12,774.98
48,226.56
   Domestic sales  
6,803.59
9,505.16
19,578.57
57,731.72
 Other Operating Revenue 
  Research & development fees receipts
900.00
578.70
  Other operating income
1,790.60
1,504.70
 Total revenue from operations 
22,269.17
59,815.12
Note 22
Other income
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
 Interest receipts
325.20
186.92
 Dividend receipts
144.91
142.74
 Profit on sale of investments (net)
  - 
1.63
 Profit on sale of property, plant & equipment  (net)
   - 
32.78
 Lease rent receipts
425.24
425.40
Gain on foreign currency fluctuation 
800.61
436.63
Sundry balances/excess provisions written back (net)
2,215.04
1,267.55
 Miscellaneous income 
90.41
153.58
 Total other income 
4,001.41
2,647.23
120
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 23
Cost of materials consumed
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Raw materials consumed
Opening stock
1,007.95
1,174.45
Add: Purchases
4,378.08
4,043.67
Less: Closing stock
   (895.65)
   (1,007.95)
4,490.38
4,210.17
Packing materials consumed
Opening stock
225.00
219.74
Add: Purchase and direct expenses
627.47
679.44
Less: Closing stock
   (205.92)
   (225.00)
646.55
674.18
Rent and royalty
452.34
50.04
Mining expenses
362.40
122.85
 Total cost of material consumed 
5,951.67
5,057.24
Note 24
Changes in inventories
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Closing Stock
   Finished goods
2,533.01
2,686.39
   Stock-in-trade
4,963.72
5,269.53
   Semi finished goods
1,276.79
1,669.89
8,773.52
9,625.81
Opening Stock
   Finished goods
2,686.39
2,526.30
   Stock-in-trade
5,269.53
5,226.16
   Semi finished goods
1,669.89
2,098.57
9,625.81
9,851.03
 Changes in inventories 
 852.29 
 225.22 
Note 25
Employee benefit expenses
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonus
2,406.49
2,226.68
Directors' remuneration
155.84
138.33
Contribution to provident fund & other welfare funds
166.94
140.20
Staff welfare expenses
203.89
143.07
 Total employee benefit expenses 
2,933.16
2,648.28
121
Note 26
Finance costs
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Interest
 Banks
  - 
  - 
 Income tax
1.53
0.05
 Others
2,234.70
3,007.13
2,236.23
3,007.18
Other borrowing costs
3.16
 3.79 
 Total finance costs 
2,239.39
3,010.97
Note 27
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Property, plant and equipment
1,455.61
1,808.78
Investment properties
72.58
126.82
Intangible assets
10.16
16.44
 Total depreciation and amortisation 
1,538.35
1,952.04
Note 28
Other expenses
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Manufacturing expenses
  Power and fuel
2,351.74
2,638.74
  Machinery repairs and maintenance
91.24
90.41
  Stores and spares
800.44
673.60
  Carriage inward
124.25
34.63
  Other expenses
703.19
853.40
4,070.86
4,290.78
Selling and distriibution expenses
  Sales Commission
26.24
 196.83 
  Export freight and insurance
2,759.65
15,169.93
  Export custom duty
  - 
0.40
  Export and other shipment expenses
2,773.72
3,049.55
5,559.61
18,416.71
Administrative and other expenses
 Advertisement and business promotion
28.91
38.31
 Rent
73.64
81.85
 Rates and taxes
25.73
55.56
 Repairs to buildings and others
107.88
108.66
 Insurance premiums
142.72
117.11
 Travelling expenses
178.99
90.89
 Bank discount, commission and other charges
44.17
39.48
 Legal and professional fees
463.44
292.49
 Payment to auditors
55.45
53.70
 Directors sitting fees
19.75
17.50
Loss on sale of property, plant & equipment  (net)
210.87
 - 
Corporate social responsibility expenses
 - 
 341.01 
 Donations
10.48
0.45
 Miscellaneous expenses
645.83
616.97
2,007.86
1,853.98
 Total other expenses 
11,638.33
24,561.47
122
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities 
1. Amount required to be spent u/s 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013
  - 
328.89
2. Amount spent in cash during the year
  i)  Construction/acquisition of any asset
  - 
  - 
 ii)  On purposes other than (i) above
  - 
341.01
3. (Excess)/Shortfall at the end of the year 
  - 
  (12.12)
4. Nature of CSR activities 
Education, healthcare, women 
empowerment, promotion of arts
Payments to auditors 
Audit fees (including quarterly limited review)
47.50
46.30
Tax audit fees
5.50
 6.00 
Other services
1.25
 1.40 
Reimursement of expenses
1.20
  - 
55.45
53.70
Note 29
Earning per share
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
 
Profit for the year (Indian ` in lacs)
   (701.12)
   (1,565.42)
Weighted average number of shares (Nos)
9,14,86,098
8,96,61,440
Diluted number of shares (Nos)
9,14,86,098
8,96,61,440
Earnings per share (Basic ) ` 
  (0.77)
  (1.75)
Earnings per share (Diluted ) ` 
  (0.77)
  (1.75)
Face value per share `
2.00
2.00
Note 30
Fair value measurement
i)  Financial instruments by catergory :
( Indian ` in lacs )
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
FVPL
FVOCI
Amortised 
cost
Fair value
FVPL
FVOCI
Amortised 
cost
Fair value
Financial assets 
Investments
  - 
  - 
 3,951.45 
 3,951.45 
 - 
 - 
 3,951.45 
 3,951.45 
Trade receivables
  - 
  - 
  11,806.09 
  11,806.09 
 - 
 - 
  15,416.73  15,416.73 
Loans - non-current 
  - 
  - 
 3,553.29 
 3,553.29 
 - 
 - 
 5,101.78 
 5,101.78 
Loans - current 
  - 
  - 
 10.66 
 10.66 
   5.49 
   5.49 
Other financial assets - non-current 
  - 
  - 
 1,271.32 
 1,271.32 
 - 
 - 
 1,116.52 
 1,116.52 
Other financial assets - current
  - 
  - 
  864.84 
  864.84 
 - 
 - 
  166.74 
  166.74 
Cash and cash equivalents
  - 
  - 
 2,430.48 
 2,430.48 
 - 
 - 
  910.10 
  910.10 
Other bank balances
  - 
  - 
  331.49 
  331.49 
 - 
 - 
  382.65 
  382.65 
Total financial assets
  - 
  - 
  24,219.62 
  24,219.62 
 - 
 - 
  27,051.46  27,051.46 
123
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
  Long term borrowings
  - 
  - 
 1,686.49 
 1,686.49 
 - 
 - 
 4,216.22 
 4,216.22 
  Short term borrowings
  - 
  - 
 4,178.64 
 4,178.64 
 - 
 - 
 2,629.73 
 2,629.73 
Trade payables
  - 
  - 
 5,110.44 
 5,110.44 
 - 
 - 
  10,604.41 
10,604.41 
Other financial liabilities - non-current
  - 
  - 
  29,699.88 
  29,699.88 
 - 
 - 
  22,723.99  22,723.99 
Other financial liabilities -current
  - 
  - 
 7,609.41 
 7,609.41 
 - 
 - 
  15,845.87  15,845.87 
Total financial liabilities
  - 
  - 
  48,284.86 
  48,284.86 
 - 
 - 
  56,020.22  56,020.22 
Note 31
Financial risk management
The Company's activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
Risk
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, 
financial assets and trade 
receivables
Credit ratings, Aging analysis, 
credit evaluation
Diversification of counter parties, 
investment limits, check on 
counter parties basis credit rating 
and number of overdue days
Liquidity risk
Borrowings, trade payables and 
other liabilities
Maturity analysis
Maintaining sufficient cash/cash 
equivalents and marketable 
securities
Market risk
Financial assets and liabilities 
not denominated in INR
Sensitivity analysis
Constant evaluation and proper 
risk management policies
 
 
The Board provides guiding principles for overall risk management as well as policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, credit 
risk and investment of surplus liquidity.
A. Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of a counter party default on its contractual obligation resulting into a financial loss to the Company. The maximum 
exposure of the financial assets represents trade receivables, work in progress and receivables from group companies and others.
Customer credit risk is managed by the Company through established policy and procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally carrying upto 90 days credit terms. The Company has a detailed review mechanism 
of overdue customer receivables at various levels within organisation to ensure proper attention and focus for realisation. Trade receivables are 
consisting of a large number of customers. Export receivables are backed by forward contract. In respect of trade receivables, the Company uses a 
provision matrix to compute the expected credit loss allowances for trade recivables in accordance with the excepcted credit loss (ECL) policy of the 
Company. 
B. Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in raising funds to meet its commitments associated with financial instruments. 
Liquidity risk may result from an inability to sell a financial assets quickly at close to its fair value.
The Company, to the best extent possible, attempts to manage liquidity risk by maintaining adequate liquid assets and banking facilities by 
continuously monitoring forcast and actual cash flows and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.  
124
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities are as follows:
 ( Indian ` in lacs )
Particulars
Less than or 
equal to
one year
more than
one year
Total
Liquidity exposure as on 31st March 2023
Financial Liabilities
  Long term borrowings 
 - 
1,686.49 
  1,686.49 
  Short term borrowings
4,178.64 
- 
  4,178.64 
  Trade payables
5,110.44 
- 
  5,110.44 
  Other financial liabilities
7,609.41 
  29,699.88 
37,309.29 
Total financial liabilities
  16,898.49 
  31,386.37 
48,284.86 
Liquidity exposure as on 31st March 2022
Financial Liabilities
  Long term borrowings
 - 
4,216.22 
  4,216.22 
  Short term borrowings
2,629.73 
- 
  2,629.73 
  Trade payables
  10,604.41 
- 
10,604.41 
  Other financial liabilities
  15,845.87 
  22,723.99 
38,569.86 
Total financial liabilities
  29,080.01 
  26,940.21 
56,020.22 
C. Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Such changes 
in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market 
changes.
The Company has several balances in foreign currency and consequently, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk.  The Company evaluates 
exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk management policies, to the extent possible.
a) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. 
The Company's exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s long-term debt obligations with floating 
interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings, wherever 
possible.
b) Exposure in foreign currency:
The Company deals with foreign currency loan given, trade payables, trade receivables etc. and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk 
associated with exchange rate movement.
The Company operates internationally and portion of the business is transacted in several currencies and consequently the Company is exposed to 
foreign exchange risk through its sales in overseas and purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. 
Exposure in foreign currency -Hedged The Company has no hedged foreign currecy exposure at the end of the relavant period.
Unhedged :                                                                                                                                              (respective foreign currencies in lacs)
Currency
31st March, 2023 31st March, 2022
Receivables
USD
128.34
200.08
EURO
9.14
13.47
Payables
USD
23.92
103.19
EURO
0.19
2.18
125
AED
0.20
 1.02 
Loans to overseas subsidiaries
USD
  19.11 
   18.07 
c) Foreign currency sensitivity
The Company is mainly exposed to changes in USD and EURO. The below table demostrates the sentivity to a 5% increase or decrease in the USD and EURO against 
INR, with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity analysis is prepared on the the net unhedged exposure of the Company as at reporting date. 5% reprents 
management's assessment of reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rate.
( Indian ` in lacs )
 Particulars 
 Currency 
 Change in rate 
 Effect on profit 
before tax 
31 March 2023
USD
+5%
   507.59 
USD
-5%
 (507.59)
31 March 2022
USD
+5%
   472.37 
USD
-5%
 (472.37)
31 March 2023
EURO
+5%
  39.98 
EURO
-5%
   (39.98)
31 March 2022
EURO
+5%
  50.43 
EURO
-5%
   (50.43)
Note 32
Capital management
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity 
shareholders of the Company. The primary objective of the Company when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern 
and to maintain an optimal capital structure so as to maximize shareholder value. 
The Company's capital management objective is to maximise the total shareholder returns by optimising cost of capital through flexible capital 
structure that supports growth. Further, the Company attempts to ensure optimal credit risk profile to maintain/enhance credit rating.
The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of annual operating plan and long-term strategic plans. The funding 
requirements are met through internal accruals and long-term/short-term borrowings. The Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of 
net debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio of the Company. 
The following table summarises the capital of the Company:
( Indian ` in lacs )
Particulars
As at
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Total debt
5,865.13
6,845.95
Total equity
        3,460.13 
3,657.21 
Total debt to equity ratio
1.70
1.87
126
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 33
Capital and Other Commitments 
( Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Capital commitments 
1
Estimated value of contracts remaining to be executed 
 1,175.99 
       54.30 
Note 34
Contingent Liabilities
( Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Guarantees to banks against credit facilities extended to subsidiary companies
 3,135.00 
 4,181.15 
2
Guarantees to banks and others against credit facilities extended to associate/joint venture 
companies
 3,700.00 
 3,200.00 
3
Guarantees given by the Company to various Government Authorities
 4,252.40 
 4,246.63 
4
In respect of Taxation Matters
 2,701.63 
 2,701.63 
5
In respect of disputed VAT and service tax matters
  - 
    278.37 
6
Shipping claims against the Company not ackowledged as debt 
 6,194.17 
 6,038.01 
7
Other claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt 
 4,812.51 
 4,553.85 
8
In respect of other matters
       18.68 
       18.68 
Total….
   24,814.39 
   25,218.32 
The amounts disclosed above represent the best possible estimates arrived at on the basis of available information. 
Note 35
Employee benefits
Funded Scheme - Gratuity
Liability for employee gratuity has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in confirmity with the principles set out in the Indian 
Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder. The Company makes contributions to approved gratuity fund.
( Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Amount recognised in balance sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
    841.18 
    713.23 
Fair value of plan assets
    684.12 
    578.12 
Net unfunded obligation/(assets)
    157.06 
    135.11 
Expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
34.64
34.48
Interest on net defined benefit asset
         9.77 
         2.62 
Total expense charged to profit and loss Account
       44.41 
37.10
Amount recorded as other comprehensive income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside profit & loss Account
     (68.32)
         7.32 
Remeasurements during the period due to:
Changes in financial assumptions
       (6.20)
     (71.93)
Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets
       (1.50)
       (3.71)
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside profit & loss account
     (76.02)
     (68.32)
Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)
    135.11 
       38.60 
Expense charged to profit and loss account
       44.41 
       37.10 
Net liabilities transfer out (net)
       80.03 
       (4.85)
Amount recognised outside profit and loss account
         7.70 
       75.64 
Employer contributions
   (110.19)
     (11.38)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)
    157.06 
    135.11 
127
Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation
713.23
597.06
Current service cost
34.64
34.48
Interest on defined benefit obligation
51.57
40.60
Net liabilities transfer out (net)
80.03
       (4.85)
Acturial loss/(gain) arising from change in Demographic assumptions  
  - 
       (0.22)
Acturial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions  
     (11.69)
     (15.23)
Benefits paid from the fund
     (44.50)
     (25.98)
Acturial loss/(gain) on obligation
       17.90 
       87.37 
Closing of defined benefit obligation
841.18
713.23
Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets
    578.12 
    558.45 
Return on plan assets excluding interest income
       (1.50)
       (3.71)
Interest income (net)
       41.81 
       37.98 
Contributions by employer
    110.19 
       11.38 
Benefits paid
     (44.50)
     (25.98)
Closing of defined benefit obligation
    684.12 
    578.12 
Principal acturial assumptions
Discount Rate
7.52
7.23
Salary escalation rate p.a.
7.52
7.23
Future salary increase
5.00
5.00
Rate of employee turnover
4.00
4.00
Sensitivity analysis for significant assumption is as shown below:
( Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Discount Rate - 1% increase
     (37.65)
     (32.73)
Discount Rate - 1% decrease
       41.94 
       36.60 
2
Salary - 1% increase
       42.58 
       37.05 
Salary - 1% decrease
     (38.86)
     (33.70)
3
Employee Turnover - 1% increase
         6.28 
         4.86 
Employee Turnover - 1%decrease
       (6.88)
       (5.36)
The following are the expected future benefit payments for the defined benefit plan:
( Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
    233.06 
    205.20 
2
Between 2 and 5 years
    260.58 
    198.32 
3
Beyond 5 years
    834.09 
    716.18 
128
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 36
Details of Income and Expenditure on Research and Development:
( Indian ` in lacs )
Particulars
2022-2023
2021-2022
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonus
284.71
264.55
Contribution to employee benefit funds
11.98
10.16
Staff welfare expenses
6.54
4.46
Machinery repairs and maintenance
13.13
9.60
Laboratory analysis and other expenses
104.50
69.82
Other selling expenses 
0.59
3.04
Travelling expenses
4.19
0.61
Rent
14.52
14.52
Building and other repairs
23.19
12.05
Donation
0.25
                          - 
Advertisement and business promotion
0.15
0.01
Legal and professional fees
8.20
10.28
Sundry balances written off
0.96
                          - 
Payment to auditors
0.30
0.30
Insurance premiums
0.24
0.17
General expenses
35.47
38.13
508.92
437.70
Material cost
         - 
                    - 
Depreciation
                111.60 
96.14
                620.52 
533.84
Less:
Receipt from research activities
900.00
578.70
Interest income
0.02
0.03
Other income
                   0.58 
                          - 
900.60
578.73
Net surplus/(deficit)
             280.08 
          44.89 
Capital expenditure
62.53
90.50
129
Note 37
As per Ind AS 24, Disclosure of transactions with related parties (as identified by the management) as defined in Ind AS are given 
below:
Sr     
No.
Particulars
Country of incorporation
(i) Subsidiary companies
1
Ashapura Alumium Limited
India
2
Ashapura Boffa Bauxite SAU 
Guinea
3
Ashapura Claytech Limited
India
4
Ashapura Consultancy Services Private Limited
India
5
Ashapura Fareast Acticlay Sdn Bhd 1
Malaysia
6
Ashapura Farest MPA Sdn Bhd 1
Malaysia
7
Ashapura Global Infratech SARLU 
Guinea
8
Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
Guinea
9
Ashapura Holdings Fareast Pte Ltd 
Singapore
10
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
UAE
11
Ashapura International Limited
India
12
Ashapura Midgulf NV 2
Belgium
13
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE 
UAE
14
Ashapura Minex Resources SAU
Guinea
15
Ashapura Resources Private Limited
India
16
Bombay Minerals Limited
India
17
FAKO Resources SARL
Guinea
18
Peninsula Property Developers Private Limited
India
19
Prashansha Ceramics Limited
India
20
PT Ashapura Bentoclay Fareast
Indonesia
21
Sharda Consultancy Private Limited
India
22
Societe Guineenne des Mines de Fer
Guinea
(ii) Joint ventures and associates
23
APL Valueclay Private Limited
India
24
Ashapura Arcadia Logistic Private Limited
India
25
Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Oman
26
Ashapura Fareast Acticlay Sdn Bhd 3
Malaysia
27
Ashapura Farest MPA Sdn Bhd 3
Malaysia
28
Ashapura Midgulf NV 4
Belgium
29
Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
India
30
Orient Abrasives Limited
India
31
Orient Advanced Materials FZE 5
UAE
32
Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited 6
India
33
Shantilal Multiport Private Limited 7
India
34
Sohar Ashapura Chemicals LLC 8
Oman
(iii) Entities controlled/significantly influenced by directors
35
Aeon Procare Private Limited
India
36
Aeonx Digital Solutions Private Limited
India
37
Altage Stone Crushing Industries
India
38
Ambica Logistics Private Limited
India
39
Artha Minerals Resources
India
40
Ashapura Exports Pvt Limited
India
41
Ashapura Foundation
India
130
Ashapura Minechem Limited
42
Ashapura Overeas Private Limited
India
43
Ashok Alco-chem Limited
India
44
Chetan N Shah - HUF
India
45
Kutch Navniraman Trust
India
46
Manico Resources Private Limited
India
47
Minologistic Corporation
India
48
Minotech Resources LLP
India
49
Minotrans Logistic Corporation
India
50
Sharda industrial Corporation
India
(iv) Key managerial personnel
51
Mr. Chetan Shah
Executive Chairman
52
Mr. Hemul Shah
Excutive Director & CEO 
53
Mr. Harish Motiwala
Independent Director
54
Mr. Ashok Kadakia 9
Independent Director
55
Mr. Abhilash Munsif
Independent Director
56
Mr. Pundrik Sanyal
Independent Director
57
Ms Himani Shah
Non Independent Director 
59
Mrs. Neeta Shah 
Independent Director
60
Mr. Sachin Polke
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs) 
61
Mr. Ashish Desai
Chief Financial Officer
62
Mr. Akhilesh Kumar Sinha 10
Vice President - Human Resources
63
Mr. Sandeep Deshpande 11
Group Head - Human Resources and Administration
1
w.e.f. 18th October 2021
2
w.e.f. 3rd May 2021
3
Up to 17th October 2021
4
Up to 2nd May 2021
5
w.e.f. 5th December 2022
6
w.e.f. 4th June 2021
7
w.e.f. 23rd August 2021
8
Up to 17th May 2021
9
Up to 12th August 2021
10
Up to 9th July 2021
11
w.e.f. 25th June 2021
( Indian ` in lacs )
Nature of transaction
Relationship
Year ended
31st March 2023
Year ended
31st March 2022
1. Sales of materials
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
1,713.30
2,206.07
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
171.06
103.77
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
184.07
237.99
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
                     - 
48.20
  Societe Guineenne Des Mines De Fer
Subsidiary
                   - 
1,422.22
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
               0.39 
                     - 
  Ashapura Holdings ( UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
        1,784.60 
                     - 
  Ashapura Midgulf NV
Subsidiary
1,473.08
        1,541.31 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
1.04
               0.42 
  Ashapura Minex Resources SAU
Subsidiary
325.91
           879.79 
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
3.86
               3.81 
131
2  Sale of property, plant & equipment
  Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Associate
                   - 
             42.34 
  Ashapura  International Limited
Subsidiary
11.85
                     - 
Total…
11.85
42.34
3. Purchase of materials
  Bombay Minerals Limited 
Subsidiary
               0.06 
           246.62 
  Ashapura Inernational Limited
Subsidiary
             33.40 
           634.17 
  Societe Guineenne Des Mines De Fer
Subsidiary
                   - 
        6,838.93 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
             92.75 
                     - 
 Ashapura Holdings ( UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
                   - 
      14,145.50 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
               0.07 
           534.61 
  Ashok Alcochem Limited
Associate
                   - 
           762.38 
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
                   - 
               4.91 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
               8.22 
               4.81 
Total…
134.50
23,171.93
4. Interest received
  Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
             84.16 
             77.23 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
             99.01 
             13.33 
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
             84.79 
             17.50 
Total…
267.96
108.06
5. Lease rent paid
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
14.52
14.52
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
0.60
0.60
Total…
15.12
15.12
6. Reimbursement of administrative expenses received/(paid)
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
               2.82 
             32.31 
  Ashapura Consultancy Services Private Limited
Subsidiary
               0.88 
               1.83 
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
           270.49 
1,296.13
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
             97.61 
             21.91 
  Penisula Property Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
               0.01 
               1.33 
  Sharda Consultancy Services Private Limited
Subsidiary
               0.01 
               2.63 
  Ashapura Resources Private Limited
Subsidiary
               1.25 
                     - 
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
               0.33 
             (0.07)
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
           421.76 
               5.59 
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
               0.89 
4.18
  Ashok Alcochem Limited
Associate
               0.23 
           (26.91)
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
             95.09 
100.79
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
             16.29 
                     - 
  Artha Minerals Resources
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
               1.50 
                     - 
Total…
           909.16 
1,439.72
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
821.30
           896.24 
  Ashapura Boffa Bauxite SAU 
Subsidiary
1,651.89
                     - 
  Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
Subsidiary
25.19
                     - 
  Aeon Procare Private Limited
Associate
13.66
-
  Artha Minerals Resources
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
7.76
                     - 
Total…
8,177.11
7,339.82
132
Ashapura Minechem Limited
7. Corporate Social Responsibility/donation
  Kutch Navnirman Trust
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
                     - 
           250.00 
  Ashapura Foundation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
               6.76 
             65.00 
Total…
               6.76 
           315.00 
8. Selling expenses
  Ashapura Midgulf NV
Subsidiary
             21.42 
             50.01 
  Ambica Logistics Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
8.25
50.96
  Aeonx Digital Solutions Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
60.50
                     - 
Total…
             90.17 
           100.97 
9. Export sales commission
  Ashapura Holding (UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
                     - 
           178.90 
  Ashapura Midgulf NV
Subsidiary
                     - 
               0.73 
Total…
                     - 
           179.63 
10.  Rent received
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
207.73
206.86
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
1.20
1.20
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
9.00
9.00
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited 
Associate
9.04
4.79
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
                     - 
2.99
Total…
226.97
224.84
11. Loans granted
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
                     - 
        2,100.00 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
1,982.00
        1,600.00 
Total…
1,982.00
        3,700.00 
12. R & D charges receipts
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
450.00
400.00
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
350.00
175.00
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
100.00
                     - 
Total…
900.00
575.00
13. Stores, spares & packing materials purchases
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
               8.95 
             51.06 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
             72.18 
270.86
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
               5.52 
                     - 
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
                     - 
             18.36 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
               8.64 
               7.34 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited 
Associate
               0.58 
                     - 
Total…
             95.87 
           347.62 
14. Operational income
  Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
Subsidiary
           160.07 
           143.15 
133
15. Guarantee commission receipts
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
             32.00 
             32.00 
  Ashapura  International Limited
Subsidiary
               9.24 
             12.50 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
             29.00 
             29.30 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
               3.73 
                     - 
Total…
73.97
             73.80 
16. Dividend received
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
           134.50 
           134.50 
  Bombay Minerals Limited 
Subsidiary
               5.45 
               5.45 
Total…
139.95
           139.95 
17. Royalty 
 Chetan N Shah - HUF 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
32.60
130.58
18. Export demurrage Income
  Societe Guineenne Des Mines De Fer
Subsidiary
           472.03 
                     - 
19. Software maintenance expenses
  Aeonx Digital Solutions Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
             51.79 
             94.20 
20. Purchase of property, plant and equipment
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
                   - 
           123.76 
  Ashapura Alumium Limited
Subsidiary
2.07
                     - 
  Minotrans Logistic Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
22.00
                     - 
Total…
24.07
           123.76 
Outstanding Balances:
1. Trade receivables
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
           290.34 
           718.20 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
             70.81 
             59.46 
  Ashapura Holdings ( UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
             50.67 
               1.02 
  Ashapura Exports Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
385.40
           385.58 
  Ashapura Midgulf NV
Subsidiary
1,184.98
           941.94 
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
266.09
           264.14 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
             99.60 
148.76
  Ashapura Minex Resources SAU
Subsidiary
1,289.83
           904.77 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
24.27
               1.33 
  Societe Guineenne Des Mines De Fer 
Subsidiary
1,006.45
        1,467.26 
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
                   - 
               0.01 
  Manico Resources Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
8.33
               2.50 
  Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Associate
50.58
             47.11 
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
                   - 
               0.35 
  Ashapura Resources Private Limited
Subsidiary
               1.25 
                     - 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
121.00
75.35
  Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
Subsidiary
           151.51 
332.02
  Ashapura Boffa Bauxite SAU 
Subsidiary
        1,786.36 
                     - 
  Artha Minerals Resources 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
             13.05 
                     - 
Total…
6,800.52
5,349.80
134
Ashapura Minechem Limited
2. Security deposits
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
                     - 
               1.00 
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
                     - 
             50.00 
  Sharda Industrial Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
             45.00 
             45.00 
Total…
             45.00 
             96.00 
3. Trade payables
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
               0.02 
                     - 
  Societe Guineenne Des Mines De Fer
Subsidiary
                   - 
           618.70 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
               0.26 
                     - 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
           363.41 
188.17
  Ashapura Midgulf NV
Subsidiary
           166.80 
           157.22 
 Chetan N Shah - HUF 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
1.13
             58.75 
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
458.45
           798.68 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
               1.22 
762.25
  Aeonx Digital Solutions Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
16.34
                     - 
  Ashapura Alumium Limited
Subsidiary
               2.07 
                     - 
Total…
1,009.70
2,583.77
4. Other liabilities
 Ashapura Holdings ( UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
           169.17 
           169.17 
5.Trade advances
  Ashapura Claytech Limited
Subsidiary
               0.60 
                     - 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
1,756.97
1,773.47
  Manico Resources Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
                   - 
52.32
  Ambica Logistics Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
53.79
             35.93 
   Minotrans Logistics Corporation 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
                   - 
117.04
  Altage Stone Crushing Industries
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
450.20
448.16
  Minologistics Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
61.74
46.74
  Artha Minerals Resources
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
               1.45 
                     - 
  Aeon Procare Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
                   - 
               0.12 
  Ashapura Holding (UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
           978.76 
           677.93 
  Societe Guineenne Des Mines De Fer
Subsidiary
        1,081.23 
                     - 
  Ashapura Boffa Bauxite SAU 
Subsidiary
           742.94 
                     - 
Total…
5,127.68
3,151.71
6. Loans granted
  Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
Subsidiary
1,570.24
1,369.91
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
                   - 
        2,115.75 
  Bombay Minerals Limited
Subsidiary
1,982.00
        1,612.00 
Total…
3,552.24
5,097.66
135
7. Advances from customers
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
        1,594.04 
        1,397.96 
  Ashapura Farest MPA Sdn Bhd
Subsidiary
               0.70 
               0.70 
Total…
        1,594.74 
        1,398.66 
8. Security deposit taken
  Ashapura International Limited
Subsidiary
             56.75 
                     - 
Key management personnel and relatives
1. Remuneration
  Mr. Chetan Shah 
Executive Chaiman 
89.97
             84.00 
  Mr. Hemul Shah
Executive Director & CEO 
65.87
             54.33 
  Others
162.77
149.46
Total…
318.61
287.79
2. Sitting fees
  Mr. Harish Motiwala
Independent director
4.75
               4.00 
  Mr. Ashok Kadakia
Independent director
                     - 
               2.00 
  Mr. Abhilash Munsif
Independent director
5.75
               4.00 
  Mr. Pundarik Sanyal
Independent director
5.75
               4.00 
  Ms. Himani Shah
Non-independent director
2.00
               2.00 
  Ms. Neeta Shah
Independent director
1.50
               1.50 
Total…
19.75
             17.50 
3. Reimursement of expenses paid 
  Mr. Ashish Desai
Chief Financial Officer 
5.35
8.95
  Mr. Akhileshkumar Sinha 
Vice President - Human 
Resources
                     - 
2.45
  Mr. Sachin Polke
Company Secretary & President 
(Corporate Affairs)
5.35
8.95
  Mr. Sandeep Deshpande
Group Head - Human 
Resources and Administration
4.14
1.44
  Mr. Hemul Shah
Excutive Director & CEO 
6.19
10.39
Total…
             21.03 
32.18
38. Additional Regulatory Information
Additional Regulatory Information pursuant to clause 6L of General Instructions for preparation of Balance Sheet as given in Part I of Division II of 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, are given hereunder to the extent relevant and other than those given elsewhere in any other notes to 
the financial Statement.
a. Ratio
No. 
Particulars 
Numerator 
Denominator 
As at 31st March,
Variance
Reason for 
variance, if 
more than 
25% 
2023
2022
1
Current Ratio (in times)
Current assets 
Current liabilities
1.60
1.18
          35.96 
Decrease 
in current 
liabilities
2
Debt-Equity Ratio (in times)
Total debt
Shareholders' 
equity
2.35
  1.87 
          25.79 
Decrease in 
shareholders' 
fund 
3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (in 
times)
Earning available 
for service debt 
Interest costs, lease 
payments,
       0.39 
   0.42 
          (8.39)
136
Ashapura Minechem Limited
4
Return on Equity Ratio (%)
Net profit after 
taxes
Average 
shareholder's 
equity
   (19.70)
(36.98)
    (46.72)
Decrease in 
loss
5
Inventory Turnover Ratio (No. of 
days)
Net sales
Average inventory
204.48
73.56
       177.99 
Decrease in 
sales
6
Trade Receivables Turnover Ratio 
(No. of days)
Net operating 
revenue
Average trade 
receivables 
223.10
112.18
          98.88 
Decrease in 
sales
7
Trade Payables Turnover Ratio (No. 
of days)
Net credit 
purchases
Average trade 
payables 
290.94
117.49
       147.63 
Decrease in 
purchases
8
Net Capital Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net operating 
revenue
Working capital
1.60
10.06
        (84.13)
Decrease in
Revenue
9
Net Profit Ratio (%)
Net profit 
Operating  revenue
          (3.15)
         (2.62)
          20.30 
10
Return on Capital Employed  (%)
Earning before 
interest and taxes
Capital employed 
17.77 
13.76 
          29.11 
Decrease in 
loss
11
Return on Investments (%)
Income generated 
from invested 
funds
Average invested 
funds 
  3.67 
      3.47 
           5.77 
b.
The title deeds of all immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly 
executed in favour of the lessee), disclosed in the financial statements included under property, plant and equipment are held in the name 
of the Company as at the balance sheet date.
c.
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for holding 
any Benami property.
d.
The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
e.
The Company has not been declared as a wilful defaulter by any lender who has powers to declare a company as a wilful defaulter at any 
time during the financial year or after the end of reporting period but before the date when the financial statements are approved.
f.
Based on the information furnished to us, the Company does not have any transactions with struck-off companies. 
g.
The Company has used the borrowings from financial institutions and others for the specific purpose for which it was obtained.
h.
The Company has compiled with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Companies Act 2013 read with 
Companies (Restrictions on number of Layers) Rules, 2017. 
i.
The company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(is), including foreign entities(intermediaries), 
with the understanding that the intermediary shall;
i. Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(Ultimate Beneficiaries), or
ii. Provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
j.
The Company has not received any funds from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall;  
i. Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(Ultimate beneficiaries), or
ii. Provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
k.
The Company does not have any transactions which is not recorded in the books of accounts but has been surrendered or disclosed as 
income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 ( such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions 
of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
l.
The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of ` 5 crore, in aggregate, at any points of time during the year, 
from banks or financial institutions on the basis of security of current assets.
m.
The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies (ROC) beyond the 
statutory period.
137
39.	 Pursuant to the approval of the members, the Company has, on 14th February, 2023 issued 40,40,000 equity share warrants on preferential 
basis to the promoters @ `95.96 per warrant. Each warrant will be converted into one equity share of the Company within a period of eighteen 
months from the date of the issue.
40.	 As on 31st March, 2023, the Company’s certain assets aggregating to `943.85 lacs are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid 
out under Ind AS 105 and its value has been measured at the lower of its carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. Breakup of the assets is 
as under:
Particulars 
As on 31st March, 2023
(` in lacs)
Land
61.32
Building
658.39
Plant and Machinery
212.01
Furniture & Fixtures/Office Equipment
12.13
Total
943.85
41.	 Balances for trade payables, trade receivables, for loans and advances are subject to confirmations from the respective parties and reconciliations, 
if any, in many cases. In absence of such confirmations, the balances as per books have been relied upon by the auditors.
42.	 Certain immovable and movable assets of the Company at Kutch, Gujarat as well as Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, are under charge by way of 
mortgage/hypothecation with Bank of India pending settlement of one claim.
43.	 All the amounts have been stated in Indian ` in lacs, unless otherwise stated.
44.	 Previous year’s figures has regrouped and rearranged, wherever necessary.
Signatures to Notes No. 1 to 44
	
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors		
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          sd/-	
           sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH
	
 	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
	
	
	
             sd/-	
	
          sd/-	
            sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
	
	
	
Mumbai	
	
	
	 	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
	
	 	
	
May 25, 2023	
138
Ashapura Minechem Limited
NOTES
139
NOTES
140
Ashapura Minechem Limited
CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS
Contents	
Page Nos.
Consolidated Auditors’ Report	
141-145 
Consolidated Balance Sheet	
146
Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss A/c.	
147-148
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement	
149-150
Consolidated Notes	
151-189
141
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To
The Members of
ASHAPURA MINECHEM LIMITED
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
of Ashapura Minechem Limited (“the Parent Company”) and its 
subsidiaries (the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together referred 
to as “the Group”) which includes Group’s share of profit in its associates 
and joint ventures, comprising  the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st 
March 2023, the consolidated statement of profit and loss including other 
comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended and a 
summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information  (hereinafter referred to as ‘’the consolidated financial 
statements’’).
 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the reports 
of other auditors on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures referred to in the Other Matters paragraph 
below, the  aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended, (‘Ind AS”) and the other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as 
at 31st March 2023 and their consolidated profit, consolidated total 
comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated 
cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act.  Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“the ICAI”) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide 
a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Emphasis of Matter
Attention is invited to the fact that one of the overseas joint venture, 
Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC has accumulated losses of ` 2,784.35 lacs 
as on March 31, 2023. This condition indicates the existence of material 
uncertainty that may cast significant doubts over this joint venture’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. However, since the management 
is hopeful of providing necessary financial support and resuming activities 
in near future, these financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment 
were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the 
context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, 
and in our forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described 
below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report:
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the 
Key Audit Matter
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is one of the key profit 
drivers and is, therefore, susceptible 
to misstatement.  Cut-off is the 
key assertion in so far as revenue 
recognition is concerned, since 
inappropriate cut-off can result in 
material misstatement of results for 
the year. 
Assessment of litigations and 
related disclosure of contingent 
liabilities
The Parent Company is subject to 
large number of various ongoing 
legal 
and 
tax 
related 
claims 
as stated under note no. 36 – 
Contingent Liabilities.
Significant judgment is required to 
assess such matters to determine 
the probability of occurrence of 
material 
outflow 
of 
economic 
resources and whether a provision 
should be recognized or a disclosure 
should be made. The management 
judgment is also supported with 
legal advice in certain cases as 
considered appropriate. 
As the ultimate outcomes of the 
matters are uncertain and material 
in nature, it is considered to be a 
Key Audit Matter.
Evaluation of the consolidation 
process
The Group’s consolidation process 
is complex on account of its 
presence in various geographies 
and multiple businesses through 
different ownership structure. The 
consolidation 
process 
includes 
evaluation of the degree of control/
significant 
influence, 
alignment 
of 
group 
accounting 
policies, 
elimination 
of 
inter-company 
balances 
and 
resultant 
tax 
adjustments which may require a 
high level of judgement.
We carried out testing controls 
around dispatches and deliveries, 
inventory 
reconciliation 
and 
substantive testing for cut-offs and 
analytical review procedures. 
We 
understood, 
assessed 
and 
tested the operating effectiveness 
of 
key 
controls 
surrounding 
assessment 
of 
litigations 
and 
discussed with the management the 
recent developments and the status 
of the material litigations;
We 
evaluated 
management’s 
assessment 
by 
understanding 
precedents set in similar cases 
and assessed the reliability of the 
management’s past estimates and 
judgments;
We reviewed the disclosures made 
by the Parent Company in the 
financial statements in this regard 
and obtained representation letter 
from the management on the 
assessment of these matters. 
Assessed 
the 
design, 
implementation 
and 
operating 
effectiveness of the key controls 
in respect of the process of 
consolidation and procedures for 
alignment of group accounting 
policies, consolidation adjustments, 
elimination 
of 
inter-company 
balances and resultant tax impact;
Tested the relevant general IT 
and applications controls over the 
consolidation process to confirm the 
appropriateness of inter-company 
elimination process;
Evaluated whether the methodology 
applied by the management for 
alignment of accounting policies is 
appropriate and matching it with 
the Group’s accounting policies;
	
	
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon 
The Parent Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation 
of the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, 
Management Discussion and Analysis, Business Responsibility Report, 
Corporate Governance Report, Shareholder’s Information, but does 
142
Ashapura Minechem Limited
not include the consolidated financial statements and auditor’s report 
thereon. The Board’s Report and other information are expected to be 
made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
When we read the aforesaid reports and information, if we conclude that 
there is material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate 
the matter to those charged with governance. 
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Parent Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters 
stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of 
these consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view of 
the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial performance 
including other comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its associates and 
joint ventures in accordance with the Ind AS and accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and of its associates and 
joint ventures for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Parent Company, 
as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board 
of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates 
and joint ventures are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group 
and of its associates and joint ventures to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do 
so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group 
and of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for overseeing the 
financial reporting process of the Group and of its associates and joint 
ventures. 
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected 
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
consolidated financial statements.  
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We 
also:  
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatements of the 
consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, 
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of the internal control.
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are 
also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Parent 
Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the 
going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the 
Group and its associates and joint ventures to continue as going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the 
Group, associates and joint ventures to cease to continue as a going 
concern.
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
consolidated financial statements, including the disclosure, and 
whether the consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
• 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial 
information of the entities or business activities within the Group 
and its associates and joint ventures to express an opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial 
statements of such entities or business activities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities or business activities included in the 
consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Parent 
Company and such other entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards.
143
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of 
doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
We did not audit the financial statements of twenty-two subsidiaries, 
whose financial statements reflect total assets of Rs. 3,76,806.64 lacs as 
at 31st March 2023 and gross total revenues of Rs. 2,47,535.81 lacs and 
net profit after tax (including other comprehensive income) Rs. 10,253.21 
lacs for the year then ended, and of five associates and one joint venture, 
whose financial statements reflect the Parent Company’s share of net loss 
of Rs. 28.34 lacs as considered in the consolidated financial statements. 
These financial statements and other financial information have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the 
management, and our opinion on consolidated financial results, in so far 
as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is based solely on the report 
of such other auditors.  
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements above and our 
report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below is not modified 
in respect of these matters with respect to our reliance on the work done 
and the reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
1.	
With respect to the matters specified in clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 
and paragraph 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 
(“CARO/”the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms 
of Section 143(11) of the Act, according to the information and 
explanations given to us, and based on the CARO reports issued 
by us and the auditors of the respective companies included in the 
consolidated financial statements to which reporting under CARO 
is applicable, as provided to us by the Management of the Parent 
Company, we report that there are no qualifications or adverse 
remarks by the respective auditors in the CARO reports of the 
said respective companies included in the consolidated financial 
statements except for the following:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Company/ 
CIN
Nature of 
Relation-
ship
Clause 
number of 
the CARO 
report 
which is 
qualified 
or is ad-
verse
Remarks 
1
Ashapura Minechem Limited 
L14108MH1982PLC026396
Parent 
Company
(iii)(c), (iii)
(e), (v), (ix)
(a)
Repayments 
of interest, 
renewal 
of loans, 
advances 
received, 
default in 
repayments 
of borrowings
2
Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
U14108MH1997PLC107300
Joint 
Venture
(iii)(e)
Renewal of 
loans
3
Ashapura Aluminum Limited 
U27203GJ2007PLC051421
Subsidiary
(xvii)
Cash losses
4
Ashapura International 
Limited
U14108MH1989PLC054664
Subsidiary
(iii)(b), (v)
Non-charging 
of interest, 
advances 
received
5
Bombay Minerals Limited
U14100GJ1953PLC000699
Subsidiary
(iii)(b), (v), 
(xvii)
Non-charging 
of interest, 
advances 
received, cash 
losses
6
Ashapura Claytech Limited
U26939MH1995PLC090484
Subsidiary
(xvii)
Cash losses
7
Orient Advanced Materials Pvt Ltd
U26100GJ2006PTC047900
Associate
(ix)(d)
Short term 
funds used 
for long term 
purposes
8
Prashansha Ceramics Limited
U51909GJ1995PLC028159
Subsidiary
(iv), (xvii)
Non-
compliance of 
sec 185/186, 
cash losses
9
Shantilal Multiport Pvt Ltd
U35115GJ1996PTC028800
Associate
(xvii)
Cash losses
10
Orient Abrasives Limited
L24299MH1971PLC366531
Associate
(vii)(a)
Non-payment 
of statutory 
dues
2.	
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and 
on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate 
financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as 
noted in the “Other Matters” paragraph above, we report, to extent 
possible, that:
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations 
which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purpose of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements;
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating 
to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of other auditors;
c)	
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss, including other comprehensive income, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement 
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books 
of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements;
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified under 
section 133 of the Act;
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received from the 
directors as on 31st March   2023 and taken on record by the Board 
of Directors of the Parent Company and the reports of auditors of 
its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures incorporated in India, 
none of the directors of the Group companies is disqualified as 
on 31st March 2023, from being appointed as a director in terms 
section 164(2) of the Act.
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting of the Parent Company and subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures incorporated in India and operating 
effectiveness of such controls, our separate report in annexure – A 
may be referred. 
g)	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and according to the reports of the 
statutory auditors of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, 
remuneration paid by the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, 
144
Ashapura Minechem Limited
associates and joint ventures incorporated in India, to its directors 
during the year is in accordance with the provisions of section 197 
read with Schedule V of the Act. 
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s 
Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanation given to us:
i.	
	The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of 
pending litigations on the consolidated financial position of 
the Group and its associates and joint ventures;
ii.	
The Group and its associates and joint ventures did not 
have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts 
including derivatives contracts;
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring the amounts, required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Parent Company or its subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures incorporated in India. 
iv.	
a. The respective managements of the Parent Company, 
its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates which are 
companies incorporated in India, whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act have represented to us and 
the other auditors of such subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates respectively that, to the best of their knowledge 
and belief as disclosed in note 41 (h) to the consolidated 
financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or 
any other sources or kind of funds) by the Parent Company 
or subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies to 
or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Parent Company or subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 
companies (“Ultimate beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
b. 	The respective managements of the Parent Company, its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates which are companies 
incorporated in India, whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented to us and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 
respectively that, to the best of their knowledge and belief as 
disclosed in note 41 (i) to the consolidated financial statements, 
no funds have been received by the Parent Company or 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies from 
any person or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Parent Company or subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associate companies shall, whether, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
c. Based on such audit procedures that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed 
by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries 
and joint ventures which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe 
that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
v.	
Dividend declared and paid by subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates incorporated in India, to the extent applicable, is in 
compliance with section 123 of the Act.
vi.	
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
for maintaining books of account using accounting software 
which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
is applicable to the Group with effect from April 1, 2023, and 
accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2023. 
	
	
For P A R K & COMPANY
	
	
Chartered Accountants
	
	
FRN: 116825W
	
	
PRASHANT VORA
	
	
Partner
	
	
Membership No. 034514
	
	
UDIN: 23034514BGZEML9265
Mumbai
May 25, 2023
145
ANNEXURE – A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting 
of Ashapura Minechem Limited (“the Parent Company”) and its 
subsidiaries (the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together referred to 
as “the Group”) and associates and joint ventures which are incorporated 
in India as of 31st March, 2023. In conjunction with our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the Parent Company for the year 
ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Parent Company and its 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are incorporated 
in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal 
financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Parent Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit 
of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance 
Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the 
ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its 
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation 
of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 
2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group’s internal financial 
controls over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on 
Auditing, issued by the ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls over financial reporting were established 
and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material 
respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about 
the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over financial 
reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that 
a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and 
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including 
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting of the Group, its associates and 
joint ventures incorporated in India. 
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control 
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that -
(1)	 Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the Company; 
(2)	 Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only 
in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of 
the Company; and 
(3)	 Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods 
are subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial 
reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Group, its associates and joint ventures which are 
companies incorporated in India, have,  in all material respects, an 
adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and 
such internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating 
effectively as at 31st March, 2023, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Group considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note 
issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy 
and operating effectiveness of the internal controls over financial 
reporting in so far as it relates to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
incorporated in India which have been audited by other auditors, is based 
solely on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.  
	
	
For P A R K & COMPANY
	
	
Chartered Accountants
	
	
FRN: 116825W
	
	
PRASHANT VORA
	
	
Partner
	
	
Membership No. 034514
	
	
UDIN: 23034514BGZEML9265
Mumbai
May 25, 2023
146
Ashapura Minechem Limited
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          Sd/-	
         Sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
           Sd/-	
	
         Sd/-	
           Sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
Mumbai	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
May 25, 2023
 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31st MARCH, 2023 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  Note 
No. 
 As at 31st March 
2023 
 As at 31st March 
2022 
 ASSETS: 
 Non-Current Assets 
 Property, plant and equipment 
2
46,101.84
43,380.12
 Right of use assets  
3
259.17
334.34
 Capital work in progress 
2
26,221.98
25,429.62
 Investment properties 
4
222.10
228.01
 Intangible assets 
5
7,932.70
6,088.42
 Goodwill 
3,920.10
3,914.34
 Financial assets 
       Investments in joint ventures 
6
15,304.51
13,635.81
       Investments in associates 
6
13,517.32
13,150.78
       Other investments 
6
2.07
2.07
       Loans
7
2,780.43
2,828.91
       Other financial assets
8
3,574.68
3,212.40
 Deferred tax assets 
9
1,403.81
1,405.71
Other non-current assets
10
58.26
82.78
1,21,298.97
1,13,693.31
 Current Assets 
 Inventories 
11
53,156.04
41,357.45
 Financial assets 
       Investments
6
                      - 
                      - 
       Trade receivables
12
48,985.92
31,034.65
       Cash and cash equivalents
13
7,355.40
2,634.83
       Other bank balances
14
463.50
662.25
       Loans
7
28.14
83.01
       Other financial assets
8
14,047.94
6,754.69
 Current tax assets (net)
15
12,232.08
10,508.68
 Aseets classified as held for sale 
44
943.85
                      - 
 Other current assets 
10
46,448.95
35,696.56
1,83,661.82
1,28,732.12
 Total Assets 
3,04,960.79
2,42,425.43
 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES: 
 Equity 
 Equity share capital 
16
1,829.72
           1,829.72 
 Other equity 
17
63,670.96
         50,293.43 
 Money received against share warrants  
42
969.20
                        - 
 Non-controlling interest  
            (746.98)
              (19.69)
         65,722.90 
         52,103.46 
 Liabilities 
 Non-current liabilities 
 Financial Liabilities 
        Borrowings 
18
65,104.92
         52,894.17 
        Lease liabilities 
74.72
              132.28 
        Other financial liabilities 
19
29,699.88
         22,723.99 
 Provisions 
20
1,201.97
           1,348.52 
 Other non-current liabilities 
21
9.07
                50.00 
96,090.56
         77,148.96 
 Current liabilities 
 Financial Liabilities 
        Borrowings 
18
10,515.47
         10,733.23 
        Lease liabilities 
101.34
              187.52 
        Trade payables 
22
         Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises 
                      - 
              627.66 
         Total outstanding dues of  creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises 
45,498.75
         34,742.25 
        Other financial liabilities 
19
14,712.61
         20,137.29 
 Other current liabilities 
21
58,064.51
         35,291.93 
 Current tax liabilities (net) 
15
12,811.70
         10,023.03 
 Provisions 
20
1,442.95
           1,430.10 
1,43,147.33
      1,13,173.01 
 Total Liabilities 
3,04,960.79
      2,42,425.43 
147
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED  31st MARCH, 2023
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
  Note  
No. 
2022-2023
 2021-2022 
 REVENUE: 
    Revenue from operations 
23
1,83,084.84
       1,27,784.31 
    Other income 
24
8,612.37
            9,559.76 
 Total Income 
1,91,697.21
       1,37,344.07 
 EXPENSES: 
   Cost of materials consumed 
25
47,223.58
          32,493.26 
   Purchases of traded goods 
12,982.86
          13,320.38 
   Changes in inventories  
26
        (10,855.51)
          (9,787.82)
   Employee benefits expenses 
27
10,617.90
            9,838.53 
   Finance costs 
28
6,431.78
            5,544.90 
   Depreciation and amortisation expenses 
29
7,256.36
            5,812.83 
   Other expenses 
30
1,05,859.63
          71,981.54 
 Total Expenses 
1,79,516.60
       1,29,203.62 
 Profit before exceptional item, share of net profit of investments 
 accounted for using the equity method and tax 
          12,180.61 
            8,140.45 
Share of net profit of joint ventures & associates accounted for using the 
1,765.61
1,638.71
equity method
 Profit before exceptional items  
          13,946.22 
            9,779.16 
 Exceptional items 
                         - 
                         - 
 Profit before tax 
          13,946.22 
            9,779.16 
 Tax expenses 
    Current tax 
15
2,385.53
1,361.87
    Earlier years' tax 
15
578.02
91.53
    Deferred tax  
9.32
             (327.48)
 Profit for the year 
          10,973.35 
            8,653.24 
 Other Comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    a. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans
               (39.81)
               (82.44)
    b. Gains on investments in equity instruments classified as FVOCI
                       - 
             (491.45)
    c. Tax impacts on above
                   7.42 
                   1.49 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
   d. Exchange differences on foreign currency translation
            2,281.12 
                 (9.73)
Other comprehensive income for the year
            2,248.73 
             (582.13)
 Total Comprehensive Income for the year 
          13,222.08 
            8,071.11 
 Profit for the year attributable to: 
 Owners of the Parent 
          11,700.64 
            8,651.74 
 Non-controlling interests  
             (727.29)
                   1.50 
          10,973.35 
            8,653.24 
 Other Comprehensive Income for the year attributable to: 
 Owners of the Parent 
            2,248.73 
             (582.13)
 Non-controlling interests  
                         - 
                         - 
            2,248.73 
             (582.13)
 Total Comprehensive Income for the year attributable to: 
 Owners of the Parent 
          13,949.37 
            8,069.61 
 Non-controlling interests  
             (727.29)
                   1.50 
13,222.08
            8,071.11 
 Basic earning per share  
31
                 12.79 
                   9.65 
 Diluted earning per share 
31
                 12.79 
                   9.65 
 Face value per share  
2.00 
                   2.00 
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          Sd/-	
         Sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
           Sd/-	
	
         Sd/-	
           Sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
Mumbai	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
May 25, 2023
148
Ashapura Minechem Limited
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023	
 A. SHARE CAPITAL 
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
31st March 
2023
31st March 
2022
At the beginning of the year
1,829.72
1,739.72
Changes in equity share capital during the year
  - 
  90.00 
At the end of the year
1,829.72
1,829.72
 B. OTHER EQUITY 
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
Capital 
re-
demp-
tion 
reserve
Re-
tained 
earn-
ings
Secu-
rities 
premi-
um
Gener-
al re-
serve 
Other Comprehensive Income
Other Eq-
uity Attrib-
utable to 
owners of 
Parents 
Non-con-
trolling 
Interest 
Net gain/
(loss) on 
fair value 
of equity 
instru-
ments
Exchange 
differences 
on foreign 
currency 
translation 
of foreign 
operations
Net gain/
(loss) on 
fair value 
of defined 
benefit 
plan
As at 1st April, 2021
3.90
22,464.90 17,734.59
1,500.00 
491.45
   (500.46)
   (360.88)
 41,333.51 
  (21.19)
Profit for the year
  - 8,651.74 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  8,651.74 
    1.50 
Exchange differences on foreign 
currency translation 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  (9.73)
  (9.73)
  - 
Addition during the year 
  - 
  - 
  1,347.75 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  1,347.75 
  - 
Other comprehensive income 
for the year 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
   (491.45)
  - 
  (80.95)
   (572.40)
  - 
Dividend
  - (457.43)
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
   (457.43)
  - 
As at 31st March, 2022
    3.90 30,659.21 19,082.34 
1,500.00 
  - 
   (510.19)
   (441.83)
 50,293.43 
  (19.69)
Profit for the year
  - 
11,700.64 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  -  11,700.64 
   (727.29)
Exchange differences on foreign 
currency translation 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  2,281.12 
  - 
  2,281.12 
  - 
Other comprehensive income 
for the year 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  (32.39)
  (32.39)
  - 
Dividend
  -  (571.84)
  - 
  - 
  - 
   (571.84)
  - 
As at 31st March, 2023
3.90
41,788.01 19,082.34 
1,500.00 
  - 
  1,770.93 
   (474.22)
 63,670.96 
   (746.98)
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          Sd/-	
         Sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
           Sd/-	
	
         Sd/-	
           Sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
Mumbai	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
May 25, 2023
149
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH 2023
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 2022-2023 
 2021-2022 
 A 
 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES : 
 Net profit for the year  
 10,973.35 
 8,653.24 
 Adjustments for - 
  Depreciation and amortization 
 7,256.36 
 5,812.83 
  Income tax expenses 
 2,972.87 
 1,125.92 
  Loss / (profit) on sale of property, plant & equipment 
 207.18 
   (314.89)
  Share of profit from associate/joint venture 
  (1,765.61)
  (1,638.71)
  Loss / (profit) on sale/disposal of investments 
  - 
  (1,404.31)
  Impairment loss/(profit) recognised on trade receivables (net) 
  (2,219.74)
  (2,002.05)
  Exchange rate adjustments on foreign currency translation (net) 
 2,281.12 
  (9.73)
  Dividend receipts 
  (4.96)
  (2.79)
  Interest 
 6,038.04 
 3,362.53 
 Operating profit before working capital changes 
 14,765.26 
 4,928.80    
 Adjustments for - 
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables  
 (23,084.14)
  (2,690.03)
 (Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets   
 (10,727.87)
 180.33 
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories 
 (11,798.59)
 (12,447.59)
 Increase/(decrease) in provisions  
 (93.89)
 210.55 
 Increase/(decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities  
 22,731.65 
 13,719.95 
  Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 
 8,862.75 
 372.88 
 Cash generated from operations 
 (14,110.09)
   (653.91)    
  Direct taxes paid  
  (1,898.28)
  (1,243.11)
  (1,502.20)
 2,772.69 
 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
 9,730.24 
 11,425.93 
150
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 B 
 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES : 
  Payments for property, plant & equipment 
 (13,398.82)
 (14,820.17)
 Net cash flow on (purchase)/sale of investments 
  - 
 4,860.89 
 Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment 
 31.54 
 3,215.75 
  Dividend received 
 4.96 
 2.79 
  Interest received 
 393.74 
 446.74 
 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
 (12,968.58)
  (6,294.00)
 C 
 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES : 
  Proceeds from borrowings 
 12,210.75 
  - 
  Repayments of borrowings 
   (217.76)
  (2,696.84)
  Proceeds from issue of share warrants/equity shares   
 969.20 
  - 
  Proceeeds from issue of share capital
  - 
 1,078.31 
  Repayments of lease liabilities  
 (89.67)
   (163.89)
  Dividend paid 
   (575.44)
   (450.80)
  Change in non-controlling interest  
   (727.29)
 1.50 
  Interest paid 
  (3,610.88)
  (3,809.27)
 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
 7,958.91 
  (6,040.99)
 Net Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 4,720.57 
   (909.06)
Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of the year
2,634.83
3,543.89
Cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year
7,355.40 
2,634.83
The accompanying notes are integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          Sd/-	
         Sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
           Sd/-	
	
         Sd/-	
           Sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
Mumbai	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
May 25, 2023
151
Notes forming part of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023
  
COMPANY INFORMATION
Ashapura Minechem Limited (the ‘Parent Company’) is a public limited company domiciled in India and incorporated on 19th February, 1982 under 
the provisions of the Companies Act applicable in India vide CIN: L14108MH1982PLC026396. The Group is engaged in the mining, manufacturing 
and trading of various minerals and its derivative products and related services. The registered office of the Parent Company is located at Jeevan Udyog 
Building, 3rd Floor, D N Road, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001. The equity shares of the Parent Company are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) as well 
as National Stock Exchange (NSE).
The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors on 25th May, 2023. 
 
1	
  BASIS OF PREPARATION, MEASUREMENT AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1.1	
Basis of preparation and measurement
	
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (hereinafter referred to as 
the ‘Ind AS’) as notified by Ministry of Corporate Affairs pursuant to section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read together with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as applicable.
	
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and presented under historical cost convention, on accrual basis of accounting except 
for certain financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as stated in the accounting 
policies set out below. The accounting policies have been applied consistently over all the periods presented in these consolidated financial 
statements. 
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle and other criteria as set out in 
the Division II of Schedule III to the Act. The Group considers 12 months as normal operating cycle.
	
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) which is the Parent Company’s functional currency, and all the values 
are rounded to the nearest lacs except otherwise indicated.
1.2 Basis for consolidation
a.	
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar 
circumstances. If a member of the group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated financial statements, appropriate 
adjustments are made to that group member’s financial statements in preparing the consolidated financial statements to ensure conformity with 
the group’s accounting policies.
b.	
The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose of consolidation are generally drawn up to the same reporting date as that of the 
Parent Company except for some overseas entities, where the financial statements are drawn up at a different reporting date and the difference 
between reporting dates is not more than three months.  These entities prepare, for consolidation purpose, additional financial information as 
of the same date as the financial statements of the Parent Company to enable the Parent Company to consolidate the financial information of 
those companies, unless it is impracticable to do so. 
c.	
The consolidated financial statements present the consolidated accounts of the Parent Company, Ashapura Minechem Limited with its following 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures:
 
Particulars
Country of 
Incorporation
% voting power 
held as at 31st 
March 2023
(either directly 
or through 
subsidiaries)
% voting power 
held as at 31st 
March 2022
 (either directly 
or through 
subsidiaries)
Subsidiaries:
1
Ashapura Aluminum Limited
India
100.00
100.00
2
Ashapura Boffa Bauxite SAU
Guinea
100.00
100.00
3
Ashapura Claytech Limited
India
99.44 
99.44 
4
Ashapura Consultancy Services Pvt Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
5
Ashapura Fareast MPA Sdn Bhd1
Malasiya
100.00
100.00
6
Ashapura Fareast Acticlay Sdn Bhd2
Malasiya
-
100.00
7
Ashapura Global Infratech - SARLU 
Guinea
55.00
100.00
8
Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
Guinea
100.00
100.00
9
Ashapura Holdings Fareast Pte Ltd
Singapore
100.00
100.00
10
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE 
UAE
100.00 
100.00 
11
Ashapura International Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
12
Ashapura Midgulf NV3 
Belguim
100.00
100.00
13
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
UAE
100.00 
100.00 
14
Ashapura Minex Resources SAU
Guinea
80.00
100.00
15
Ashapura Resources Private Limited
India
100.00
100.00
152
Ashapura Minechem Limited
16
Bombay Minerals Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
17
FAKO Resources SARL
Guinea
90.00
90.00
18
Peninsula Property Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
19
Prashansha Ceramics Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
20
PT Ashapura Bentoclay Fareast 
Indonesia
100.00 
100.00 
21
Sharda Consultancy Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
22
Societe Guineenne des Mines de Fer
Guinea
80.00
100.00
Joint Ventures:
1
APL Valueclay Private Limited
India
50.00
50.00
2
Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Oman
70.00
70.00
3
Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
India
50.00
50.00
Associates:
1
Ashapura Arcadia Logistic Private Limited 
India
50.00
50.00
2
Orient Abrasives Limited
India
31.76
31.76
3
Orient Advanced Materials FZE4
India
31.76
-
4
Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited5
India
31.76
31.76
5
Shantilal Multiport Private Limited
India
50.00
50.00
1	
w.e.f. 18th October, 2021
2	
up to 29th June, 2022
3	
w.e.f. 3rd May, 2021
4	
w.e.f. 5th December, 2022
5	
w.e.f. 4th June, 2021
Subsidiaries
a)	
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Parent Company has control. The Parent Company controls an entity when the Parent Company is 
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to 
direct the relevant activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Parent Company.
b)	
The Parent Company combines the financial statements of the Parent Company and its subsidiary companies on a line-by-line basis, adding 
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions 
among the Group are eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
transferred asset. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Parent Company.
c)	
  A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Parent Company loses 
control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets, liabilities, carrying amount of any non-controlling interests and the cumulative translation 
differences recorded in equity.
 Joint Venture Companies
a)	
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. 
Interests in joint ventures are initially recognized at cost and thereafter accounted for using the equity method.
b)	
Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognized at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group’s 
share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and other comprehensive income of the investee in the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other 
Comprehensive Income of the Group. Distributions received or receivable from joint ventures are recognized as a reduction in the carrying 
amount of the investment.
c)	
Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint 
ventures.
d)	
After application of the equity method, at each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment 
in the joint venture is impaired. If there exists such evidences, the Group determines extent of impairment and then recognizes the loss in the 
statement of profit & loss.
e)	
Upon loss of significant joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognizes any retained investment at its fair value. Any 
difference between the carrying amount of the joint venture and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from the disposal is 
recognized in profit and loss.
f)	
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying value of the joint venture, the carrying value is reduced to nil and recognition of further 
losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligation in respect of the joint venture.
 
153
 Associates
a)	
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
b)	
The considerations made in determining whether significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over 
the subsidiaries.
c)	
The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate 
is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognised changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the 
associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investments and is not tested for 
impairment individually.
d)	
The statement of profit & loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of the operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of those investees 
is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the 
Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting from 
transactions between the Group in the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
e)	
If Group share of losses of an associate exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long term interest that, in substance, form part 
of the Groups net investment in the associate ), the Group discontinues recognising its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognised 
only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate 
subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes recognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of the 
losses not recognised. 
f)	
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise in impairment loss on its investment in its 
associate. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If 
there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amounts of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and 
its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as ‘share of profit of an associate’ in the consolidated statement of profit & loss. 
g)	
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference 
between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence or joint control and the fair value retained investments and 
proceeds from its disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
h)	
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying value of the associate, the carrying value is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses 
is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligation in respect of the associate.
1.3	 Significant accounting policies: 
a.	
System of accounting
	
The Group follows mercantile system of accounting and recognises income and expenditure on an accrual basis except in case of significant 
uncertainties. These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise indicated.
b.	
Key accounting estimates
	
The preparation of the financial statements, in conformity with the recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS, requires the management 
to make estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses and disclosure of contingent liabilities as at the date of financial statements and the results of operation during the reported period. 
Although these estimates are based upon management’s best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results could differ from these 
estimates which are recognised in the period in which they are determined. 
	
The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances 
and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control 
of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the financial statements in the period in which changes are made and, if material, their effects are 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
c.	
Current and Non Current Classification
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current and non-current classification. Any asset or liability is classified 
as current if it satisfies any of the following conditions: 
 
• 
 It is expected to be settled in the Group’s normal operating cycle;
 
• 
 It is cash or cash equivalent unless it is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the reporting 
date.
 
• 
 It is held primarily for the purpose of being traded; 
 
• 
 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period.
 
• 
 All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
 
• 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current only.
154
Ashapura Minechem Limited
d.	 	Property, plant and equipment
(i) 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost of acquisition including attributable interest and finance costs, if any, till the date of 
acquisition/installation of the assets less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
(ii)	
Subsequent expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment is capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated 
with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to 
the statement of profit and loss as incurred. 
(iii)	
The cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the financial    statements, either on disposal or when retired from active use 
and the resultant gain or loss are recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
(iv)	
Capital work-in-progress, representing expenditure incurred in respect of assets under development and not ready for their intended use, are 
carried at cost. Cost includes related acquisition expenses, construction cost, related borrowing cost and other direct expenditure.
(v)	
 The Group depreciates property, plant and equipment over the estimated useful life prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 from 
the date the assets are ready for intended use after considering the residual value. 
(vi)	
Intangible assets mainly represent mining rights and implementation cost for software and other application software acquired/developed 
for in-house use. These assets are stated at cost.  Cost includes related acquisition expenses, related borrowing costs, if any, and other direct 
expenditure.
(vii)	 Items of stores and spares that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are capitalized at cost and depreciated over their useful life. 
Otherwise, such items are classified as inventories.
(viii)	 Losses arising from the retirement of and gains or losses arising from disposal of property, plant and equipment which are carried at cost are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
(ix)	
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes 
of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units).
e.	
Investments properties
a) 
Property which is held for long-term rental or for capital appreciation or both is classified as investment property. Investment properties are 
measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment loss, if any.
b)	
Investment properties currently comprise of plots of land and buildings.
c)	
Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently withdrawn from use and no 
future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
is recognised in statement of profit and loss in the period in which the property is derecognised. 
f.	
Goodwill
	
Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not 
individually identified and separately recognised. Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over 
the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, measured in accordance with Ind AS -103 Business Combination.
	
Goodwill is considered to have indefinite useful life and hence is not subject to amortisation but tested for impairment at least annually. After 
initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
g.	
Investments and financial assets
	
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
	
On initial recognition, a financial asset is recognised at fair value, in case of financial assets which are recognised at fair value through profit 
and loss (FVTPL), its transaction costs are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. In other cases, the transaction costs are attributed to 
the acquisition value of financial asset.  However, trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are measured at 
transaction price
 
	
Financial assets are subsequently classified measured at –
	
-	
amortised cost
	
-	
fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
	
-	
fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI).
155
	
Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their recognition except if and in the period the Group changes its business model for 
managing financial assets.
	
Financial asset is derecognised only when the Group has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset. Where the 
entity has transferred the asset, the Group evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the 
financial asset. In such cases, financial asset is derecognised.
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Group applies the expected credit loss (”ECL”) model for measurement and recognition of impairment 
loss on financial assets and credit risk exposures. The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance 
on trade receivables. Simplified approach does not require the Group to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime ECL at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. For recognition of impairment loss on other 
financial assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial 
recognition.
h.	
Inventories
(i) 
 Raw materials and stores and spares are valued at weighted average cost including all charges in bringing the materials to the present location. 
(ii)	
Finished and semi-finished goods are valued at the cost plus direct expenses and appropriate value of overheads or net realizable value, 
whichever is lower.
(iii)	
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are written off/valued at net realisable value during the year as per policy consistently followed 
by the Group
i.	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and equivalents:
	
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprises of balance with banks and cash on hand and short term deposits with an original 
maturity of three month or less, which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
	
Other bank balances:
	
Other bank balances include deposits with maturity less than twelve months but greater than three months and balances and deposits with banks 
that are restricted for withdrawal and usage.
j.	
Trade receivables
	
A receivable is classified as a trade receivable if it is in respect of the amount due on account of goods sold or services rendered in the normal 
course of business. Trade receivables are recognised initially at their transaction price and subsequently measured net of any expected credit 
losses.
k.	
Equity instruments
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments which are issued for cash are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
l.	
Financial liabilities
a. 
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are 
initially measured at the amortised cost unless at initial recognition, they are classified as fair value through profit and loss. 
 
b.	
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method. Financial liabilities carried at fair 
value through profit and loss are measured at fair value with all changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
c.	
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
m.	
Trade payables
	
A payable is classified as a trade payable if it is in respect of the amount due on account of   goods purchased in the normal course of business. 
These amounts represent liabilities for goods provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid. These amounts are 
unsecured and are usually settled as per the payment terms. Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless payment is not 
due within 12 months after the reporting period. 
n.	
Revenue recognition	
	
(i)	
Revenue shall be recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to 
which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
(ii)	
Revenue is measured based on transaction price, which is the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, stated net of discounts, 
return and goods & service tax. Transaction price is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the estimated sales incentives/
discounts.
156
Ashapura Minechem Limited
(iii)	
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the discounts/rights of return, using the expected value method.
(iv)	
A return liability is recognised to expected return in relation to sales made corresponding assets are recognised for the products expected to be 
returned. 
(v)	
The Group recognises as an asset, the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer, if the Group expects to recover those costs. The 
said asset is amortised on a systematic basis consistent with the transfer of goods or services to the customers.
(vi)	
Export incentives are accounted for on export of goods if the entitlements can be estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions precedent 
to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.
(vii)	 Revenue in respect of other income is recognised on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable certainty, 
revenue recognition is postponed to the extent of uncertainty.
o.	
Indirect taxes 
	
Purchased of goods and fixed assets are accounted for net of GST input credits. Custom duty paid on import of materials is dealt with in respective 
material accounts. 
p.	
Mining expenses
	
Expenses incurred on mining including removal of overburden of mines are charged to the profit & loss statement as mining cost on the basis of 
quantity of minerals mined during the year, overburden of removal and mining being carried out concurrently and relatively within a short period 
of time. Mining restoration expenses are annually reviewed and provided for.
 
q.	
Research and development expenses and receipts
	
Revenue expenditure on research and development is charged against the profit for the year in which it is incurred. Capital expenditure on 
research and development is shown as an addition to the property, plant and equipment and is depreciated on the same basis as other property, 
plant and equipment. Receipts of research & development centre of the Group are accounted for as revenue receipts.
r.	
Foreign currency transactions 
	
(i)	
Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of primary economic environment in which the Group operates 
(“the functional currency”). The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupee (INR), which is the Parent Company’s functional and 
presentation currency.
	
(ii)	
Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in the reporting currency at foreign exchange rate on the date of the transaction. 
	
(iii)	 Monetary items of current assets and current liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported using the closing rate at the reporting 
date. Non-monetary items which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign currency are reported using the exchange 
rate at the date of the transaction. 
	
(iv)	 The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates are recognised in the statement 
of profit or loss. 
s.	
Employee benefit expenses
	
(i)	
Contributions to defined contribution schemes such as provident fund, employees’ state insurance, labour welfare fund etc. are charged as 
an expense based on the amount of contribution required to be made as and when services are rendered by the employees. These benetits 
are classified as defined contribution schemes as the Group has no further obligations beyond the monthly contributions.
	
(ii)	
The Group provides for gratuity which is a defined benefit plan, the liabilities of which are determined based on valuations, as at the 
reporting date, made by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Re-measurement comprising of actuarial gains 
and losses, in respect of gratuity are recognised in the other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. The classification of 
the Company’s obligation into current and non-current is as per the actuarial valuation report.
	
(iii)	  The employees are entitled to accumulate leave subject to certain limits, for future encashment and availment, as per the policy of the 
Group. The liability towards such unutilised leave as at the end of each balance sheet date is determined based on independent actuarial 
valuation and recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
t.	
Leases 
	
Group as Lessee
	
The Group, as a lessee, recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for its leasing arrangements, if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset. 
	
The contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, if it involves the use of an identified asset and the Group has substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the asset and has right to direct the use of the identified asset. The cost of the right-of-use asset shall 
comprise of the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement 
date plus any initial direct costs incurred. 
157
	
The right-of-use assets is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted 
for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use assets is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement 
date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are 
recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
	
	
Group as lessor
	
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are classified as operating 
leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and 
arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as 
rental income.
u.	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Also, the effective interest 
rate amortisation is included in finance costs. Borrowing costs relating to acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset which takes 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are added to the cost of such asset to the extent they relate to the period till such assets 
are ready to be put to use. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the statement of profit and loss in the period in which they occur.
v.	
Impairment of non financial assets
	
As at each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired and also whether there 
is an indication of reversal of impairment loss recognised in the previous periods. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for 
an asset is required, the Group determines the recoverable amount and impairment loss is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount. If the amount of impairment loss subsequently decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment was recognised, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the statement of profit and 
loss.
w.	
Taxes on income
	
Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the deferred tax during the year. Current and deferred taxes are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which 
case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
	
Current income tax is recognised based on the estimated tax liability computed after taking credit for allowances and exemptions in accordance 
with the Income Tax Act, 1961. Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the 
taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting 
date.
	
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
	
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses, 
unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
they can be used. In case of uncertainty of reversal of the deferred tax assets or when it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available in the foreseeable future,    deferred tax assets, as a matter of prudence, are not recognised.
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each reporting date and measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to 
temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. The measurement of deferred 
tax refiects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Company expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle 
the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
x.	
Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
The Group creates a provision when there is present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of past events that probably requires an outflow 
of resources and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of obligation. 
	
Contingent liabilities are disclosed in respect of possible obligations that arise from past events, whose existence would be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the financial 
statements.
y.	
Earnings per share
(i)	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to the equity shareholders of the Group by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during 
the period and for all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that 
have changed the number of equity shares outstanding, without a corresponding change in resources. 
(ii)	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earning per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to the equity shareholders and the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. 
158
Ashapura Minechem Limited
z.	
Offsetting instruments 
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset 
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally 
enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, 
insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparty.
aa	
Events after the reporting period
	
Adjusting events are events that provide further evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period. The financial statements 
are adjusted for such events before authorisation for issue.
	
Non-adjusting events are events that are indicative of conditions that arose after end of the reporting period. Non-adjusting events after the 
reporting date are not accounted, but disclosed.
bb.	
Non-current assets held for sale
	
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable. They are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell. An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell. A gain is 
recognised for any subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not in excess of any cumulative impairment loss previously 
recognised. A gain or loss not previously recognised by the date of the sale of the non-current asset is recognised at the date of de-recognition. 
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale. Interest and other expenses attributable to the 
liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised. Non-current assets classified as held for sale are presented 
separately from the other assets in the balance sheet.
cc.	
Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the operating decision makers. The decision 
makers regularly monitor and review the operating result of the Group. The activities of the Group, in the opinion of the management, primarily 
falls under a single segment of “Minerals and its derivative products” in accordance with the Ind AS 108 “Operating Segments”. 
dd.	
Recent pronouncements The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide notification dated 31st March, 2023 notified Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 (the ‘Rules’) which amends certain accounting standards, and are effective 1 April, 2023. The Rules 
predominantly amends Ind AS 1, Presentation of financial statements and Ind AS 12, Income taxes, whereas the other amendments notified by 
these rules are primarily in the nature of clarifications. As per the Management’s assessment, these amendments are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group in the current or future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
159
Note 2
 Property, plant and equipment 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
Land   
(note no. 
c)
 Buildings 
Plant & 
Equipment
Barges
 Office 
Equipment 
 Furniture 
& Fixtures 
 Vehicles 
 Total 
 Gross carrying value  
 As at 1st April, 2021 
2,175.44 
32,298.99  37,877.06 
   75.98    1,468.41    6,877.79 
28,692.90  1,09,466.57 
 Additions 
   31.06 
 5,507.26 
 4,219.86 
     - 
    95.09 
 293.90 
 190.24    10,337.41 
 Disposals/transfer* 
     - 
 1,184.98  (6,096.33)
     - 
    (9.49)
 (3,547.22)
  1,669.82    (6,798.24)
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
     - 
  746.68 
    263.78 
     - 
      0.13 
    (6.57)
  1,062.36 
  2,066.38 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
2,206.50 
39,737.91  36,264.37 
   75.98    1,554.14    3,617.90 
31,615.32  1,15,072.12 
 Additions 
     - 
 5,202.97 
 2,912.94 
     - 
    42.30 
      7.11 
 467.52 
  8,632.84 
 Disposals/transfers  
  (61.32)
 (669.88)
 (3,996.80)
     - 
  (53.78)
  (28.72)
  (255.43)
   (5,065.93)
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
     - 
 2,357.15 
    287.70 
     - 
      1.66 
 131.01 
  2,519.32 
  5,296.84 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
2,145.18 
46,628.15 
35,468.21 
   75.98    1,544.32    3,727.30 
34,346.73  1,23,935.87 
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 1st April, 2021 
     -   
17,862.09  22,044.02 
   74.64    1,350.84    3,864.74 
22,039.62    67,235.95 
 Depreciation charged 
     -   
  842.51 
 2,562.00 
     - 
    44.56 
 190.53 
  1,793.44 
  5,433.04 
 Transfers* 
  293.79 
 1,920.17 
     - 
    14.81  (1,742.62)
  1,002.56 
  1,488.71 
 Disposals 
 (278.08)
 (3,524.74)
     - 
  (12.23)
  (20.08)
 (62.22)
   (3,897.35)
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
     -   
  554.91 
 34.44 
     - 
      0.01 
    16.44 
 825.85 
  1,431.65 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
     -   
19,275.22  23,035.89 
   74.64    1,397.99    2,309.01 
25,599.25    71,692.00 
 Depreciation charged 
     -   
 1,259.23 
 2,635.30 
     - 
    53.41 
 206.77 
  2,282.46 
  6,437.17 
 Disposals/transfers 
     -   
 (153.34)
 (3,572.71)
     - 
  (49.35)
  (26.74)
  (232.82)
   (4,034.96)
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
     -   
 1,407.85 
    163.27 
     - 
      0.76 
    45.82 
  2,122.12 
  3,739.82 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
     -   
21,788.96  22,261.75 
   74.64    1,402.81    2,534.86 
29,771.01    77,834.03 
 Net carrying value 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
2,206.50 
20,462.69  13,228.48 
  1.34 
 156.15    1,308.89 
  6,016.07    43,380.12 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
   2,145.18  24,839.19  13,206.46 
  1.34 
 141.51    1,192.44 
  4,575.72    46,101.84 
* includes transfers from subsidiaries acquired during the previous year
 Capital work in progress ageing schedule: 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Capital work in progress for a period of  
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
2-3 years
 More than 3 
years  
31st March, 2023
 Projects in progress  
      5,794.89 
            8,134.17             12,292.92 
                  - 
         26,221.98 
 Projects temporarily suspended 
                  - 
                         -                            - 
                  - 
                        - 
5,794.89
8,134.17
12,292.92
0.00
26,221.98
31st March, 2022
 Projects in progress  
      3,338.38 
          10,675.05             11,328.16 
                  - 
         25,341.59 
 Projects temporarily suspended 
                  - 
                         -                       7.55 
           80.48 
                 88.03 
3,338.38
10,675.05
11,335.71
80.48
25,429.62
Note:
a) There are no projects which are overdue for completion or has exceeded its cost as compared to the original plan.
b) Refer note no. 35 for disclosure of contractual commitment towards acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
c) Charge is created on one of the assets, in favour of a financial institution against the finance availed by an associate company.
160
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 3
 Right of use assets 
( Indian ` in lacs )
 Particulars 
 Building  
 Total 
 Gross carrying value  
 As at 31st March, 2021 
   198.74 
  198.74 
 Additions  
   369.68 
  369.68 
 Disposals  
    (56.75)
   (56.75)
 As at 31st March, 2022 
   511.67 
  511.67 
 Additions  
 34.64 
34.64 
 Disposals  
 (76.89) 
(76.89)
  Exchange difference on consolidation
 8.82 
8.82 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
478.24
478.24
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 31st March, 2021 
98.42 
     98.42 
 Depreciation charged 
90.46 
     90.46 
 Additions/transfers* 
19.37 
     19.37 
 Disposals  
    (30.92)
   (30.92)
 As at 31st March, 2022 
 177.33 
177.33 
 Depreciation charged 
 116.36 
116.36 
 Disposals 
 (76.89) 
(76.89)
 Exchange difference on consolidation  
 2.27 
2.27 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
219.07
219.07
 Net carrying value 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
334.34
334.34
 As at 31st March, 2023
259.17
259.17
*includes transfers from subsidiaries acquired during the previous year.
Leases - Company as a lessee
(a) Set out below, are the carrying amount of the company's right-of-use assets and lease liabilities and the movements during the period:
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Lease liabilities 
 Right to use of 
assets  
As at April 1, 2022
319.80
334.34
Amortisation for the year
 - 
116.36 
Addition during the year 
 - 
41.19 
Deduction during the year 
 83.96 
- 
Interest expense
 29.89 
- 
Payments
 89.67 
- 
As at March 31, 2023
176.06
259.17
(b) Set out below, are the amounts recognized in profit and loss:
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 31st March, 2023 
 31st March, 2022 
Amortisation expense of right-of-use assets
116.36
90.46
Interest expense on lease liability
29.89
17.87
Lease expense- short term and lease of low value assets 
1,290.78
675.33
1,437.03
783.66
161
Note 4
Investment Properties
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
Building
Total
 Gross carrying value  
 As at 1st Aril, 2021 
308.69
308.69
 Additions
 - 
 - 
 Disposals  
 - 
 - 
 As at 31st March, 2022
308.69
308.69
 Additions
 - 
 - 
 Disposals  
 - 
 - 
 As at 31st March, 2023
 308.69
 308.69
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 1st Aril, 2021 
 74.77 
 74.77 
 Depreciation charged 
 5.91 
 5.91 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 As at 31st March, 2022
80.68
80.68
 Depreciation charged 
 5.91 
 5.91 
 Disposals  
 - 
 - 
 As at 31st March, 2023 
 86.59
 86.59
Net Carrying Amount
 As at 31st March, 2022
228.01
228.01
 As at 31st March, 2023
 222.10 
 222.10 
i) Amount recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
Rental income
48.00
48.00
Direct operating expenses 
 - 
 - 
Gain from investment properties before depreciation
48.00
48.00
Depreciation
5.91
5.91
Gain from investment properties 
42.09
42.09
ii) Contractual obligations
There are no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property.
iii) Fair Value
The fair value of the Investment Property as at March 31, 2023 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out by independent valuers 
registered with the authority which governs the valuers in India. All fair value estimates for investment properties are included in Level 2. Fair valuation 
of the investment properties as on 31st March, 2023 is ` 950.34 lacs.
162
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 5
Intangible assets
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Mining 
 Computer  
 Total 
 Rights  
 Software 
 Gross carrying value (at deemed cost) 
 As at 1st April, 2021 
           6,281.81 
276.01
6,557.82
 Additions/transfer*
                 80.88                     22.00 
102.88
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
               221.79                            - 
              221.79 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
6,584.48
298.01
6,882.49
 Additions
           2,056.09                            - 
2,056.09
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
               554.21                            - 
              554.21 
 Disposals  
                        -                   (22.32)
               (22.32)
 As at 31st March, 2023 
9,194.78
275.69
9,470.47
 Accumalated depreciation 
 As at 1st April, 2021 
               258.63 
244.97
503.60
 Amortisation 
               266.74 
16.68
283.42
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
                   7.05                            - 
                   7.05 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
               532.42 
261.65
794.07
 Amortisation 
               686.76                     10.16 
              696.92 
 Exchange difference on consolidation 
                 58.88                            - 
                 58.88 
 Disposals 
                        -                   (12.10)
               (12.10)
 As at 31st March, 2023 
           1,278.06 
259.71
1,537.77
 Net carrying value 
 As at 31st March, 2022 
6,052.06
36.36
6,088.42
 As at 31st March, 2023 
7,916.72
15.98
7,932.70
* includes transfers from subsidiaries acquired during the previous year
Note 6
 Investments 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Non-current Investments 
 a. Investments in joint venture entities in india 
     Ashapura Perfoclay Limited1
             15,304.51 
             13,635.81 
     8,966,590 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
 b. Investments in associate companies in india 
      Orient Abrasives Limited 
13,462.35
13,074.24
     37,999,953 Equity Shares of ` 1 each fully paid-up
     Shantilal Multiport Infrastructure Private Limited 
                     54.97 
                     76.54 
     8,49,975 Equity Shares of ` 10 each fully paid-up
13,517.32
13,150.78
 c. Investment in Government Securities 
   National Savings Certificates
2.07
2.07
   (under lien with sales tax/mining authorities) 
Total non-current investments
28,823.90
26,788.66
1 investments in these equity shares are pledged with a creditor.
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
13,462.35
13,074.24
Market value of quoted investments
                8,663.99 
11,228.99
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
15,361.55
13,714.42
163
Note 7
Loans
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Unsecured, considered good 
 Loans to a joint venture  
 2,772.90 
 2,799.73 
 - 
 - 
 Employee loans 
 7.53 
 29.18 
28.14
 22.16 
 Other loans 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.85 
 Total loans 
2,780.43
2,828.91
28.14
83.01
Note 8
Other financial assets
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
Term deposits with maturity of more than 12 months  *
1,392.64
1,205.36
 - 
 - 
 Security deposits 
 2,170.08 
 1,994.69 
 - 
 - 
 Claims receivables 
 - 
 - 
 13,340.09 
 6,146.68 
 Interest receivable 
 11.96 
 12.35 
 707.85 
 608.01 
 Total other financial assets 
3,574.68
3,212.40
14,047.94
 6,754.69
* under lien  ` 1,260.55 ( ` 1,012.44)  lacs against guarantees to mining authorities, letter of credits and bank guarantees
 
Note 9
Deferred tax assets
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
 On account of timing differences in
       Depreciation on property, plant & equipment
 (132.92)
 (139.56)
       Loss allowance for doubtful debts
 470.11 
 553.06 
       Carry forward of business losses
 355.06 
 391.48 
       Difference between right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
 (0.78)
 2.35 
       Disallowances 43B of the Income Tax Act and others
 712.34 
 598.38 
 Total deferred tax assets 
 1,403.81 
 1,405.71 
164
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 10
Other assets
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Trade advances to suppliers 
 - 
 - 
 34,489.95 
 24,003.89 
 Less: Loss allowance for doubtful advances
 - 
 - 
 2,912.62 
 2,916.98 
 - 
 - 
 31,577.33 
 21,086.91 
 Capital advances 
 12.65 
 82.78 
 - 
 - 
 Prepaid expenses 
 - 
 - 
 2,278.65 
 1,400.45 
 Input credit receivables 
 - 
 - 
 6,365.19 
 6,412.59 
 Advance payment of royalty 
 - 
 - 
 22.81 
 24.46 
 Employee advances 
 - 
 - 
 107.36 
 31.20 
 Other advances 
 45.61 
 - 
 6,097.61 
 6,740.95 
 Total other assets 
58.26
 82.78 
46,448.95
 35,696.56
 Note 11 
 Inventories 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Stores & spares 
 4,868.26 
3,867.37 
 Stock-in-trade 
 5,624.76 
5,487.26 
 Raw materials 
 4,119.22 
3,919.70 
 Finished goods
 14,241.22 
9,795.39 
 Semi finished goods
 23,446.40 
17,174.22 
 Packing materials 
 856.18 
1,113.51 
 Total inventories 
 53,156.04 
41,357.45
 Note 12 
 Trade Receivables 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
    Unsecured, considered good 
48,324.03
30,167.05
    Unsecured, significant increase in credit risk 
1,151.51
1,324.03
    Unsecured, considered doubtful 
2,980.85
3,596.27
    Less: Loss allowance for doubtful debts 
 (3,470.47)
 (4,052.70)
 Total trade receivables 
48,985.92
31,034.65
165
 Note 13 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Balances with banks 
6,677.71
2,195.79
 Other term deosits
602.12 
292.10 
 Cash on hand 
75.57
146.94
 Total cash and cash equivalents 
7,355.40
2,634.83
 12.1 Trade receivables ageing schedule: 
( Indian ` in lacs)
 Particular 
 Not  
 Outstanding for the following period from due date of payments 
 Total 
 due 
 < 6 Months 
6 months- 1 
year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
> 3 years
 31st March, 2023
Undisputed, considered good 
 16,982.50 
 19,210.76 
 7,577.79 
 2,253.28 
 1,578.34 
 721.36 
 48,324.03 
Undisputed having significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 522.51 
 489.16 
 139.84 
 1,151.51 
Undisputed trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,780.42 
 2,780.42 
Disputed having significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 44.11 
 44.11 
 Disputed trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 156.32 
 156.32 
16,982.50 
 19,210.76 
 7,577.79 
 2,775.79 
 2,067.50 
 3,842.05 
 52,456.39 
 Less: Allowance for credit losses 
 (3,470.47)
 Total trade receivables 
 48,985.92
 31st March, 2022 
Undisputed, considered good 
12,702.30
 14,072.21 
 2,396.14 
 34.95 
 388.77 
 572.68 
 30,167.05 
Undisputed having significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 671.92 
 652.11 
 1,324.03 
Undisputed trade receivables- 
credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,495.06 
 2,495.06 
Disputed trade receivables- credit 
impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.17 
 - 
 4.17 
Disputed trade receivables- 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,097.04
 1,097.04 
12,702.30
 14,072.21 
 2,396.14 
 34.95 
 1,045.05 
 4,164.78 
 35,087.35
 Less: Allowance for credit losses 
 (4,052.70)
 Total trade receivables 
 31,034.65
166
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 15
Income tax  (net)
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 The following table provides the details of income tax assets and liabilities : 
 Current income tax assets 
12,232.08
10,508.68
 Current income tax liabilities 
12,811.70
10,023.03
Net balance
 (579.62) 
485.65
The gross movement in the current tax asset /( liability) : 
Net current income tax asset at the beginning
 485.65 
436.85 
Income tax paid (net of refunds) 
 1,898.28 
1,502.20 
Income tax expense  
 (2,963.55) 
(1,453.40)
 Net current income tax asset/(liabilities) at the end 
 (579.62) 
485.65
 Note 16 
 Equity share capital 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
Authorised 
 30,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 2 each
6,000.00
6,000.00
 30,00,000 preference shares of ` 100 each
3,000.00
3,000.00
9,000.00
9,000,00
 Issued, Subscribed and Paid up
91,486,098 equity shares of ` 2 each
    1,829.72 
 1,829.72 
Total equity share capital
    1,829.72 
 1,829.72 
a. Equity shares issued as fully paid-up bonus shares or otherwise than by cash during the preceding five years: Nil
 Note 14 
 Other bank balances 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
 Deposits with maturity more than 3 months* 
100.36
 279.60 
 Margin money deposits* 
 355.07 
370.98
 Dividend accounts  
 8.07 
11.67
 Total other bank balances 
463.50
662.25
* under lien  of ` 423.79 ( ` 620.16) lacs against guarantees to mining authorities and letter of credits
167
b. Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year :
(Indian ` in lacs )
Particulars 
 As on 31st March, 2023
 As on 31st March, 2022
 No. of shares 
 ` 
 No. of shares 
 ` 
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 9,14,86,098 
 1,829.72 
 8,69,86,098 
1,739.72
Issue of equity shares  on coversion of warrants during the year
 - 
 - 
 45,00,000 
 90.00 
Balance at end of the year 
 9,14,86,098 
 1,829.72 
 9,14,86,098 
 1,829.72
c. Shares held by promoters and promoter group :
Name of Shareholder
As at  31st March, 2023
As at 31st March 2022
Change 
(%)
Nos.
% of holding
Nos.
% of holding
Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
1,47,81,734
16.16
1,41,61,612
15.48
 0.68 
Mr. Chetan Navnitlal Shah
1,35,93,814
14.86
1,35,43,814
14.80
 0.05 
Ms. Dina Chetan Shah
92,02,360
10.06
92,02,360
10.06
 - 
Mr. Manan Shah
22,39,220
2.45
22,39,220
2.45
 - 
Ms. Chaitali Salot
12,55,620
1.37
12,55,620
1.37
 - 
Ms. Himani Shah
1,42,980
0.16
1,42,980
0.16
 - 
Late Shri Navnitlal R Shah Estate 
1,29,460
0.14
1,29,460
0.14
 - 
Ashapura Overseas Private Limited 
1,20,000
0.13
1,00,000
0.11
 0.02 
Gurbarga Trading Co. Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 - 
Hemprabha Trading Co Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 -
Name of Shareholder
As at  31st March, 2022
As at 31st March 2021
Change 
Nos.
% of holding
Nos.
% of holding
(%)
Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
1,41,61,612
15.48
95,14,331
10.94
 4.54 
Mr. Chetan Navnitlal Shah
1,35,43,814
14.80
1,35,43,814
15.57
 (0.77)
Ms. Dina Chetan Shah
92,02,360
10.06
92,02,360
10.58
 (0.52)
Mr. Manan Shah
22,39,220
2.45
22,39,220
2.57
 (0.13)
Ms. Chaitali Salot
12,55,620
1.37
12,55,620
1.44
 (0.07)
Ms. Himani Shah
1,42,980
0.16
1,42,980
0.16
 (0.01)
Late Shri Navnitlal R Shah Estate
1,29,460
0.14
1,29,460
0.15
 (0.01)
Ashapura Overseas Private Limited 
1,00,000
0.11
 - 
 - 
 0.11 
Gurbarga Trading Co. Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 - 
Hemprabha Trading Co Private Limited
2,520
0.01
2,520
0.01
 -
d. Shares held by each shareholder holding more than five percent shares :
Name of Shareholder
As at 31st March 2023
As at 31st March 2022
Nos.
% of holding
Nos.
% of holding
Ashapura Industrial Finance Limited
1,47,81,734
16.16
1,41,61,612
 15.48 
Mr. Chetan Navnitlal Shah
1,35,93,814
14.86
1,35,43,814
14.80
Mrs. Dina Chetan Shah
92,02,360
10.06
92,02,360
10.06
Albula Investment Fund Limited
 47,57,017 
5.20
72,57,017
 7.93
e. Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :
The company has one class of equity shares having a face value of ` 2 each ranking pari pasu in all respect including voting rights and entitlement to 
dividend. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. Dividend proposed by the board of directors and approved by the shareholders 
in the annual general meeting is paid to the shareholders.
168
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 Note 17 
 Other equity 
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
31st March
2023
31st March
2022
General reserve 
Balance at the beginning of the year
1,500.00
 1,500.00 
Additions during the year
   - 
- 
Balance at the end of the year
1,500.00
 1,500.00 
Capital redemption reserve
Balance at the beginning of the year
3.90
3.90
Addition during the year
   - 
- 
Balance at the end of the year
3.90
3.90
Securities premium account
Balance at the beginning of the year
19,082.34
17,734.59
Addition during the year
 - 
1,347.75 
Balance at the end of the year
19,082.34
19,082.34
Retained earnings
Balance at the beginning of the year
 30,659.21 
22,464.90 
Profit for the year
 11,700.64 
8,651.74 
Dividend 
 (571.84) 
(457.43)
Balance at the end of the year
 41,788.01 
30,659.21 
Other components of equity
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (net of tax)
 (474.22)
 (441.83)
Exchange differences on foreign currency translation
 1,770.93 
 (510.19)
 1,296.71 
 (952.02)
Total other equity
 63,670.96
 50,293.43
General reserve: The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company to general reserve.
 
Capital redemption reserve: The Company has created capital redemption reserve from distributable profit upon redemption of preference shares 
in the past years.
Securities premium account:  Amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognized in securities premium account. The reserve 
is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
Retained earnings:  Retained earnings are the profits/loss of the Company till date, less transfers to general reserve, dividends or other distributions 
paid to shareholders.
Net gain/(loss) on fair value of defined benefit plans:  The Company has recognised remeasurement gains/(loss) on defined benefit plans in 
OCI. These changes are accumalated within the OCI reserve within other equity. The Company transfers amount from this reserve to retained earning 
when the relevant obligations are derecognized.
Foreign currency translation reserve:  Exchange difference on translation of long term monetary asset is accumalated in separate reserve  within 
equity.
169
Note 18
Borrowings
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
Secured
    Term loans from bank & Financial institutions* 
 53,109.68 
 47,642.03 
 - 
 - 
    Hire Purchase Finance 
 1,247.44 
 37.12 
 8.52 
 25.43 
    Working capital finance from banks
 - 
 - 
6,021.14
6,776.22
   Current maturities of long-term debt 
 - 
 - 
 4,260.81 
2,531.58
54,357.12
47,679.15
10,290.47
9,333.23
Unsecured
    Inter coprporate loans 
 8,404.18 
 5,215.02 
 - 
 - 
    Term loan from related parties 
 2,343.62 
 - 
 225.00 
 1,400.00 
 10,747.80 
 5,215.02 
225.00
 1,400.00 
Total borrowings
 65,104.92 
52,894.17
10,515.47
10,733.23
* loans obtained by overseas subsidiary against pledge of shares and other investments in group companies.  Term loan from financial institutions 
includes overdue borrowings of Rs. 1,694.74 lacs.
Note 19
Other financial liabilities
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Particulars 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Interest accrued and due on borrowings 
 - 
 - 
7,065.28
4,244.38
 Derivatives and other claims payable (Refer note no. 46) 
 - 
 - 
2,500.00
2,500.00
 Shipping claims payable* 
29,699.88
22,723.99
5,032.50
13,250.00
 Unclaimed dividends  
8.07
11.67
 Payable towards services received
 - 
 - 
106.76
 131.24
Total other financial liabilities
 29,699.88 
 22,723.99 
 14,712.61 
 20,137.29
 * investments in two  subsidiaries and a joint venture are pledged to one of the creditors. 
Note 20
Provisions
(Indian ` in lacs)
   
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Particulars 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
Provision for leave encashment 
 175.49 
 209.96 
 51.18 
55.84
Provision for minning restoration 
 971.34 
 1,046.73 
 - 
 - 
Provision for gratuity 
 55.14 
 91.83 
 158.28 
 178.49 
Provision for bonus 
 - 
 - 
 215.46 
157.92
Provision for royalty 
 - 
 - 
 1,018.03 
1,037.85
Total provisions
 1,201.97 
 1,348.52 
1,442.95
1,430.10
170
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 21
Other liabilities
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Non-current 
 Current 
31st March 
31st March
31st March 
31st March
2023
2022
2023
2022
 Advances from customers 
 - 
 - 
28,547.05
25,419.16
 Statutory liabilities 
 - 
 - 
7,223.69
4,336.16
 Payable for capital assets 
 - 
 - 
1,516.97
56.12
 Other liabilities 
 9.07 
 50.00 
20,776.80
5,480.49
 Total other liabilities 
9.07
 50.00 
58,064.51
35,291.93
Note 22
Trade payables
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars 
 Current 
31st March 
2023
31st March
2022
 Trade payables 
   Total outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises (refer note no. 38) 
 - 
627.66
   Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises 
45,498.75
34,742.25
Total trade payables
45,498.75
35,369.91
 22.1 Trade payables ageing schedule: 
( Indian ` in lacs)
 Particular 
 Not 
 Due  
 Outstanding for the following period from due date of payments 
 Total 
 Less than 1 year 
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
> 3 years
 31st March, 2023 
 Outstanding dues to MSME  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Others 
6,251.01
 24,510.75 
 12,152.60 
 1,273.27 
 1,311.12 
 45,498.75 
 Total…. 
 6,251.01 
 24,510.75 
 12,152.60 
 1,273.27 
 1,311.12 
 45,498.75 
 31st March, 2022
 Outstanding dues to MSME  
 - 
 627.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 627.66 
 Others 
7,608.64
21,523.24
 2,749.55 
 1,095.27 
1,765.55
 34,742.25 
 Total…. 
7,608.64
22,150.90
 2,749.55 
 1,095.27 
 1,765.55 
 35,369.91 
171
Note 23
Revenue from operations
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
 Sale of products 
   Export sales 
1,49,111.25
95,589.75
   Domestic sales  
30,553.57
29,567.54
1,79,664.82
1,25,157.29
 Other operating revenue 
  Research & development fees receipts
450.00
178.70
  Other operating income
2,970.02
2,448.32
 Total revenue from operations 
1,83,084.84
1,27,784.31
Note 24
Other income
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Interest receipts
393.74
446.74
Dividend receipts
4.96
2.79
Profit on sale of investment (net)
 - 
1,404.31
Lease rent receipts
248.41
212.88
Profit on sale of property, plant & equipment (net)
 - 
314.89
Sundry balances written back (net)
2,219.74
2,002.05
Gain on foreign currency fluctuation
5,041.89
4,576.61
Miscellaneous income 
703.63
599.49
 Total other income 
8,612.37
9,559.76
Note 25
Cost of materials consumed
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Raw materials consumed
Opening stock
3,919.70
3,077.98
Add: Purchases
41,470.49
23,736.77
45,390.19
26,814.75
Less: Closing stock
4,119.22
3,919.70
41,270.97
22,895.05
Packing materials consumed
Opening stock
1,113.51
1,044.56
Add: Purchases
2,911.38
2,757.15
4,024.89
3,801.71
Less: Closing stock
856.18
1,113.51
3,168.71
2,688.20
Rent and royalty
894.30
564.08
Mining expenses
1,889.60
6,345.93
 Total cost of materials consumed 
47,223.58
32,493.26
172
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 26
Changes in inventories
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Closing Stock
   Finished goods
14,241.22
9,795.39
   Stock-in-trade
5,624.76
5,487.26
   Semi finished goods
23,446.40
17,174.22
43,312.38
32,456.87
Opening Stock
   Finished goods
9,795.39
9,768.60
   Stock-in-trade
5,487.26
5,790.76
   Semi finished goods
17,174.22
7,109.69
32,456.87
22,669.05
 Changes in inventories 
 (10,855.51)
 (9,787.82)
Note 27
Employee benefit expenses
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonus
8,971.58
8,443.86
Directors' remuneration
309.57
275.02
Contribution to provident fund & other welfare funds
654.08
611.66
Staff welfare expenses
682.67
507.99
 Total employee benefit expenses 
10,617.90
9,838.53
Note 28
Finance costs
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Interest
 Banks
778.39
1,142.48
 Income tax
68.61
68.91
 Others
5,105.68
4,351.23
5,952.68
5,562.62
Exchange rate difference on loans
 - 
 (128.52)
Other borrowing costs
479.10
110.80
 Total finance costs 
6,431.78
5,544.90
173
Note 29
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Property, plant and equipment
6,437.17
5,433.04
Right of use assets
116.36
90.46
Investment properties
5.91
5.91
Intangible assets
696.92
283.42
 Total depreciation and amortisation 
7,256.36
5,812.83
Note 30
Other expenses
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Manufacturing expenses
  Power and fuel
6,369.71
6,976.20
  Machinery repairs and maintenance
1,533.82
841.93
  Stores and spares
3,299.87
3,098.45
  Carriage inward
133.53
73.66
  Other expenses
9,216.74
8,053.18
20,553.67
19,043.42
Selling and distriibution expenses
  Sales commission
4,024.44
131.23
  Export frieght and insurance
44,098.33
28,670.54
  Export custom duty
32.57
0.40
  Export and other shipment expenses
21,701.11
16,004.86
69,856.45
44,807.03
Administrative and other expenses
 Advertisement and business promotion
123.46
93.87
 Rent
1,290.78
675.33
 Rates & taxes
8,059.29
2,597.70
 Repairs to buildings and others
472.16
318.22
 Insurance premiums
324.67
247.82
 Travelling expenses
783.07
425.07
 Bank discount, commission and other charges
355.48
241.48
 Legal and professional fees
886.45
87.47
 Payment to auditors
124.93
108.99
 Directors sitting fees
34.50
36.00
 Buniness promotion expenses
 - 
 107.58 
 Loss on sale of property, plant & equipment (net)
207.18
 - 
 Corporate social responsibility expenses
62.35
 403.68 
 Donations
87.07
 48.15 
 Miscellaneous expenses
2,638.12
2,739.73
15,449.51
8,131.09
 Total other expenses 
1,05,859.63
71,981.54
174
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities 
1. Amount required to be spent u/s 135(5) of the Companies Act 2013
 55.40 
386.35
2. Amount spent in cash during the year
  i)  Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
 ii)  On purposes other than (i) above
 62.35 
403.68
3. (Excess)/Shortfall at the end of the year 
 (6.95)
 (17.33)
4. Nature of CSR activities 
Education, healthcare, women  
empowerment, promoion of arts.
Payments to auditors
Audit fees (including quarterly limited review)
102.41
93.31
Tax audit fees
10.63
10.50
Other services
9.24
5.18
Reimbursement of expenses
 2.65 
 - 
   
124.93
108.99
Note 31
Earning per share
 Particulars 
2022-2023
2021-2022
Profit for the year (`)
 11,700.64 
 8,651.74 
Weighted average number of shares (Nos)
9,14,86,098
 8,96,61,440 
Diluted number of shares (Nos)
9,14,86,098
 8,96,61,440 
Earnings per share (Basic ) ` 
 12.79 
 9.65 
Earnings per share (Diluted ) ` 
 12.79 
 9.65 
Face value per share `
2.00
2.00
Note 32
Fair value measurement
i. Financial instruments by category
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
FVPL
FVOCI
Amortised 
cost
Fair Value 
FVPL
FVOCI
Amortised 
cost
Fair Value
Financial assets 
Investments
 - 
 - 
 28,823.90 
 28,823.90 
 - 
 - 
 26,788.66 
 26,788.66 
Trade receivables
 - 
 - 
 48,985.92 
 48,985.92 
 - 
 - 
 31,034.65 
 31,034.65 
Loans  non - current 
 - 
 - 
 2,780.43 
 2,780.43 
 - 
 - 
 2,828.91 
 2,828.91 
Loans - current 
 28.14 
 28.14 
 - 
 - 
 83.01 
 83.01 
Other financial assets - non- current 
 - 
 - 
 3,574.68 
 3,574.68 
 - 
 - 
 3,212.40 
 3,212.40 
Other financial assets - current 
 14,047.94 
 14,047.94 
 6,754.69 
 6,754.69 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 7,355.40 
 7,355.40 
 - 
 - 
 2,634.83 
 2,634.83 
Other bank balances
 - 
 - 
 463.50 
 463.50 
 - 
 - 
 662.25 
 662.25 
Total financial assets
 - 
 - 1,06,059.91 1,06,059.91 
 - 
 -  73,999.40  73,999.40
175
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
  Long term borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 65,104.92 
 65,104.92 
 - 
 - 
 52,894.17 
 52,894.17 
  Short term borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 10,515.47 
 10,515.47 
 - 
 - 
 10,733.23 
 10,733.23 
Lease liabilities -non-current 
 - 
 - 
 74.72 
 74.72 
 - 
 - 
 132.28 
 132.28 
Lease liabilities -current 
 - 
 - 
 101.34 
 101.34 
 - 
 - 
 187.52 
 187.52 
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 45,498.75 
 45,498.75 
 - 
 - 
 35,369.91 
 35,369.91 
Other financial liabilities - non - 
current 
 - 
 - 
 29,699.88 
 29,699.88 
 - 
 - 
 22,723.99 
 22,723.99 
Other financial liabilities  - current 
 - 
 - 
 14,712.61 
 14,712.61 
 - 
 - 
 20,137.29 
 20,137.29 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 - 1,65,707.69 1,65,707.69 
 - 
 - 1,42,178.39 1,42,178.39 
Note 33
Financial risk management
The Group's activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
Risk
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, 
financial assets and 
trade receivables
Credit ratings, Aging analysis, 
credit evaluation
Diversification of counter parties, 
investment limits, check on counter 
parties basis credit rating and 
number of overdue days
Liquidity risk
Borrowings, trade payables and 
other liabilities
Maturity analysis
Maintaining sufficient cash/
cash equivalents and marketable 
securities
Market risk
Financial assets and liabilities not 
denominated in INR
Sensitivity analysis
Constant evaluation and proper risk 
management policies
The Board provides guiding principles for overall risk management as well as policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, credit 
risk and investment of surplus liquidity.
A. Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk of a counter party default on its contractual obligation resulting into a financial loss to the Group. The maximum exposure 
of the financial assets represents trade receivables, work in progress and receivables.
Customer credit risk is managed by the Group through established policy and procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally carrying upto 90 days credit terms. The Group has a detailed review mechanism of 
overdue customer receivables at various levels within organisation to ensure proper attention and focus for realisation. Trade receivables are consisting 
of a large number of customers. Export receivables are backed by forward contract. In respect of trade receivables, the Group uses a provision matrix 
to compute the expected credit loss allowances for trade recivables in accordance with the excepcted credit loss (ECL) policy of the Group.
B. Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in raising funds to meet its commitments associated with financial instruments. 
Liquidity risk may result from an inability to sell a financial assets quickly at close to its fair value.
The Group, to the best extent possible, attempts to manage liquidity risk by maintaining adequate liquid assets and banking facilities by continuously 
monitoring forcast and actual cash flows and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
176
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities are as follows:
 (Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
Less than or equal 
to one year
more than
one year
Total
As on 31st March 2023
Financial Liabilities 
 Long term borrowings 
 - 
 65,104.92 
65,104.92
 Short term borrowings 
10,515.47
 - 
10,515.47
Lease liabilities
101.34
 74.72 
176.06
Trade payables
45,498.75
 - 
45,498.75
Other financial liabilities
14,712.61
 29,699.88 
44,412.49
Total financial liabilities
70,828.17
94,879.52
1,65,707.69
As on 31st March 2022
Financial Liabilities 
 Long term borrowings 
 - 
 52,894.17 
52,894.17
 Short term borrowings 
10,733.23
 - 
10,733.23
Lease liabilities
187.52
 132.28 
319.80
Trade payables
35,369.91
 - 
35,369.91
Other financial liabilities
20,137.29
 22,723.99 
42,861.28
Total financial liabilities
66,427.95
75,750.44
1,42,178.39
C. Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Such changes 
in the values of financial instruments may result from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market 
changes.
The Group has several balances in foreign currency and consequently, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk.  The Group evaluates exchange 
rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk management policies, to the extent possible.
a) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. 
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest 
rates. The Group manages its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings, wherever possible.	 	
	
b) Interest rate sensitivity:
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected. With 
all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Increase/decrease in 
basis points 
 Effect of profit before 
tax 
31st March, 2023
+100
 756.20 
-100
 (756.20)
31st March, 2022
+100
 636.27 
-100
 (636.27)
Group's exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of each reporting period is as under:
c) Exposure in foreign currency - unhedged
(respective foreign currencies in lacs)
Currency
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Receivables
USD
562.08
354.36
EURO
38.53
24.55
AED
 3.18 
 7.61 
GBP
 - 
 - 
177
Payables
USD
528.51
191.91
EURO
2.06
4.93
AED
 2.09 
 1.41 
GBP
 0.34 
 0.33 
OMR
 1.30 
 3.73 
Loan given to joint ventures/associates
RO
 20.00 
19.53
d) Foreign currency sensitivity
The Company is mainly exposed to changes in USD and EURO. The below table demostrates the sentivity to a 5% increase or decrease in the USD 
and EURO against INR, with all other variables held constant. The sentivity analysis is prepared on the the net unhedged exposure of the Company 
as at reporting date. 5% reprents management’s assessment of reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rate.	
	
	
(Indian ` in lacs)
 Particulars 
 Currency 
 Change in rate 
 Effect on profit 
before tax 
March 31, 2023
USD
+5%
 137.94 
USD
-5%
 (137.94)
March 31, 2022
USD
+5%
 615.70 
USD
-5%
 (615.70)
March 31, 2023
EURO
+5%
 162.89 
EURO
-5%
 (162.89)
March 31, 2022
EURO
+5%
 82.58 
EURO
-5%
 (82.58)
Note 34
Capital management
For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued capital and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity shareholders 
of the Group. The primary objective of the Group when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an 
optimal capital structure so as to maximize shareholder value. 
The Group's capital management objective is to maximise the total shareholder returns by optimising cost of capital through flexible capital structure 
that supports growth. Further, the Group attempts to ensure optimal credit risk profile to maintain/enhance credit rating.
The Group determines the amount of capital required on the basis of annual operating plan and long-term strategic plans. The funding requirements 
are met through internal accruals and long-term/short-term borrowings. The Group monitors the capital structure on the basis of net debt to equity 
ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio of the Group. 
The following table summarises the capital of the Group:
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
As at
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Total debt
 75,620.39 
 63,627.40 
Total equity
 66,469.88 
 52,123.15 
Total debt to equity ratio
 1.14 
 1.22 
Note 35
Capital and Other Commitments
(Indian ` in lacs )
 
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Estimated value of contracts remaining to be executed 
 1,278.43 
 120.78
178
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 36
Contingent Liabilities
(Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Guarantees given to various government authorities and others
 33,140.38 
 26,706.22 
2
In respect of disputed excise duty
 2,993.81 
 2,993.81 
3
In respect of disputed income tax matters
 6,784.43 
 6,295.38 
4
In respect of disputed VAT and Service Tax matters
 - 
 278.37 
5
Shipping claims against the Company not ackowledged as debt
 6,194.17 
 6,038.01 
6
Other claims against the Company not ackowledged as debt
 4,812.51 
 4,553.85 
7
In respect of other matters
 18.68 
 18.68 
8
Some retrenched employees of the company have filed suits against the company in the labour 
court for compensation and reinstatement. The liability in respect of this, in the opinion of the 
management, is unascertainable.
 - 
 - 
Total...
 53,943.98 
 46,884.32 
The amounts disclosed above represent the best possible estimates arrives at on the basis of available information.
Note 37
Employee benefits
Funded Scheme - Gratuity
Liability for employee gratuity has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in confirmity with the principles set out in the Indian 
Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder. The Group makes contributions to approved gratuity fund.
(Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
Amount recognised in balance sheet
  Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
 1,761.82 
 1,645.15 
  Fair value of plan assets
 1,548.40 
 1,374.83 
Net unfunded obligation/(surplus assets)
 213.42 
 270.32 
Expense recognised in the statement of profit and loss
  Current service cost
90.89
94.52
   Interest on net defined benefit asset
 19.92 
 13.88 
Total expense charged to profit and loss Account
110.81
108.40
 Amount recorded as other comprehensive income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside profit & loss Account
 339.18 
 420.29 
Remeasurements during the period due to:
 - 
 - 
   Changes in financial assumptions
 (46.91)
 (78.15)
   Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets
 (6.13)
 (2.96)
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside profit & loss account
 286.14 
 339.18 
Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)
 270.32 
 190.76 
  Expense charged to profit and loss account
 110.81 
 108.40 
  Amount recognised outside profit and loss account
 53.04 
 81.11 
  Net liability transfer out - (net)
 5.86 
 21.36 
  Employer contributions
 (226.61)
 (131.31)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)
 213.42 
 270.32 
179
Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation
1,645.15
1,484.05
  Current service cost
90.89
94.52
  Interest on defined benefit obligation
118.95
101.80
  Acturial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions  
 (0.81)
 12.43 
  Benefits paid from the fund
 (140.99)
 (132.31)
  Net liabilities transfer out (net)
 0.89 
 - 
  Acturial loss/(gain) on obligation
 47.74 
 84.66 
Closing of defined benefit obligation
1,761.82
 1,645.15 
Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets
 1,374.83 
 1,293.29 
  Prior period - change in limit
 0.21 
 (0.48)
  Return on plan assets excluding interest income
 (6.13)
 (4.90)
  Interest income (net)
 99.03 
 87.92 
  Contributions by employer
 226.61 
 131.31 
  Net liabilities transfer out (net)
 (5.16)
 - 
  Benefits paid
 (140.99)
 (132.31)
Closing of defined benefit obligation
 1,548.40 
1,374.83
Principal acturial assumptions
Discount Rate
7.52
7.23
Salary escalation rate p.a.
7.52
7.23
Future salary increase
5.00
5.00
Rate of employee turnover
4.00
4.00
Sensitivity analysis for significat assumption is as shown below:
No.
Particulars
Sensitivity level
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Discount Rate
1% Increase
 (86.29)
 (98.22)
1% Decrease
 96.25 
 109.96 
2
Salary 
1% Increase
 97.70 
 111.31 
1% Decrease
 (89.05)
 (101.09)
3
Employee Turnover
1% Increase
 14.49 
 14.86 
1% Decrease
 (15.89)
 (16.35)
The following are the expected future benefit payments for the defined benefit plan:
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 378.78 
 308.59 
2
Between 2 and 5 years
 573.91 
 551.62 
3
Beyond 5 years
 1,927.96 
 1,852.30 
Note 38
Disclosure under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 are provided as under for the year 2022-23, to the 
extent the Company has received intimation from the Suppliers regarding their status under the Act.	
	
	
	
(Indian ` in lacs )
No.
Particulars
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
 
Principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to each supplier at the end of 
each accounting year (but within due date as per MSMED Act)
1
   Principal amount due to micro and small enterprise 
627.66
2
   Interest due on above 
    - 
    - 
180
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 39
As per Ind AS 24, Disclosure of transactions with related parties (as identified by the management) as defined in Ind AS 24 are given 
below:
Sr     
No.
Particulars
Country of 
incorporation
(i) Joint ventures and associates
Refer note no. 1.2(c) 
(ii) Entities controlled/significantly influenced by directors
1
Aeon Procare Private Limited
India
2
Aeonx Digital Solutions Private Limited
India
3
Altage Stone Crushing Industries1
India
4
Ambica Logistics Private Limited 
India
5
Artha Minerals Resources 
India
6
Ashapura Exports Pvt Limited
India
7
Ashapura Foundation
India
8
Ashapura Overeas Private Limited
India
9
Ashok Alco-chem Limited
India
10
Bharat Abrasives & Chemicals Industries
India
11
Chetan N Shah - HUF 
India
12
Kutch Navniraman Trust
India
13
Manico Minerals International Private Limited 
India
14
Manico Resources Private Limited
India
15
Minologistic Corporation
India
16
Minoraj Logistics LLP
India
17
Minotech Resources LLP
India
18
Minotrans Logistic Corporation
India
19
Prabhudas Vithaldas
India
20
Sharda Industrial Corporation
India
 
(iii) Key managerial personnel
21
Mr. Chetan Shah 
Excecutive Chairman
22
Mr. Hemul Shah
Executive Director & CEO
23
Ms. Geeta Nerurkar
Whole Time Director & CEO
24
Mr. Harish Motiwala
Independent Director
25
Ms. Himani Shah
Non Independent Director
26
Mr. Manan Shah
Non Independent Director
27
Mr. Ashok Kadakia1
Independent Director
28
Mr. Abhilash Munsif
Independent Director
29
Mr. Pundrik Sanyal
Independent Director
30
Ms. Neeta Shah
Independent Director
31
Mr. Sudhir Godabole 
Director 
32
Mr. Ibrahim Bald2
Director 
33
Mr. Sachin Polke
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
34
Mr. Ashish Desai
Chief Financial Officer 
35
Mr. Sandeep Deshpande3
Group Head - Human Resources and Administration
36
Mr. Akhilesh  Kumar Sinha4
Vice President - Human Resources
37
Ms. Dina Shah
Relative of a key managerial personnel
38
Ms. Chaitali Salot 
Relative of a key managerial personnel
1upto 12th August, 2021
2upto 15th December, 2022
3w.e.f. 25th June, 2021
4upto 9th July, 2021
181
(Indian ` in lacs )
Nature of transaction
Relationship
Year ended
Year ended
31st March 2023
31st March 2022
1. Sales of materials
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
1,059.64
1,860.41
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
  67.25 
 670.56 
  Ashok Alco-chem Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  56.03 
 - 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
 190.08 
    0.97 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
   8,277.20 
   3,569.92 
 Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  57.40 
  83.40 
 Aeon Procare Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  14.56 
    0.58 
 Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 - 
  48.20 
 Artha Minerals Resources 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  11.71 
 - 
  Ashapura Midgulf NV
Joint Venture
 - 
 872.98 
Total…
   9,733.87 
   7,107.02 
2. Sale of property, plant and equipment
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
  36.82 
   3,288.48 
  Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
 - 
  42.34 
Total…
  36.82 
   3,330.82 
3. Purchase of materials
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
   2,644.50 
   1,848.32 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
   3,276.56 
 713.22 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
   2,866.17 
   1,222.06 
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
   1,316.22 
 762.38 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 389.83 
 220.78 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
   2,662.86 
   1,024.76 
  Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
 - 
 262.81 
  Mino Trans Logistics Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 - 
 239.24 
  Manico Minerals International Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    0.92 
 - 
  Minoraj Logistics LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 - 
    3.40 
Total…
 13,157.06 
   6,296.97 
4. Interest received
 Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
 201.80 
 117.65 
5. Reimbursement of administrative expenses received/(paid)
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    0.33 
  (0.07)
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
   - 
    5.59 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
  16.29 
 - 
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
    0.89 
    4.18 
 Artha Minerals Resources 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.50 
 - 
  Ashok Alco-chem Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    0.23 
  (26.91)
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
  95.09 
 100.79 
Total…
 114.33 
  83.58 
182
Ashapura Minechem Limited
6.  Rent received
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
2.10
2.40
  Bharat Abrasives & Chemicals Industries
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
0.30
 - 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
    9.00 
    4.79 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
13.84
12.00
Total…
25.24
19.19
7. R & D charges receipts
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
 350.00 
 175.00 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
100.00
 - 
Total…
 450.00 
 175.00 
8. Dividend received
 Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
 134.50 
 134.50 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
  57.00 
  57.00 
Total…
 191.50 
 191.50 
9. Donations/Corporate Social Responsibility
  Ashapura Foundation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  63.76 
 264.19 
  Kutch Navmiraman Trust
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
   - 
 126.00 
Total…
  63.76 
390.19
10. Purchase of property, plant and equipment
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 - 
 342.69 
  Minotrans Logistics Corporation 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  22.00 
 - 
 Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
  26.00 
   - 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.57 
 - 
 Prabhudas Vithaldas
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.30 
 - 
Total…
  50.87 
 342.69 
11. Royalty 
 Chetan N Shah - HUF
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
137.53
244.87
12. Guarantee Commission Receipts
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
  32.00 
  32.00 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
    3.73 
   - 
Total…
  35.73 
  32.00 
13. Stores, Spares & Packing Materials Purchases 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
    0.58 
 - 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
    8.95 
  51.06 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  72.18 
 270.86 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
    8.64 
    7.34 
Total…
  90.35 
 329.26 
14. Rent paid 
 Ashapura Exports Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.00 
    0.25 
 Manico Minerals International Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    0.50 
   - 
Total…
    1.50 
    0.25 
183
15. Jobwork charges 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
   1,354.30 
   - 
16. Interest paid
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 168.50 
 168.00 
17. Software maintenance expenses
  Aeonx Digital Solution Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 188.97 
 161.88 
18. Other selling expenes
 Ambica Logistics Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    8.25 
  50.96 
  Aeonx Digital Solution Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  60.50 
   - 
Total…
  68.75 
  50.96 
19. Loan received
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 700.00 
 100.00 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
   1,800.00 
   - 
Total…
   2,500.00 
 100.00 
20. Loan repaid 
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 225.00 
   - 
 Ashapura Arcadia Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  15.00 
   - 
Total…
 240.00 
   - 
Outstanding Balances:
1. Trade receivables
  Ashapura Exports Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
385.40
385.76
  Ashapura Overseas Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
833.55
820.58
  Manico Resources Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
8.33
2.50
  Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
  50.58 
  47.11 
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
17.60
1.46
  Aeon Procare Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    2.80 
 - 
  Artha Minerals Resources 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  15.15 
 - 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 104.80 
 221.32 
  Minologistics Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 - 
  23.00 
  Minotrans Logistics Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  34.64 
  14.42 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
  24.27 
 221.55 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
354.35
356.11
Total…
1,831.47
2,093.81
2. Security Deposit
  Sharda Industrial Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
45.00
45.00
184
Ashapura Minechem Limited
3. Trade Payables
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
 955.60 
   2,070.67 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
 428.67 
  34.67 
  Minotech Resources LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 722.58 
 244.91 
 Chetan N Shah - HUF
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
1.50
97.75
  Minraj Logistics LLP
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 - 
    0.10 
  Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
   - 
 282.98 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
   3,030.23 
   1,120.96 
 Manico Minerals International Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  21.45 
 - 
 Prabhudas Vithaldas
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.30 
 - 
 Aeonx Digital Solutions Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  26.30 
   - 
 Ashapura Exports Private Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.18 
   - 
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
   1,629.67 
 960.71 
  APL Valueclay Private Limited
Joint Venture
 525.59 
   2,499.98 
Total…
   7,344.07 
   7,312.73 
4. Advances from customers
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
   1,594.04 
   1,397.96 
  Orient Abrasives Limited
Associate
   - 
 467.14 
  Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
Associate
 - 
  30.16 
Total…
   1,594.04 
   1,895.26 
5.Trade Advances
  Minotrans Logistics Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
   - 
 117.04 
  Manico Resources Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
   - 
52.32
  Altage Stone Crushing Industries
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
450.20
448.16
 Artha Minerals Resources
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
    1.45 
 - 
 Aeon Procare Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
   - 
    0.12 
 Ambica Logistics Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
107.73
  35.93 
  Minologistics Corporation
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
61.74
46.74
Total…
621.12
700.31
6. Loans given
 Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
   2,772.90 
   2,799.73 
7. Loans payable
 Ashok Alco-chem Limited 
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
 700.00 
   1,300.00 
Ashapura Arcadia Logistics Private Limited
Entity controlled/significantly 
influenced by directors
  85.02 
 100.00 
  Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
Joint Venture
   1,800.00 
   - 
Total…
2,585.02
1,400.00
8. Interest receivables 
 Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Joint Venture
 676.86 
 454.91 
Key managerial personnel and relatives :
1. Remuneration
Mr. Chetan Shah 
Executive Chairman 
89.98
  84.00 
Mr. Hemul Shah
Whole Time Director & CEO
65.87
54.33
185
Ms. Geeta Nerulakar
Whole Time Director & CEO
74.55
73.04
Mr. Sudhir Godabole 
Director 
64.90
46.74
Mr. Ibrahim Bald
Director 
14.27
16.91
Others
162.77
149.46
Total…
472.34
424.48
2. Sitting fees
Mr. Chetan Shah
Non-Executive Chairman
2.75
    2.50 
Mr. Harish Motiwala
Independent director
6.75
6.00
Mr. Ashok Kadakia
Independent director
1.00
5.00
Mr. Abhilash Munsif
Independent director
7.75
7.00
Mr. Hemul Shah
Independent director
4.00
5.00
Ms. Geeta Nerurkar
Independent director
1.00
1.00
Mr. Pundrik Sanyal
Independent director
7.75
6.00
Ms. Himani Shah
Non-Independent director
2.00
    2.00 
Ms. Neeta Sunil Shah 
Independent director
    1.50 
    1.50 
Total…
34.50
36.00
3. Reimbursement of expenses paid 
Mr. Ashish Desai
Chief Financial Officer
    5.35 
    8.95 
Mr. Akhileshkumar Sinha
Vice President - HR
   - 
    2.45 
Mr. Sachin Polke
Company Secretary & 
President (Corporate Affairs)
    5.35 
    8.95 
Mr. Hemul Shah
Whole Time Director & CEO
6.19
  10.39 
Mr. Sandeep Deshpande
Group Head - Human 
Resources and 
Administration
4.14
    1.44 
 Mr. Sudhir Godabole 
Director 
3.19
    3.19 
Total…
  24.22 
  35.37 
4. Rent paid 
Mr. Chetan Shah 
Executive Chairman 
0.30
    0.30 
5. Guarantee Commission 
Mr. Chetan Shah 
Executive Chairman 
2.50
   - 
Mr. Manan Shah 
Non-Independent Director
2.50
   - 
Total…
    5.00 
-
Outstanding Balances:
1. Security deposits
Mr. Chetan Shah
Non-Executive Chairman
5.00
5.00
2. Trade payables 
Mr. Chetan Shah 
Executive Chairman 
2.67
   - 
Mr. Manan Shah 
Non-Independent Director
2.82
   - 
Total…
  5.49 
-
186
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Note 40
Disclosure in terms of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
(Indian ` in lacs)
Particulars
Net Assets
Share in Profit or (Loss)
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
As a % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
 
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
other
comprehen-
sive 
income
 
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
total
comprehen-
sive 
income
 
Amount
As at 31st March 2023
2022-2023
2022-2023
2022-2023
Parent Company
Ashapura Minechem Limited
 5.21 
  3,460.13 
    (5.99)
  (701.12)
  (0.34)
  (7.70)
 (5.08)
  (708.82)
Subsidiaries:
Indian
Ashapura Aluminum Limited
 0.03 
 22.20 
    (0.06)
   (7.24)
  - 
   - 
 (0.05)
    (7.24)
Ashapura Claytech Limited
 0.03 
 18.49 
    (0.68)
 (79.23)
  (0.07)
  (1.54)
 (0.58)
  (80.77)
Ashapura Consultancy Service Private 
Limited
    (0.22)
 (148.37)
 0.04 
 4.30 
  - 
   - 
  0.03 
 4.30 
Ashapura International Limited
    37.51    24,930.57 
    31.98 
 3,741.91 
  (0.80)
  (18.00)
    26.70 
  3,723.91 
Bombay Minerals Limited
    16.10    10,700.20 
 3.64 
  425.44 
  (0.64)
  (14.40)
  2.95 
 411.04 
Peninsula Property Developers Private 
Limited
 0.01 
   5.91 
 0.02 
 2.63 
  - 
   - 
  0.02 
 2.63 
Prashansha Ceramics Limited
    (0.11)
 (74.08)
    (0.18)
 (21.45)
  - 
   - 
 (0.15)
  (21.45)
Sharda Consultancy Private Limited
    (0.11)
 (76.11)
 0.05 
 6.34 
  - 
   - 
  0.05 
 6.34 
Ashapura Resouces Private Limited
 0.00 
   0.06 
    (0.01)
   (0.74)
  - 
   - 
 (0.01)
    (0.74)
Foreign
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
    29.89    19,864.58 
    45.09 
 5,275.86 
  - 
   - 
    37.82 
  5,275.86 
Ashapura Holdings Farest Pte Ltd
 2.26 
  1,501.62 
    10.70 
 1,251.43 
  - 
   - 
  8.97 
  1,251.43 
Ashapura Guniea Resources SARLU
    (8.07)
 (5,361.77)
    (2.97)
  (347.38)
  - 
   - 
 (2.49)
  (347.38)
Ashapura Minex Resources SAU
    (1.80)
 (1,196.12)
    (2.71)
  (316.88)
  - 
   - 
 (2.27)
  (316.88)
Societe Guineenne des Mines defer
    (6.49)
 (4,316.85)
  (28.82)   (3,371.64)
  - 
   - 
   (24.17)    (3,371.64)
FAKO Resources SARL
    (0.02)
 (16.31)
 2.13 
  248.64 
  - 
   - 
  1.78 
 248.64 
Ashapura Boffa Bauxite SAU
 7.10 
  4,719.67 
    44.22 
 5,173.81 
  - 
   - 
    37.09 
  5,173.81 
Ashapura Global Infratech SARLU
 0.19 
 125.27 
    (0.27)
 (31.10)
  - 
   - 
 (0.22)
  (31.10)
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
    (0.46)
 (305.13)
    (1.64)
  (192.35)
  - 
   - 
 (1.38)
  (192.35)
PT Ashapura Bentoclay Farest
    (0.35)
 (234.24)
    (0.32)
 (37.12)
  - 
   - 
 (0.27)
  (37.12)
Ashapura Midgulf NV
 1.43 
 948.84 
    (2.54)
  (297.15)
  - 
   - 
 (2.13)
  (297.15)
Ashapura Farest MPA Sdn Bhd
 2.79 
  1,857.57 
    (0.11)
 (12.65)
  - 
   - 
 (0.09)
  (12.65)
Joint Ventures:
Indian
Ashapura Perfoclay Limited
    22.41    14,895.38 
    13.30 
 1,556.11 
  (0.16)
  (3.52)
    11.13 
  1,552.59 
APL Valueclay Private Limited
 0.62 
 409.13 
 2.13 
  249.63 
   0.04 
    0.98 
  1.80 
 250.61 
Foreign
Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
   - 
   - 
    (3.86)
  (451.88)
  - 
   - 
 (3.24)
  (451.88)
Associates:
Indian
Ashapura Arcadia Logistic Private Limited
   - 
   - 
   - 
 - 
  - 
   - 
   - 
   - 
Shantilal Multiport Private Limited
 0.08 
 54.97 
    (0.18)
 (21.58)
  - 
   - 
 (0.15)
  (21.58)
Orient Abrasives Limited
    20.18    13,413.55 
 3.27 
  382.92 
   0.46 
 10.44 
  2.82 
 393.36 
Orient Advanced Materials Private Limited
 0.08 
 50.32 
 0.46 
  54.25 
   0.06 
    1.35 
  0.40 
    55.60 
Foreign
Orient Advanced Materials FZE*
    (0.00)
  (1.52)
    (0.03)
   (3.85)
  - 
   - 
 (0.03)
    (3.85)
Non-controlling Interest 
Ashapura Claytech Limited
 0.00 
   0.10 
    (0.00)
   (0.45)
  - 
   - 
 (0.00)
    (0.45)
FAKO Resources SARL
 0.01 
   4.62 
 0.21 
  24.86 
  - 
   - 
  0.18 
    24.86 
Societe Guineenne des Mines defer
    (1.01)
 (674.33)
    (5.76)
  (674.33)
  - 
   - 
 (4.83)
  (674.33)
Ashapura Minex Resources SAU
    (0.10)
 (63.38)
    (0.54)
 (63.38)
  - 
   - 
 (0.45)
  (63.38)
Ashapura Global Infratech SARLU
    (0.02)
 (13.99)
    (0.12)
 (13.99)
  - 
   - 
 (0.10)
  (13.99)
Foreign currency traslation reserve/Others
   - 
   - 
  - 
   - 
   - 
Total eliminations
  (27.13)  (18,031.11)
    (0.44)
 (51.98)
    101.44    2,281.12 
    15.98 
  2,229.14 
Total...
 100.00    66,469.88 
 100.00  11,700.64 
    100.00    2,248.73 
  100.00    13,949.37 
* w.e.f. 5th December, 2022
187
42.	
Pursuant to the approval of the members, the Parent Company has, on 14th February, 2023 issued 40,40,000 equity share warrants on 
preferential basis to the promoters @ ` 95.96 per warrant. Each warrant will be converted into one equity share of the Parent Company within 
a period of eighteen months from the date of the issue.
43.	
The Parent Company has waived its entitlement to dividend from the dividend declared and paid by one of its overseas subsidiaries. 
44.	
As on 31st March, 2023, the Parent Company’s certain assets aggregating to ` 943.85 lacs are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the 
criteria laid out under Ind AS 105 and its value has been measured at the lower of its carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. Breakup of 
the assets is as under:
Particulars 
As on 31st March, 2023
(` in lacs)
Land
61.32
Building
658.39
Plant and Machinery
212.01
Furniture & Fixtures/Office Equipment
12.13
Total
943.85
45.	
Balances for trade payables, trade receivables, for loans and advances are subject to confirmations from the respective parties and reconciliations, 
if any, in many cases. In absence of such confirmations, the balances as per books have been relied upon by the auditors.
41. Additional Regulatory Information	
Additional Regulatory Information pursuant to clause 6L of General Instructions for preparation of Balance Sheet as given in Part I of Division II of 
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the Parent Company and subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates incorporated in India, are 
given hereunder to the extent relevant and other than those given elsewhere in any other notes to the financial Statement.	
	
	
a.	
The title in respect of all immovable properties (other than properties where the Group is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed 
in favour of the lessee), disclosed in the financial statements included under Property, Plant and Equipment are held in the name of the Group 
as at the balance sheet date.
	
b.	
The Group do not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been intiated or pending against the Group for holding any Benami 
property.
	
c.	
The Group have not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
	
d.	
The Group have not been declared as a willful defaulter by any lender who has powers to declare a the group as a willful defaulter at any time 
during the financial year or after the end of reporting period but before the date when the financial statements are approved.
	
e.	
Based on the information furnished to us, the Group do not have any transactions with struck-off companies. 
	
f.	
The Group do not have any transactions which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed as income during 
the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 ( such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961).
	
g.	
The Group have compiled with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Companies Act 2013 read with Companies 
(Restrictions on number of Layers) Rules, 2017. 
	
h.	
The Group have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(is), including foreign entities(intermediaries), with the 
understanding that the intermediary shall;
	
          i. Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries), or
	
        ii. Provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
i	
The Group have not received any funds from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the understanding 
(whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall;  
	
        i. Directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(Ultimate beneficiaries), or
	
       ii. Provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
	
j.	
The Group have used the borrowings from financial institutions and others for the specific purpose for which it was obtained.
	
k.	
Quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by the Group with banks or financial institutions are generallly in aggrement with the books 
of accunts, to the extent applicable.
	
l.	
The Group do not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies (ROC) beyond the statutory 
period, to the extent applicable.
188
Ashapura Minechem Limited
46.	
Certain immovable and movable assets of the Parent Company at Kutch, Gujarat as well as Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, are under charge by 
way of mortgage/hypothecation with Bank of India pending settlement of one claim.
47.	
Figures pertaining to the subsidiary companies have been reclassified whenever necessary to bring them in line with the Parent Company’s 
financial statements.
48.	
All the amounts have been stated in Indian ` in lacs, unless otherwise stated.
49.	
Previous year’s figures has regrouped and rearranged, wherever necessary.
Signatures to Notes No. 1 to 49
As per our report of even date	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For P A R K & COMPANY	
          Sd/-	
         Sd/-
Chartered Accountants	
CHETAN SHAH	
HEMUL SHAH 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Executive Chairman	
Executive Director & Chief Executive officer
	
	
	
DIN : 00018960	
DIN : 00058558
            Sd/-	
	
         Sd/-	
           Sd/-
PRASHANT VORA	
ASHISH DESAI	
SACHIN POLKE	
Partner	
	
Chief Financial Officer	
Company Secretary & President (Corporate Affairs)
Mumbai	
	
Mumbai
May 25, 2023	
	
May 25, 2023
189
NOTES
190
Ashapura Minechem Limited
FORM AOC – I 
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 
STATEMENT CONTAINING SALIENT FEATURES OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
USD 1 = Rs. 82.18 (As on 31/03/2023) (rounded off to the nearest Rupee) Items belong to balance sheet	
	
	
	
	
USD 1 = Rs. 78.99 (As on 31/03/2023) (rounded off to the nearest Rupee) Items belong to Profit & Loss	
	
	
	
RM 1 =Rs. 18.56 (As on 31/03/2023) (rounded off to the nearest Rupee) Items belong to balance sheet	
	
	
	
RM 1 =Rs. 18.31 (As on 31/03/2023) (rounded off to the nearest Rupee) Items belong to Profit & Loss	
	
	
	
EURO 1 = Rs. 89.33 (As on 31/03/2023) (rounded off to the nearest Rupee)Items belong to balance sheet	 	
	
	
EURO 1 = Rs. 86.77 (As on 31/03/2023) (rounded off to the nearest Rupee)Items belong to Profit & Loss	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Details of Investment by the Company’s Subsidiaries:
S.N.
Name of the Subsidiary Company
Particulars of Investment
Nature of Investment
1
Bombay Minerals Ltd.
Prashansha Ceramics Ltd.
Eq. Shares
2
Bombay Minerals Ltd.
Orient Abrasives Limited
Eq. Shares
3
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
Shares
4
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
Shares
5
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
PT Ashapura Bantoclay Fareast
Shares
6
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
Ashapura Holding Fareast Pte Ltd.
Shares
7
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
Ashapura Dhofar Resources LLC
Shares
8
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
Ashapura Fareast SDN BHD
Shares
9
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
Ashapura Midgulf NV
Shares
S.N.
Name of the Subsidiary Cos.
The date 
since when 
subsidiary 
was acquired 
(date on which 
entity become 
subsidiary)
Reporting 
period for the 
subsidiary 
concerned, if 
different from 
the holding 
company’s 
reporting 
period
Reporting 
Currency and 
Exchange Rate 
as on last date 
of relevant 
Financial 
Year (Foreign 
Subsidiaries)
Share Capital
Reserves & 
Surplus
1
Ashapura International Ltd.
02.10.1992
Uniform
INR
300.00
 24,630.57 
2
Ashapura Claytech Ltd.
27.11.1998
Uniform
INR
357.99
 (339.50)
3
Bombay Minerals Ltd.
25.09.2001
Uniform
INR
21.81
 10,678.39 
4
Prashansha Ceramics Ltd.
12.08.2002
Uniform
INR
145.00
 (219.08)
5
Penisula Property Developers Pvt. Ltd.
16.12.1998
Uniform
INR
1.00
 4.91 
6
Sharda Consultancy Pvt. Ltd.
16.12.1998
Uniform
INR
1.00
 (77.11)
7
Ashapura Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd.
16.12.1998
Uniform
INR
1.00
 (149.37)
8
Ashapura Aluminium Ltd.
14.08.2007
Uniform
INR
5.00
 17.20 
9
Ashapura Resources Pvt. Ltd.
30.11.2017
Uniform
INR
1.00
 (0.94)
10
Ashapura Minechem (UAE) FZE
18.07.2004
Uniform
USD
 2,283.53 
 (2,588.66)
11
Ashapura Holdings (UAE) FZE
02.05.2007
Uniform
USD
671.77
 19,192.81 
12
Ashapura Guinea Resources SARL
06.12.2019
Uniform
USD
6.04
 (5,367.81)
13
PT Ashapura Bentoclay Fareast
22.05.2017
Uniform
USD
147.18
 (381.42)
14
Ashapura Holding Fareast Pte Ltd
22.07.2020
Uniform
USD
205.45
 1,296.17 
15
Ashapura Midgulf NV
04.05.2021
Uniform
EURO
 2,679.90 
 (1,731.06)
16
Ashapura Fareast SDN BHD
18.10.2021
31.12.2022
RM
 1,262.08 
 595.49 
191
read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
OF THE SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
(` in Lacs)
Face Value 
No. of Shares
Amount                                       
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Rs. 10/-
7,50,000
75.00
Rs. 1/-
3,79,999,53
 10,726.46 
AED 1000
3000
671.77
GNF 100000
700
6.04
USD 1
2,50,000
147.18
USD 1
2,50,000
205.45
OMR 1
1,05,000
224.39
RM 1.43
68,00,000
1,925.88
Euro 1
30,00,000
 2,182.23
Total Assets
Total 
Liabilities
Investments
Turnover 
(includes 
Other 
Income)
Profit before 
taxation
 Provision for 
tax 
Profit after 
taxation
Proposed 
Dividend
% of Share-
holding
 46,182.38 
 21,251.81 
 0.86 
 50,831.68 
 5,187.43 
 1,445.52 
 3,741.91 
 - 
 100.00 
 409.29 
 390.80 
 - 
 65.02 
 (104.96)
 (25.73)
 (79.23)
 - 
 99.44 
 28,227.74 
 17,527.54 
 10,801.46 
 11,120.60 
 572.37 
 146.93 
 425.44 
 5.45 
 100.00 
 124.25 
 198.33 
 - 
 4.30 
 (21.45)
 - 
 (21.45)
 - 
 100.00 
 12.24 
 6.33 
 - 
 7.78 
 4.08 
 1.45 
 2.63 
 - 
 100.00 
 29.13 
 105.24 
 - 
 23.04 
 8.59 
 2.25 
 6.34 
 - 
 100.00 
 51.98 
 200.35 
 - 
 45.11 
 7.91 
 3.61 
 4.30 
 - 
 100.00 
 22.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7.24)
 - 
 (7.24)
 - 
 100.00 
 1.66 
 1.60 
 - 
 - 
 (0.70)
 0.04 
 (0.74)
 - 
 100.00 
 3,606.73 
 3,911.86 
 2,854.00 
-
(192.35)
 - 
(192.35)
 - 
 100.00 
 1,22,024.27 
 1,02,159.69 
 2,508.90 
 1,01,944.39 
 5,275.86 
 - 
 5,275.86 
 - 
 100.00 
 73,299.85 
 78,661.63 
 37.30 
 10,486.12 
 (347.38)
 - 
 (347.38)
 - 
 100.00 
 178.66 
 412.90 
 - 
 549.78 
(37.12)
 - 
(37.12)
 - 
 100.00 
 1,759.43 
 257.81 
 - 
 10,164.44 
1, 495.51 
 244.08 
1,251.43 
 - 
 100.00 
 15,406.26 
 14,457.42 
 - 
 14,426.78 
 (296.78)
 0.37 
 (297.15)
 - 
 100.00 
 2,794.16 
 936.58 
 - 
 2,115.96 
 (12.15)
 0.50 
 (12.65)
 - 
 100.00 
192
Ashapura Minechem Limited
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129(3) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 RELATED TO ASSOCIATE COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES
(` in Lacs)
Sl. 
No.
Name of Associates/
Joint Ventures
Latest au-
dited Bal-
ance Sheet 
Date 
Date on 
which the 
associate 
or joint 
venture 
was asso-
ciated or 
acquired
Shares of Associates/Joint Ventures 
held by the Company on the year end
Description of how there is 
significant influence
Reason why the Associate/
Joint Venture is not consol-
idated
Networth at-
tributable to 
sharehold-
ing as per 
latest audit-
ed Balance 
Sheet
Profit/(Loss) for the year
No. of 
Shares
Amount of 
Investment 
in Associ-
ate/Joint 
Venture
Extent of 
Holding %
Considered 
in Consoli-
dation
Not consid-
ered 
in Consoli-
dation
1
Ashapura Perfoclay Ltd.
31.03.2023
06.05.1998
8,966,590
896.66
50.00
By Board & Equity Holding
 -   
15,037.05
1,451.82
 - 
2
Orient Abrasives Ltd.#
31.03.2023
15.06.2017
37,999,953
10,726.46
31.76
By Equity Holding/  Voting Power 
 -   
8,221.30
401.02
 - 
3
Ashapura Arcadia Pvt. Ltd.
31.03.2023
28.09.2007
55,000
5.5
50.00
 Equity Holding
 -   
-229.02
0.00
 - 
4
Emo Ashapura Energy 
and Mining Ltd-Nigeria
-
-
6,720,000
-
48.00
By Equity Holding/  Voting Power 
The Investment in the said 
Company impaired during 
Financial Year 2011-12. 
0.00
0.00
 - 
5
APL Valueclay Pvt. Ltd.##
31.03.2023
30.12.2016
10,000
1.00
100.00
By Board & Equity Holding
 -   
409.13
248.65
 - 
6
Ashapura Dhofar 
Resources LLC*
31.03.2023
30.11.2017
105,000
197.89
70.00
By Board & Equity Holding
 -   
-1,791.98
-451.88
 - 
7
Shantilal Multiport 
Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.
31.03.2023
23.08.2021
849,975
91.38
50.00
By Board & Equity Holding
 - 
1,353.86
-21.58
 - 
Notes:-  
* The Shares held through Company’s step down Subsidiary Company Viz. Ashapura Holding (UAE) FZE.
# The Shares held through Company’s Subsidiary Company Viz. Bombay Minerals Limited.
## The Shares held through Company’s Joint Venture Company Viz. Ashapura Perfoclay Limited.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
	
Chetan Shah	
Hemul Shah	
Sachin Polke 	
Ashish Desai
	
Chairman (Executive)	
Executive Director &	
Company Secretary &	
Chief Financial officer	
	
	
	
	
Chief Executive Officer 	
President (Corporate Affairs)  
Place : Mumbai 	
	
Date : 10th August, 2023
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
