August 9, 2023
The Secretary
BSE Limited
Pheeroze Jeejeebhoy Towers 
Dalal Street, Fort,
Mumbai 400 001
Scrip Code: 531595
The Secretary
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor,
Plot No.- ‘C’ Block, G Block
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai – 400 051
Scrip Code: CGCL
Sub: Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23 including Notice of the 29th Annual General Meeting
pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Dear Sir / Madam,
We wish to inform that the 29th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Capri Global Capital Limited (“the
Company”) will be held on Friday, September 1, 2023, at 4:00 P.M. through Video Conferencing / Other Audio-
Visual Means facility (“VC/OAVM”).
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015,
please find enclosed herewith the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2022-23 along with the Notice of 29th
AGM of the Company.
The aforesaid documents can be downloaded from the Company’s website at:
Documents
Link
Notice of 29th AGM
https://cgcdn.capriloans.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/09135507/Capri-
Global_Notice-Aug-9.pdf
Annual Report FY
2022-2023
https://cgcdn.capriloans.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/09133527/Annual-
Report_2022-23.pdf
Due to some typo error in the earlier submission, we are making a revised submission.
You are requested to kindly take same on record.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully,
for Capri Global Capital Limited
Yashesh Bhatt
Company Secretary
Membership No.: A20491
Capri Global Capital Limited 
(CIN: L65921 MH 1994PLC 173469) 
r- ~PRI 
'-./~OANS 
502, Tower -A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Ba pat Marg, Lower Pare I, Mumbai, Maharashtra -400013 
+9122 4088 8100/4354 8200 I contact@capriglobal.in I www.capriloans.in 
YASHESH 
PANKAJ 
BHATT
Digitally signed 
by YASHESH 
PANKAJ BHATT 
Date: 2023.08.09 
19:55:07 +05'30'
Annual Report 2022-23
1
Notice
NOTICE is hereby given that the 29th Annual General Meeting 
(“29th AGM”) of Capri Global Capital Limited will be held on 
Friday, September 1, 2023 at 4:00 P.M (IST) through Video 
Conferencing / Other Audio Visual Means (“VC” / “OAVM”) 
Facility to transact the following business(es):
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
	
a.	
the Audited Financial Statements of the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 
including Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2023, 
the Statement of Profit and Loss and Cash Flow 
Statement for the year ended on that date and 
the Report of the Board of Directors and Auditors 
thereon; and
	
b.	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company for the financial year ended March 
31, 2023 including Balance Sheet as at March 31, 
2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss and Cash 
Flow Statement for the year ended on that date 
and the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.	
To declare Dividend on Equity Shares of the Company 
for the Financial Year 2022-23.
3.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Rajesh Sharma 
(DIN: 00020037), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4.	
Borrowing in excess of Paid-up Capital & Free 
reserves
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT in supersession of the resolution 
passed by the shareholders at the 25th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on August 02, 2019 
and pursuant to Section 180(1)(c) and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act 2013 (‘the Act’), 
or any statutory modification or reenactment thereof, 
the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter 
CAPRI GLOBAL CAPITAL LIMITED
(CIN: L65921MH1994PLC173469)
Regd. Office: 502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013, Maharashtra (India)
Email: secretarial@capriglobal.in, Website: www.capriloans.in
Tel. No.: +91-22-40888100 Fax No.: +91-22-40888160
NOTICE OF THE 29TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
referred to as the “Board” and shall include duly 
constituted Committee(s) thereof, to exercise powers 
conferred by this resolution) is hereby authorised to 
borrow from time to time as it may think fit, by way 
of loans or any other financial facilities from, or issue 
of bonds, debentures or other securities whether 
convertible into equity/ preference shares and/or 
securities with or without detachable warrants with a 
right exercisable by the warrant holder(s) to convert 
or subscribe for equity/ preference shares to, bank(s), 
financial or other institution(s), mutual fund(s), non-
resident Indians, foreign institutional investors or any 
other person(s), body(ies) corporate, etc., whether 
shareholder of the Company or not, whether unsecured 
or secured and on such terms and conditions as 
the Board may deem fit, any sum or sums of monies 
which together with the monies already borrowed by 
the Company (apart from temporary loans obtained 
or to be obtained from the Company’s bankers in the 
ordinary course of business) may exceed the aggregate 
of the paid-up share capital of the Company and its 
free reserves, that is to say, reserves not set apart for 
any specific purpose, provided that the total amount so 
borrowed by the Board shall not at any time exceed the 
limit of `10,000 Crores (Rupees Ten Thousand Crores)
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company be and is hereby authorised to arrange 
or fix the terms and conditions of all such borrowings, 
from time to time, viz. terms as to interest, repayment, 
security or otherwise as it may deem fit and to do all 
such acts, deeds, matters and things and to sign all 
such agreements, documents, papers and writings as 
may be deemed necessary, expedient and incidental 
thereto and to delegate all or any of its powers herein 
conferred to any Committee of Directors and/or 
director(s) and/ or officer(s) of the Company, to give 
effect to this resolution
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT all actions taken by 
the Board in connection with any matter referred to 
or contemplated in any of the foregoing resolutions 
are 
hereby 
approved, 
ratified 
and 
confirmed 
in all respects.”
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
2
Capri Global Capital Limited
5.	
Mortgage / Create charge on the assets of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT in supersession of the resolution 
passed by the shareholders at the 25th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on August 02, 2019 and 
pursuant to Section 180 (1) (a) and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act 2013 (“the 
Act”), or any statutory modification or re-enactment 
thereof, consent of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company or 
any Committee thereof as may be authorized by the 
Board of Directors for mortgaging and/or charging 
in such form and manner and on such terms and at 
such time(s) as the Board of Directors may deem 
fit, the movable and / or immovable properties of 
the Company, wherever situate, present and future, 
whether presently belonging to the Company or not, 
in favour of any person including, but not limited to, 
financial/investment institution(s), bank(s), insurance 
company(ies), mutual fund(s), corporate body(ies), 
trustee(s) to secure the debentures, loans or finance 
and other credit facilities availed by the Company up 
to a sum not exceeding `10,000 Crores (Rupees Ten 
Thousand Crores).
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
or any Committee thereof as may be authorized by 
the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorized 
to finalise the form, extent and manner of, and the 
documents and deeds, as may be applicable, for 
creating the appropriate mortgages and/or charges 
on such of the immovable and/or movable properties 
of the Company on such terms and conditions as may 
be decided by the Board of Directors for reserving 
the aforesaid right and for performing all such acts 
and things as may be necessary for giving effect to 
this resolution.”
6.	
To consider Conversion of Loan into Equity
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT in supersession of the resolution 
passed by the shareholders at the 26th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on July 31, 2020 
and pursuant to section 62(3) and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re enactment thereof, 
for the time being in force) and the applicable Rules 
made there under (“Act”), and the enabling provisions 
of the Memorandum of Association and Articles of 
Association of the Company, the provisions of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, as 
amended from time to time, (‘SEBI ICDR Regulation’), 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’), Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999, (‘FEMA’) as amended and rules and regulations 
framed there under as in force and in accordance with 
other applicable policies, rules, regulation, circulars, 
notifications, clarifications and guidelines thereon 
issued from time to time by the Government of India, 
the Securities Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’), the 
Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’), the Registrar of Companies 
(‘ROC’) and the Stock Exchange where the shares of 
the Company are listed (‘Stock Exchange’) and subject 
to requisite approvals, consents, permissions, and/ or 
sanctions, from RBI, SEBI, Stock Exchange and any 
other appropriate authorities to the extent applicable 
and subject to such conditions and modifications as 
may be prescribed, stipulated or imposed by any of 
them while granting any such approvals, consents, 
permission, and / or sanctions, which may be agreed to 
by the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘Board’, which term shall be deemed 
to include any Committee which the Board may have 
constituted or may hereinafter constitute to exercise 
its powers including the powers conferred hereunder), 
and subject to any other alterations, modifications, 
conditions, corrections, changes and variations that 
may be decided by the Board in its absolute discretion, 
the consent of the Company be and is hereby accorded 
to the Board, in respect of financial assistance availed 
and/or to be availed and/or continued to be availed 
from various banks and financial institutions (hereinafter 
collectively referred to as the “Lenders”) on the terms 
and conditions contained in the financing documents, 
such terms and conditions to provide, inter alia, to 
convert the whole or part of the outstanding loans 
of the Company (whether disbursed on or prior to 
or after the date of this resolution and whether then 
due or payable or not), with various Lenders, at the 
option of the Lenders, the loans or any other financial 
assistance categorized as loans (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Financial Assistance”), in Foreign Currency or 
Indian Rupees, which have already been availed or as 
may be availed from the Lenders, from time to time, 
not exceeding `10,000 Crore (Rupees Ten Thousand 
Crore) and consistent with the borrowing powers of the 
Company under Section 180(1)(c) of the Act, into fully 
paid- up equity shares of the Company on such terms 
and conditions as may be stipulated in the financing 
documents and subject to the provisions of the 
applicable laws and in the manner specified in a notice 
in writing to be given by the Lenders (or their agents or 
trustees) to the Company (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Notice of Conversion”) and specifically in accordance 
with the conditions given below:
	
i. 	
the conversion right reserved as aforesaid 
may be exercised by the Lenders on one or 
more occasions during the currency of the 
Financial Assistance;
Annual Report 2022-23
3
Notice
	
ii.	
on receipt of the notice of conversion, the 
Company shall, subject to the provisions of 
the financing documents, allot and issue the 
requisite number of fully paid-up equity shares 
to the Lenders or any other person identified by 
the Lenders as from the date of conversion and 
the Lenders may accept the same in complete 
satisfaction of the part of the loans so converted;
	
iii.	
the part of the loan so converted shall cease to 
carry interest as from the date of conversion and 
the loan shall stand correspondingly reduced, 
upon such conversion, the repayment installments 
of the loan payable after the date of conversion 
as per the financing documents shall stand 
reduced proportionately by the amounts of the 
loan so converted. The equity shares so allotted 
and issued to the Lenders or such other person 
identified by the Lenders shall carry, from the date 
of conversion, the right to receive proportionately 
the dividends and other distributions declared or 
to be declared in respect of the equity capital of 
the Company;
	
iv.	
in the event that the Lenders exercise the 
conversion right as aforesaid, the Company shall 
at its cost get the equity shares, issued to the 
Lenders or such other person identified by the 
Lenders as a result of the conversion, listed with 
such stock exchanges as may be prescribed by 
the Lenders or such other person identified by the 
Lenders and for the said purpose, the Company 
shall take all such steps as may be necessary to 
the satisfaction of the Lenders or such other 
person identified by the Lenders, to ensure 
that the equity shares are listed as required by 
the Lenders or such other person identified 
by the Lenders;
	
v.	
the loans shall be converted into equity shares at 
a price to be determined in accordance with the 
SEBI ICDR Regulation, Listing Regulations, FEMA, 
RBI and / or all other regulations/ guidelines, at 
the time of such conversion.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the equity shares to be 
allotted and issued to such Lenders pursuant to its 
exercising the right of conversion shall rank pari passu 
in all respects with the then existing equity shares in the 
Company and be listed on the stock exchange(s) where 
the existing shares of the Company are listed.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorized to finalise the terms and conditions 
to convert the Financial Assistance into equity shares 
of the Company anytime during the currency of the 
Financial Assistance, on the terms specified in the 
financing documents, including upon happening of an 
event of default by the Company in terms of the loan 
arrangements with the Lenders.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT on receipt of the notice 
of conversion, the Board be and is hereby authorized to 
do all such acts, deeds and things as may be necessary 
and shall allot and issue requisite number of fully paid-
up equity shares in the Company to such Lenders or 
such other person identified by the Lenders.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorized to accept such modifications and to 
accept such terms and conditions as may be imposed 
or required by the Lenders arising from or incidental to 
the aforesaid terms providing for such option and to 
do all such acts and things as may be necessary to give 
effect to this resolution.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of 
giving effect to this resolutions, the Board, be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, as it may in its absolute discretion deem 
necessary, proper or desirable as may be required 
to create, offer, issue and allot the aforesaid shares, 
to dematerialize the shares of the Company and to 
resolve and settle any question, difficulty or doubt that 
may arise in this regard and to do all such other acts, 
deeds, matters and things in connection or incidental 
thereto as the Board in its absolute discretion may 
deem fit, without being required to seek any further 
consent or approval of the members or otherwise to 
the end and intent that they shall be deemed to have 
given their approval thereto expressly by the authority 
of this resolution.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorized to delegate all or any of the powers 
herein conferred to any Committee of the Board or any 
Director(s) or Officer(s) of the Company and to generally 
do all such acts, deeds and things as may be required 
in connection with the aforesaid resolutions, including 
making necessary filings with the Stock Exchanges 
and Regulatory Authorities and execution of any 
documents on, behalf of the Company and to represent 
the Company before any governmental authorities and 
to appoint any Merchant Bankers or other Professional 
Advisors, Consultants and Legal Advisors to give effect 
to the aforesaid resolution.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT all actions taken by 
the Board and its Committee in connection with any 
matter(s) referred to or contemplated in any of the 
foregoing resolutions be and are approved, ratified and 
confirmed in all respects.
	
	
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Capri Global Capital Limited
Yashesh Bhatt
Company Secretary
 Membership No. ACS 20491
Registered Office:
502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai 400 013
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
4
Capri Global Capital Limited
Notes:
1.	
In view of General Circular Nos.14/2020, 17/2020, 
20/2020, 02/ 2021, 19/2021, 21/2021, 02/2022 and 
10/2022 dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, May 5, 
2020, January 13, 2021, December 8, 2021, December 
14, 2021, May 05, 2022 and December 28, 2022 
respectively, issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA Circulars”) and Circular No. SEBI/
HO/ CFD/ CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020, 
SEBI/ HO/CFD/ CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 
15, 2021; SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 
May 13, 2022 and SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 
dated January 5, 2023 issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI Circular”) and in 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”) and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”), the 29th AGM of the Company 
is being conducted through Video Conferencing / 
Other Audio Visual Means (VC/ OAVM) Facility, which 
does not require physical presence of Members at a 
common venue. The deemed venue for the 29th AGM 
shall be Registered Office of the Company.
2.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 (1) 
of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of the Special 
Business is annexed hereto and forms part of the 
Notice. Information under Regulations 26 (4) and 36 (3) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and as required under 
Secretarial Standard 2, pursuant to Section 118 
(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India, relating to Directors proposed to 
be appointed/re-appointed, is provided in Annexure I 
to this Notice.
3.	
As per the provisions of Clause 3.A.II. of the General 
Circular No. 20/ 2020 dated May 5, 2020, the matters 
of Special Business as appearing at Item Nos. 4 to 6 
of the accompanying Notice, are considered to be 
unavoidable by the Board and hence, forming part of 
this Notice.
4.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member 
entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to 
appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf 
and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company. 
Since this AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA 
Circulars through VC/OAVM, physical attendance of 
Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the 
facility for appointment of proxies by the Members 
will not be available for the AGM and hence the Proxy 
Form, Attendance Slip and route map of AGM are 
not annexed to this Notice. However, in pursuance of 
Section 112 and Section 113 of the Act, representatives 
of the Members may be appointed for the purpose of 
voting through remote e-Voting, for participation in 
the 29th AGM through VC/OAVM Facility and e-Voting 
during the 29th AGM.
5.	
The Members may join the 29th AGM through VC/ 
OAVM Facility by following the procedure mentioned 
herein below in the Notice which shall be kept open for 
the Members from 3.45 P.M. IST i.e. 15 (fifteen) minutes 
before the time scheduled to start the 29th AGM 
and the Company may close the window for joining 
the VC/OAVM Facility 15 (fifteen) minutes after the 
scheduled time to start the 29th AGM. Members may 
note that the VC/ OAVM Facility, allows participation 
of 1,000 Members on a ‘first come first served’ basis. 
The large Shareholders (i.e. shareholders holding 2% or 
more), promoters, institutional investors, directors, key 
managerial personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, auditors 
etc. can attend the 29th AGM without any restriction on 
account of ‘first come first served’ basis. Pursuant to 
Regulation 44(6) of Listing Regulations, the Company 
is also providing a live webcast of the proceedings 
of the AGM.
6.	
The attendance of the Members participating in the 
29th AGM through VC/ OAVM Facility shall be counted 
for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 
103 of the Act.
7.	
Voting rights shall be reckoned on the paid-up value 
of shares registered in the name of member /beneficial 
owners (in case of electronic shareholding) as on the 
cut-off date i.e. August 25, 2023.
8.	
Pursuant to the Circulars issued by the MCA and SEBI, 
the Annual Report for the year 2022-23 including 
Notice of the 29th AGM of the Company, inter alia, 
indicating the process and manner of e-voting is being 
sent only by E-mail, to all the Members whose E-mail 
IDs are registered with the Company/ Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent or with the respective Depository 
Participant(s) for communication purposes to the 
Members and to all other persons so entitled.
	
Further, in terms of the applicable provisions of the Act, 
SEBI Listing Regulations read with the MCA Circulars 
issued by MCA and SEBI Circular, the Annual Report 
including Notice of the 29th AGM of the Company will 
also be available on the website of the Company at 
www.capriloans.in. The same can also be accessed from 
the websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited 
at www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.nseindia.com and on the website 
of NSDL (agency for providing the Remote e-Voting 
facility) i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com.
9.	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, e-mail 
address, telephone /mobile numbers, Permanent 
Account Number (PAN), mandates, nominations, power 
Annual Report 2022-23
5
Notice
of attorney, bank details such as, name of the bank and 
branch details, bank account number, MICR code, IFSC 
code, etc.:
	
a.	
For shares held in electronic form: to their 
Depository Participants (DPs).
	
b.	
For shares held in physical form: to the Company/ 
Registrar and Transfer Agent in prescribed 
Form ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/
CIR/2021/655 dated November 3, 2021.
10.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 
has mandated the submission of Permanent Account 
Number (“PAN”) by every participant in securities 
market. Members holding shares in electronic form are, 
therefore, requested to submit PAN to their Depository 
Participants with whom they are maintaining their 
demat accounts. Members holding shares in physical 
form can submit their PAN details to the Company/ 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent.
11.	 All documents referred to in the accompanying Notice 
and the Explanatory Statement are available on website 
of the Company at www.capriloans.in for inspection by 	
zthe Members up to the date of 29th AGM.
	
During the 29th AGM, Members may access the scanned 
copy of Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding maintained under 
Section 170 of the Act, the Register of Contracts or 
arrangements in which Directors are interested under 
Section 189 of the Act, if any and Certificate from 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company certifying that 
Company’s Employee Stock Options Schemes being 
implemented in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and in 
accordance with the resolution of the Members of the 
Company which will be available on website of the 
Company.
12.	 The Company has designated an Email ID compliance.
officer@capriglobal.in 
for 
redressal 
of 
Members 
complaints/ grievances. For any investor related 
queries, you are requested to please write to us at the 
above Email ID.
13.	 Members are requested to note that, dividends if 
not encashed for a period of 7 years from the date of 
transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, 
are liable to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”). Further, all the shares in 
respect of which dividend has remained unclaimed for 
7 consecutive years or more from the date of transfer 
to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to 
IEPF Authority. In view of this, Members are requested 
to claim their dividends from the Company, within the 
stipulated timeline. The Members, whose unclaimed 
dividends/shares have been transferred to IEPF, may 
claim the same by making an online application to the 
IEPF Authority in web Form No. IEPF-5 available on 
www.iepf.gov.in.
14.	 Members who wish to obtain any information on the 
Company or view the financial statements for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2023 may visit the 
Company’s website at www.capriloans.in or send their 
queries at secretarial@capriglobal.in at least Ten (10) 
days before the date of 29th AGM. The same will be 
suitably replied by/ on behalf of the Company.
15.	 In terms of the applicable provisions of the Act and 
Rules thereto, the Company has obtained e-mail 
addresses of its Members and have given an advance 
opportunity to every Member to register their e-mail 
address and changes therein from time to time with the 
Company for service of communications/ documents 
(including Notice of General Meetings, Audited 
Financial Statements, Directors’ Report, Auditors’ 
Report and all other documents) through electronic 
mode.
16.	 In case of joint holders attending the 29th AGM, the 
Member whose name appears as the first holder in the 
order of names as per the Register of Members of the 
Company will be entitled to vote.
17.	 Securities of listed companies would be transferred only 
in dematerialised form w.e.f. April 1, 2019. In view of 
the same, Members holding shares in physical form are 
requested to convert their holdings to dematerialised 
form to eliminate all risks associated with physical 
shares and for ease of portfolio management. 
Members can contact the Company’s RTA for assistance 
in this regard.
18.	 Voting
	
In compliance with provisions of Section 108 of the Act 
read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 (as amended), Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) 
and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company is pleased to provide its Members the 
facility to cast their votes either for or against each 
resolutions set forth in the Notice of the 29th AGM 
using electronic voting system (‘remote e-voting’) and 
e-voting (during the 29th AGM), provided by National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) for facilitating 
voting through electronic means, as the authorized 
agency and the business may be transacted through 
such voting.
	
Only those Members who will be present in the 29th 
AGM through VC / OAVM facility and have not cast 
their vote on the resolutions through remote e-voting, 
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be 
eligible to vote through e-voting system during the 
29th AGM.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
6
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
REMOTE E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL 
MEETING ARE AS UNDER:
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Thursday, 
August  29, 2023 at 10:00 A.M. and ends on Sunday, 
August 31, 2023 at 05:00 P.M. The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. 
The Members, whose names appear in the Register of 
Members / Beneficial Owners as on cut-off date i.e. 
August 25, 2023 may cast their vote electronically. The 
voting right of shareholders shall be in proportion to 
their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as on the cut-off date, being August 25, 2023.
	
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-
individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes member of the Company 
after the notice is send through e-mail and holding 
shares as of the cut-off date i.e. August 25, 2023, may 
obtain the login ID and password by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.co.in or Issuer/ RTA. However, if you 
are already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, 
then you can use your existing user ID and password 
for casting your vote. If you forgot your password, 
you can reset your password by using “Forgot User 
Details/ Password” or “Physical User Reset Password” 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 
toll free no. 1800 1020 990 and 1800 224 430. In case 
of Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes a Member of the Company after sending of 
the Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date 
i.e. August 23, 2023, may follow steps mentioned 
in the Notice of the AGM under “Access to NSDL 
e-Voting system”.
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A)	
Login method for remote e-Voting and 
joining 
virtual 
meeting 
for 
Individual 
shareholders holding securities in de-mat 
mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in de-mat mode are allowed to vote through their de-mat account maintained 
with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id 
in their de-mat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in de-mat mode is given below:
Type of Shareholders
Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in de-mat 
mode with NSDL
1.	
Existing 
IDeAS 
user 
can 
visit 
the 
e-Services 
website 
of 
NSDL 
Viz. 
https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the 
e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which 
is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will prompt you to enter your existing User 
ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting 
services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website 
of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/ IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www. evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once 
the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is 
available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have 
to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit de-mat account number held with NSDL), 
Password/ OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see 
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and 
you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Annual Report 2022-23
7
Notice
Type of Shareholders
Login Method
4.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility 
by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
1.	
Existing users who have opted for Easi / Easiest, they can login through their user 
id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any 
further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi / Easiest are https://web.
cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System 
Myeasi.
2.	
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided 
by company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting 
page of the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is 
also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the 
user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website at https: // web.cdslindia.com /myeasi / Registration/ EasiRegistration
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing De-mat Account 
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home 
page. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & 
Email as recorded in the De-mat Account. After successful authentication, user will 
be able to see the e-Voting option where the e-voting is in progress and also able to 
directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders (holding 
securities in de-mat 
mode) login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your de-mat account through your 
Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, 
you will be able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to 
NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting 
feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider
i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
	
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in de-mat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 
022 - 4886 7000 
Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in de-mat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 
toll free no. 1800 22 55 33
Annual Report 2022-23
8
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
B)	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining 
virtual meeting for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders holding securities 
in de-mat mode and shareholders holding 
securities in physical mode.
	
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open 
web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login” which 
is available under ‘Shareholder/ Member’ 
section.
	
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to 
enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and 
a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
	
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL 
eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com with your existing 
IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL 
eservices after using your log-in credentials, 
click on e-Voting and you can proceed to 
Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
	
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or 
Physical
 Your User ID is:
a)	 For Members who 
hold shares in 
de-mat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID 
followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID
For example if your 
DP ID is IN300*** and 
Client ID is 12****** 
then your user ID is 
IN300***12******.
b)	 For Members who 
hold shares in 
de-mat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your 
Beneficiary ID is 
12************** 
then your user ID is 
12**************
c)	 For Members 
holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number 
followed by Folio 
Number registered 
with the company
For example if folio 
number is 001*** and 
EVEN is 101456 then 
user ID is 101456001***
	
	
5.	
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for 
e-Voting, then you can use your existing 
password to login and cast your vote.
	
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system 
for the first time, you will need to 
retrieve the ‘initial password’ which 
was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and 
the system will force you to change 
your password.
	
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered 
in your de-mat account or 
with the Company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to 
you on your email ID. Trace the 
email sent to you from NSDL 
from your mailbox. Open the 
email and open the attachment 
i.e. a pdf file. Open the pdf file. 
The password to open the .pdf 
file is your 8 digit client ID for 
NSDL account, last 8 digits of 
client ID for CDSL account or 
folio number for shares held 
in physical form. The pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your 
‘initial password’.
	
	
	
	
(ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned 
below in process for those 
shareholders whose email ids 
are not registered.
	
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received the “Initial password” or have 
forgotten your password:
	
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot 
User 
Details/
Password?”
	
	
	
	
(If you are holding shares in your de-mat 
account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” 
(If you are holding shares in physical 
mode) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the 
password by aforesaid two options, you 
can send a request at evoting@nsdl.
co.in mentioning your de-mat account 
number/folio number, your PAN, your 
name and your registered address etc.
Annual Report 2022-23
9
Notice
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes 
on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on 
the check box.
	
	
8.	
Now, 
you 
will 
have 
to 
click 
on 
“Login” button.
	
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-Voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
	
How to cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
	
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you 
are holding shares and whose voting cycle and 
General Meeting is in active status.
	
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish 
to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period and casting your vote during the General 
Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need 
to click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed under “ 
Join Meeting”.
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number 
of shares for which you wish to cast your vote 
and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” 
when prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
	
General Guidelines for shareholders
	
1.	
Institutional 
shareholders 
(i.e. 
other 
than 
individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/ JPG Format) of the 
relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. 
with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to 
vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to dinesh.deora@
yahoo.com with a copy marked to evoting@
nsdl.co.in. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other 
than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload 
their Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / 
Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload Board 
Resolution / Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-Voting” tab in their login.
	
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon 
five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct 
password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” 
or “Physical User Reset Password?” option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the 
password.
	
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and 
e-voting user manual for Shareholders available 
at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com 
or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to 
(Name of NSDL Official) at evoting@nsdl.co.in
	
Process for those shareholders whose e-mail 
ids are not registered with the depositories for 
procuring user id and password and registration 
of e mail ids for e-voting for the resolutions set 
out in this notice:
	
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode please 
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), 
PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) by email to secretarial@capriglobal.in.
	
2.	
In case shares are held in de-mat mode, please 
provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 
digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master or copy 
of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self 
attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR 
(self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to 
secretarial@capriglobal.in. If you are an Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode, 
you are requested to refer to the login method 
explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for 
e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
	
3.	
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
	
4.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in 
de-mat mode are allowed to vote through their 
de-mat account maintained with Depositories 
and Depository Participants. Shareholders are 
required to update their mobile number and 
email ID correctly in their de-mat account in order 
to access e-Voting facility.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
10
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
e-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS 
UNDER:-
	
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above 
for remote e-voting.
	
2.	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility 
and have not casted their vote on the Resolutions 
through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not 
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote 
through e-Voting system in the AGM.
	
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote 
e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. 
However, they will not be eligible to vote 
at the AGM.
	
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
	
INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR 
MEMBERS 
FOR 
ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM 
ARE AS UNDER:
	
1.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend 
the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access by 
following the steps mentioned above for Access 
to NSDL e-Voting system. After successful login, 
you can see link of “VC/OAVM link” placed under 
“Join meeting” menu against company name. You 
are requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed 
under Join Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM 
will be available in Shareholder/ Member login 
where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. 
Please note that the members who do not have 
the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have 
forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve 
the same by following the remote e-Voting 
instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid last 
minute rush.
	
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
	
3.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera 
and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
	
4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from 
Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop 
connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience 
Audio/Video loss due to fluctuation in their 
respective network. It is therefore recommended 
to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate 
any kind of aforesaid glitches.
	
INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR 
SHAREHOLDERS/
MEMBERS TO REGISTER THEMSELVES AS 
SPEAKERS DURING 29th AGM:
	
Shareholders/ Members who would like to express 
their views/ ask questions during the meeting may 
register themselves as a speaker by sending their 
request mentioning their name, de-mat account 
number/folio number, email id, mobile number at 
secretarial@capriglobal.in from August 27, 2023, 
10:00 A.M. to August 29, 2023, 04:00 P.M.
	
Shareholders/ Members, who would like to ask 
questions, may send their questions in advance 
mentioning their name de-mat account number/folio 
number, e-mail id, mobile number at secretarial@
capriglobal.in. The same will be replied by the 
company suitably.
	
Note:
	
Only those shareholders/members who have registered 
themselves as a speaker, will be allowed to express their 
views/ask questions during the meeting. The Company 
reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers 
depending on the availability of time for the 29th AGM.
	
Shareholders/ Members should allow to use camera 
and are required to use Internet with a good speed 
(preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
19.	 Mr. Dinesh Kumar Deora, Practicing Company 
Secretaries (COP No: 4119) has been appointed as the 
Scrutinizer for providing facility to the Members of the 
Company to scrutinize the remote e-voting process 
and voting through Ballot at the 29th AGM in a fair and 
transparent manner.
20.	 The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of 
voting at the 29th AGM, first count the votes cast during 
the 29th AGM, thereafter unblock the votes cast through 
remote e-voting and make, not later than 48 hours of 
conclusion of the 29th AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s 
Report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, 
to the Chairman or a person authorised by him in writing, 
who shall countersign the same. The Results declared 
along with the report of the Scrutinizer shall be placed 
on the website of the Company www.capriloans.in. 
The Company shall simultaneously forward the results 
to National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed. 
The resolutions, if passed by requisite majority, shall be 
deemed to have been passed on the date of the 29th 
AGM i.e. Friday, September 1, 2023.
21.	 Dividend
	
1.	
The Board of Directors has recommended Final 
Dividend of `0.50 (25 %) per Equity Share of 
`2 each for the year ended March 31, 2023 that is 
proposed to be paid on and from September 5, 
Annual Report 2022-23
11
Notice
2023 subject to the approval of the shareholders 
at the 29th AGM. Pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 123 of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
payment of final dividend on equity shares, upon 
declaration by the shareholders at the 29th AGM, 
will be made on or after September 5, 2023 
as under:
	
	
a)	
to all those beneficial owners holding shares 
in electronic form as per the beneficial 
ownership data as may be made available 
to the Company by the National Securities 
Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and the Central 
Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) 
at the closure of business hours on 
August 23, 2023 and
	
	
b)	
to all those shareholders holding shares 
in physical form after giving effect to all 
the valid share transfers lodged with the 
Company before the closing hours on 
August 23, 2023.
	
2.	
Payment of Dividend through electronic means
	
	
(a)	
The Company provides the facility to 
the Members for remittance of dividend 
directly in electronic mode through National 
Automated 
Clearing 
House 
(NACH). 
Members holding shares in physical form 
and desirous of availing this facility of 
electronic remittance are requested to 
provide their latest bank account details 
(Core Banking Solutions Enabled Account 
Number, 9 digit MICR and 11 digit IFSC 
Code), along with their Folio Number, to the 
Company or Link Intime. Members holding 
shares in dematerialized form are requested 
to provide the said details to their respective 
Depository Participants.
	
	
(b)	
In line with the MCA Circulars issued by 
the MCA, in case the Company is unable 
to pay the dividend to any shareholder by 
the electronic mode, due to non-availability 
of their latest bank account details (Core 
Banking Solutions Enabled Account Number, 
9 digit MICR and 11 digit IFSC Code), 
the Company shall dispatch the dividend 
warrant/ 
cheque 
to 
such 
shareholder 
by post.
	
	
(c)	
Members holding shares in dematerialized 
form are hereby informed that bank 
particulars 
registered 
against 
their 
respective depository accounts will be used 
by the Company for payment of dividend. 
The Company/ Link Intime cannot act on 
any request received directly from the 
Members holding shares in dematerialized 
form for any change of bank particulars or 
bank mandates. Such changes are to be 
advised only to the Depository Participant of 
the Shareholders.
	
	
(d)	
Members may note that as per the Income 
Tax Act, 1961, as amended by the Finance 
Act, 2020, dividends paid or distributed by 
a company on or after April 1, 2020 shall be 
taxable in the hands of the shareholders. 
The Company shall therefore be required to 
deduct tax 	 at source at the time of making 
the payment of the dividend, if declared, 
by the Shareholders of the Company on 
the Equity Shares at this Annual General 
Meeting.
	
	
	
Below is the brief of the applicable provisions 
for Tax Deduction at Source (“TDS”) under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 for Resident and 
Non-Resident shareholders: 
I. Resident Shareholders:
	
	
	
Tax is required to be deducted at source under 
Section 194 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, at 10% 
on the amount of dividend where shareholders 
have registered their valid Permanent Account 
Number (PAN). In case, shareholders do not 
have PAN / have not registered their valid PAN 
details in their account, TDS at the rate of 20% 
(plus applicable surcharge and cess) shall be 
deducted under Section 206AA of Income Tax 
Act, 1961. 
	
	
	
Further, Tax will not be deducted in case of: 
	
	
	
a.	
Resident Individuals: No tax shall be 
deducted on the dividend payable to 
resident individuals if – 
	
	
	
•	
Total dividend amount to be received 
by them during the Financial Year 2023-
24 does not exceed `5,000; or 
	
	
	
•	
The shareholder provides Form 15G 
(applicable to any person other than 
a company or a Firm) / Form 15H 
(applicable to an Individual above the 
age of 60 years), provided that all the 
required eligibility conditions are met. 
	
	
	
b.	
Resident 
Non-Individuals: 
No 
tax 
shall be deducted on the dividend 
payable to the following resident non-
individuals, if they provide the desired 
details and documents: 
	
	
	
•	
Insurance Companies: Self declaration 
that it has full beneficial interest with 
respect to the equity shares owned 
by it along with self-attested copy of 
PAN card. 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
12
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
	
	
•	
Mutual Funds: Self-declaration that 
they are specified in Section 10 (23D) 
of the Income Tax Act, 1961 along with 
self-attested copy of PAN card and 
registration certificate. 
	
	
	
•	
Alternative Investment Fund (AIF): Self-
declaration that its income is exempt 
under Section 10 (23FBA) of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 and they are governed 
by SEBI regulations as Category I or 
Category II AIF along with self-attested 
copy of the PAN card and registration 
certificate. 
	
	
	
•	
Other 
Non-Individual 
shareholders: 
Entities whose income is unconditionally 
exempt under section 10 of the Act 
and that are not statutorily required to 
file return of income, being exempted 
from TDS by the CBDT Circular No. 18 
of 2017, are required to provide self-
attested valid documentary evidence 
(like approval granted by Income Tax 
Officer / Commissioner, relevant copy 
of registration, etc.) 
	
	
	
c.	
In case, shareholders (both in Non-
resident Shareholders: individuals or non-
individuals) provide certificate under Section 
197 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for lower 
/ NIL withholding of taxes, rate specified 
in the said certificate shall be considered, 
on submission of self-attested copy of the 
certificate. 
II. Non-resident Shareholders: 
	
	
	
a)	
Taxes are required to be withheld in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Section 195 of the Income Tax Act, 
1961, as per the rates as applicable. 
As per the relevant provisions of the 
Act, the withholding tax shall be at the 
rate of 20% (plus applicable surcharge 
and cess) on the amount of dividend 
payable to them. 
	
	
	
b)	
In case, non-resident shareholders 
provide a certificate issued under 
Section 197/195 of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961, for lower/ Nil withholding 
of taxes, rate specified in the said 
certificate shall be considered, on 
submission of self-attested copy of the 
certificate. 
	
	
	
c)	
Further, as per Section 90 of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 the non-resident 
shareholder has the option to be 
governed by the provisions of the 
Double Tax Avoidance Treaty between 
India and the country of tax residence 
of the shareholder, if they are more 
beneficial to them. For this purpose, 
i.e., to avail Tax Treaty benefits, the 
non-resident shareholders are required 
to provide the following: 
	
	
	
•	
Self-attested copy of the PAN Card 
allotted by the Indian Income Tax 
authorities. 
	
	
	
•	
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency 
Certificate (TRC) (for the period April 2023 to 
March 2024) obtained from the tax authorities 
of the country of which the shareholder is a 
resident. 
	
	
	
•	
Electronic filing of Form 10F on 
the Income Tax portal (procedure 
for electronic filing given below in 
Note 1) in accordance with CBDT 
No. 03/2022 dated 16th July 2022. If 
the Non-Resident does not have a 
PAN and is not required to have a 
PAN as per the IT Act, then they are 
exempted from furnishing Form 10F 
electronically till 30th September 2023 
in accordance with CBDT notification 
no. F. No. DGIT(S)-ADG(S)-3/e-Filing 
Notification/Forms/2023/3420 
dated 
28th March 2023. Such Non-Resident 
can furnish Form 10F in non-electronic 
manner. 
	
	
	
•	
Self-declaration by the non-resident 
shareholder of having no Permanent 
Establishment in India in accordance 
with the applicable Tax Treaty and 
Beneficial ownership of the shares (for 
the period April 2023 to March 2024) by 
the non- resident shareholder. 
	
	
	
Kindly note that the Company is not 
obligated to apply beneficial tax treaty rates 
at the time of tax deduction / withholding 
on 
dividend 
amounts. 
Application 
of 
beneficial rate of tax treaty for the purpose 
of withholding taxes shall depend upon 
completeness and satisfactory review by the 
Company of the documents submitted by 
the non-resident shareholder. 
	
	
	
d)	
In case of Foreign Institutional Investors 
(FII) and Foreign Portfolio Investors 
(FPI), taxes shall be with held at 20% 
plus applicable surcharge and cess in 
accordance with provisions of Section 
196D of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 
Annual Report 2022-23
13
Notice
	
	
	
Note 1: Procedure for electronically filing 
Form 10F 
	
	
	
1.	
Login to https://www.incometax.gov.
in/iec/foportal using PAN login 
	
	
	
2.	
Go to E-file>Income Tax Forms>File 
Income Tax Forms 
	
	
	
3.	
Select Form 10F from the available 
options 
	
	
	
4.	
Select the relevant Assessment Year for 
which you need to file Form 10F and 
click on continue 
	
	
	
5.	
Fill all the required fields in the Form. 
	
	
	
6.	
Attach the Tax Residency Certificate 
and Save the Draft and then Proceed to 
submit the Form with digital signature 
(DSC) of the authorized signatory/self. 
	
	
	
7.	
Once submitted, go to "View Filed 
Forms” and download the copy of the Form 
10F and submit along with other tax forms. 
III. TDS to be deducted at higher rate in 
case of non-filers of Return of Income: 
	
	
	
The Finance Act, 2021, has inter-alia, inserted 
a new Section 206AB, effective from 1st July, 
2021. The provisions of Section 206AB of 
the Act require the deductor to deduct tax 
at higher of the following rates from amount 
paid/ credited to 'specified person': 
	
	
	
i.	
At twice the rate specified in the 
relevant provision of the Act; or
	
	
	
ii.	
At twice the rates or rates in force; or 
	
	
	
iii.	
At the rate of 5% 
	
	
	
The 'specified person' means a person 
(shareholder in present case) who has not: 
a. furnished the return of income for the 
assessment year relevant to the previous year 
immediately preceding the financial year 
in which tax is required to be deducted, for 
which the time limit for furnishing the return 
of income under sub-section (1) of section 
139 has expired; and b. the aggregate of 
tax deducted at source and tax collected at 
source in his case is `50,000 or more in the said 
previous year. The same shall be verified by 
the Company from the Government enabled 
online facility. The non-resident who does not 
have the permanent establishment is excluded 
from the scope of a specified person. 
	
	
	
The aforementioned documents can be 
downloaded from Link Intime’s website 
at 
https://www.linkintime.co.in/client-
downloads.html on general tab and are 
required to be uploaded on the Link 
Intime portal at https://linkintime.co.in/
formsreg/submission-of-form-15g-15h.html 
on or before August 24, 2023, to enable 
the Company to determine to determine 
the appropriate TDS/ withholding tax rate 
applicable. Incomplete and/ or unsigned 
forms and declarations will not be considered 
by the Company. Any communication on 
the tax 	
determination/ 
deduction 
received post August 24, 2023 shall not be 
considered. All communications/ queries 
in this respect should be addressed to our 
RTA, Link Intime to its email address at 
capridivtax@ linkintime.co.in. 
	
	
	
The Company will arrange to email a soft copy 
of the TDS Certificate at the shareholders 
registered email ID post payment of the said 
Final Dividend. Shareholders will also be 
able to see the credit of TDS in Form 26AS, 
which can be downloaded from their e-filing 
account 
at 
https://incometaxindiaefiling.
gov.in.
22.	 Members holding shares in physical form are advised 
to furnish, on or before August 23, 2023 particulars 
of their bank account, if not done already or if it has 
changed, to the Company to incorporate the same in 
the dividend warrants/ payment instruments.
23.	 In respect of cases, where the payments to the 
shareholders holding shares in de-materialized form 
are made by dividend warrants / payment instruments, 
particulars of bank account registered with their 
Depository Participants would be considered by 
the Company for printing the same on the dividend 
warrants/ payment instruments.
24.	 Section 72 of the Act, provides for Nomination by 
the Members of the Company in the prescribed 
Form No. SH-13 for shares held in physical form. 
Blank forms can be requested from the Company’s 
Registrar and Transfer Agent i.e. Link Intime 
India Private Limited. Members holding shares in 
dematerialized form may contact their respective 
Depository Participants for recording of nomination. 
If a Member desires to cancel the earlier nomination 
and record a fresh nomination, he may submit the 
same in Form No. SH-14. Members who are either 
not desiring to register for Nomination or would want 
to opt-out, are requested to fill out and submit Form 
No. ISR-3. The said forms can be downloaded from 
the RTA’s website.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
14
Capri Global Capital Limited
As required by Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”), the following Explanatory Statement sets out all 
material facts relating to the business mentioned under Item 
No.4, 5 & 6 of the accompanying Notice dated May 22, 2023.
ITEM NO. 4 & 5
Pursuant to Section 180 (1) (c) of the Companies Act, 2013 
(”the Act”) a Special Resolution was passed at the 25th 
Annual General Meeting held on August 02, 2019, where 
the Shareholders of the Company authorised the Board of 
Directors of the Company to borrow moneys for the purpose 
of the Company’s business in excess of the paid-up capital 
of the Company and its free reserves, provided the sum or 
sums so borrowed and remaining outstanding at any point 
of time not to exceed `6,500 Crores (Rupees Six Thousand 
Five Hundred Crores).
Keeping in view, the Company’s existing and future financial 
requirements to support its business operations, the 
Company needs additional funds. For this purpose, the 
Company is desirous of raising finance from various Banks 
and/or Financial Institutions and/or any other lending 
institutions and/or Bodies Corporate and/or such other 
persons/ individuals as may be considered fit, which, together 
with the moneys already borrowed by the Company may 
exceed the aggregate of the paid-up capital and the free 
reserves of the Company. Hence, it is proposed to increase 
the maximum borrowing limits up to `10,000 Crores (Rupees 
Ten Thousand Crores). Pursuant to Section 180(1)(c) of the 
Act, the Board of Directors cannot borrow more than the 
aggregate amount of the paid-up capital of the Company 
and its free reserves at any time except with the consent of 
the members of the Company in a general meeting by a 
Special Resolution.
Accordingly, consent of the Members is being sought for 
borrowings in excess of the paid-up capital and free reserves 
of the Company.
Further, pursuant to Section 180(1)(a) the Act, a Special 
Resolution was passed at the 25th Annual General Meeting 
held on August 02, 2019 vide which the shareholders of 
the Company had authorised the Board of Directors of the 
Company to create mortgage, charge on or hypothecate 
its property(ies), both movable and immovable, to secure 
borrowings up to `6,500 Crores (Rupees Six Thousand Five 
Hundred Crores). In order to facilitate securing the enhanced 
borrowings of `10,000 Crores (Rupees Ten Thousand Crores) 
envisaged under Section 180(1)(c) of the Act, and contained 
in Item No. 4 it would be necessary to create charge on the 
assets or whole of the undertaking of the Company. Section 
180(1)(a) of the Act, which provides for the power to sell, lease 
or otherwise dispose of the whole or substantially the whole 
of the undertaking of the Company, subject to the approval 
of members in the general meeting. Creation of charge 
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
(PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013)
on the assets of the Company is construed as disposal of 
undertaking. The Board recommends the Special Resolution 
set forth in Item No. 4 and 5 of the Notice for approval of 
the Members.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company including their relatives are, in any way 
interested or concerned, financially or otherwise in the 
Resolutions except to the extent of their shareholding, if any, 
in the Company.
ITEM NO. 6
Pursuant to Section 62(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 (”the 
Act”) a Special Resolution was passed at the 26th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company held on July 31, 2020, 
where the Shareholders of the Company authorised the 
Board of Directors of the Company to convert the outstanding 
loans or any other financial assistance categorized as loans 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Financial Assistance”), in 
foreign currency or Indian Rupee, already availed from the 
Lenders or as may be availed from the Lenders, from time to 
time, at their option, into equity shares of the Company upon 
such terms and conditions as may be deemed appropriate 
by the Board not exceeding `6,500 Crores (Rupees Six 
Thousand Five Hundred Crores).
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 180(1)(c) 
of the Act, it is proposed to enhance the borrowing limit 
of the Company from erstwhile `6,500 Crore (Rupees 
Six Thousand Five Hundred Crore) to `10,000 Crore 
(Rupees Ten Thousand Crore).
Accordingly, pursuant to the provisions of Section 62(3) of the 
Act and Rules made there-under, the Company is required 
to pass an enabling Special Resolution, in supersession of 
the earlier resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting 
held on July 31, 2020, to enable the Lenders to convert the 
outstanding Financial Assistance, in foreign currency or 
Indian Rupee, already availed from the Lenders or as may be 
availed from the Lenders, from time to time, at their option, 
into equity shares of the Company upon such terms and 
conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the Board not 
exceeding `10,000 Crores (Rupees Ten Thousand Crores) 
and at a price to be determined in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of Securities Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2009, Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, Foreign 
Exchange Management Act, 1999, Reserve Bank of India and 
all other applicable regulations / guidelines, at the time of 
such conversion.
Pursuant to provisions of Section 62 (3) of the Act, this 
resolution requires approval of the members by way of 
passing of a Special Resolution. 
Annual Report 2022-23
15
Notice
Accordingly, the Board recommends the resolution as set out 
in Item No. 6, to enable the Lenders, in terms of the lending 
arrangements, entered / to be entered, and as may be 
specified by Lenders under the financing documents already 
executed or to be executed in respect of the Financial 
Assistance availed and/or to be availed and/ or continued 
to be availed, at their option, to convert the whole or part of 
their respective outstanding Financial Assistance into equity 
shares of the Company, upon such terms and conditions as 
may be deemed appropriate by the Board.
Since time is of essence for making the decisions regarding 
raising the financial assistance or agreeing to terms and 
conditions for raising the financial assistance (including 
option to convert loan into equity), especially keeping in view 
the interest of the Company, it may not be feasible for the 
Company to seek shareholders consent each and every time, 
in view of the timings and the expenses involved, hence, the 
Board proposes this resolution for approval. 
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their relatives are in anyway, concerned or 
interested, either directly or indirectly and financially or 
otherwise, in the Special Resolution, save and except to 
the extent of their respective interest as shareholders of the 
Company
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Capri Global Capital Limited
Yashesh Bhatt
Company Secretary
 Membership No. ACS 20491
Registered Office:
502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai 400 013
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
16
Capri Global Capital Limited
Details of Directors seeking re-appointment furnished pursuant to Regulation 36 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Mr. Rajesh Sharma is a qualified Chartered Accountant. He is the Promoter Director of the Company with over two decades of 
experience in capital market and financial advisory services.
Mr. Sharma has expertise in various aspects of corporate finance, investment banking, merchant banking and asset financing. He 
has successfully leveraged his expertise and experience to steer the Company’s growth and played an instrumental role in making 
it one of the leading financial services players in India.
He is not related to any of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company. The Board of Directors recommend 
passing of the resolution set out in item No. 3 of the accompanying Notice.
Except Mr. Rajesh Sharma, none of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives is concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in Item No.3.
Other details:
Name of the Director
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
DIN
00020037
Designation
Managing Director
Date of Birth
February 28, 1970
Age
53 years
Nationality
Indian
Date of First Appointment on the Board
May 15, 2007
Qualifications
Chartered Accountant
Profile
Mr. Rajesh Sharma has more than twenty five years of experience in 
Capital Market and Financial Advisory Services. Having founded Capri 
Global Capital Limited, today it has grown into one of India’s leading 
Non-Deposit Taking Systemically Important Non-Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFC-ND-SI).
He has rich experience in corporate finance, investment banking, 
merchant banking and asset financing. He is an expert in innovating 
financial products, designing investment strategies for clients and 
financial risk management.
A qualified Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI), his business acumen is reflected in his 
understanding of the debt markets and his ability to strategize to benefit 
the entire stakeholder value chain. Building a business on the principles 
of ethics, economic empowerment and equitable growth, his vision is to 
establish one of India’s premier financial institutions.
Last Remuneration drawn
`2,00,000/- per month for Financial Year 2022-23
Remuneration to be paid
`2,00,000/- per month
Number of Shares held in the Company during 
FY 2022-23
1000 Equity Shares 
Number of Board Meetings attended
7/7
Annexure - I to the Notice of 29th AGM
Annual Report 2022-23
17
Notice
Directorships held in other Companies as on 
March 31, 2023
1)	 Capri Global Holdings Private Limited
2)	 Capri Global Housing Finance Limited
3)	 Dnyaneshwar Trading and Investments Private Limited
4)	 Parshwanath Buildcon Private Limited
5)	 Capri Global Asset Reconstruction Private Limited
6)	 Capri Global Finance Private Limited
Relationship with other Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel
He is not related to any of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company.
Memberships/Chairmanships of Committees of 
other companies
Capri Global Capital Limited
Risk Management Committee – Chairman 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee – Member 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member
Capri Global Housing Finance Limited
Risk Management Committee – Chairman
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Member
Number of Stock Options
Nil
Equity listed Companies from which he resigned 
in the past 3 years
Nil
> 
Key highlights...............................................02
Message from the  
Managing Director.......................................04
Corporate overview ....................................06
Presence ......................................................12
Businesses ...................................................14
Board of Directors ......................................22
Key performance indicators .......................24
Operating context........................................28
Strategy .......................................................30
Stakeholder engagement ...........................31
The CGCL advantage ...................................32
Towards a robust  
ESG roadmap ...............................................34
Community and women  
empowerment initiatives ............................36
Future roadmap ..........................................38
Management Discussion  
and Analysis ................................................41
Directors’ Report ........................................52
Standalone  
Financial Statement ...................................125
Consolidated  
Financial Statement ...................................223
CONTENT
TABLE OF
Investor information
Market capitalisation  
as on March 31, 2023: ₹ 1,36,297.95 Million
CIN: L65921MH1994PLC173469
RBI registration number: B-13.01882
BSE code: 531595
NSE symbol: CGCL
Bloomberg code: CGCL IN
AGM date: September 1, 2023
AGM venue: AGM of the Company is being 
conducted through VC/OAVM facility
Cautionary Statement
The statements made in this report describe the Company’s objectives 
and projections that may be forward-looking statements within the 
meaning of applicable laws and regulations. The actual result might 
differ materially from those expressed or implied depending on the 
economic conditions, government policies and other incidental factors 
which are beyond the control of the Company. The Company is not under 
any obligation to publicly amend, modify or revise any forward-looking 
statements on the basis of any subsequent developments,information 
or events.
Online report
At Capri Global Capital Limited (CGCL), we are 
committed to transforming the traditional credit 
industry to provide benefit to both, our customers as 
well as society, as a whole. 
We leverage innovative technology and data-driven 
solutions to disrupt the status quo of the traditional 
credit industry and make lending accessible, to 
individuals and businesses that have historically been 
underserved by traditional financial institutions. This, 
in turn, opens up new opportunities for economic 
growth and development. By empowering women 
entrepreneurs and supporting women-led businesses, 
we are not only contributing to the process of bridging 
the gender gap but also driving economic growth and 
development.
In our journey of making credit easily accessible to 
all, we recognise the importance of sustainability and 
social responsibility while incorporating these principles 
into our business practices. This approach allows us to 
generate financial returns and make a positive impact 
on the environment and society.
In everything we do, we are always looking for new and 
innovative ways to improve our products and services, 
adapt to changing market conditions and stay ahead 
of the curve. For this reason, we stay at the forefront of 
the credit industry and are well-positioned to address 
the evolving needs of our customers and stakeholders 
– while doing what we are best at
CHANGING LIVES
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT
FY2023 – A STEPPING STONE
TOWARDS A 
BETTER FUTURE
Key highlights
Annual Report 2022-23
2
Capri Global Capital Limited
RAPIDLY EXPANDING SCALE
736
Branches
9,076
Employees
163,608
Live accounts
1.29 Lakh people benefitted till date, through 
our various initiatives
Health Initiatives 
81,814 Being benefited through our 
health interventions operated by us
Livelihood Initiatives 
33,647 Empowered through the various 
interventions under skilling and livelihood initiative
Integrated Rural Development 
1,500 Beneficiaries were part of our 
initiative
Education Initiatives 
5,787 Children from the 
underprivileged communities are benefited
Animal Welfare 
2,237 Received adequate care, housing 
and management to ensure their well-being
Sustainable Environment 
4,000 Trees were planted
Introduced Perimeter 
firewall security to 
filter all incoming 
internet traffic
Designed a 
document-processing 
engine to perform 
quality check on 
applications
100% of work 
moved to cloud-based 
platfroms
Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) and Data 
Analytics used to 
ensure system security
Net worth (adjusted for DTAs)
H35,179 Million
Assets under management (AUM)
H103,204 Million
Return on assets
2.32 %*
Profit after tax (PAT)
H2,047 Million
(*₹ 2,855 Million adjusted for loss in  
Gold Loan business)
(*3.33% adjusted for loss in Gold Loan business)
3
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> > > 
ROBUST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
STRONG TECHNOLOGICAL CAPABILITIES 
GOING BEYOND BUSINESS 
Message from the Managing Director
THROUGH OUR 
JUDICIOUS 
DECISION-MAKING
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
 
Dear Shareholders,
It is my pleasure to present the Annual Report for 
the year ended March 31, 2023. I feel optimistic 
about the future of CGCL and am confident that 
we will continue to innovate new ways to make 
credit easily accessible to those in need.
We believe in the quote “Times and conditions 
change so rapidly that we must keep our aim 
constantly focused on the future.” At CGCL, we 
have been at the forefront of revolutionising the 
credit landscape in India and will continue to 
do so with superior zest. We are committed to 
enriching the customer experience, no matter 
how challenging the environment is.
FY2023 – A YEAR OF UPS  
AND DOWNS
The year 2023 was marked by severe inflationary 
pressure, geopolitical unrest and the resurgence 
of Covid-19 variants, especially in China. Despite 
this, several economies emerged successful in 
grappling with these challenges, bolstered by 
stronger-than-expected private consumption 
and investment amid tight labour markets. The 
start of 2023 looks promising, with fiscal support, 
increased spending on pent-up demand and a 
positive business environment with supply-side 
bottlenecks beginning to ease. India is set to 
remain one of the fastest-growing economies 
in the world, with strong fiscal, monetary and 
budgetary interventions expected to keep the 
country on track to become a $5 Trillion economy 
by 2027. This was further re-emphasised by the 
Indian government in the Union Budget 2023-24.
Annual Report 2022-23
4
Capri Global Capital Limited
OUR COMMITMENT TO  
INCLUSIVE GROWTH
At CGCL, we completely resonate with the 
government’s agenda of inclusive growth and 
continue to strive towards driving financial 
inclusion across the Indian hinterlands. The Indian 
financial sector is undergoing rapid expansion 
and NBFCs play a crucial role in financial inclusion, 
by offering tailored solutions to individuals 
and groups who are otherwise excluded from 
banking services. We operate in locations where 
banking services are unavailable partially or 
completely, providing last-mile connection to the 
unorganised sector of society. Further, we also 
undertake a variety of CSR initiatives focusing on 
sustainable livelihood opportunities, education, 
healthcare and integrated rural development. Till 
date, we have positively impacted over 2.7 Lakh 
beneficiaries through our initiatives.
GROWING FROM STRENGTH  
TO STRENGTH
In the past few months, we conducted an 
extensive examination of our organisation, 
analysing each offering, introducing new ones 
and evaluating our confidence in their ability to 
generate sustainable revenue and stakeholder 
value in the long run.
In August 2022, we launched the Gold Loan 
business with 108 branches. Within a short span 
of seven months, we scaled up to 562 branches 
across 7 States and Union Territories.  Our other 
businesses also witnessed significant growth.
GROWTH ACROSS OUR BUSINESSES
Business
AUM
(₹ Million)
Growth 
(Y-o-Y)
MSME 
lending
43,580
32%
Housing 
Finance
26,657
53%
Gold Loans
11,256
NA
Construction 
Finance
18,301 
45%
Indirect 
Lending
3,408
9%
Car Loan 
Distribution
56,728
3.5x
Our consolidated AUM grew by 56% to ₹ 103,204 
Million. Net Income stood at ₹ 9,081 Million. 
Despite rising cost of funds, due to the policy 
tightening initiated by RBI during the year, the 
Net Interest Margin was robust at 8.5%. Credit cost 
*including co-lending AUM of ₹ 5,004 Million in MSME 
and ₹ 465 Million in Housing Finance
declined by 39% to ₹ 642 Million. Despite a sharp 
127% increase in operating expenses, due to rapid 
expansion specifically in Gold Loan business, we 
delivered a PAT of ₹ 2,047 Million, nearly the same 
as FY 2022 level of ₹ 2,050 Million. Adjusted for the 
income and opex in Gold Loan vertical, our FY 2023 
PAT would be 39% higher at ₹ 2,855 Million.
Post consolidation in FY2019 and FY2020, we 
have sustained our steady and strong growth 
momentum. Our AUM has tripled over FY2020 and 
we strive to maintain this momentum. We expect 
to triple our AUM again, and cross ₹300 Billion 
by FY2027 with ₹80 Billion contribution from our 
recently introduced Gold Loan business.
LEADING WITH TECHNOLOGY
A large part of our success is credited to the 
technology we use. We have set up digital 
payments infrastructure to enable us to develop 
integrated e-payment solutions for both 
collections and disbursements. CapriPedia is our 
learning application available across all regions 
with increased accessibility to online learning 
modules. Using AI, ML and data analytics, we 
built our own OCR and KYC engine, data analytics 
platform and car loan leads app. We also set 
up our own data repository to enable business 
insights. In the near future, we plan to develop 
a customer service app, a CLM analytics model 
for seamless co-lending and a DSA platform to 
create alternate lead channels across businesses.
As we look ahead, we remain committed to our 
innovation journey to keep pace with changing 
times. Despite facing near-term vulnerabilities, 
we are well-positioned to achieve sustainable 
growth. We value our customers and constantly 
strive to adapt to emerging trends and customer 
needs. Our customer-centric approach, unique 
offerings, in-house sourcing and collection 
models,  alongside a well-funded balance sheet 
put us in a sweet spot to capture and retain market 
leadership. We will continue to invest in evolving 
technologies and leverage our brand to fortify 
our position.
In closing, I would like to express my deepest 
gratitude for the unwavering support from all our 
valued stakeholders. I would also like to extend 
my heartfelt appreciation to my colleagues on 
the Board, for their valuable contributions and to 
all our employees for their hard work towards our 
business endeavours. We look forward to your 
continued support and encouragement.
Best wishes, 
Rajesh Sharma
Managing Director
5
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
C 
C 
<-===-
BY ESTABLISHING  
A ROBUST BUSINESS
Corporate overview
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Annual Report 2022-23
6
Capri Global Capital Limited
Addressing the capital need of North and West India, Capri Global Capital Limited 
(CGCL) is a diversified non-banking financial company (NBFC) striving to achieve 
financial inclusive growth and revolutionising credit. In conjunction with its wholly-
owned subsidiary, Capri Global Housing Finance Limited (CGHFL), we are making 
finance easily available to those without access to formal credit channels.
Leveraging technology and smart analytics, our wide-ranging product portfolio caters to the myriad 
needs of our customers and drives financial inclusion while making a substantial contribution to the 
government’s ‘Housing for All by 2022’ agenda.
•	 MSME loans
•	 Gold Loan
•	 Affordable housing
Our primary focus is on home loans, tailor-made business and term loans for MSMEs while our goal is 
to provide hassle-free loans to our customers.
MSMEs
Individuals
•	 Restaurants
•	 Small manufacturing units
•	 Traders 
•	 Private schools
•	 Other businesses
•	 Self-employed non-professionals (SENPs)
•	 First-generation entrepreneurs
•	 Underserved women borrowers
WHO WE CATER TO
29,500+ 
Dream homes financed 
until March 31, 2023
37,800+ 
Businesses financed 
until March 31, 2023
•	 Construction finance
•	 Indirect lending
•	 Car loan distribution
7
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
MARKET SEGMENT PRESENCE 
MISSION 
Our mission is to revolutionise the way credit 
works in India, with our flexible loans. We 
deliver credit to a wide spectrum of MSMEs 
and individuals with limited credit history, 
to drive a financial and social impact for our 
customers and society at large.
JOURNEY
Our journey began in 2011 and over the years, we have built a reputation for our strong customer orientation 
and ability to deliver value to our stakeholders. On the back of our customer-centric approach, innovative 
financial solutions, strong corporate governance, skilled team and risk management practices, we are 
committed to excellence in everything we do – with financial inclusion, as our underlying goal.
VISION
Our vision is to address the needs of the 
underserved by deploying capital that 
facilitates a change for good.
VALUES
The Determined and Enterprising
Access to capital creates opportunities. But, in our 
country most of it is held by a few and rarely reaches 
the ones who genuinely need it. We aim to bridge 
this gap through our services.
Capital as a Change for Good
The right capital at the right time has the potential to 
create opportunities and trigger the cycle of change 
for good. Enriching lives beyond financial returns to 
give families access to health, education opportunities 
and a better quality life. Every day, we act as a catalyst 
for this change.
The beginnings
•	 Raised ₹4.45 Billion equity 
capital
•	 Started the Construction 
Finance business
Broadening horizons
•	 Expanded branches to 
five states
•	 Crossed the ₹10 Billion 
AUM mark
•	 Secured CARE A+ rating
Rising higher
•	 Started the Housing 
Finance business
•	 Expanded reach to 66 
branches with 1,350 
employee strength
Spreading our wings
•	 Forayed into MSME 
lending business
Annual Report 2022-23
8
Capri Global Capital Limited
~ 
Collective Social Growth and Well-being
The well-being of society at large doesn’t stem 
from wealth of a few, but the economic and social 
progress of all. The loans we give to the MSME 
sector and for the provision of affordable housing 
to the underserved, has a domino effect that 
goes well beyond the scope of our customers. 
People Take Priority
We see the individual behind the business as a human, 
first and customer, second. We are motivated by the 
financial and social well-being of the lives we touch and 
their families. We believe that their personal progress 
will get us across the finish line.
Exhibiting resilience during tough 
times (Covid-19 pandemic era)
•	 Crossed the ₹50 Billion AUM mark
•	 Ventured into third-party distribution 
of new car loans
•	 Established co-lending tie up with 
SBI and Union Bank
•	 Expanded reach to 110 branches 
across 11 states and UTs
•	 Employee count strengthened 
further to 2,800+
Revolutionising credit, changing lives
•	 Expanded reach to 736 branches 
across 15 states and UTs
•	 Commenced Gold Loan business 
and attained robust  momentum 
within 8 months of launch , with AUM 
touching ₹11.3 Billion and network 
spanning 562 branches across 7 
States and UTs
•	 Crossed the ₹ 100 Billion AUM mark
•	 Employee count strengthened 
further to 9,000+
•	 Certified as Great Place to Work® 
second year in a row
Achieving greater heights
•	 Announced foray into 
Gold Loan business
Identity Beyond Economic Status
Every person has the potential to change his or her 
life. Our role is to give them the support they need 
to take the reins. We hope to level the playing field 
for the economically weaker segments of the society, 
who remain underserved. Rather than labelling 
individuals without a credit history as credit unworthy, 
we assess a customer’s repayment capabilities 
through a unique discussion-based approach. 
One Team. One Purpose.
9,000+ dedicated employees, numerous departments 
and multiple locations - all united by a single goal. Each 
of us, has a unique role to play as we work towards 
delivering opportunities for change.
9
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
GOLD LOANS
MSME
42%
26%
11%
18%
3%
HOUSING FINANCE
INDIRECT LENDING
CONSTRUCTION FINANCE
AUM OF OUR BUSINESSES IN FY2023
*including share of Co-Lending AUM 4.8% 
in MSME and 0.5% in Housing Finance
Annual Report 2022-23
10
Capri Global Capital Limited
LENDING PARTNERS
(as on March 31, 2023)
11
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
OSBI 
NABARD 
~QCP 
- - ---Canara Bank 
YES 
BANK 
h 
aiftl;-~ 
Bank of Maharashtra 
'lfl'ffl~i!!ire!PJ 
Indian Overseas Bank 
lfJPunjab & Sind Bank 
(A Govt. of lndla Undertaking) 
Where service is a way of life 
• ~hi•~ 
~ 
Bank of Baroda 
LIC 
~ 
ultcr-, ~ 
fl'r",r,, 
LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 
UCO BANK 
NABKISAN 
~{ationsliip 6eyond 6anRjng 
HDFC BANK 
sidbi 
BY ESTABLISHING A 
STRONG FOOTPRINT
We are continuously strengthening our retail footprint, with over 736 branches 
spread across the Northern and Western parts of India. Our deep understanding of 
the financial needs of India’s underserved and unbanked segments, motivates us to 
strengthen our capabilities and contribute to inclusive financial growth. 
State
Rajasthan
Madhya Pradesh
Gujarat
Haryana
Maharashtra
Delhi
Uttar Pradesh
Uttarakhand
Punjab
Chhattisgarh
Telangana
Karnataka
Bihar
West Bengal
Chandigarh
Total
Branches
194
135
120
93
85
52
41
4
3
2
2
2
1
1
1
736
619  
New branches 
added this year
450 Car 
Loan distribution 
locations
Car Loan distribution 
presence in 
29 
States and Union 
Territories
Branch presence in
15 States and 
Union Territories
OVERALL 
PRESENCE
EXCLUSIVE CAR LOAN 
DISTRIBUTION BRANCHES
CONSTRUCTION 
FINANCE BRANCHES
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Presence
Amritsar
Jalandhar
Chandigarh
Lucknow
Patna
Kolkata
Hyderabad
Bengaluru
Surat
States
Rajasthan
Madhya Pradesh
Gujarat
Haryana
Maharashtra
Delhi
Uttar Pradesh
Uttarakhand
Total
Branches
135
100
96
90
67
51
22
1
562
Bengaluru
Ahmedabad
Hyderabad
GOLD LOAN 
BRANCHES
Annual Report 2022-23
12
Capri Global Capital Limited
Branch presence
Construction Finance branches 
Exclusive Car Loan Distribution branches
Gold Loan branches
736 
branches 
as of March 31, 2023
13
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
THROUGH OUR 
CUSTOMISED AND 
INCLUSIVE OFFERINGS
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Businesses
Annual Report 2022-23
14
Capri Global Capital Limited
Our aim is to be a trusted partner to our clients and help them achieve their financial 
goals. Therefore, we thus, focus on providing personalised, efficient and flexible 
financial solutions to meet their specific needs. Through our businesses, we remain 
committed to our overarching objective of promoting positive social change and 
facilitating financial inclusivity. 
MSME
Average LTV^
~52%
Portfolio Yield*
15.3%
CONSTRUCTION 
FINANCE
Asset Cover
2x
Portfolio Yield*
16.5%
HOUSING 
FINANCE
Average LTV^
~55%
Portfolio Yield*
12.3%
INDIRECT 
LENDING 
Asset Cover
1.05x
Portfolio Yield*
13.4%
CAR  
LOAN 
Number of car 
loans originated 
51,384 
Average ticket size
H1.1 Million
GOLD 
LOAN
Average LTV^
~72%
Portfolio Yield*
16.4%
^Average LTV on disbursements during FY2023. 
*Average of quarterly weighted yield during FY2023.
15
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
---======-,> 
::::> 
::::> 
MSME 
Contributing to almost half of our AUM share, 
MSME is our major business segment. Most of 
our customers have limited access to formal 
credit systems, thus limiting their growth. 
We create customised financial solutions 
for small business owners such as provision 
store owners, retail outlet owners, handicraft 
manufacturers and those providing necessary 
services such as education, transportation 
and healthcare. Using our services, they can 
purchase equipment, machinery and vehicles. 
To expand our reach in the MSME segment, we 
have established a co-lending partnership with 
the State Bank of India and Union Bank of India.
Ticket Size: ₹ 0.2-20 Million
Average ticket size: ₹ 1.7 Million
Tenure: Up to 15 years
Security: First and exclusive charge 
on collateral property with clean and 
marketable titles
Average LTV: ~52%^
Portfolio yield: 15.3%*
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF MSME LOANS
Haryana 1%
Madhya 
Pradesh 30%
Gujarat 18%
Rajasthan 28%
Delhi 13%
Maharashtra 7%
Uttar Pradesh 2%
H43,580* Million
AUM
H17,525* Million
Disbursement
27,164
Live accounts
OVERVIEW
Portfolio: Loan against residential/
commercial/industrial properties with 
clean and markable titles
*including Co-Lending AUM of ₹ 5,004 Million and Co-Lending disbursements of ₹ 3,894 Million
Punjab 1%
^Average LTV on disbursements during FY2023. 
*Average of quarterly weighted yield during FY2023.
Annual Report 2022-23
16
Capri Global Capital Limited
H26,657 Million
AUM
H12,893* Million
Disbursement
24,335
Live accounts
Since 2016, through our wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Capri Global Housing Finance 
Limited (CGHFL), we have been offering 
home loans to the middle and lower-middle-
income population. We primarily cater to the 
housing finance needs of the underserved 
population, in Tier-1 and Tier-2 cities, to 
enable them in buying a new house or 
refurbishing an existing one. Through our 
160+ branches spread across 6 Indian states, 
we have serviced over 29,500 customers. We 
are committed to expanding our reach and 
bringing in more tech infrastructure, to align 
with the government’s flagship ‘Housing for 
All’ scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana.
HOUSING
FINANCE
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF HOME LOANS
Uttar Pradesh 2%
Madhya 
Pradesh 39%
Gujarat 18%
Rajasthan 14%
Delhi 9%
Maharashtra 18%
OVERVIEW
Portfolio: Home loans for the purchase of 
residential units, construction and extension, 
renovation of homes, plot purchase and home 
equity loans 
Ticket size: ₹0.2- 15 Million 
Average ticket size: ₹1.1 Million
Tenure: Up to 25 years
Security: First and exclusive charge 
on mortgage property with clean and 
marketable titles
Average LTV: ~55%^
Portfolio yield: 12.3%*
*including Co-lending AUM of ₹ 465 Million and Co-lending disbursement of ₹ 465 Million
^Average LTV on disbursements during FY2023. 
*Average of quarterly weighted yield during FY2023.
17
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
Uttar Pradesh 5%
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF GOLD LOANS
Madhya Pradesh 17%
Haryana 18%
Rajasthan 29%
Delhi 8%
Maharashtra 9%
Gujarat 14%
OVERVIEW
Portfolio: Loan against gold jewellery
Ticket size: ₹ 3,000 to ₹ 3 Million
Average ticket size outstanding:    
₹ 0.12 Million 
Tenure: Up to 1 year
Security: Hypothecation of gold 
ornaments (18- to 22-carat gold) with a 
maximum LTV of 75%
Average LTV: ~72%^
Portfolio yield: 16.4%*
GOLD
LOANS
Gold Loan is our most recent offering, 
launched in August 2022. We offer credit up 
to 75% of the value of the gold pledged for 
tenures from 6 to 12 months with multiple 
repayment options. Our state-of-the-art and 
spacious branches with an average area of 600-
800 square feet are all secured by AI-driven 
security systems with gold jewellery secured in 
vaults with SRD doors. Our quick processing 
and minimal documentation, without any need 
for income proof or credit history, make our 
offering attractive to our customers. 
H11,256 Million
AUM
H18,812 Million
Disbursement
111,894
Live accounts
^Average LTV on disbursements during FY2023. 
*Average of quarterly weighted yield during FY2023.
Annual Report 2022-23
18
Capri Global Capital Limited
Since 2011, we have been offering flexible 
financing options to real estate small and mid-
sized real estate developers to enable them, 
to gain the necessary advantage, to complete 
their project on time and enhance their brand 
equity. Flexible financing enables developers 
to abide by timelines amidst challenging 
environment. With a granular portfolio, 
comprehensive project selection and credit 
appraisal framework in place, we keep our risks 
under check. We offer competitive rates for 
high quality, multi-family real estate projects. 
Quicker turnaround time and adherance 
to best industry practices ensures repeat 
business from customers.
Ticket size: ₹20- 600 Million 
Average ticket size outstanding: 
₹70.1 Million
Tenure: Less than 7 years
Security: Exclusive lending with escrow 
mechanism, minimum 2x of loan 
outstanding
Asset cover: 1.5x
Portfolio yield: 16.5%*
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF CONSTRUCTION 
FINANCE LOANS
OVERVIEW
Portfolio: Construction-linked 
loans to small and mid-sized real 
estate developers
Chennai 1%
Vijaywada 1%
Surat 1%
Others 5%
Pune 16%
Bengaluru 10%
Delhi-NCR 4%
Ahmedabad 26%
Mumbai 
MMR 27%
Hyderabad 7%
Jaipur 2%
H18,301 Million
AUM
H14,406 Million
Disbursement
196
Live accounts
CONSTRUCTION
FINANCE
*Average of quarterly weighted yield during FY2023.
19
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
Ticket size: ₹30-1,000 Million 
Average ticket size outstanding:   
₹50 Million
Tenure: 1-3 years
Security: Hypothecation of  receivables 
with a minimum 1.05x cover
Asset cover: 1.05x
Portfolio yield: 13.4%*
GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF  INDIRECT LOANS
Haryana 8%
Telangana 6%
Karnataka 4%
Kerala 2%
Rajasthan 1%
Gujarat 6%
Delhi 8%
Maharashtra 65%
INDIRECT
LENDING
Through our passive product of indirect lending, 
we offer credit to other NBFCs engaging in 
MSME lending and microfinance. We also 
cater to fintech-based NBFCs and provide 
loans against pledge of debt securities, to 
borrowers dealing in debt securities. We have 
resumed lending to customers who approach 
us, post a small hiatus between October 2018 
to December 2020. We had strategically taken 
a break during the DHFL & IL&FS default, that 
created severe liquidity crunch for NBFC’s, to 
avoid any collateral damage. 
OVERVIEW
Portfolio: Financing to other NBFCs 
engaged in MSME lending and 
microfinance fintech-based NBFCs
H3,408 Million
AUM
H12,825 Million
Disbursement
20
Live accounts
*Average of quarterly weighted yield during FY2023.
Annual Report 2022-23
20
Capri Global Capital Limited
Car Loans originated:  
₹ 56,728 Million
Car Loans originated (nos.): 51,384
Ticket size: ₹ 1.1 Million 
Gross fee earned: ₹ 1,437 Million 
Net fee earned: ₹ 1,179 Million
With a presence in 450 locations in 29 States 
and Union Territories (UTs), we distribute new 
car loan products of Bank of Baroda, Bank 
of India, HDFC Bank, Indian Bank, Indian 
Overseas Bank, Yes Bank, Punjab and Sind 
Bank and Union Bank of India,  through our 
feet-on-street sales force. Apart from this, we 
have nine exclusive branches. This asset-light 
model generates fee income, where we refer 
the bank and assist the borrower in having 
a hassle-free disbursement with the fastest 
turnaround time. We are one of the largest 
players in this segment. 
CAR
LOANS
OVERVIEW
H56,728 Million
Value of car loans 
originated
51,384 
Number of car loans 
originated
H1.1 Million
Average 
ticket size
21
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
• 
• 
LOAN 
A Chartered Accountant by profession, 
Mr. Rajesh Sharma has a rich and 
diverse experience of nearly three 
decades in Capital Market and Financial 
Advisory Services. A first-generation 
entrepreneur, his proficiency spreads 
across financial segments of corporate 
finance, investment banking, merchant 
banking and asset financing. He 
has played a vital role in sustainably 
strengthening the capabilities of the 
Company and accelerating both growth 
and profitability.  
Mr. Sharma is a strong believer in 
the principles of ethics, economic 
empowerment and equitable growth. 
His profound knowledge in the debt 
markets is a strong asset for the 
Company. A forward thinker and a keen 
observer, he is a crucial part of the entire 
stakeholder value-creation process. He 
envisions making Capri Global one of 
India’s premier financial institutions. 
WITH EXPERTISE, 
EXPERIENCE AND 
LEADERSHIP
MR. RAJESH SHARMA 
Managing Director
MS. BHAGYAM RAMANI 
Independent Director
MR. MUKESH KACKER 
Independent Director
With a Master’s Degree in Economics 
from the University of Mumbai, Ms. 
Bhagyam Ramani specialises in 
Industrial and Monetary Economics. 
During the period of 2009 to 2012, 
Ms. Ramani served as the Director 
in General Insurance Corporation 
of India.
A key asset for the Company, Ms. 
Ramani, also serves the Board of 
distinguished companies, including 
Saurashtra Cement Ltd., Lloyds Metals 
and Energy Ltd., and NSE Clearing 
Limited as Independent Director.
With a Master’s Degree in Economics 
from Harvard University, Bachelor 
of Science and Master of Political 
Science Degrees from the Allahabad 
University, Mr. Mukesh Kacker served 
the Government of India for over 
thirty years, as a member of Indian 
Administrative Service (IAS). He has 
made some remarkable contributions 
in planning and executing a major 
portion of the Golden Quadrilateral, 
while serving as a member of National 
Highway Authority of India.
Mr. Kacker has made significant 
contributions in drafting the 
National Policy on Petrochemicals 
and conceptualising the policy on 
Investment Regions, while serving as 
Joint Secretary (Petrochemicals). He 
was inducted as Member, Task Force on 
Infrastructure Development and Mega 
Projects by the Government of India.
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Board of Directors
Annual Report 2022-23
22
Capri Global Capital Limited
Our visionary leadership is the driving force behind the success of our organisation. 
They are committed to excellence and share a common vision for the future. 
With their strategic decisions, insightful guidance and unwavering dedication, our 
Company continues to scale new heights.
MR. BENI PRASAD RAUKA 
Independent Director
MR. AJIT SHARAN 
Independent Director
MR. DESH RAJ DOGRA 
Independent Director
Chartered Accountant and Company 
Secretary by profession, Mr. Rauka has 
over three decades of post-qualification 
experience in the field of accounting, 
audit, taxation, fundraising, compliance 
and management.
Mr. Rauka is group Chief Financial 
Officer of one of the listed companies 
of the SEB Group, which is among the 
Top 500 BSE/NSE companies. He also 
serves as a Director in other public/
private limited companies and a 
listed company. He makes remarkable 
contributions in the field of philanthropy 
as a Member of the CSR committee/s 
of the Board and as a trustee of certain 
charitable trusts.
A Graduate from IIT Delhi, with 
Post-graduate degrees in Business 
Administration from Louisiana State 
University (US) and Development 
Economics from the University of 
Wales (UK), Mr. Sharan has served the 
Government of India as a Member of the 
Indian Administrative Service since 1979. 
Mr. Sharan has served the State 
Government of Haryana and the 
Government of India under several senior 
roles. He has held the positions of Principal 
Secretary for Power, Finance, Technical 
Education and Urban Development in 
the state. He was a Joint Secretary in the 
Department of Banking and Insurance with 
the central government. He has played a 
key role in the opening of the insurance 
sector and the initial reforms. He has 
worked as Secretary to the Government 
in the Ministries of Sports and Ayush. 
Mr. Sharan serves as Independent Director 
on the Board of Dabur India Limited.
An MBA in Finance from FMS, 
University of Delhi and a Post-graduate 
in Agriculture from Himachal Pradesh 
University, boasts of four decades 
of rich experience in the financial 
sector and credit administration. He 
is a Certified Associate of the Indian 
Institute of Bankers. 
Mr. Dogra retired as the Chief Executive 
Officer and Managing Director at Credit 
Analysis and Research Limited (CARE) in 
August 2016. Until September 2016, he 
was also Vice Chairperson and Public 
Interest Director at Metropolitan Stock 
Exchange of India Ltd. He also worked 
with Dena Bank for over 15 years prior to 
his stint with CARE.
Mr. Dogra makes significant 
contribution as Independent Director 
on the Board of several prominent 
companies, including S Chand and 
Company Ltd., Asirvad Micro Finance 
Ltd., M Power Micro Finance Pvt Ltd, G 
R Infraprojects Limited, IFB Industries 
Ltd. and Axiscades Technologies Ltd.
            
23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
C 
C 
<-===-
BY MAINTAINING A 
STEADY PROGRESS
During FY2023, we witnessed robust performance across all verticals including 
the new business of car loans and gold loans.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
NET WORTH
(H in Million)
13,593
15,240
16,916
18,858
35,179
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
27%
TOTAL INCOME                                 
(H in Million)
5,913
7,195
7,371
9,818
14,650
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
25%
PROFIT AFTER TAX                            
(H in Million)
1,357
1,612
1,770
2,050
2,047
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
11%
EARNINGS PER SHARE*                    
(H)
7.75
9.21
10.10
11.17
11.06
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
9%
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Key performance indicators
* Net worth before adjustment of Deferred Tax Assets for FY 2023/
FY2022 /FY2021/FY2020/FY2019 was ₹ 35,655 Million / ₹19,225 Million 
/ ₹17,173 Million / ₹ 15,392 Million / ₹ 13,827 Million respectively.
* ₹ 2,855 Million / 20% CAGR adjusted for initial loss in Gold 
Loan business
* Basic
Annual Report 2022-23
24
Capri Global Capital Limited
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
TOTAL ASSETS                                   
(H in Million)
42,770
44,455
58,131
71,528
117,946
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
29%
BOOK VALUE PER SHARE*               
(H in Million)
78.95
87.89
96.50
107.40
170.64
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
21%
MSME* 
(H in Million)
19,709
20,466
25,114
31,911
43,580
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
22%
HOUSING LOAN*
(H in Million)
7,926
8,982
11,553
17,474
26,657
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
35%
*Including co-lending AUM
*Including co-lending AUM
*CGCL raised ₹14.4bn equity during FY23, which boosted BVPS
25
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
---======-> 
::::> 
::::> 
I 
~ I I I 
CONSTRUCTION FINANCE 
(H in Million)
12,009
9,619
8,734
12,662
18,301
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
11%
INDIRECT LENDING
(H in Million)
1,388
1,280
3,079
3,128
3,408
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
25%
MSME* 
(H in Million)
7,720
5,019
7,096
12,463
17,525
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
23%
HOUSING LOAN* 
(H in Million)
5,090
2,511
3,725
7,845
12,893
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
26%
GOLD LOANS   
(H in Million)
NA
NA
NA
NA
11,259
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
DISBURSALS
*Including co-lending
*Including co-lending
Annual Report 2022-23
26
Capri Global Capital Limited
I 
GOLD LOANS   
(H in Million)
NA
NA
NA
NA
18,812
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CONSTRUCTION FINANCE 
(H in Million)
8,858
4,216
4,172
9,237
14,406
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
13%
INDIRECT LENDING                           
(H in Million)
6,757
968
10,464
14,467
12,825
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
CAGR
17%
CAR LOAN ORIGINATIONS               
(H in Million)
17,020
56,728
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
FY23
NA
NA
NA
Y-o-Y
3.3x
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 
•	 Assets Under Management increased 56% Y-o-Y to 
₹ 103.2 Billion, with the MSME segment continuing to 
dominate the lion’s share at 42%. Housing Finance, Gold 
Loans, Construction Finance and Indirect Lending formed 
26%, 11%, 18% and 3% respectively.
•	 Disbursals touched ₹ 76,461 Million, growing 74% Y-o-Y. 
The share of retail disbursals was a cumulative 76%. This 
was contributed by MSME, Housing Finance and Gold 
Loans in proportion 24%, 18% and 34% respectively.
•	 As part of our growth strategy, we continued expanding 
our urban retail network deeper and in contiguous 
geographies. We added 50 Urban Retail branches during 
the year. 
•	 Our non-gold loan branch network stood at 174, taking 
our total branch network to 736 spread across 15 States 
and UTs.
27
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
~> > > 
C) 
C) 
C) 
As the global financial landscape continues to evolve, driven by rapid technological 
advancements, changing regulatory frameworks and shifting customer preferences, 
we at CGCL, have successfully adapted and thrived amidst the challenges, 
demonstrating strong resilience and foresight. We have always used macroeconomic 
trends to our advantage through our proactive approach and competitive edge, 
thus navigating the complexities of today’s financial ecosystem.
MSME LENDING
MSMEs account for ~35% of total credit 
exposure in India, with the majority of it parked 
with private and public sector banks. However, 
due to high NPAs, high processing times, higher 
cost and a number of capital challenges, banks 
face issues in financing MSMEs. On the other 
hand, due to their low servicing cost, higher 
outreach and higher loan eligibility with shorter 
turnaround time, MSMEs prefer NBFCs as their 
credit partners. MSME Pulse Reports indicate 
stronger asset quality in ₹1-5 Million subsegment 
of MSME. 
How we leverage this opportunity
At CGCL, we focus on ticket sizes of ₹1-2 Million, 
thus being at the right place at the right time. 
Further, under the co-lending mechanism 
introduced by RBI, we have partnered with Union 
Bank of India, State Bank of India and Punjab and 
Sind Bank for co-originating loans in the MSME 
segment. We are in the process of setting up 
a new tech platform to ensure our co-lending 
proposals are seamlessly integrated with the 
co-lending partners’ system.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
India’s mortgage market is expanding due 
to rising urbanisation and an increase in 
housing demand. According to the ‘White 
Paper - Indian Housing Industry’ by research 
and consultancy firm RNCOS, it was expected 
that the urban shortage will reach 34.1 Million 
units by 2022. Over 90% of the shortage 
corresponds to lower income group and 
economically weaker sections.
₹26,657 
Million 
(including co-lending) 
AUM achieved under 
Affordable Housing 
during the year
₹5,004 
Million 
AUM achieved under 
MSME co-lending 
during the year
₹3,894 
Million 
Disbursals achieved 
under MSME co-lending 
during the year
BY LEVERAGING 
MARKET 
OPPORTUNITIES
Source:NHB
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Here is a glimpse of the evolving landscape in which we operate:
Operating context
FY02
FY03
FY04
FY05
FY06
FY07
FY08
FY09
FY10
FY11
FY12
FY13
FY14
FY15
FY16
FY17
FY18
FY19
FY20
FY21
FY22
Individual HLs/GDP (%)
5 period Mov. Avg.[Individual HLs/GDP (%)] 
3.2
3.9
5.1
6.2
7.4
7.6
7.3
7.5
7.2
6.8
6.6
7.1
7.3
7.9
8.5
8.6
9.1
9.5
9.8
11.2
10.5
Annual Report 2022-23
28
Capri Global Capital Limited
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
-
.,. 
.,. 
.,. 
-
.,. -
.,. 
.,. 
■ 
How we leverage this opportunity
Our gold loan offerings are based on trust. 
Minimum documentation, turnaround time 
of 30 minutes, attractive RoI and a dedicated 
relationship manager are some of the 
advantages we offer to our gold loan customers. 
Further, we offer 100% insurance of gold 
ornaments and have AI-powered safety vaults 
in all our branches. 
CONSTRUCTION FINANCE
The Indian construction industry, the engine 
of the economy, was estimated at $ 738.5 
Billion in 2022. The spike in government capital 
expenditure is providing a strong boost to 
the sector growth, while increased focus on 
renewable energy, transport, health and housing 
infrastructure is expected to propel the sector 
further. The industry is witnessing massive 
growth led by an emphasis on rebuilding 
infrastructure, sustainable buildings, smart 
cities and an accelerated pace of adoption of 
technological advancements. 
How we leverage this opportunity
We offer loans to small and mid-sized real estate 
developers through a robust framework of 
project selection and credit appraisal. We offer 
competitive rates for high-quality, multi-family 
real estate projects and provide a cash flow cover 
of 2x and asset cover of 1.5x.
How we leverage this opportunity
We serve the middle and lower income 
population in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities through 
our network of 160 branches. We have strong 
synergies with our urban retail sales team, which 
is resulting in strong AUM for our business.
GOLD LOAN
The gold loan market is expanding rapidly, 
from ₹2.3 Trillion in FY2017 to an estimate of 
₹5.9 Trillion in FY2024. The market is largely 
dominated by public sector units and gold 
NBFCs, with other NBFCs, urban co-operative 
banks and private banks occupying lesser share. 
Moreover, gold NBFC players are primarily 
running their business in South India, gradually 
expanding into other regions as well. 
Unorganised
Organised
65%
35%
Source:Industry estimates
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
29
> 
■ 
■ 
Our differentiated business approach of lending to new-to-credit customers, 
women entrepreneurs and the Self-employed Non-Professional (SENP) category 
of borrowers has earned us a distinct reputation in the NBFC space. We are well 
poised to leverage our strengths across business segments and grow sustainably, in 
conjunction with the growing Indian economy through:
PRODUCT EXPANSIONS
We recognise the importance of new product 
categories in increasing our non-interest income 
and in the growth of our AUM. In the last three 
consecutive years, we have forayed into the three 
new product categories of car loans, co-lending 
and gold loans.
GEOGRAPHICAL EXPANSION
In the last three years, we have added 649 
new branches aiding business growth. We are 
committed to increasing penetration in Tier-2 
and Tier-3 cities where formal credit penetration 
is low. Over medium term, we aim to take the 
network of our Urban Retail branches to 250+, 
from 162 as of March 2023
TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENT
A significant part of the customer journey, 
from underwriting to disbursal and post-
disbursal customer relationship and collections 
management, relies on our digital capabilities. 
We have a team of 100+ proficient tech 
professionals engaged in coding, data analytics 
and system maintenance and support. We are 
cognisant of the crucial role technology plays 
in our growth journey and strive to up our ante 
in digitisation, technology and cybersecurity. 
We further undertook the following tech-led 
initiatives to boost our business:
•	 Contracted iFlex for loan management 
system
•	 Sales Mobility from Salesforce for customer 
relationship management
•	 In-house Car Loan Leads app for car loan 
origination business
•	 A brand new collections dashboard 
developed in-house with assistance from 
BCG, tracks daily ticket collections and 
manages the performance of collections 
executives
•	 Data management and storage fully on cloud 
servers with redundancy
THROUGH A  
WELL-PLANNED 
STRATEGY
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Strategy
Annual Report 2022-23
30
Capri Global Capital Limited
0 . i I ~ I 
-
-= 
---
--
--
= 
--
---
BY UNDERSTANDING 
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Our primary goal, since the inception of our operations, has been to ensure sustainable 
value creation for our stakeholders. To achieve this, we maintain regular engagement 
with them to discuss matters related to our Company and its future. This practice not 
only assists us in devising a more effective business strategy, but also enables us to 
identify and implement constructive solutions to address their concerns.
Stakeholders
Why they are important to us
How we engage with them
Customers
Customers are the crucial pillar of 
organisational growth in terms of AUM 
and earnings.
Our feet-on-street and branch employees 
provide all possible assistance to our customers 
pre, during and post loan processes. We also 
leverage our technical and digital capabilities to 
provide a seamless experience to our customers.
Employees
Employees form the backbone of 
CGCL’s business, especially because 
of the Company’s reliance on sourcing 
business fully in-house.
We have created attractive incentive structures, 
that include monetary as well as non-monetary 
incentives. We also provide training and 
development programme, career development 
opportunities and a dynamic work environment 
fostering both personal and professional growth.
Lending partners
Our lending partners are an essential 
component of our financial growth 
journey.
We have dedicated treasury team to continuously 
engage with lending partners. Treasury team 
appraises and coordinates with the lending 
partners for meeting the business requirements 
and ensure smooth tie-up.
Investors
Investors have enabled us to broaden 
institutional ownership of publicly 
traded equity. We received strong 
support from our existing and new 
investors, who subscribed to our ₹14,400 
Million Rights Issue.
We regularly engage with investors through post 
result conference calls, one-on-one meetings, 
branch visits and  investor conferences.
Consultants
Our consultants have made notable 
contributions to strengthen our 
products and processes.
We engage with leading consultants in the audit, 
advisory and technology domain, to leverage their 
expertise in their  respective domains.
Communities
Our business runs smoothly due to 
co-operation from the communities 
residing nearby.
Our ESG initiatives are aimed at making our 
contribution towards the betterment and 
upliftment of the environment and society 
at large.
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Stakeholder engagement
31
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
C 
C 
<-===-
We have always focused on delivering value to our stakeholders by providing 
innovative and customised financial solutions to meet their needs. Our aim is to 
always exceed customer expectations and our strong competitive edge plays a vital 
role in this endeavour.
EXPANDING BRANCH NETWORK 
•	 Our total branch network increased by 619 
branches to reach 736 branches during the year.
•	 Our Urban Retail branch network increased 
by 50 branches during the year. The Urban 
Retail business now has 162 branches across 
11 States and Union Territories.
•	 We launched our Gold Loan business in 
August 2022, with 108 exclusive branches. 
The network expanded to reach 562 branches 
across 8 States and Union Territories.
•	 We have three dedicated branches for 
our Construction Finance business in 
Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.
•	 We have set up nine branches exclusively for 
Car Loan Distribution in Amritsar, Jalandhar, 
Chandigarh, Lucknow, Patna, Kolkata, 
Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Surat.
•	 Our dedicated tech centre – CapriTech – is 
located in Gurugram. 
EFFICIENT OPERATIONS 
•	 We run our business using a hub and spoke 
model. Our centralised hub comprises the 
Area Managers, who are supported by sales-
only branches, comprising Branch Managers, 
Relationship Managers and credit resources. 
•	 Each hub serves a radius of 40-50 km.
•	 This technology-driven model enables low 
cost penetration in the underserved markets 
and optimised turnaround times
•	 We also benefit from economies of scale and 
uniformity, in operations.
DIVERSIFIED BORROWINGS 
•	 We do not face any exposure to short-term 
money market instruments.
•	 We continued to diversify our resource 
profile adding HDFC Bank, IDBI Bank, South 
Indian Bank and Punjab National Bank to our 
liability relationships, during the year.
MULTI-LAYERED CREDIT APPROACH 
•	 We follow a customised underwriting approach 
on the basis of the customer’s profile.
•	 The Credit team spends time with the 
customer to understand business dynamics 
and derive cashflows.
•	 We have in-house Legal, Technical and Fraud 
Control Units and have empanelled vendors 
for conducting due diligence and eliminating 
fraud risks.
BY STAYING AHEAD OF 
THE CURVE 
(₹ Mn)
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
The CGCL advantage
Annual Report 2022-23
32
Capri Global Capital Limited
FY 19 
FY20 
FY 21 
FY 22 
FY 23 
• SCB Borrowings 
• Refinance 
• NCDs 
WELL-POISED FOR  
MEDIUM-TERM GROWTH 
•	 We are in a comfortable liquidity position 
to safeguard against liquidity crunch and 
support future growth. This is possible due 
to strong capital adequacy, adequate cash 
balances and fresh credit lines.
•	 During the year ended March 31, 2023, we 
received fresh limits of ₹ 39.2 Billion from 
our lenders. As of March 31, 2023, we had 
undrawn credit lines worth ₹ 3.6 Billion.
OWN SOURCING MODEL 
•	 100% sourcing is done by regularly trained 
in-house Direct Sales Team (DSTs) or Feet on 
Street (FOS) staff; they also generate cross-
sell opportunities for insurance.
USING TECHNOLOGY TO  
OUR ADVANTAGE 
•	 An in-house tech team, AI, ML and data 
analytics are our key technology enablers.
•	 We use technology to support our 
underwriting process and our tools include:
	- Mobility applications, including sales and 
collections applications
	- Verification and screening tools and 
automated workflows 
	- Bureau Scrubs to get CIBIL information 
from Bureau for PAN numbers
	- Digitisation and score carding
•	 We offer e-payment solutions for both 
disbursements and collections.
•	 Capri Learning Application provides 
centrally disseminated and cured data and 
is available uniformly across all regions, with 
increased accessibility to online learning 
modules.
•	 Technology is extensively used for collections:
	- AI-based bot calling to customers 
	- State-of-the-art automated tele calling
	- Incentive-based gamification tool for 
collection employees
	- Live collections analytics dashboard
	- ML models of bounce and NPA predictions
	- Analytics-led customer risk profiling and 
action strategy
	- Industry-first legal system with automated 
processes
Consolidated Networth (₹ Mn)
•	 DSAs influence customers to transfer their 
balance to other lenders in pursuit of repeat 
commission; our DST model eliminates this.
•	 As of March 31, 2023, our cash balances, 
including short term liquid investments, 
stood at ₹ 16.5 Billion.
•	 We raised ₹ 14.4 Billion equity capital through 
a Rights Issue in March 2023. As of March 31, 
2023, our Capital Adequacy Ratio was at a 
robust 39.9% and sufficient to support our 
aspiration of growing AUM at 35% CAGR over 
medium-term.
*CGCL raised ₹14.4bn equity during FY23, which boosted Capital 
adequacy
CGCL Networth
33
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
35,655 
19,225 
17,173 
,466 
15,392 
13,827 
FY19 
FY20 
FY 21 
FY22 
FY23 
e CGHFL Surplus e Inv. In CGHFL (incl. premium) 
• 
> 
Capital Adequacy (%)* 
50.8 
FY19 
43.5 
FY20 
e CGCL 
47.0 
FY 21 
FY 22 
FY23 
e CGHFL 
We believe that strong Environment, Social & Governance (ESG) performance is key 
to long-term value creation for the Company and its stakeholders. For businesses 
to thrive, all ESG risks need to be addressed to create system resilience. During this 
year, we set up a dedicated department and team for ESG, formally kicking off our 
ESG transformation journey. We are developing a strong ESG strategy and action 
plan with defined KPIs in 5 focus areas namely environment, social, governance, 
impact and disclosures. All our interventions are mapped to the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
Disclosures
Communicate and 
engage stakeholders 
with utmost 
transparency
BY PRIORITISING ESG
Social
Build inclusive and 
equitable ecosystem
Environment
Lead environment 
stewardship within and 
outside the organization
Governance
Adopting a powerful 
governance mechanism 
to build a responsible 
business
Impact
Capital for good, by 
pioneering impact 
led investments
Disclosures
Communicate and 
engage stakeholders 
with utmost transparency
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Towards a robust ESG roadmap
34
Capri Global Capital Limited
Annual Report 2022-23
During the year, we conducted an ESG 
materiality assessment and outlined our 
key material topics, that are critical from the 
business and stakeholders’ perspectives. We 
conducted an initial baseline/gap assessment, 
with respect to various leading sustainability 
reporting and rating frameworks such as 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), S&P 
Corporate Sustainability Assessment, BRSR, 
etc. to understand the improvement areas.
Robust systems and processes are essential 
to imparting scalable and wide-level impact. 
During the year, we set up a greenhouse gas 
emissions inventory system for measuring 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We are also 
working towards introducing new policies 
and procedures, to further strengthen the 
ESG agenda.  We expect to track the relevant 
metrics in the years to come.
 We believe in creating value through impact-
driven investments that lead to responsible 
growth and carve out a better future, with 
ESG at the core of our business model. 
We conducted various sessions as part of 
stakeholder engagement and capacity 
building, to increase awareness on ESG across 
the organisation and with select external 
stakeholders. We conducted a social impact 
assessment of our business that demonstrates 
how CGCL has helped increase business 
productivity, improve housing conditions, 
provide access to living facilities, generate 
employment, have a positive environmental 
impact, promote an entrepreneurial spirit and 
increase credit worthiness. 
While we are setting our ESG objectives, our 
key focus will be on achieving these objectives 
through specific programme implementations 
and the integration of ESG principles across 
our business operations. During the next 
fiscal, we will continue our ESG transformation 
journey by:
•	 Working on a Net Zero roadmap by identifying 
decarbonisation levers and strategies for 
carbon reduction and offsetting
•	 Improving our occupational health and 
safety management system while ensuring 
assessment at the branch level
•	 Implementing programmes to further 
enhance Diversity and Inclusion
•	 Publishing enhanced, transparent and 
assured disclosures on the global ESG 
reporting and ratings framework
•	 Working towards Integrating climate 
change risk into our business risk and ESG 
due diligence for loan portfolios
•	 Setting up governance mechanisms for 
environmental and social dimensions 
with rigour
The mission of the Capri Sustainable 
Environment Initiative is to safeguard the 
natural world, while also fostering the 
adoption of environmentally responsible 
activities such as tree planting campaigns. 
4,000                 
Trees planted      
till date 
35
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
---======-> 
::::> 
::::> 
II 
■ 
II 
Ill 
II 
II 
I 
I 
• 
I 
I 
II 
II 
' . . 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a way of achieving balance between 
economic, social and environmental management for our business. CSR is just not 
a mandate, but an opportunity to be an efficient stakeholder in the development 
of society and make a valuable contribution towards reducing the gap between the 
haves and have-nots. Our CSR strategies enable communities to build their own 
competencies, to be part of the development process and bring sustainable change 
in their own lives.
We extend our impact and outreach through our CSR programmes. We believe 
in making a positive impact on society not just through financial lending, but also 
through our CSR initiatives, which focus on sustainable livelihood opportunities, 
education, healthcare and integrated rural development. We have positively 
impacted over 1.29 Lakh beneficiaries as on 31st March 2023.
Apart from loans, we have positively impacted the lives of thousands of people 
through our CSR programmes centred around women’s empowerment, education 
and health.
EDUCATION 
•	 Provided quality nursery and primary 
education in predominantly backward 
Adivasi areas 
•	 Enhanced participation of parents in the 
education of their children 
•	 Created sufficient infrastructure for a quality 
nursery/primary school 
•	 Conducted regular health checking and 
provided medical assistance 
•	 Provided a garden and developed a playing 
ground for students 
•	 Developed a computer lab 
•	 Enabled teacher training 
•	 Conducted parent-teacher meetings 
•	 Provided health awareness yoga classes for 
teachers  
•	 Provided free computer class for 
village students
•	 Conducted extracurricular activities such as 
cultural festivals
BY CONTINUING OUR 
CSR INITIATIVES
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT 
CHANGING LIVES…
Community and women empowerment initiatives
Annual Report 2022-23
36
Capri Global Capital Limited
HEALTH 
•	 Primary health services including diagnostic 
and referral services to the 48 remote villages 
through MMU
•	 Screening and referral of severe ailment cases to 
nearby facilities for test/treatment 
•	 Preventive and awareness activities for diseases 
every month, through Information Education and 
Communication
•	 Ante-natal and post-natal care and promotion of 
safe delivery and care of neonates 
•	 Tracking and follow-up of ANC, PNC and infant 
care through home visits, monthly meetings and 
follow-ups by village animators / ASHA’s and 
mobile-based voice messaging services 
•	 Use of Technology for Awareness- Linkages 
of all Antenatal Care (ANC) / Post-natal Care 
(PNC) to M-Mitra mobile-based awareness 
consistent messaging programme 
•	 Special camps for identifying and tracking 
the prevalence of hypertension and 
diabetes among the population above 
18 years 
•	 Organized Cancer Awareness Camps, 
session, workshops & linked peer support 
groups to impact 8,000+ lives, uplifting their 
psychological and physiological wellbeing
•	 Holistic Empowerment of Breast Cancer 
Survivors
EMPOWERING WOMEN TO 
EMPOWER THE SOCIETY
At CGCL, we are committed to empowering 
women by providing them with access to the 
right financial assistance, which is not easily 
available to women in India. We recognise 
that women often face unique challenges 
in accessing financial resources, which 
can limit their ability to start or grow their 
businesses, invest in education or improve 
their communities. By giving loans to women as 
primary or co-applicant, we not only bolstered 
their confidence and entrepreneurial spirit but 
also expanded their reach and contributed to 
empowerment of the underserved sectors.
6,000+ women were part of SHGs 
received various training’s and sessions 
focusing on digital literacy, financial inclusion, 
gender sensitization and availed benefits and 
linked to various government schemes.  
More than 10 Acres of land taken 
for cultivation. Under sustainable agriculture 
constructed 20 farm ponds and 22 
farmers received livestock. 
15,079 Women benefited through 
Capri foundations quality health services by 
Mobile Medical Unit (MMU) in remote rural 
areas and 223 females were given precise 
tracking and follow up of ANC and PNC and 
infant care through home visits, monthly 
meetings and follow ups by village animators 
/ ASHA’s and mobile based voice messaging 
services. 
2,000+ women benefited 
from 200 new SHGs to induce 
livelihood opportunities by skill 
training and entrepreneurship
Through our range of CSR initiatives, we have positively impacted the lives of thousands of women.
Key Outcomes of Capri Supported Sustainable 
Livelihood Initiatives  
•	 Strengthening of SHG’s and Federations. 
•	 Training on Quality Parameters of community SHGs & institutions. 
•	 Financial digital literacy & inclusion.     
•	 Inducing financial inclusion/sustainability & access to finances. 
•	 Gender sensitization. 
•	 Skill-Training & Mentoring.
•	 Meeting and identification of vulnerable candidates.  
•	 Sustainable rural-agri livelihood. 
•	 Capacitate Women Market Linkage. 
•	 Revolving funds helps to boost in agriculture & businesses
37
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
> 
CGCL has grown organically and entirely through its in-house sourcing team. 
Over the past five years, the AUM has increased at a CAGR of 29% and we 
expect this strong growth momentum to continue. 
After consolidating in FY2019 and FY2020, we have maintained our steady 
and strong growth momentum. Our AUM has tripled from FY2020 to FY2023 
and we are committed to maintaining this growth, expecting to further 
triple our AUM to over ₹300 Billion by FY2027, with ₹80 Billion coming from 
our recently introduced Gold Loan business. The management is extremely 
optimistic about the growth opportunities in all our product categories, over 
the medium and long term.
REVOLUTIONISING CREDIT  
CHANGING LIVES…
FOR A BETTER, MORE 
INCLUSIVE FUTURE
Future roadmap
We will continue focusing on the informal borrower segment in Tier 2 and Tier 
3 cities, who typically have inadequate income proof and are unlikely to be 
served by leading financial institutions. 
To date, we have financed over 37,800 businesses and 29,500 individuals for 
the purchase or construction of homes and we continue to remain passionately 
committed to revolutionising credit and changing lives.
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion and Analysis	
41
Directors’ Report	
52
Report on Corporate Governance	
100
Annual Report 2022-23
41
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Management Discussion and Analysis
1.
Economic review
1.1.	Global economy
		The global economy was stifled in 2022 because 
of inflationary pressures, the Russian-Ukrainian 
war and the resurgence of COVID-19 in China. 
Despite these headwinds, strong growth was 
witnessed in the third quarter in numerous 
economies, including the United States, Euro area 
and major emerging markets and developing 
economies. However, growth has declined across 
many major economies.
		The stronger growth in the second half of 2022 
was attributed to domestic developments such 
as higher-than-expected private consumption 
and investment, against a backdrop of tighter 
labour markets and stronger-than-expected fiscal 
support. Households spent more, particularly on 
services, to satisfy pent-up demand. Business 
investment rose to meet demand. On the 
supply side, easing bottlenecks and declining 
transportation costs reduced pressures on input 
prices and allowed for a rebound in previously 
constrained sectors, such as motor vehicles.
		Signs are apparent that monetary policy tightening 
is starting to cool demand and inflation, but the 
full impact is unlikely to be realised before 2024. 
Global headline inflation appears to have peaked 
in the third quarter of 2022. Fuel prices and prices 
of nonfuel commodities are declining, lowering 
headline inflation, notably in the United States, 
Euro area and Latin America. Core inflation, 
however, remains well above pre-pandemic levels 
in most economies.
		Advanced economies, which witnessed a GDP 
growth of 2.7% in 2022, are expected to slow 
down and grow at 1.2 % and 1.4%, respectively, 
in 2023 and 2024. On the other hand, growth in 
emerging markets and developing nations is 
expected to strengthen progressively from 3.9% 
in 2022 to 4% growth in 2023 and 4.2% in 2024. 
The headline (consumer price index) inflation rate 
is predicted to be lower in 84% of nations in 2023 
than it was in 2022 and economists anticipate that 
global inflation would drop from 8.8% in 2022 to 
6.6% in 2023 and 4.3% in 2024.
		Global GDP grew 3.2% in 2022 and is poised to hit 
2.9% in 2023 and 3.1% in 2024 reflecting the rise 
in central bank rates to fight inflation and the war. 
The decline in growth in 2023 from 2022 is driven 
by advanced economies. In emerging markets 
and developing economies, growth bottomed 
out in 2022 and is expected to pick up, led by 
China, with the full reopening in 2023. However, 
India is expected to maintain the tag of fastest 
growing major economy over 2023 and 2024. 
The expected pick-up in 2024 in both groups of 
economies reflects a gradual recovery from the 
effects of the war and subsiding inflation.
(Source: IMF January 2023 – World Economic Outlook)
	
1.1.2. Indian economy
		According to the provisional estimates by the 
National Statistics Office (NSO), in FY2023, the 
GDP growth rate is projected at 7.2%, lower than 
the 9.1% witnessed in FY2022, where pent-up 
demand boosted growth.
		Retail inflation continuously moderated during 
FY2023 and is estimated by RBI to average 5.1% 
in FY2024. On external front, FY2023 witnessed 
robust exports led by both services and 
merchandise and a moderation in oil prices. This 
has aided the expectations of a fall in the current 
account deficit in FY2023 and FY2024. A well-
balanced foreign trade and expectations of stable 
capital inflows has also led to expectations of a 
stable Indian Rupee in near future.
		The easing of global inflationary pressure led 
by falling international commodity prices and 
strong government measures are expected to 
aid economic growth in India. India’s private 
non-financial sector debt has witnessed a 
steady decline since mid-2021, along with an 
improvement in the quality of debt. In FY 2023-
24, the Indian economy is expected to continue 
to be the fastest-growing economy in the World. 
The Indian GDP growth is estimated at 6.9% in 
FY 2022-23 and 6.6% in FY 2023-24 by the World 
Bank.
		The inflation trajectory in India is likely to be 
determined by extreme weather conditions such 
as heatwaves and the possibility of an El Niño 
year*, volatility in international commodity prices 
and pass-through of input costs to output prices. 
Inflation is expected moderate in FY2024 and is 
likely to remain at 5-6%, with risks evenly balanced.
(Source: NSO, World Bank, PIB, RBI)
		*El Niño and La Niña are the warm and cool
phases of a recurring climate pattern across the
tropical Pacific. El Niño creates abnormal warming 
of the Pacific Ocean, and it is known to negatively
impact the Indian monsoon.
(Source: CNBC TV18)
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
42
Capri Global Capital Limited
2.	
Review of the financial services industry
	
India’s diversified financial sector is undergoing 
rapid expansion. The Indian financial sector currently 
comprises several segments, including commercial 
banks, 
new-age 
fintech 
start-ups, 
non-banking 
financial companies (NBFCs), co-operatives, insurance 
companies, pension funds, mutual funds, small and 
medium financial entities and recently established 
payment banks. Together, they provide solutions to a 
wide range of customers based on their requirements 
and accessibility.
	
After the pandemic, the world economy underwent 
significant changes, including the financial services 
industry. 
The 
sector 
witnessed 
unprecedented 
disruption, digital proliferation and upending of 
business models. Customers now opt to manage 
their finances from home and prefer online payments 
over cash.
	
2.1.	Non-banking financial companies (NBFCs)
	
	
NBFCs play a significant role in financial inclusion 
in India by providing tailored solutions to various 
individuals/groups’ needs who are excluded from 
banking services. NBFCs operate in locations 
where banking services are unavailable partially/
completely, providing last-mile connection to 
the unorganised sector of society. They also 
contribute significantly to the state exchequer 
and are a significant source of capital for start-up 
companies and the trade and commerce industry. 
NBFC activities include loans and advances, the 
acquisition of shares, stock, bonds, debentures, 
or other comparable marketable instruments, 
leasing, hire-purchase, insurance business, etc. 
NBFCs aid in fund mobilisation by allocating 
funds that result in income regulation, thereby 
influencing economic growth.
	
	
According to Crisil research, in FY2023, the assets 
under management (AUM) of NBFCs was expected 
to grow between 8-10% aided by improvement 
in economic activity and strengthened balance 
sheet buffers. The sector saw a slowdown 
between FY2020 and FY2022 with a modest 2-4% 
AUM growth due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
vehicle finance segment, which constitutes nearly 
half of the assets, is expected to act as a catalyst 
in FY2023, growing at 11-13%, up from 3-4% in 
the previous two years. Strong demand from the 
infrastructure sector as well as demand for fleet 
replacement and focus on last-mile connectivity 
will buoy commercial vehicle sales while pent-up 
demand and new launches will drive car and utility 
vehicle sales.
	
	
As lenders focus on higher-yield assets, unsecured 
loans, the second-largest segment at about 20%, 
is likely to be the only segment to touch the pre-
Covid era growth of 20-22%. NBFC loan growth 
is also expected to come from other segments 
such as personal loans, consumer durable loans, 
loans to SMEs, and property and gold loans. 
Consumer loans are being supported by rising 
retail spending across consumer durables, travel 
and other personal consumption activities, while 
business loans are expected to benefit from 
macroeconomic tailwinds. Loan against property 
(LAP) and gold loan segments are also expected 
to grow at 10-12%, supported by demand from 
small businesses and individuals.
	
	
NBFCs will continue to face competition from 
banks and higher interest rates will weigh on 
their growth leading them to focus on higher-
yield segments. The wholesale finance segment, 
which has seen multiple players exiting the market 
over the past few years, will continue to lag with 
declining AUM. Higher-than-expected interest 
rates and inflation are factors that will play a vital 
role in altering the dynamics of the industry.
	
	
Source: NBFCs turn around, likely to expand AUMs by 11-
12% by FY23: Report  | The Financial Express; NBFCs’ Asset 
Growth Set To Touch Four-Year High In FY23: Crisil Ratings 
(outlookindia.com)
	
2.2.	Micro, 
small 
and 
medium 
enterprises 
(MSMEs)
	
	
The MSME sector, known as the backbone of 
the Indian economy, has been a significant 
contributor to the expansion of entrepreneurial 
endeavours through business innovations. The 
MSMEs are widening their domain across sectors 
of the economy, producing a diverse range of 
products and services to meet the demands of 
domestic as well as global markets. The sector is 
playing a crucial role by providing employment 
opportunities to over 110 million people at 
comparatively lower capital cost than large 
industries, as well as through industrialisation 
of rural and backward areas, thereby reducing 
regional imbalances and assuring more equitable 
distribution of national income and wealth. 
Presently, 63 million MSMEs in India account for 
~30% of GDP and have contributed to half of 
India’s annual exports in 2022. The credit growth 
to the MSME sector was over 30.6% on average 
from January to November 2022.
	
	
The sector is rapidly moving from offline to online 
mode and adopting technology to improve 
its operations, increase efficiency and provide 
providing timely services to its customers and 
clients. The use of cloud computing, artificial 
intelligence, machine learning and blockchain 
technology is enabling MSMEs to reach a wider 
customer base, streamline their processes and 
reduce costs.
Annual Report 2022-23
43
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
	
In the Union Budget 2023-24, the government 
continued to extend its support to the sector by:
	
	
•	
Allocating 
an 
Emergency 
Credit 
Line 
Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), which has 
delivered additional credit to more than 13 
Million MSMEs, of ` 500 Billion to a total 
cover of `5 Trillion.
	
	
•	
Providing `2 Trillion additional credit for 
Micro and Small Enterprises to be facilitated 
under the Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro 
and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE)
	
	
•	
Raising 
and 
Accelerating 
the 
MSME 
Performance (RAMP) programme with an 
outlay of `60 Billion to be rolled out
	
	
•	
Interlinking Udyam, e-Shram, National Career 
Service (NCS) and Atamanirbhar Skilled 
Employee Employer Mapping (ASEEM) 
portals; they will now serve as portals with 
live, organic databases, delivering G2C, 
B2C and B2B services relating to credit 
facilitation, skilling and recruitment
	
	
•	
Proposing 
deducting 
expenditures 
on 
payments made to MSME by buyers to 
ensure MSMEs receive timely payments
	
	
It is expected that 2023 will be a bright year for 
the MSME sector led by the promotion and entry 
of fintech and other digital lending solutions in 
the sector, which will help these businesses access 
formal channels for credit, further helping them 
eliminate all operational bottlenecks to make them 
competitive globally. The rising penetration of the 
internet and smartphones and affinity to online 
marketplaces is expected to boost growth and 
movement towards the formalisation of this sector. 
According to Crisil, bank credit to MSMEs will 
witness 16-18% growth during FY2023 and FY2024.
	
	
Source: Schemes for MSMEs in India (investindia.gov.in)
	
2.3.	Affordable housing
	
	
Affordable housing is a crucial sub-segment in the 
housing and real estate sector. Real estate prices 
are gradually rising led by the pent-up ready 
inventory and keenness of potential homebuyers. 
Continuous support of the Indian government in 
the affordable real estate sector is driving demand 
further. With the Credit-linked Subsidy Scheme, 
homebuyers of the economically weaker sections 
are finding it easier to acquire a home. The Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) doubled the limit for individual 
housing loans offered by urban cooperative banks 
(UCBs) and rural cooperative banks (RCBs) to 
improve credit flow for the housing sector. Given 
the rise in housing prices, the revised limits will 
facilitate the growth of the sector.
	
	
In the Union Budget 2023-24, the Finance Minister 
announced increased allocation for Pradhan Mantri 
Awas Yojna by 66% to over `790 Billion. This step 
will significantly boost the growth of this sector. 
Moreover, the Budget also announced a slew of 
measures to further extend support to the sector:
	
	
•	
Launch 
of 
the 
Urban 
Infrastructure 
Development Fund (UIDF) to improve urban 
infrastructure in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities
	
	
•	
Allocation of USD 9.85 Billion to the Ministry 
of Housing and Urban to construct housing 
for both urban and rural residents
	
	
•	
Allocation of USD 130 Billion to develop 
the 
infrastructure 
sector, 
providing 
a 
considerable boost to the infrastructure 
industry across India
	
	
According to TechSci Research, the Indian 
affordable housing sector was valued at USD 1.8 
Billion in 2022 and is expected to grow at ~19.8% 
CAGR during 2022-2028. The sector is reaping the 
benefits that the government has placed on urban 
infrastructural development and planning. The 
unwavering focus on infrastructure will indirectly 
drive real estate growth in the future.
	
2.4.	Construction finance
	
	
The Indian construction industry is the engine of 
the economy as it is responsible for propelling the 
country’s overall development. In value terms, it 
was estimated at USD 738.5 Billion in 2022. The 
sector is witnessing good growth momentum 
supported by a sharp increase in government 
capital expenditure, thus boosting economic 
growth and increasing job creation. Increased 
focus on renewable energy needed in facilitating 
the transition of the economy to low carbon 
intensity and reducing dependence on fossil 
fuel imports, will, in turn, provide a boost to the 
construction sector. Further, a strong government 
focus on transport, health, energy and housing 
infrastructure will aid the sector further.
	
	
Emerging 
trends 
that 
directly 
impact 
the 
dynamics of the construction industry include a 
rise in the need for green construction to reduce 
carbon footprint, bridging lock-up device systems 
to improve structure life, building information 
systems for efficient building management, 
and using cutting-edge technologies. With an 
emphasis on rebuilding infrastructure, sustainable 
buildings and smart cities, and an accelerated 
pace of adoption of technological advancements, 
India’s 
construction 
industry 
is 
witnessing 
massive growth.
	
	
The Indian construction industry is forecast 
to register an annual average growth of 6.2% 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
44
Capri Global Capital Limited
from 2023 to 2026, supported by a strong 
pipeline of infrastructure projects across various 
sectors. Various government programs such as 
Atmanirbhar Bharat, which are expected to boost 
domestic industries, and the Pradhan Mantri 
Gati Shakti National Master Plan, which aims to 
drive economic growth through infrastructure 
development, are also expected to attract 
investment to the construction industry in the 
coming years.
	
	
Source: “India Construction Market Size, Trends and 
Forecasts by Sector - Commercial, Industrial, Infrastructure, 
Energy and Utilities, Institutional and Residential Market 
Analysis, 2022-2026” report
	
2.5.	Gold loans
	
	
India owns more than 14% of the world’s gold and 
India’s gold loan market is largely underpenetrated 
at ~7%. As per World Gold Council, the share 
of jewellery in the consumer gold demand has 
averaged 75% in the ten years between the 
years 2013 to 2022. In terms of tonnage, Indian 
consumers bought more than 6,800 tonnes of 
gold in the same period or approximately 700 
tonnes annually. Households are estimated to 
hold between 24-25,000 tonnes of gold with 
just 4-5% of these gold holdings estimated to 
have been monetized. This explains the scale of 
opportunity in the gold loan segment. Although 
the share of organised sector has been rising, the 
unorganised sector comprising moneylenders 
and pawn brokers still dominates the gold loan 
business with a share of nearly 65%. NBFCs, 
with their dedicated gold loan branches offering 
quick turnaround time, systematic gold valuation, 
and trustworthy safekeeping have become the 
preferred leading players in the smaller ticket 
size segment (`0.1-0.2 Million) of gold loans. 
Customers residing in rural India are gradually 
switching to these NBFCs.
	
	
Increased digitalisation in the sector with the 
emergence of online and digital models in the gold 
loan space by NBFCs and new-age fintech players 
that offer gold loans at the customers’ doorsteps 
have opened up an untapped market among 
digitally enabled customers. Gold loan NBFCs will 
continue to witness huge growth in the future as 
they are well-equipped with digital adoption for 
quicker decision-making. Capturing new markets 
coupled with lesser regulations provides them with 
a natural advantage over the competition.
	
2.6.	Car loan distribution
	
	
The Indian car loan market is witnessing robust 
growth mainly driven by growing disposable 
income and increasing ownership of vehicles. 
Moreover, the shift from combustion engine 
vehicles 
towards 
electric 
vehicles, 
product 
launches, subsidies offered by the government on 
the purchase of electric vehicles, and high vehicle 
replacement rates are promoting sale of cars 
across India, which is consequently boosting the 
Indian car loan market. Currently, the EV landscape 
is dominated by 2-wheelers with the popularity of 
the electric cars slowly increasing. The low share 
of 4-wheelers in the EV space presents huge 
scope for growth, driven by the premiumisation 
trend gaining traction with growing disposable 
income, government push for EV and increase in 
awareness. This trend in turn is expected to drive 
growth in the premium car loan segment.
	
	
In FY2023, the car loan segment witnessed 23% 
growth. The surge in auto loans is owing to 
multiple factors such as the growing participation 
of international players in the Indian auto market, 
the presence of features such as installment 
and hire purchase finance in auto loans meeting 
securitisation criteria, safety due to title over 
assets and development of a resale market for 
cars that let financiers use foreclosures effectively 
in the event of delinquencies. The car loan market 
is forecasted to grow to $60 Billion by FY2026.
	
	
Banks, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) 
and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are 
the main players in the car loan segment. Public 
and private sector banks are the major dominators 
when compared to NBFCs and OEMs due to their 
large customer base and competitive rates
	
	
In FY 2022-23, SUVs dominated the PV segment 
sales clearly indicating the shifting consumer 
preference towards SUVs, given rise in disposable 
income. Automakers have also sharpened their 
focus on producing SUVs, as consumers continue 
to opt for the feature-packed cars despite inflation 
trending higher. This premiumisation trend bodes 
well for the car loan segment.
3.	
Company overview
	
Since 2011, Capri Global Capital Limited, a diversified 
NBFC, is playing a crucial role in the financial inclusion 
of India. We primarily cater to the financial needs in the 
North and West India. Our diversified portfolio spans 
segments such as MSME, Affordable Housing, Gold 
Loans, Construction Finance, Indirect Lending and Car 
Loan Distribution  segments. We boast of an AUM of 
` 103,204 Million, with a strong distribution network of 736 
branches spread across 15 States and Union Territories. 
Our perseverance and endurance have helped us to 
establish strong brand equity in the NBFC industry.
	
We have embarked on a journey of digitisation, with 
a strong focus on improving operational efficiencies 
through IT enablement. This strategy has aided 
in effectively tapping the underserved markets, 
optimising and realigning our branch network, and 
enhancing efficiency.
Annual Report 2022-23
45
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
3.1.	Operational performance
	
	
3.1.1. Segmental performance
	
	
	
MSME Loans: We address the capital needs 
of MSMEs through the SME & Retail Lending 
vertical  through term loans secured against 
residential or commercial property. Our 
borrower segment comprises first time as 
well as existing to credit borrowers.
	
	
	
During the year under review, the MSME 
segment’s 
AUM 
including 
co-lending 
witnessed 32% growth. The AUM increased 
from ` 31,911 Million in FY 2022 to ` 43,580 
Million in FY 2023. The co-lending AUM 
more than quadrupled, from ` 1,155 Million 
in FY 2022 to ` 5,004 Million in FY 2023, 
which was the first full year of operations 
under the co-lending mechanism. MSME 
disbursals touched ` 17,525 Million in 
FY 2023, implying a 40.6% growth over 
` 12,463 Million of disbursals achieved in 
FY 2022. The share of MSME AUM softened 
to 42.2% in FY 2023 from 49.8% in FY 2022 
owing to a stronger growth in Affordable 
Housing and introduction and strong scale 
up in Gold Loans.
	
	
	
Affordable 
Housing: 
CGCL 
offers 
affordable housing and home equity loans 
to the underserved and deserving lower and 
middle-income families through its wholly-
owned subsidiary Capri Global Housing 
Finance Limited (CGHFL). As at March 31, 
2023, CGHFL had 58% of its outstanding 
loans to self-employed borrowers while 42% 
of the loans were given to salaried borrowers.
	
	
	
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
the 
Affordable 
Housing 
segment’s 
AUM 
including co-lending witnessed a growth 
of 53%. The AUM increased from ` 17,474 
Million in FY 2022 to ` 26,657 Million in 
FY 
2023. 
The 
segment 
commenced 
co-lending 
operations 
and 
had 
an 
outstanding of ` 465 Million under the 
mechanism. Affordable Housing disbursals 
touched ` 12,893 Million in FY 2023, 
implying a 64.4% growth over ` 7,845 
Million of disbursals achieved in FY 2022. 
The share of Affordable Housing AUM was 
25.9% in FY 2023, marginally lower than 
26.3% in FY 2022.
	
	
	
Construction Finance: Our Construction 
Finance vertical  focuses on construction 
finance and project related expenses for 
residential real estate in the affordable 
and mid-income projects. We focus on 
developers having experience in Tier 1 and 
2 cities, where we have developed expertise 
since over a decade after first commencing 
this vertical in FY 2011.
	
	
	
During 
the 
year 
under 
review, 
the 
Construction 
Finance 
segment’s 
AUM 
witnessed a robust growth momentum of 
44.5%. The AUM increased from ` 12,662 
Million in FY 2022 to ` 18,301 Million in 
FY 2023. The disbursals increased 56.0%, 
from ` 9,237 Million in FY 2022 to ` 14,406 
Million in FY 2023. The churn in the portfolio, 
as indicated by the repayments and 
foreclosures to opening AUM, was 69.2%, 
slightly higher than 60.8% noted in FY 2022. 
The high churn is also testimony to CGCL’s 
strong underwriting standards and timely 
recovery and repayment of loans.
	
	
	
Indirect Lending: Through this vertical, we 
extend loans a) to NBFCs engaged in MSME 
lending, microfinance, as well as to fintech-
based NBFCs, and b) against pledge of debt 
securities to debt issuing borrowers.
	
	
	
During the year under review, the Indirect 
Lending segment’s AUM  increased 8.9%, from 
` 3,128 Million in FY 2022 to ` 3,408 Million 
in FY 2023. The disbursements under the 
segment were lower 11.3% at ` 12,825 Million 
compared to ` 14,467 Million in FY 2022.
	
	
	
Gold loans: CGCL had announced its foray 
into the Gold Loan business in February 
2022. At the time of announcement, CGCL 
had unveiled a business plan that aimed 
at achieving a ` 80 Billion Gold Loan AUM 
through a network of 1,500 exclusive 
branches in North and West India within five 
years after launch. We began operations in 
August 2022 with 108 branches in 7 States 
and UTs. Over the next 7 months to March 
2023, we rapidly scaled up to 562 exclusive 
branches across 7 States and UTs with an 
AUM of ` 11,256 Million. The Gold Loan 
AUM constituted 10.9% of consolidated 
AUM on March 31, 2023. The segment 
achieved loan disbursements of ` 18,812 
Million comprising a significant 26% of 
consolidated disbursements during FY 2023. 
The vertical had a dedicated staff count 
of 3,847 on March 31, 2023 with a strong 
experience in gold loan business. Gold Loan 
in a short span has emerged an important 
growth driver for CGCL.
	
	
	
Co-Lending: 
Under 
the 
co-lending 
arrangement, CGCL co-originates MSME 
and Affordable Housing loans and retains 
20-30% of a co-originated loan on its balance 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
46
Capri Global Capital Limited
sheet while the remaining 80-70% is held by 
the co-lending partner bank on its balance 
sheet. CGCL earns a fixed spread or service 
fee on the co-originated loan retained by 
partner banks on their balance sheet.
	
	
	
We first entered into co-lending partnerships 
during FY 2022 with Union Bank of India 
for MSME and State Bank of India for 
Affordable Housing. During FY 2023, we 
expanded the co-lending partnership with 
State Bank of India to start offering MSME 
loans. Additionally, we also entered into 
co-lending agreements with  Punjab and 
Sind Bank (MSME and Affordable Housing), 
and UCO Bank (Affordable Housing). Our 
total co-lending partnerships stood at 3 for 
MSME and 3 for Affordable Housing across 4 
leading commercial banks.
	
	
	
As highlighted earlier, the co-lending AUM 
under MSME nearly quadrupled during 
FY 2023 to touch ` 5,004 Million from 
` 1,155 Million in FY 2022. Disbursements 
under MSME co-lending was ` 3,894 Million 
compared to ` 1,155 Million in FY 2022. 
Co-lending 
under 
Affordable 
Housing 
commenced during the year and the 
outstanding AUM stood at ` 465 Million. 
Disbursements under Affordable Housing 
co-lending was ` 465 Million.
	
	
	
Going ahead, co-lending shall be an 
important 
growth 
driver. 
Co-lending 
partnerships for MSME and Affordable 
Housing with other leading banks is under 
discussion. During FY 2024, we also intend 
to launch co-lending product in the Gold 
Loan segment.
	
	
	
Car Loan Distribution: CGCL is a corporate 
selling agent for new car loan products of 
our partner banks. We earn a fee income on 
the proposals sourced by us and disbursed 
by the partner banks. At end of March 2023, 
we had a team of ~1,200 sales personnel 
with a robust understanding of the trends 
and customer requirements in the passenger 
vehicle segment and strong connects within 
the passenger vehicle OEM ecosystem. This 
has propelled us in the top league of car 
loan distributors in the country.
	
	
	
During the year under review, we originated 
new car loans amounting to ` 56,728 Million 
compared to ` 17,020 Million in FY 2022, 
a growth of 3.3x. We earned a net fee of 
` 1,179 Million in FY 2023 compared to ` 276 
Million in FY 2022.
	
	
	
Our car loan distribution segment has an 
asset-light business model with minimal 
requirement of own physical infrastructure in 
our locations. It does not require allocation 
of risk capital and we do not carry any credit 
risk for the car loans originated by us.
	
	
	
We expanded our presence from 213 
locations (including 5 branches) in FY 2022 
to 450 locations (including 9 branches) in 
FY 2023.
	
3.2.	Financial performance
	
	
Our consolidated AUM stood at ` 103,204 Million, 
up 56%.  Net Income stood at ` 9,081 Million. 
Despite rising cost of funds due to the policy 
tightening initiated by RBI during the year, the 
Net Interest Margin was robust at 8.5%.  Credit 
cost declined 39% to ` 642 Million. Operating 
expenses increased 127% led by the rapid 
expansion in Gold Loan business. PAT stood at 
` 2,047 Million, similar to that in FY 2022 level of 
` 2,050 Million. Adjusted for the income and 
opex in Gold Loan vertical, FY 2023 PAT was 
39% higher at ` 2,855 Million (for a comparative 
understanding, see table on next page).
	
	
I.	
Details of significant changes (i.e. change 
of 25% or more as compared to the 
immediately previous financial year) in 
key financial ratios, along with detailed 
explanations therefor, including:
	
	
	
(i)	
Debtors Turnover: Not Applicable;
	
	
	
(ii)	
Inventory Turnover: Not Applicable;
	
	
	
(iii)	
Interest Coverage Ratio: No significant 
change;
	
	
	
(iv)	
Current Ratio; Not Applicable;
	
	
	
(v)	
Debt Equity Ratio: No significant 
change;
	
	
	
(vi)	
Operating Profit Margin (%): Not 
Applicable; and
	
	
	
(vii)	 Net Profit Margin (%): Net profit 
margin declined from 20.9% in FY 
2022 to 14.0% in FY 2023. Profitability 
measured in terms of Return on 
Assets1 declined from 3.33% in FY 
2022 to 2.32% in FY 2023.
	
	
	
During 
FY 
2023, 
CGCL 
commenced 
its Gold Loan business rolling out 562 
exclusive branches in 7 States and UTs. 
The staff count in the Gold Loan business 
was 3,847 as of March 2023, constituting 
42% 
of 
consolidated 
headcount. 
This 
led to a significant increase in the initial 
operating 
expenses 
with 
cost-income 
Annual Report 2022-23
47
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
ratio increasing to 63.4% in FY 2023 from 40.1% in FY 2022. The estimated loss in the Gold Loan vertical 
was ` 808 Million. Adjusted for this loss, the Net Profit after Tax during FY 2023 would have increased 39% 
over FY 2022 to ` 2,855 Million. Despite the steep increase in operating expenses and an initial loss of ` 808 
Million in the Gold Loan vertical, CGCL nearly matched the consolidated net profit of FY 2022, reporting Net 
Profit after Tax of ` 2,047 Million in FY 2023 (flat YoY). The Gold Loan vertical is expected to break-even in 
FY 2024 and significantly boost profitability during FY 2024.
	
	
	
Note:
	
	
	
1. Return on Assets = Net Profit After Tax for the Year / Average Assets * 100, where, Average Assets = Average of Total Assets of Five 
Trailing Quarters
	
	
II.	
Details of any change in Return on Net Worth as compared to the immediately previous financial year along with 
a detailed explanation thereof.
	
	
	
The Return on Net Worth1 declined from 11.3% in FY 2022 to 8.8% in FY 2023. The Return on Net Worth declined 
due to static Net Profit After Tax (unchanged YoY) and an increase in the Net Worth owing to equity infusion in 
the last fortnight of March 2023 to the tune of ` 14,400 Million (40% of post-issue Net Worth). This increased the 
outstanding and consequently average equity on the date of balance sheet. The unadjusted and adjusted effects 
are summarised in the table below:
Particulars
Reported RoNW
RoNW excl. 
Rights Issue Equity
RoNW excl. 
Rights Issue Equity and 
Gold Loan Loss
Net Profit After Tax (` Million)
2,047
2,047
2,855
Net Worth (` Million)
35,655
21,255
21,255
Average Net Worth (` Million)2
23,128
20,728
20,728
Return on Net Worth (%)
8.85%
9.87%
13.77%
	
	
	
Note:
	
	
	
1. Return on Net Worth = Net Profit After Tax / Average Networth * 100
	
	
	
2. Average Net Worth = Average Net Worth of Five Trailing Quarters
	
3.3.	Strategic outlook
	
         3.3.1 Business Outlook: Our growth has been 
underpinned by a strong focus on the retail 
segments comprising MSME, Affordable 
Housing, and Gold Loans (commenced 
in August 2022). Together, these three 
segments comprised 79% of consolidated 
AUM in FY 2023. The growth in the wholesale 
segment, comprising Construction Finance 
and Indirect Lending is anchored to the 
momentum in the retail segment and is 
expected to stay at ~20% of consolidated 
AUM. In the past two years, non-fund 
based business represented by the Car 
Loan distribution vertical has rapidly scaled 
up and made meaningful contributions to 
Company’s net income. The share of net fee 
income from car loan distribution was 43% 
of non-interest income during FY23.
	
	
	
MSME: CGCL launched its MSME business 
in FY 2013. In the decade since its launch, 
CGCL has continuously fine-tuned the 
processes, 
strengthened 
underwriting, 
while ensuring consistent granularity in the 
portfolio. During the year, the Average Ticket 
Size (ATS) on incremental disbursements 
averaged ` 1.74mn. The ATS at portfolio 
level was ` 1.4mn, declining from ` 2.5mn 
in FY 2018. Thus, growth over the years has 
been driven by a strong volume growth than 
just ticket size inflation. The live relationships 
in MSME increased at 35% CAGR between 
FY 2018 – FY 2023 whereas the on-balance 
sheet portfolio increased at 20% CAGR in 
the same period. This has been a result of 
CGCL’s focus on the micro segment within 
the broader MSME category, which as 
evidenced from credit bureau data, exhibits 
better asset quality compared to other 
MSME segments.
	
	
	
Going ahead, MSME shall remain an 
important 
growth 
driver 
for 
CGCL. 
Incrementally, the share of co-lending 
in MSME AUM is expected to improve. 
Compared to a 9.3% share in MSME 
disbursements during FY 2022, the share 
of co-lending in MSME disbursements 
increased to 22.2% in FY 2023. The share 
of co-lending AUM within MSME increased 
from 3.5% in FY 2022 to 11.5% in FY 2023. In 
FY 2022, CGCL had co-lending partnership 
with 1 bank – Union Bank of India. During 
FY 2023, the Company added State Bank 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
48
Capri Global Capital Limited
of India and Punjab and Sind Bank taking 
total number of co-lending partnerships to 
3. CGCL shall further expand the co-lending 
partnerships in FY 2024.
	
	
	
Affordable Housing: CGCL commenced 
the affordable housing business through 
its wholly-owned subsidiary Capri Global 
Housing Finance Ltd. (CGHFL) in FY 
2017 and FY 2018 was the first full year of 
operations. The business has reported a 
CAGR 61% between FY 2018 - FY 2023. 
During FY 2023, The ATS on incremental 
disbursements averaged ` 1.3mn. The ATS 
at portfolio level was ` 1.1mn, moving up 
marginally from ` 0.9mn in FY 2018. The 
live relationships increased from 2,620 
in FY 2018 to 24,335 in FY 2023, a CAGR 
of 56%. CGHFL commenced co-lending 
during Q3 FY 2023 with State Bank of India, 
Punjab and Sind Bank, and UCO Bank. The 
disbursements under co-lending constituted 
3.6% of housing finance disbursements 
during FY 2023 while the co-lending AUM 
under Affordable Housing constituted 0.5% 
of consolidated AUM.
	
	
	
Affordable Housing has attained a strong 
growth momentum in last two years, 
growing at 72% CAGR between FY 2020 – 
FY 2023, compared to overall AUM CAGR of 
60%. Going ahead, Affordable Housing shall 
remain an important growth driver. Given the 
sustainable and strong growth momentum, 
co-lending like under MSME, is expected 
to have a rising share in incremental AUM 
under affordable housing.
	
	
	
Gold Loans
	
	
	
The Company decided to ‘front-end’ its 
expansion in Gold Loans, scaling up to 562 
branches within 8 months of launch. The 
Company shall pause branch expansion in 
the Gold Loan business after scaling up to 
750 branches by September 2023. This will 
be 50% of the planned 1,500 branch network 
and sufficiently strong to provide CGCL’s 
Gold Loan business scale and visibility in the 
geographies it is present. The focus in FY 
2024 shall therefore be to achieve break-even 
in the Gold Loan business, which is expected 
to happen in Q4 FY2024. The business needs 
an average AUM of ` 40mn per branch to 
achieve break-even. We expect to achieve or 
exceed ` 30bn Gold Loan AUM in FY 2024.
	
	
	
Construction Finance
	
	
	
After taking a de-risking approach and de-
growing the Construction Finance portfolio 
in FY 2020 and FY 2021, the Company once 
again adopted growth approach in the 
business as normalisation post-Covid19 
pandemic set in. The portfolio has grown 
at 38% CAGR between FY 2020 – FY 2023, 
lower than the consolidated AUM CAGR of 
60% during the same period. This is because 
growth in CF has been anchored to the 
growth in retail loan portfolio. The lower 
pace of growth reduced the share of CF in 
consolidated AUM to 18% in FY 2023 from 
24% in FY 2020.
	
	
	
Despite stiff competition, CGCL has carved 
a niche in the small ticket non-luxury 
construction finance space. CGCL operates 
in micro markets of select cities like Mumbai, 
Delhi, Pune, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and 
Ahmedabad, where demand for mid-sized 
housing remains robust. As a result, the 
Company built a strong sanctions pipeline 
during FY 2023. CGCL has also been 
careful in ensuring the average ticket size 
of exposure is well controlled. The ATS at 
sanction averaged ` 199.4mn during FY 2023 
and the ATS on portfolio was ` 93.4mn as of 
Mar’23 compared to ` 169.2mn at sanction 
and ` 74.8mn on portfolio as of Mar’22. 
Despite the strong growth opportunities, 
the share of CF portfolio, as a matter of 
prudence, shall be restricted at or below 
20% of consolidated AUM.
	
	
	
Indirect Lending
	
	
	
Under Indirect Lending, CGCL takes selective 
exposures to NBFCs including those in the 
fintech space through term loans or debt 
securities. The outstanding under Indirect 
Lending increased by a marginal 9% over FY 
2022 to ` 3,408 Million. However, the share 
of Indirect Lending loans declined from 4.7% 
as of Mar’22 to 3.3% as of Mar’23. Based 
on opportunities, CGCL shall continue to 
deploy funds in this segment although the 
share of Indirect Lending in consolidated 
AUM shall remain low. Since inception of this 
segment in FY 2019, the share of outstanding 
under Indirect Lending in consolidated AUM 
has averaged 4.2%.
	
	
	
Car Loan Distribution
	
	
	
Pan-India presence, a team of experienced 
sales 
professionals 
with 
an 
intimate 
knowledge 
of 
the 
passenger 
vehicle 
industry, presence across top OEMs, tie-
ups with leading financiers, and a service-
oriented 
approach 
from 
assistance 
in 
choosing a vehicle to helping achieve a 
quick turnaround time in delivering finance 
Annual Report 2022-23
49
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
has propelled CGCL to the forefront in the 
car loan origination business. As of March 
2023, the Company had tie-ups with Bank 
of Baroda, Bank of India, HDFC Bank, Indian 
Overseas Bank, Indian Bank, Punjab and 
Sind Bank, Union Bank of India, and Yes Bank 
for originating car loans. During FY 2023, 
the Company originated and disbursed 
through partner banks 51,384 car loan 
proposals, implying an average ticket size of 
 ` 1.1 Million. As of March 2023, the vertical 
had 1,199 employees and presence across 
450 locations in 29 States and UTs compared 
to 550 employees and presence across 213 
locations in 19 States and UTs in FY 2022. 
The strong growth in car loan distribution 
vertical is expected to continue in FY 2024.
4.	
Human resources
	
We recognise the paramount importance of our skilled 
workforce in our goal towards sustainable growth. 
In this regard, we diligently endeavour to attract, 
retain, cultivate and acknowledge talent within our 
organisation. Our primary objective is to establish a 
secure, supportive, cooperative and salubrious work 
setting, which fosters both personal and professional 
development for our employees.
	
Our 
people-centric 
team 
prioritises 
career 
advancement, ensuring that our work environment 
remains open, flexible and dynamic. We facilitate 
the enhancement of knowledge and skillsets through 
regular training and development initiatives for 
employees across all levels of the organisation. By 
implementing 
various 
motivational 
programmes 
and providing timely, appropriate rewards and 
recognitions, we maintain high levels of employee 
motivation and satisfaction.
	
Furthermore, we undertake numerous programmes 
and initiatives to instil a robust sense of business 
ethics and social responsibility within our workforce. 
Our ongoing efforts to synchronise employee 
objectives with the Company’s overarching goals 
foster a productive work culture. In this manner, we 
integrate our employees into the broader vision of 
generating positive social impact, further solidifying 
our commitment to sustainable growth.
5.	
Information technology
	
Acknowledging the critical nature of technology in 
the dynamic work environment, we have embraced 
technological advancements to revolutionise the way 
NBFCs work. Technology has enabled paperless, real-
time processing and execution, enabling us to offer 
a superior customer experience, better efficiency 
and reduced turnaround time. Our in-house tech 
platforms allow us to enhance profitability without 
compromising on safety. During the year under review, 
we continued to leverage data science to enhance our 
business capabilities.
	
Our technological advancement has allowed us to 
provide a rich customer experience, making loan 
processing easier at all stages. Though a majority of our 
processes have become cloud-based, there have been 
no security lapses led by our robust risk-monitoring 
and risk-management framework. Cloud-based data 
provides easy access to information irrespective of 
location, improving business flexibility. Apart from 
business and service enablers, digital sourcing, and 
data and analytics-driven decision-making were made 
simpler with technological advancement.
	
Our IT systems are a superior blend of specialised 
applications sourced from niche professional vendors. 
Applications such as Credit Risk Classification (CRC) 
scorecards and bureau scrubs are part of our analytics-
driven underwriting, while tools for enabling digitised 
workflow include mobility applications and verification 
and screening tools. Through our self-service portal, 
which allows us to centralise MIS and data mart 
capabilities, we implemented integrated payment 
solutions. Machine learning and our automated 
reconciliation tool form crucial features of our debt 
collection engine.
	
We aspire to become a tech-first company, where all 
our critical business systems with in-house technology 
have enabled us to create a high-productivity tech-
product office in Gurgaon. Our one-stop consumer 
app provides solutions to various customer issues, thus 
enhancing customer experience.
6.	
Risk management
	
We have devised a robust risk management framework 
and risk mitigation plan defined at the business unit 
level. These enable us in early identification, proper 
assessment of impact, and development of appropriate 
and adequate mitigation measures. A periodic review of 
portfolio parameters and their respective trends helps 
keep a check on asset quality. The Risk Management 
Committee of the Board periodically provides a 
detailed view of the incremental asset portfolio, which 
helps to identify, assess and mitigate risks. Our Board 
has approved an Asset Liability Management (ALM) 
Policy to assess the risk arising out of the liquidity 
gap and interest rate sensitivity. The Asset Liability 
Management Committee (ALCO) is entrusted with 
controlling the ALM policy.
	
We also have in place a robust credit model and 
assessment process to ensure the creditworthiness 
of our customers. An in-depth analysis of borrowers’ 
financials and business enables us to assess the 
impact of the crisis. We have strengthened portfolio 
concentration 
on 
risk 
monitoring. 
Structured 
approaches are devised to address specific risks related 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
50
Capri Global Capital Limited
to geography and industry. We are committed to 
creating a robust risk-management culture to address 
any challenges through the following:
	
Prompt technology adoption: During the pandemic, we 
rapidly digitalised our processes, which has made our 
organisation more agile.
	
Data-driven decisions: We use data analytics for better 
and rapid decision-making while ensuring that the 
business is safeguarded against risks. It also improves 
communication with stakeholders, increases cross-
team collaboration and makes the entity more agile. 
The most recent portfolio performance trends are 
highlighted by the data analytics team for effective 
management.
	
Focused portfolio monitoring: We closely monitor the 
cheque bounce ratio, total delinquency, roll forwards 
and collection efficiency to understand early warning 
signs and raise red flags in the initial stages. We are 
thus able to quickly tweak our business strategy to 
adapt to the changing macro and microenvironment.
	
To ensure that the business is protected against risks 
and ready to charter new frontiers of growth, we have 
undertaken the following initiatives:
	
•	
New borrower selection is based on a robust 
credit policy, which has been aligned as per 
the evaluation of the creditworthiness of highly 
impacted profiles and industries
	
•	
The credit assessment process is supported 
by mandatory visits and an elaborative credit 
assessment method
	
•	
Regular employee skill development programmes 
are undertaken, such as branch and regional 
training, online classrooms, etc.
	
•	
Data digitisation supports the decision-making 
process with the help of data dashboards and 
trends
	
6.1. Risks and their mitigation measures
Risks
Mitigation measures
Credit Risk
Due to a range of issues including serious liquidity 
problems, bankruptcy, economic decline, fraud, 
or other factors, customers might fail to fulfil their 
financial commitments. This could result in an 
increase in our Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), which 
in turn could negatively affect our financial situation, 
particularly in the areas of asset quality and capital 
sufficiency.
We have meticulously structured lending policies for each 
business sector. Our rigorous credit appraisal includes 
customer interactions, field investigations, credit bureau 
checks, in-house technical and legal verification, appropriate 
loan-to-value ratios, and term insurance cover. This, combined 
with detailed reference checks and business sustainability 
assessments, helps us minimize the default probability. All loans 
are secured by mortgages with an exclusive first charge on 
collateral properties. Additionally, our Fraud Control Unit aids 
in potential fraud detection and forensic document analysis.
Operational Risk
Operational risks may result from inadequate 
controls on internal processes, people, and systems. 
External factors also pose threat to business 
operations.
Our advanced operational control system includes an expert 
team managing our internal control infrastructure, which aligns 
with our underwriting and collection processes. Additionally, 
our responsive customer portal ensures efficient consumer 
engagement through prompt responses.
Liquidity Risk
A negative event could result in a lack of liquid assets, 
limited financial market access, or a significant rise in 
our capital costs, all of which may present risks to 
the Company.
Our expert treasury team handles liquidity management, daily 
fund tracking, and allocation. They provide quarterly reports 
to Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) members, 
forecasting liquidity scenarios for the next six months. Our 
long-term funds, sourced from banks and financial institutions, 
have a repayment tenure of 5-10 years. With a high CRAR of 
37%, we’re well-positioned to secure funds for growth.
Portfolio Concentration Risk
The concentration of credit in a particular segment 
of borrowers, sector, products or geography leads 
to increased dependency on the performance of 
that segment and may result in losses impacting the 
quality of the asset-book and financial reputation in 
the market.
We have a diversified portfolio with multi-sector exposure, 
broad geographic reach, diverse customer profiles, and 
smaller loan sizes. Our loan portfolio mainly includes MSME, 
Construction Finance, Home Loans, and Indirect Retail Lending. 
Our wide customer base and extensive distribution network 
minimises impacts on our portfolio. Additionally, we carefully 
evaluate risks before selecting new expansion locations.
Annual Report 2022-23
51
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Risks
Mitigation measures
Strategic and Business Risk
Adverse shifts in the macroeconomic or business 
landscape could negatively affect our decisions and 
profitability if not properly addressed. Increased 
competition, higher funding costs leading to 
tighter spreads, and decreased demand in specific 
customer segments also present potential risks.
Our strategy, business, and risk teams carefully track 
macroeconomic, industry, and competitive trends, facilitating 
timely and informed strategic decisions. To mitigate business 
uncertainties, we brainstorm, devise, and implement strategies 
fitting our needs and capabilities. Our Board’s expertise greatly 
enhances strategic planning and decision-making. To stand 
out in competition, we create customized lending solutions 
centred on our customer needs.
Interest rate risk
As the Company is in the lending business, it 
is exposed to interest rate risk arising due to a 
plausible mismatch between the maturity of the 
assets and the liabilities. The interest rates are 
sensitive to several factors including RBI’s monetary 
policies, domestic and global economic factors, 
geopolitical situations, inflation etc.
Our Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) monitors 
and evaluates interest rate changes quarterly. It sets the base 
lending rate, or Long-Term Rate of Return (LTRR), based on 
various factors. The majority of our portfolio comprises floating 
interest rates. Our interest risk strategy is both extensive and 
adaptable to fluctuating market conditions.
Regulatory and Compliance Risk
As a systematically significant non-deposit taking 
NBFC (NBFC-NDSI), we fall under the regulatory 
oversight of the RBI, and as a listed company, we 
must adhere to regulations set by the Securities 
& Exchange Board of India (SEBI). We are subject 
to numerous rules by various regulatory bodies. 
Failure to comply or misinterpretation could result 
in insufficient compliance. We must also be ready to 
adapt to changes in existing laws or the introduction 
of new ones.
We have a dedicated compliance department led by a 
senior executive to stay abreast of regulatory changes and 
ensure prompt and effective implementation and adherence 
to all relevant rules and regulations. We rigorously adhere 
to Capital Adequacy Norms, Fair Practice Code, Asset 
Classification, KYC/PMLA Guidelines, Provisioning Norms, 
Corporate Governance framework, and timely reporting with 
RBI/SEBI/Stock Exchanges/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs, etc. 
Our extensive internal audit and control framework helps us 
monitor and maintain comprehensive compliance.
Information Technology Systems Risk
To support our business processes, communication, 
customer details and loan records, we deploy 
information 
technology 
systems, 
including 
Enterprise 
Resource 
Planning 
(ERP), 
loan 
management applications, data repository and 
mobile solutions. Redundancy in technology used 
or lack of proper technological support may pose 
risk to business growth.
We use robust information security systems to safeguard 
sensitive customer data and ward off cyber threats. This 
includes advanced technology, governance measures, backup 
procedures, restricted application access, and regular system 
upgrades to the latest security standards. We maintain a remote 
Disaster Recovery Site as part of our Business Continuity Plan 
and regularly update and reinforce security policies for critical 
applications.
7.	
Environmental, 
Social 
and 
Governance 
(ESG) initiatives
	
At Capri Global, we are committed to incorporating ESG 
initiatives into our business practices. We understand 
that ESG factors are crucial to our long-term success 
and sustainable growth, and we aim to create a positive 
impact on society and the environment.
	
Read more on our contribution to ESG on page 34-35.
8.	
Internal controls
	
Our strong internal control system enables the 
safeguarding of assets and the highest level of 
productivity at all levels. We have set up an internal 
control framework in line with the size and industry 
in which we operate. The internal control system, 
comprising policies, procedures and well-defined risk 
and control matrices is automated. We comply with 
the highest level of credit underwriting parameters, 
and requisite laws and regulations led by a robust 
internal control framework that enhances the process 
of financial reporting and transaction reporting. The 
Audit Committee conducts regular internal audits 
to ensure compliance with the best practices. The 
internal auditors periodically test the efficacy of our 
internal control systems. Our statutory auditors are 
responsible for testing and ensuring strict control over 
financial reporting.
9.	
Cautionary statement
	
The statements made in this report describe the 
Company’s objectives and projections that may be 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
applicable laws and regulations. The actual result 
might differ materially from those expressed or implied 
depending on the economic conditions, government 
policies and other incidental factors which are beyond 
the control of the Company. The Company is not under 
any obligation to publicly amend, modify or revise 
any forward-looking statements on the basis of any 
subsequent developments, information or events.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
52
Capri Global Capital Limited
Dear Members,
Capri Global Capital Limited
The Directors of the Company are pleased to present 29th Annual Report together with the Annual Audited Consolidated and 
Standalone Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2023.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
I.	
Financial Highlights
	
The summary of the Company’s Financial Performance, both on consolidated and standalone basis, for the Financial Year 
2022-23 as compared to the previous Financial Year 2021-22 is given below:
(` in Million)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
Total Revenue
11,489.94
7,655.51
 14,649.97
9,817.53
Less: Operating Expenses & Provisions
4,892.71
2,261.04
5,575.00
2,627.72
Less: Impairment on financial instruments (Expected 
Credit Loss)
477.33
797.23
 641.82
1,056.34
Profit before Interest, Depreciation & Taxes (PBIDT)
6,119.90
4,597.24
8,433.15
6,133.46
Less: Depreciation
389.67
73.14
 439.13
98.77
Less: Interest & Finance Charges
3831.38
2,354.85
 5,311.18
3,308.47
Profit Before Tax
2,169.25
2,682.84
2,726.23
Less: Provisions for taxation
483.48
550.41
636.30
675.82
Profit After Tax (PAT)
1,415.37
1,618.84
 2,046.54
2,050.41
Profit After Tax (PAT) including Other
Comprehensive Income
1,395.69
1,615.63
 2,015.09
2,045.49
Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of the RBI 
Act, 1934
283.07
323.77
283.07
323.77
Earnings per Share (EPS) (`) Basic
7.65
8.82
11.06
11.17
Earnings per Share (EPS) (`) Diluted
7.56
8.72
10.94
11.05
Net Worth
33,340.01
17,601.36
35,178.57
18,857.88
Assets Under Management (AUM)
76,545
48,856
103,204
66,329
Directors’ Report
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE/STATE OF AFFAIRS
I.	
Standalone Financial Performance
	
The Total Revenue of the Company stood at ` 11,489.94 
Million for the year ended March 31, 2023 as against 
` 7,655.51 Million in the previous year. The Company 
reported a Net Profit of ` 1,415.37 Million for the year 
ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the Net Profit of 
` 1,618.84 Million in the previous year due to growth in 
business coupled with better operational controls.
	
The AUM has grown by 56.7% and stood at ` 76,545 
Million as against ` 48,856 Million in the previous 
year. The Company has further strengthened its 
retail business vertical and MSME AUM (including 
Co-Lending AUM) has grown by 31.8% to ` 43,580 
Million having 27,164 customers (previous year 
` 33,065 Million having 20,773 customers) with the 
average ticket size at `1.7. Construction Finance 
business AUM (including indirect lending) stood at 
` 21,709 Million (`15,791 Million)with 216 customers 
(previous year `15,791 Million with 166 customers). 
The management maintained its cautious approach 
towards wholesale lending reducing its share to 28.4% 
of Standalone AUM.
	
The Company along with its wholly-owned subsidiary 
company viz. Capri Global Housing Finance Limited, 
had branch presence across 736 locations spread 
over 15 States and UTs during the year as compared 
to 117 locations spread over 12 States and UTs of the 
previous year.
	
The Company has continued with strategy of going 
granular and focused on sourcing small ticket size loans 
in all its verticals, spread over a wider geographical area 
resulting into de-risking of the loan portfolio, better 
control over delinquencies, and better risk spread in 
the medium to longer term.
Annual Report 2022-23
53
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	During the year under review, the Company expanded 
its car loan distribution footprint to 450 locations 
across 29 States and UTs (previous year 213 locations 
across 19 States and UTs). During the year, the 
company entered into distribution alliance with 3 new 
banks namely Bank of India, Indian Bank, and Punjab 
and Sind Bank in addition to the existing partnership 
with 5 banks namely Bank of Baroda, HDFC Bank, 
Union Bank of India Indian Overseas Bank, and Yes 
Bank. The Company achieved an origination volume 
of ` 60,133 Million by the end of March 2023 against 
an origination volume of `17,020 Million by the end 
of previous year ended of March 2022. The Company 
earned a net distribution fee revenue of ` 1,179 Million 
for the year ended March 2023 compared to a net 
distribution fee of revenue of ` 276 Million for the year 
ended March 2022.
	The Company had initiated co-lending mechanism with 
Union Bank of India (for MSME) and State Bank of India 
(for Housing) during the year ended March 2022. During 
the year ended March 2023, the Company tied-up with 
State Bank of India (for MSME), Punjab and Sind Bank 
(MSME and Housing), and UCO Bank (for Housing). The 
Company had a total 5 co-lending partnerships at the 
end of March 2023 (previous year 2).
	The Company had announced its foray into Gold Loans 
in February 2022. The Company formally launched its 
Gold Loan business in August 2022 with 108 branches 
across 5 States and UTs and by the end of March 2023 
had expanded the business to 562 branch loacations 
across 8 States and UTs. The outstanding AUM at the 
end of March 2023 was ` 11,256 Million.
	The Gross NPA of the Company stood at 1.9% and the 
Net NPA (Net of Total ECL Provision) was at negative 
as of March 31, 2023. (-ve as of March 31, 2022). The 
Net NPA (Net of Stage 3 Provisions) stood at 1.4% as of 
March 31, 2023 (2.0% as of March 31, 2022)
II.
Consolidated Financial Performance
	The Consolidated Gross Income of the Company for
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2023, is ` 14,649.97
Million vis- a-vis ` 9,817.53 Million in the previous
year, thereby registering a growth of 49.22% (33.19%).
Consolidated Net Profit for the Financial Year ended
March 31, 2023, is ` 2,046.54 Million as compared to
` 2,050.41 Million in the previous year, registering (an
marginal decrease of 0.19%. The Gross NPA stood at
1.7%. Net NPA (Net of Total ECL Provision) was negative 
as of March 31, 2023 (-ve as of March 31, 2022).
	During the year under review, swift operationalisation 
of new branches and corresponding increase in 
human capital was effective in ensuring performance 
acceleration in terms of growth in AUM, share of certain 
segments and customer relationships.
	IT has been a major game changer in the performance 
delivery. The Company made important strides in 
data analytics, artificial intelligence, and machine 
learning technologies driven by a dedicated team of 
experienced tech professionals.
RESOURCE MOBILISATION
On a consolidated basis, the Company has strengthened its 
relationships with banks/financial institution and got fresh 
sanctions of ` 39,200 Million during the financial year under 
review. As of March 31, 2023, borrowings from public sector, 
private sector banks and financial institutions in term loans 
/ CC limits were ` 70,727 Million as against ` 43,761 Million 
in FY 2021-22. During the FY 2022 - 23 the Company raised 
` 1,000 Million through issuance of Secured Redeemable 
Non-Convertible Unlisted Debentures and ` 1,000 Million 
through issuance of Commercial Paper. The Company has 
redeemed NCD’s amounting to ` 1,167 Million and CPs 
amounting to ` 1,000 Million. The outstanding NCDs as on 
March 31, 2023 was ` 4,386 Million and the outstanding CPs 
as on March 31, 2023 was Nil. The gearing of Company as of 
March 31, 2023 is 2.14 times.
DIVIDEND
The Directors have recommended final dividend of ` 0.50 
per share of the face value of 2/- each for the Financial Year 
2022-23 (previous year ` 0.50 per share). The final dividend 
on Equity Shares, if approved by the Members in the 
upcoming Annual General Meeting, would involve a total 
outgo of `103.1 Million for the Financial Year 2022-23 as 
against ` 87.8 Million for the previous year and will be paid 
to those Members, whose names appear on the Register of 
Members/beneficial holders’ list as on the record date.
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as “the SEBI 
Listing Regulations”), the Board of Directors of the Company 
has formulated the Dividend Distribution Policy setting out 
the parameters and circumstances that will be considered 
by the Board in determining the distribution of dividend 
to its members. The Policy is available on the website of 
the 
Company 
at 
https://www.capriloans.in/corporate-
governance/.
UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND AND UNCLAIMED 
SHARES
Pursuant to Rule 5(8) of the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016, the Company furnished a statement 
/ information through Form IEPF 2 to the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, of the unclaimed dividends amounting 
to ` 2,21,896 as on the year ended March 31, 2022. During 
the year, Unclaimed Dividend for the Financial Year 2014-15 
amounting to ` 24,405 was transferred to Investor Education 
and Protection Fund on September 14, 2022.
The Company has uploaded the details of unclaimed 
dividend on the Company’s website at https://www.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
54
Capri Global Capital Limited
The Company has uploaded the details of unclaimed 
dividend on the Company’s website at https://www.
capriloans.in/unclaimed-shares-unclaimed-dividends/ 
and 
also on website specified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/services.html.
IEPF is holding 38,455 Shares of the Company, at the end of 
the year under review.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
As required under Section 45IC of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934, 20% of the profits are required to be transferred 
to a Special Reserve Account. Accordingly, the Company has 
transferred ` 283.07 Million to Statutory Reserve Account. No 
amount is proposed to be transferred to General Reserve.
DEPOSITS
During the year under review, the Company has neither 
invited nor accepted any deposits from the public within 
the meaning of Section 73 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”) read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) 
Rules, 2014.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
The Company was recognized as a “Great Place To Work” by 
the Great Place to Work Institute for a second consecutive 
year.
SHARE CAPITAL
As on March 31, 2023, the Authorised Share Capital of 
the Company stood at ` 720 Million (36,00,00,000 Equity 
Shares of ` 2/- each) and the Issued, Subscribed and Paid-
up Equity Share Capital of the Company stands at ` 412.31 
Million (comprising of 206,152,844 Equity Shares of ` 2/- 
each) ( ` 351.31 Million comprising of 17,56,54,055 Equity 
Shares of `2/- each). During the Financial Year 2022-23, the 
Company has issued and allotted 30,498,789 equity shares 
of ` 2 each. Out of the said shares the Company issued and 
allotted 30,315,789 fully equity shares of ` 2 each for cash at 
a price of `475 per equity share (including a premium of ` 
473 per equity share) on Rights basis to the eligible equity 
shareholders of the Company in the ratio of 11 rights equity 
shares for every 64 equity shares held by the eligible equity 
shareholders on the record date and 183,000 Equity shares 
were alotted on exercise of Stock Options granted to the 
employees of the Company.
RBI GUIDELINES
Your Company is registered as a Non-Deposit taking 
Systemically Important Non-Banking Finance Company 
(NBFC- ND-SI) with RBI. Accordingly, during the year, the 
Company has not accepted any deposits from the public 
and therefore, there is no deposits which become due for 
repayment or renewal. The Company has complied with 
the ‘Master Directions - Non-Banking Financial Company- 
Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Company 
and Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions 
2016’, amended from time to time and all other applicable 
Directions/regulations/circulars of RBI during the Financial 
Year 2022-23.
CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO
As on March 31, 2023, the Company’s Capital Adequacy 
Ratio (CAR), stood at 39.9% of the aggregate Risk Weighted 
Assets on Balance Sheet and Risk Adjusted Value of the 
off-Balance Sheet items, which is well above the regulatory 
requirement (minimum of 15%), providing much needed 
headroom for fund raising for business operations of the 
Company. The Company raised ` 14,400 Million in equity 
capital through a Rights Issue in March 2023. This boosted 
Company’s CAR significantly.
EMPLOYEES’ STOCK OPTION SCHEME
During the year under review, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee of the Board has granted 430,000 
stock options to the eligible employees under the Employee 
Stock Option Scheme 2009. The Company has issued and 
allotted 1,83,000 equity shares of ` 2 each on exercise of 
Stock Options granted to the employees of the Company.
The disclosures as required under Regulation 14 of SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021, is attached to this Report as Annexure I 
hereto and is also available on website of the Company at 
https://www.capriloans.in/investor-information/.
A certificate from the M/s. Sandeep P Parekh & Co, Practising 
Company Secretary, certifying that Employee Stock Option 
Scheme 2009 has been implemented in accordance with 
Regulation 14 of SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and in accordance with the 
resolution(s) passed by the Members would be uploaded on 
website of Company www.capriloans.in during the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company for inspection by the 
Members.
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS 
AND ITS ADEQUACY
The Board has adopted accounting policies which are in line 
with Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015.
The Company has put in place adequate internal controls 
with reference to accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records and timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, commensurate with the size, scale 
and complexity of operations and ensures compliance 
with various policies and statutes in keeping with the 
organisation’s pace of growth, increasing complexity of 
operations, prevention and detection of frauds and errors. 
The design and effectiveness of key controls were tested 
and no material weaknesses were observed. The Audit 
Committee periodically, reviews and evaluates the adequacy 
of internal financial control and risk management systems. 
Efficacy of Internal control systems are tested periodically 
by Internal Auditors and Internal Control over Financial 
Reporting is tested and certified by Statutory Auditors.
Annual Report 2022-23
55
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
The internal financial control system of the Company is 
supplemented with internal audits, regular reviews by the 
management and checks by external auditors.
During the year under review, no material or serious 
observation has been highlighted for inefficiency or 
inadequacy of such controls.
SUBSIDIARY ENTITIES
(a)	
As on March 31, 2023, your Company has one subsidiary 
namely Capri Global Housing Finance Limited 
(“CGHFL”). CGHFL has considerably contributed to 
the overall growth of your Company during the year. 
There has been no material change in the nature of the 
business any of the subsidiary.
	
In accordance with Section 129(3) of the Act and 
Regulation 34 of SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
consolidated financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiary company has been prepared and forms 
part of this Annual Report. A statement containing 
salient features of the financial statements of the 
subsidiaries is stated in the prescribed Form AOC-1 
as Annexure A, attached to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company.
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136 of 
the Act, the annual financial statements and related 
documents of the subsidiary companies are placed on 
the website of the Company at https://www.capriloans. 
in/. Members may download the annual financial 
statements and detailed information on subsidiary 
company from the Company’s website and are also 
available for inspection during business hours at the 
registered office of your Company. Any Member who is 
interested in obtaining a copy of the audited financial 
statements of your Company’s subsidiary may write to 
the Company Secretary at the registered office of your 
Company.
(b)	 Financial Performance & position of subsidiary
	
1.	
Capri Global Housing Finance Limited
	
	
Capri Global Housing Finance Limited (“CGHFL”), 
a registered Housing Finance Company licensed 
by National Housing Bank is a wholly owned 
subsidiary of your Company and it primarily serves 
the housing loan needs of middle and lower- 
income families, classified as affordable housing.
	
	
CGHFL has shown an impressive growth of 
52.6% in its Assets Under Management to ` 
26,657 Million in the Financial Year 2022-23 as 
against ` 17,474 Million in the Financial Year 
2021-22 and has increased its reach to 24,335 
customers from 17,739 customers in previous 
year. Total Income increased by 46.83% to 
` 3,236.72 Million as against ` 2,204.36 Million 
in the Financial Year 2021-22. Profit after tax 
registered a growth of 43.70% (29.09%) at ` 620.47 
Million in the Financial Year 2022-23 as against 
` 431.77 Million in the Financial Year 2021-22.
FIXED DEPOSITS
The Company being non-deposit taking NBFC – ND-SI, has 
not accepted any deposits from the public during the year 
under review.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act 
read with Companies (Management & Administration) Rules, 
2014 and Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. Rajesh 
Sharma (DIN: 00020037), Managing Director of the Company 
retires by rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
and being eligible, offer himself for re-appointment. Your 
Board of Directors recommend his appointment.
The brief details of the Director proposed to be re-appointed 
as required under Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India and Regulation 
36 of the SEBI Listing Regulations is provided in the Notice 
convening Annual General Meeting of the Company.
As of March 31, 2023, the Company has five Independent 
Directors including one woman Director.
All the Directors of the Company have confirmed that they 
are not disqualified to act as Director in terms of Section 164 
of the Act.
Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Directortor of the Company 
was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the Company 
with effect from April 23, 2022 for a tenure of one year. Mr. 
Sharma was further re-appointed as Chief Financial Officer 
of the Company with effect from May 22, 2023 for a period 
of one year.
Declaration 
of 
Independence 
by 
Independent 
Directors & adherence to the Company’s Code of 
Conduct for Independent Directors
All the Independent Directors have confirmed to the Board 
that they meet the criteria of independence as specified 
under Section 149(6) of the Act and that they qualify to 
be independent directors pursuant to the Rule 5 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014. They have also confirmed that they meet the 
requirements of ‘Independent Director’ as mentioned under 
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Further, all the Independent Directors have affirmed that 
they have adhered and complied with the Company’s Code 
of Conduct for Independent Directors which is framed in 
accordance with Schedule IV of the Act. All the Directors 
meet the ‘Fit and Proper’ criteria as per the policy of the 
Company and as stipulated by RBI.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
56
Capri Global Capital Limited
Board Meetings
During the year, 7 meetings of the Board of Directors were 
held. Details about the Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings are given in report on Corporate Governance 
forming part of this Report.
Constitution of various Committees
The Board of Directors of the Company has constituted 
various Committees including the following:
I.	
Audit Committee
II.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
III.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
IV.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
V.	
Risk Management Committee
Details of each of the Committees stating their respective 
composition and terms of reference are uploaded on 
Company’s website at https://www.capriloans.in/ and are 
stated in brief in the Corporate Governance Report attached 
to and forming part of this Report.
Policies on Appointment of Directors and their 
Remuneration
The remuneration paid to the Directors is in line with 
the Nomination and Remuneration Policy formulated in 
accordance with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 
19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being 
in force). Further, the Company has in place the orderly 
succession plan for the appointments at the Board and 
Senior Management level.
The Company’s policy on Directors’ appointment and 
remuneration and other matters as provided in Section 178(3) 
of the Act has been disclosed in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which forms part of this Report.
The relevant Policy(ies) have been uploaded on the website 
of the Company and can be accessed through the link 
https://www.capriloans.in/corporate-governance/.
Annual Evaluation of Board, its Committees, and 
Individual Directors
The Company has devised a Policy for performance 
evaluation of the Board, its Committees, and other individual 
Directors (including Independent Directors) which includes 
criteria for Performance Evaluation of the Non-Executive 
Directors and Executive Directors. The evaluation process 
inter alia considers attendance of Directors at Board and 
Committee Meetings, acquaintance with business, code of 
conduct, vision and strategy, benchmarks established by 
global peers, etc., which is in compliance with applicable 
laws, regulations and guidelines.
The Board carried out annual evaluation of the performance 
of the Board, its Committees and Individual Directors and 
Chairperson. The performance of each Committee was 
evaluated by the Board, based on report on evaluation 
received from respective Board Committees.
Familiarisation Program for Independent Directors
The Company has adopted a structured programme for 
orientation of all Directors including the Independent 
Directors at the time of their joining so as to familiarise 
them with the Company – its operations, business, 
industry and environment in which it functions and the 
regulatory environment applicable to it. The Management 
updates the Board Members on a continuing basis of any 
significant changes therein and provides them an insight 
to their expected roles and responsibilities so as to be in 
a position to take well-informed and timely decisions and 
contribute significantly to the Company. The Independent 
Directors of the Company are made aware of their roles and 
responsibilities at the time of their appointment through a 
formal letter of appointment, which also stipulates various 
terms and conditions of their engagement.
Strategic Presentations are made to the Board where Directors 
get an opportunity to interact with Senior Management. 
Directors are also informed of the various developments in 
the Company through Press Releases, emails, etc.
Familiarisation Program for Independent Directors is 
mentioned at length in Corporate Governance Report 
attached to this Report and the details of the same have also 
been disclosed on the website of the Company at https://
www.capriloans.in/ corporate-governance/.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) read with Section 134(5) of the 
Act, the Board of Directors, to the best of its knowledge and 
ability, confirm that:
a)	
in preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed and there 
are no material departure;
b)	
they have selected appropriate accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgements 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the financial year and of the 
profit of the Company for that period;
c)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of Act for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities;
d)	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
e)	
they have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
Annual Report 2022-23
57
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
controls are adequate and are operating effectively; 
and
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such 
systems are adequate and operating effectively.
AUDITORS
A.	
STATUTORY AUDITORS
	
In terms of Section 139 of the Act, M.M. Nissim & 
Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration 
no. 107122W/W100672), were appointed as statutory 
auditors of the Company for a period of three years 
from the conclusion of the 27th Annual General Meeting 
until the conclusion of the 30th Annual General Meeting 
of the Company.
	
M/s. M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, 
conducted the statutory audit for the financial year 2022 
- 23. There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse 
remarks or disclaimers made by the Statutory Auditors 
in their Audit Report for the financial year 2022-23.
B.	
SECRETARIAL AUDIT
	
Pursuant to Section 204 of the Act read with Rule 9 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 
24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company had 
appointed M/s. Sandeep P Parekh & Co., Practicing 
Company Secretary for conducting Secretarial Audit. 
The Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2023, is appended to this Report as 
Annexure II (A). There are no qualifications, reservations, 
adverse remarks or disclaimers made by the Secretarial 
Auditors, in their Audit Report for the financial year 
2022-23.
	
In terms of Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations, 
the Secretarial Audit Report of material subsidiary of 
the Company i.e Capri Global Housing Finance Limited 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, is annexed 
to this Report as Annexure II(B).
C.	
REPORTING OF FRAUDS BY AUDITORS
	
During the year under review, neither the Statutory 
Auditors nor the Secretarial Auditor of the Company 
have reported any instances of frauds committed 
in the Company by its Officers or Employees to the 
Audit Committee under Section 143(12) of the Act and 
therefore, no detail is required to be disclosed under 
Section 134(3)(ca) of the Act.
COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
During the year under review, the Company has complied 
with all applicable mandatory Secretarial Standards issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The Board has constituted Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Committee in accordance with Section 135 of the Act. 
The CSR Policy of the Company, inter alia, list the activities 
that can be undertaken or supported by the Company for 
CSR as envisaged in Schedule VII of the Act, composition 
and meetings of CSR Committee, criteria for selection of 
CSR projects, modalities of execution/implementation 
of CSR activities and the monitoring mechanism of CSR 
activities/ projects. The details of CSR Policy of the Company 
are available on the website of the Company at https://www.
capriloans.in/corporate-governance/. The composition and 
terms of reference of the CSR Committee are provided in the 
Report on Corporate Governance.
In terms of Section 135 of the Act, the details of the CSR 
spent during the year under review is provided in the Annual 
Report on CSR activities as required under Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and 
attached to this Report as Annexure III.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board of Directors of the Company has formed a Risk 
Management Committee to frame, implement, review 
and monitor the risk management plan for the Company 
and ensuring its effectiveness in addition to Asset Liability 
Management Committee(‘ALCO’) which monitors and 
manages the liquidity and interest rate risks. The Company 
and its subsidiary have a risk management framework and 
the Committee on timely basis informs the Board Members 
about risk assessment and minimisation procedures which in 
the opinion of the Committee may threaten the existence 
of the Company, if any. The Audit Committee has additional 
oversight in the area of credit & liquidity risks, interest rate 
risk, and operational risk. The major risks identified by the 
businesses and functions are systematically addressed 
through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
The details of the functioning of the Risk Management 
Committee and frequency of its meetings are provided in 
Report on Corporate Governance forming part of this Annual 
Report. The Company follows a proactive risk management 
policy, aimed at protecting its assets and employees while at 
the same time ensuring growth and continuity of its business. 
Regular updates on the development in the business 
environment and the risk mitigation initiatives are provided 
to Board at its meeting.
The development and implementation of risk management 
policy has been covered in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, which forms part of this Report.
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND RELATED 
INFORMATION
In accordance with the provisions of Section 197(12) of 
the Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
a statement containing the disclosures pertaining to 
remuneration and other details as required under the 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
58
Capri Global Capital Limited
Act and the above Rules, are appended to this Report as 
Annexure IV.
As per the provisions of Section 136(1) of the Act, the 
reports and accounts are being sent to the Members of the 
Company excluding the information regarding employee 
remuneration as required pursuant to Rule 5(2) and Rule 
5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014. The same is available 
for inspection and any Member interested in obtaining such 
information may write an email to the Company Secretary at 
secretarial@capriglobal.in and the same will be furnished on 
such request.
The Board of Directors affirm that the remuneration paid 
to employees of the Company is as per the Remuneration 
Policy of the Company and none of the employees listed in 
the said Annexure/information is related to any Director of 
the Company.
PARTICULARS 
OF 
CONTRACTS 
OR 
ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES
The Board of Directors of the Company has formulated 
a policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions, 
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The same is displayed on the website 
of the Company at https://www.capriloans.in/corporate-
goverance/. This policy deals with the review and approval of 
related party transactions. All related party transactions are 
placed before the Audit Committee for review and approval.
During the year under review, all the related party transactions 
were entered in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s 
length basis. All related party transactions as required under 
Indian Accounting Standards - 24 (Ind AS-24) are reported in 
Note - 41 of Standalone Financial Statements.
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Act read with Rule 8(2) of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, there are no related 
party transactions that are required to be reported under 
Section 188(1) of the Act in the prescribed Form AOC-2.
ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to the requirement under Section 92(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, copy of the annual return for financial 
year ended March 31, 2023, can be accessed on our website 
at https://www.capriloans.in//investor-information/.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
REPORT
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
forms part of this Report.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Your Company practices a culture that is built on core 
values and ethical governance practices. Your Company 
is committed to transparency in all its dealings and places 
high emphasis on business ethics. In terms of Regulation 34 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Report on Corporate 
Governance for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
along with the certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company confirming the compliance with Regulations 
of Corporate Governance is annexed to the Report on 
Corporate Governance.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
As per Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
“Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report” is 
appended as Annexure V and forms part of this Report and 
can also be accessed on the Company’s website at www.
capriloans.in.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY/VIGIL MECHANISM
The Company has formulated and established a Vigil 
Mechanism named Whistle Blower Policy to deal with 
instances of fraud and mismanagement and to enable 
Directors and Employees to report genuine concerns about 
unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation 
of Code of Conduct and to report incidents of leak or 
suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information. 
Adequate safeguards are provided against victimisation of 
those who avail of the mechanism and direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases is 
provided to them. The Whistle Blower Policy is available on 
the website of your Company at https://www.capriloans.in/
corporate- goverance/.
During the year under review, one complaint was received 
under the Whistle Blower mechanism which was discussed at 
the Audit Committee meeting and was suitably disposed off.
DISCLOSURE 
UNDER 
THE 
SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE 
(PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) 
ACT, 2013
Your Company has adopted zero tolerance for sexual 
harassment at workplace and has formulated a Policy for 
Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment 
at Work Place in line with the provisions of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”) and the Rules framed 
thereunder for prevention and redressal of complaints 
of sexual harassment at workplace. Your Company has 
complied with provisions relating to the constitution of 
Internal Committee under the POSH Act. During the year 
under review, no complaints were received from any of the 
employees.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION, 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
The Company being engaged in the financial services 
activities, its operations are not energy intensive nor does 
it require adoption of specific technology and hence 
information in terms of Section 134(3)(m) of the Act read with 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is not applicable to 
Annual Report 2022-23
59
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
the Company. Nevertheless, the Company is vigilant on the 
need for conservation of energy.
During the Financial Year 2022-23, the Company’s foreign 
exchange earnings were NIL and outgo was ` 14.39 Million 
as against ` 1.47 Million in the previous year.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES
The Company being a Non-Banking Finance Company, the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Act pertaining to granting 
of loans to any persons or bodies corporate and giving of 
guarantees or providing security in connection with loans to 
any other bodies corporate or persons are not applicable to 
the Company.
As regards investments made by the Company, the details 
of the same are provided under Notes in the Financial 
Statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 
2023, forming part of this Annual Report.
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS 
AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE 
COMPANY
There have been no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company which have 
occurred between the end of the financial year to which the 
financial statements relate and the date of this Report.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS
During the Financial Year 2022-23, there were no significant 
and material orders passed by the Regulators or Courts 
or Tribunals impacting the going concern status and the 
Company’s operations in future. Further, no penalties have 
been levied by the RBI or any other regulator during the year 
under review.
LISTING
Equity Shares of your Company are listed on National Stock 
Exchange of India Ltd. and BSE Ltd. Your Company has paid 
required listing fees to Stock Exchanges for FY 2023-24.
MAINTENANCE OF COST RECORDS
The maintenance of cost records, for the services rendered 
by the Company, is not required pursuant to Section 148 (1) 
of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Cost Records 
and Audit) Rules, 2014.
MANAGING DIRECTOR (MD) AND CHIEF 
FINANCIAL OFFICER (CFO) CERTIFICATE
In terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(Listing Regulations), the certificate, as prescribed in Part B 
of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, has been obtained 
from Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director for the Financial 
Year 2022-23 with regard to the Financial Statements and 
other matters. The said Certificate is attached herewith as 
Annexure VI and forms part of this Report.
DISCLOSURE PERTAINING TO INSOLVENCY & 
BANKRUPTCY CODE (“IBC”)
No application for Bankruptcy under the Insolvency & 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (“IBC”) was made against the 
Company during the financial year under review.
DISCLOSURE OF ONE TIME SETTLEMENT
The Company did not avail any such onetime settlement 
during the Financial Year. Therefore, disclosure of the details 
of difference between amount of the valuation done at the 
time of one-time settlement and the valuation done while 
taking loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions along 
with the reasons thereof is not applicable to the Company.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Your directors acknowledge the support extended by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Reserve Bank of 
India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Registrar of Companies 
and all other Governmental and Regulatory Authorities for 
the guidance and support received from them including 
their officials from time to time.
Your directors also place on record their sincere appreciation 
for the continued support extended by the Company’s 
stakeholders including investors, customers, banks, financial 
institutions, rating agencies, debenture holders, debenture 
trustees and well-wishers during the year.
Your directors place on records their appreciation of the 
contribution made by the employees of your Company 
and its subsidiaries at all levels. Your Company’s consistent 
growth was made possible by their hard work, solidarity, co- 
operation and support.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Capri Global Capital Limited
Sd/- 
Sd/-
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Managing Director
 Independent Director
(DIN: 00020037) 
(DIN: 00295213)
Date: May 22, 2023
Place: Mumbai
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
60
Capri Global Capital Limited
A.	 RELEVANT DISCLOSURES IN TERMS OF THE ACCOUNTING STANDARDS PRESCRIBED BY THE 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT IN TERMS OF SECTION 133 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (18 OF 
2013) INCLUDING THE ‘GUIDANCE NOTE ON ACCOUNTING FOR EMPLOYEE SHARE-BASED 
PAYMENTS’ ISSUED IN THAT REGARD FROM TIME TO TIME
	
The relevant disclosure is provided in the Notes to the Financial Statements, under Note 45 for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2023
B.	 DILUTED EPS ON ISSUE OF SHARES PURSUANT TO ALL THE SCHEMES COVERED UNDER THE 
REGULATIONS SHALL BE DISCLOSED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ‘ACCOUNTING STANDARD 20 - 
EARNINGS PER SHARE’ BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT OR ANY OTHER RELEVANT ACCOUNTING 
STANDARDS AS ISSUED FROM TIME TO TIME.
	
The Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS) before and after extraordinary items for the year ended March 31, 2023 is ` 7.56 each
C.	 DETAILS RELATED TO EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEMES (ESOS) OF THE COMPANY
Sr. 
No
Particulars
a.
Date of shareholder’s approval
September 22, 2009
b.
Total number of options approved under ESOS
2,61,51,340
c.
Vesting requirements
Options would vest not less than one year and not more than 
six years from the date of grant subject to achievement of 
performance parameter as evaluated by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Commiteee.
d.
Exercise price or pricing formula
@ Refer Note
e.
Maximum term of options granted
Stock Options granted shall be capable of being exercised 
within a period of one year from the date of vesting of the 
Stock Options.
f.
Source of shares
Primary
g.
Variation in terms of options
There is no variation in the terms of the options during the 
Financial Year ended March, 31, 2023.
	
i.	
Method used to account for ESOS :  The Company uses fair value of options for accounting for stock 
options granted
	
ii.	
Where the company opts for expensing of the options using the intrinsic value of the options
-	
the difference between the employee compensation costs 
computed and the employee compensation cost that shall 
have been recognised if it had used the fair value of the 
options shall be disclosed
Not  applicable
	
a.	
The impact of this difference:
	
i.	
On Profits
	
ii.	
On EPS
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Annexure - I
DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO REGULATION 14 OF 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SHARE 
BASED EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND SWEAT EQUITY) 
REGULATIONS, 2021 AS ON MARCH 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
61
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
iii.	
Option movement during the year
1.	
Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the year
30,40,800 
2.	
Number of options granted during the year
4,30,000
3.	
Number of options forfeited/lapsed during the year
(2,27,400)
4.	
Number of options vested during the year
1,83,000
5.	
Number of options exercised during the year
1,83,000
6.	
Number of shares arising as a result of exercise of options
1,83,000
7.	
Money realised by exercise of options (INR), If Scheme is implemented directly 
by the Company
` 1,24,90,800/- 
8.	
Loan repaid by the Trust during the year from exercise price received
N.A
9.	
Number of options outstanding at the end of the year
30,60,400
10.	 Number of options exercisable at the end of the Year
0
	
iv.	
Weighted-average exercise prices and weighted-average fair values of options :
	
	
Weighted Average Exercise Price: ` 68.26 each
	
	
Weighted Average Fair Value of the options ` 470.72 each
	
v.	
Employee wise details of options granted:
1.	
Senior Managerial Personnel
N.A.
2.	
Any other employee who receives a grant in any one 
year of option amounting to 5% or more of option 
granted during that year
List of Employees who were granted 5% or more of the 
options granted during the year 2022-23:
Employee Name
Designation
Ms. Divya Sutar
Director - Business Strategy
Mr. Ravish Gupta
Business Head - Gold Loan
Mr. Varun Malhotra
Senior Vice President
Mr. Abhishek Mehta
Senior Vice President
3.	
Identified employee who were granted option, 
during anyone year, equal to or exceeding 1% of the 
issued capital (excluding outstanding warrants and 
conversions) of the Company at the time of grant
None of the Employees were granted options more than 
1% of the issued capital.
	
vi.	 A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair value 
of options including the following information:  We have used the Black-Scholes Merton formula for Option-
Pricing Models.
	
	
1.	
Discount Rate ranging from 7.09% to 7.39% is used based on the benchmark rate available on Government 
Securities (G. Sec.) for the tenure of 2.5 to 5 years.
	
	
2.	
Expected volatility for each grant date’s fair valuation is ranging from 40% to 50%.
	
	
3.	
Dividend yield is considered as 0.18%  to 0.30% is assumed for ESOP’s valuations.
	
	
@Note:
	
	
i.	
Face value per equity share of the Company; or
	
	
ii. 	
Closing price of the Stock Exchange with the highest trading volumes on the last working day prior to the date of 
grant; or
	
	
iii. 	
25% discount to the Prevailing Market Price; or
	
	
iv.	
Pre - determined price as fixed at the time of grant of options.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
62
Capri Global Capital Limited
To,
The Members,
CAPRI GLOBAL CAPITAL LIMITED
CIN: L65921MH1994PLC173469
502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai 400013
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of 
applicable, statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by CAPRI GLOBAL CAPITAL LIMITED 
(hereinafter called the “Company”). The Secretarial Audit 
was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable 
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing my Opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the data provided to us, w.r.t 
Minutes, forms and its attachment and returns filed by the 
Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives 
during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that 
in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, complied 
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that 
the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject 
to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the data provided by Company for 
the financial year ended 31st March, 2023 according to the 
provisions of:
(1)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(2)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(3)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(4)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
(5)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
Annexure - II (A)
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; 
- (Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period)
	
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 ;-(Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period)
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
(6)	
The following laws, regulations, directions, orders 
are applicable specifically to the Company and as 
confirmed by Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director, 
same have been Complied by the Company:
	
(a)	
The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (RBI) and the 
circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder, to the 
extent it is applicable to Non-Banking Financial 
Company.
	
(b)	
Master 
Directions 
- 
Non-Banking 
Financial 
Company -Systemically Important Non-Deposit 
Annual Report 2022-23
63
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
taking Company and Deposit taking Company 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016
	
(c)	
Master 
Direction 
- 
Information 
Technology 
Framework for the NBFC Sector
	
(d)	
Master Direction - Monitoring of Frauds in NBFCs 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016.
	
(e)	
Master 
Direction 
- 
Non-Banking 
Financial 
Companies Auditor's Report (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016
	
(f)	
The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 
read with the rules made thereunder
We have also examined compliances with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
1.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
2.	
The Listing Regulation entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
and the Key Managerial Personnel that took place during the 
period under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board / Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were also sent adequately, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
Majority decision at the Board meeting is taken unanimously.
As informed to us, we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the Company to monitor and 
ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with provisions of Acts and Rules made thereunder.
For Sandeep P Parekh & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Sandeep P. Parekh
FCS No: 7118, CP No: 7693
UDIN: F007118E000366290
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: 22/05/2023
This report is to be read with my letter of even date which 
is annexed as Annexure and forms an integral part of this 
report.
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility 
of the management of the Company. My responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records 
based on my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial 
records. I believe that the process and practices I 
followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and books of accounts of the 
Company.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained Management 
Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events, etc.
ANNEXURE TO THE SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is 
the responsibility of management.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as 
to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Sandeep P Parekh & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Sandeep P. Parekh
FCS No: 7118, CP No: 7693
UDIN: F007118E000366290
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: 22/05/2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
64
Capri Global Capital Limited
Annexure - II (B)
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
CAPRI GLOBAL HOUSING FINANCE LIMITED
CIN: U65990MH2006PLC161153
502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel,
Mumbai 400013
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable, statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by CAPRI GLOBAL HOUSING 
FINANCE LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”). The 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing my Opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the data provided to us, w.r.t 
Minutes, forms and its attachment and returns filed by the 
Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives 
during the conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that 
in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, complied 
with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that 
the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject 
to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the data provided by Company for the 
financial year ended 31st March, 2023 according to the 
provisions of:
(1)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(2)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(3)	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(4)	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings; (Not applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period)
(5)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
	
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
	
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
(Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period)
	
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018; - (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
	
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 
2014; - (Not applicable to the Company during 
the Audit Period)
	
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; 
(Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period)
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client; - (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
	
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; 
- (Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period)
	
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 ;- (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period)
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
(6)	
The following laws, regulations, directions, orders 
are applicable specifically to the Company and as 
confirmed by Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director, 
same have been Complied by the Company :
	
a)	
The National Housing Bank Act, 1987 and the 
circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder;
	
b)	
The 
Housing 
Finance 
Companies 
(NHB) 
Directions, 2010;
	
c)	
Master Circular on Fair Practice Code for Housing 
Finance Companies;
Annual Report 2022-23
65
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
d)	
Master Circular-Housing Finance Companies- 	
Corporate Governance (NHB) Directions, 2016;
	
e)	
Master 
Directions 
– 
Non-banking 
financial 
companies 
– 
Housing 
Finance 
Companies 
(Reserve Bank of India ) Directions, 2021; and
	
f)	
The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 
read with the rules made thereunder
We have also examined compliances with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
1.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India.
2.	
The Listing Regulation entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited. (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period)
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
and the Key Managerial Personnel that took place during the 
period under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board / Committee Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were also sent adequately, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications 
on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
Majority decision at the Board meeting is taken unanimously.
As informed to us, we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate with 
the size and operations of the Company to monitor and 
ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with provisions of Acts and Rules made thereunder.
For Sandeep P Parekh & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Sandeep P. Parekh
FCS No: 7118, CP No: 7693
UDIN: F007118E000332894
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: 16/05/2023
This report is to be read with my letter of even date which 
is annexed as Annexure and forms an integral part of this 
report.
My report of even date is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility 
of the management of the Company. My responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records 
based on my audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial 
records. I believe that the process and practices I 
followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness 
of financial records and books of accounts of the 
Company.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained Management 
Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events, etc.
ANNEXURE TO THE SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is 
the responsibility of management.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as 
to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Sandeep P Parekh & Co.
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
Sandeep P. Parekh
FCS No: 7118, CP No: 7693
UDIN: F007118E000332894
Place: Navi Mumbai
Date: 16/05/2023 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
66
Capri Global Capital Limited
Annexure - III
Annual Report on CSR Activities for Financial Year  
2022-2023
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company.
At CGCL, we have always viewed CSR as an instrument for impactful transformation, and not an obligation that needs to 
be complied with. Over the years, we’ve made our level best attempt to induce a socio-economic structure where every 
important activity acts as a pillar of robust implementation mechanism, all our initiatives and goals are designed to cover and 
eradicate majority of our common social problems and differences. Our CSR initiatives strictly abides by all its legal policies 
and rules to create a professional niche, integrating shared values and knowledge.
The CSR projects of the Company are focused on communities that are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. The 
initiatives and projects also by mandate share a nexus with the UN agreed SDG’s. For the current reporting session Capri 
Projects are aligned with 8 of the U.N-SDG’s. The Company strives to contribute positively to improve the standard of living, 
through its interventions in core areas like Women Empowerment & Sustainable Livelihood, Education, Health and Animal 
Welfare.
The Company’s CSR Policy framework details the mechanisms for undertaking various programs in accordance with Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) for the benefit of the community.
Women Empowerment & Sustainable Development – Initiatives majorly includes providing access and broadening 
the reach of financial inclusion activities, entrepreneurship initiatives and other vocation-based training, overall ensuring a 
sustainable framework to function. Gender consciousness, Technology and Innovation would be the cross cutting across all 
these key initiatives
Education - Initiatives includes innovation and incubation programs, Promoting learning enhancement amongst children, 
in schools, Child care institutions and in communities, innovative teaching methodology, ongoing community- based 
education programs and institution-based programs. Efforts are being taken to remain digitally connected to the children, 
despite challenges.
Health - We believe that good health is cardinal to human well-being and enables one to achieve life goals. This financial 
year as well, Health and Nutrition focus and outlay remained concentrated on issues like combating malnutrition and access 
to preventive health services especially with special focus on women health and access of healthcare services to tribal padas.
Animal Welfare - Capri’s animal welfare program highlights our vision of respect and care for all life on Earth. Delivering 
essentials for a harmonious co-existence between humans and street animals like cat & dogs. Our initiatives of medical 
assistance, rescue mission, and support to street dwellers in caring for these animals, has brought us 2,237 beneficiaries, 
further creating a better future for all to live in.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl.
No
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1.
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Chairperson of the Committee
2
2
2.
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
Member
2
2
3.
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Member
2
2
1.	
Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are 
disclosed on the website of the company. Corporate-Social-Responsibility-Policy.pdf (www.capriloans.in)
2.	
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report) - NA.
Annual Report 2022-23
67
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
3.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any
Sl.
No
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off from
preceding financial years (in `)
Amount required to be set-off for 
the financial year, if any (in `)
None
4.	
Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5).
	
The average net profit of the Company for the last three financial years is. ` 19,973.89 Lacs
5.	
(a)	
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
	
	
` 399.48 Lacs
	
(b)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years.
	
	
NA
	
(c)	
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
	
	
NA
	
(d)	
Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c). 399.48 Lacs
	
The Company is required to spend an amount of 399.48 Lacs as CSR expenditure during the financial year 2022-23
6.	
(a)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year.
Amount Unspent
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
section 135(6).
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5).
Amount
Date of transfer.
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
` 419.69  Lacs spent 
towards various 
activities for the benefit 
of the community.
-
-
-
-
-
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
68
Capri Global Capital Limited
(b)	
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Project Item from 
Local the 
list of area 
activities in 
(Yes/ Schedule 
VII No). to the 
Act.
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No).
Location of the Project
Project 
Duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project (` 
in Lacs)
Amount 
spent in 
the curent 
financial 
Year (` in 
Lacs)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for 
the project as 
per Section 
135(6) (` in 
Lacs).
Mode of 
Implementation - 
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation - Through 
Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
1
Sustainable 
Livelihood 
Enhancement 
and Women 
Empowerment
Clause (ii) (iii) (i) 
(x) of Schedule 
VII
Yes
Rajasthan
Udaipur, 
Rajsamand, Baran, 
Udaipur, & Dholpur
Three Years 274.18
274.18
NA
No
Seva Mandir
CSR00000288
Karnataka
Chikkaballapura
Buzz India Trust
CSR00002928
Chhattisgarh
Surguja, 
Rajnandgaon, 
Gariyabandh
Professional 
Assistance for 
Development 
Action (PRADAN)
CSR00000973
Maharashtra
Mumbai, Raigad
Save the Children 
India
CSR00000158
Madhya 
Pradesh
Ujjain, Khargone
Arpan Seva 
Sansthan
CSR00000826
Swades 
Foundation
CSR00000440
Manjari 
Foundation
CSR00000074
Women’S 
Integrated And 
Synergistic 
Empowerment 
Association (Wise)
CSR00002167
No
Nagaland
Kohima, Dimapur, 
Mokokchung, 
Wokha, Phek, 
Peren, Mon, 
Kiphire, Noklak, 
Tuensang, 
Zunheboto, 
Chumukedima, 
Niuland
Entrepreneurs 
Associates
CSR00005848
Manipur
Senapati, Chandel, 
Ukhrul
Assam
Karbi Anglong
Annual Report 2022-23
69
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Project Item from 
Local the 
list of area 
activities in 
(Yes/ Schedule 
VII No). to the 
Act.
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No).
Location of the Project
Project 
Duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project (` 
in Lacs)
Amount 
spent in 
the curent 
financial 
Year (` in 
Lacs)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for 
the project as 
per Section 
135(6) (` in 
Lacs).
Mode of 
Implementation - 
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation - Through 
Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR Registration 
Number
2
Education Initiative
Clause (ii) of 
Schedule VII
Yes
Maharashtra
Palghar
Three Years 80.50
80.50
NA
No
Swami Vivekanand 
Educational 
Pratisthan
CSR00009183
Rajasthan
Udaipur
Kshamtalaya 
Foundation
CSR00002738
Madhya 
Pradesh
Bhopal, Burhanpur, 
Chhindwara, 
Indore, Itarsi, 
Jabalpur, Kati, 
Khandwa, Ujjain 
and Ratlam
Catalysts for Social 
Action
CSR00002803
3
Health Initiative
Clause (i) (iii) of 
Schedule VII
Yes
Andhra 
pradesh, 
Assam, Bihar, 
Bangladesh, 
Chattisgarh, 
Delhi, Haryana, 
Uttar pradesh, 
Himachal 
pradesh, 
Jammu 
Kashmir, 
Jharkhand, 
Karnataka, 
Kerala, West 
bengal
Madhya 
Pradesh, 
Maharashtra, 
Manipur, 
Odisha, 
Punjab, 
Rajasthan, 
Tamilnadu, 
Uttrakhand
PAN INDIA
Three Years 25.00
25.00
NA
No
Win Over Cancer
CSR00001982
4
Animal Welfare
Clause (iv) of 
Schedule VII
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
10.00
10.00
NA
No
The Welfare of 
Stray Dogs
CSR00002417
5
Awareness and 
Engagement with 
Community
Clause (ii) of 
Schedule VII
Yes
Delhi
Delhi
0.55
0.55
NA
Yes
-
-
Total
390.22
390.22
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
70
Capri Global Capital Limited
(c)	
Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sr. 
No.
Name 
of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
Project
Amount spent 
for the project 
(` In Lacs)
Mode of 
Implementation - 
Direct (Yes/No)
Mode of Implementation - 
Through Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
1
Education 
Initiative
Clause (ii) of 
Schedule VII
Yes
Maharashtra
Mumbai
9.50
No
Save the 
Children India
CSR00000158
(d)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads - 19.97 Lacs
(e)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NA
(f)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): ` 419.69 Lacs
(g)	
Excess amount for set off, if any
Sl.
No
Particular
Amount (in `)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)    
399.48  Lacs
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year	
419.69  Lacs
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]	
20. 21 Lacs
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]	
20.21 Lacs
7.	
(a)	
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: NA
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year.
Amount 
transferred
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
under section
135 (6) (` in 
lacs)
Amount
spent in the
reporting
Financial
Year (` in
lacs)
Amount transferred to any fund 
specified under Schedule VII as per 
section 135(6), if any.
Amount 
remaining
to be 
spent in 
succeeding 
financial 
years.  
(` in lacs)
Name of 
the Fund
Amount
(` in lacs)
Date of
transfer
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
(b)	
Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s): - NA
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sl.
No.
Project 
ID
Name of 
the
Project
Financial
Year in
which the
project was
commenced
Project
duration
Total 
amount
allocated 
for
the 
project
Amount
spent on the
project in 
the
reporting
Financial
Year
Cumulative
amount
spent at
the end of
reporting
Financial
Year
Status of
the project -
Completed /
Ongoing
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8.	
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through 
CSR spent in the financial year.
	
(asset-wise details).
(a)	
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s).
(b)	
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset.
(c)	
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address 
etc.
Annual Report 2022-23
71
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
(d)	
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including complete address and location of the 
capitalasset).
Sr. 
No.
Details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year.
Date of 
creation or 
acquisition 
of the 
capital 
asset(s).
Amount 
of CSR 
spent for 
creation or 
acquisition 
of capital 
asset.
Details of the entity or public 
authority or beneficiary under whose 
name such capital asset is registered, 
their address etc.
Details of the capital asset(s) created 
or acquired including complete 
address and location of the capital 
asset.
1
17.03.2023
`7,500 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
Book Self with Glass 3’’x5” -
Aashra Home near Jhijhari police station, 
katni, MadhyaPradesh
2
11.03.2023
`38,749 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
One plus 55Inches smart LED -
Babawadi Mandavgan Mulanche 
Balgruh, Zarekar Lane, Near DPACA CCI 
Ahmednagar, Maharashtra
3
17.03.2023
`35,320 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
1No Of Notice Board, White Board & 
Board Stand
Bal Grah, Lal pura Nagzhiri, Ujjain 
,Madhya Pradesh
4
17.03.2023
`1,140 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400087.
1 NOS OF BENQ Projector, 3 Nos of 
White Board 1.5*2 & 1 Notice Board 2*3
Balika Grah Ujjain, Lal pura Nagzhiri, 
Ujjain ,Madhya Pradesh
5
21.03.2023
`4,590 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
1 Nos Of Display Board, White Board 
(6*4) & stand
Hindu Bal Seva Sadan, Moghat Road, Lal 
Chowki, Khandwa,Madhya Pradesh
6
19.02.2023
`47,300 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
1 NOS OF BENQ Projector, 3 Nos of 
Library Table 7”*3ft*3ft
Jeevodaya Girls Home, Chirag 
Jeevodaya Society, ward No - 
Nehruganj, Behind Janata Talkies, Itarsi , 
Hosangabad (Dist.) Madhya Pradesh
7
23.03.2023 & 
19.03.2023
`53,840 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
1 NOS OF BENQ Projector, 1 Nos of 
Book Shelf (6*6), Book stand 2*5, Canvas 
Stand, Display Board (6*4), White Board, 
White Board Stand
Navjeevan Children’s Home, House No.2, 
Ganesh Talai,Khandwa,Madhya Pradesh
8
19.03.2023
`5,340 Catalysts For Social Action,
711/712, Bhaveshwar Arcade Annex, 
Nityanad nagar, LBS marg, Nr. Shreyas 
Cinema, Ghatkopar (W) - 400086.
1 Nos Of Display Board (6*4), White 
Board, White Board Stand, Canvas Stand
Shara Bal Grah, Near New Indira 
Montessiory school, New Indira 
Colony,Bhurhanpur,Madhya Pradesh
Total-1
`1,93,779
1
20.03.2023
`10,73,710 Gaon Vikas Samiti Sthapna Pachhapur,
Pacchapur, Pacchapur Gram Panchayat, 
Sudhagad Taluka, Raigad District, PIN: 
410205.
Pacchapur Vishnunagar Drinking Water 
Scheme(Pacchapur, Pacchapur (GP), 
Sudhagad, Raigad 410205),
Pacchapur, Pacchapur Gram Panchayat, 
Sudhagad Taluka, Raigad District
PIN: 410205
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
72
Capri Global Capital Limited
Sr. 
No.
Details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year.
Date of 
creation or 
acquisition 
of the 
capital 
asset(s).
Amount 
of CSR 
spent for 
creation or 
acquisition 
of capital 
asset.
Details of the entity or public 
authority or beneficiary under whose 
name such capital asset is registered, 
their address etc.
Details of the capital asset(s) created 
or acquired including complete 
address and location of the capital 
asset.
2
20.03.2023
`16,49,351 Gram Vikas Samiti Madhali ali,
Madhali Ali, Warandh Gram Panchayat, 
Mahad Taluka, Raigad District
PIN: 402306
Madhali Ali Drinking Water Scheme 
(Madhali Ali, Warandh (GP), Mahad, 
Raigad 402306),
Madhali Ali, Warandh Gram Panchayat, 
Mahad Taluka, Raigad District
PIN: 402306
3
25.03.2023
`4,34,976 Swades Samiti Kani Khute Dake,
Kani Dhangarwadi, Kalamb Gram 
Panchayat, Sudhagad Taluka, Raigad 
District
PIN: 410205
Kani Dhangarwadi Drinking Water 
Scheme (Kani Dhangarwadi, Kalamb 
(GP), Sudhagad, Raigad 410205),
Kani Dhangarwadi, Kalamb Gram 
Panchayat, Sudhagad Taluka, Raigad 
District
PIN: 410205
4
05.08.2022
` 77,969 Vishnu Kashiram Waghe,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302
5
05.08.2022
Devidas Satosh Vaghe,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302
6
05.08.2022
Nathu Babu Vale,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302
7
05.08.2022
Ramchandra Ratan Jadhav,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302
8
05.08.2022
Navnath Harishchandra Jadhav,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302`
9
05.08.2022
Baliram Tukaram Katekar,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302
10
05.08.2022
Prakash Baliram Waghe,
Laxmiwadi hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij 
Revenue Village, Mahad block, Raigad 
PIN: 402302
Household Sanitation Repair, Laxmiwadi 
hamlet, Kharvali GP, Kalij Revenue 
Village, Mahad block, Raigad 402302
Total-2
`32,36,006
1
16.09.2022
`1,71,360 Kala Kendra,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
6 Nos of Juki Machine,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
2
16.09.2022
`1,14,240 Kala Kendra,
Indira nagar,Ujjain 456001
4 Nos of Juki Machine,
 Indira nagar,Ujjain 456001
3
04.11.2022
`41,890 Wise,
FM-23, First Floor, Scheme No. 94, 
Pipliyahana Square, Indore - 452016
1 Nos of Laptop,
FM-23, First Floor, Scheme No. 94, 
Pipliyahana Square, Indore - 452016
Annual Report 2022-23
73
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Sr. 
No.
Details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year.
Date of 
creation or 
acquisition 
of the 
capital 
asset(s).
Amount 
of CSR 
spent for 
creation or 
acquisition 
of capital 
asset.
Details of the entity or public 
authority or beneficiary under whose 
name such capital asset is registered, 
their address etc.
Details of the capital asset(s) created 
or acquired including complete 
address and location of the capital 
asset.
4
21.11.2022
`8,900 Kala Kendra,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
1 Nos of Overlock Machine,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
5
27.01.2023
`1,12,000 Kala Kendra,
Indira nagar,Ujjain 456001
4 Nos of Juki Machine,
Indira nagar,Ujjain 456001
6
17.02.2023
`31,575 Kala Kendra,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
2 Nos of Loom,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
7
31.03.2023
`27,500 Kala Kendra,
Ground floor,Parampara 
complex,Ambedkar Maarg, 
Near Maheshwar Public 
School,Maheswar-451224
Total-3
`5,07,465
Total (1+2+3) =
`39,37,250
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5). 
NA
Sd/-
Rajesh Sharma
Managing Director
Sd/-
Bhagyam Ramani  
Chairperson of Committee
NA
Person specified under clause (d) of 
sub-section (1) of section 380 of the Act] 
(Wherever applicable)
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
74
Capri Global Capital Limited
Details pertaining to employees pursuant to Section 
197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
ANNEXURE - IV
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Relevant Details
i
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to 
the median remuneration of the employees of the 
Company for the financial year 2022-23
Mr.  Rajesh Sharma (Managing Director) – 7.60x
ii
The percentage increase in remuneration of each 
Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive 
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in 
the financial year
Directors:
1)	
Mr. Rajesh Sharma (Managing Director) - NIL 
Key Managerial Personnel:
Mr. Yashesh Bhatt, Company Secretary - 5%
iii
The 
percentage 
increase 
in 
the 
median 
remuneration of employees in the financial year
14.56%
iv
The number of permanent employees on the rolls 
of Company
7604 employees as on 31.03.2023  
(2847 employees as on 31.03.2022)
v
Average percentile increase already made in the 
salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel in the last financial year and its comparison 
with the percentile increase in the managerial 
remuneration and justification thereof and point 
out if there are any exceptional circumstances for 
increase in the managerial remuneration
Average increase in salary of eligible employees other than 
managerial personnel is NA.
Remuneration of Managing Director was not increased during 
FY 2022-23.
vi
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration is paid as per the Remuneration Policy for the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and employees
* Remuneration does not include variable pay.
Note: Employee performance is appraised based on the performance of the Company during the previous year. 
Annual Report 2022-23
75
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity: L65921MH1994PLC173469
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity: Capri Global Capital Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation: 1994
4.	
Registered office address: 502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel Mumbai - 400013
5.	
Corporate address: 502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel Mumbai - 400013
6.	
E-mail: secretarial@capriglobal.in
7.	
Telephone:022-40888100
8.	
Website: www.capriloans.in
9.	
Financial year for which reporting is being done: April 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023
10.	 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed: NSE and BSE
11.	 Paid-up Capital: ` 41,23,05,688
12.	 Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report: Keshav Singhal, VP – ESG, keshav.singhal@capriglobal.in , 022-40888100
13.	 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken 
together): Standalone
II.	
Products/services
14.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Financial and insurance service
Financial and insurance service
100%
15.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Financial and insurance service
64920
100%
III.	 Operations
16.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
NA
Refer page 12-13
Refer page 12-13
International
NA
NA
NA
17.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
Pan India
International (No. of Countries)
NA
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
None
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
We cater to customers across various geographies and socio-economic statuses, serving a wide range of segments 
including MSMEs, individuals, institutions and other diverse customer groups.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
ANNEXURE - V
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
76
Capri Global Capital Limited
IV.	 Employees
18.	 Details as at the end of the Financial Year:
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
7,602
6,700
88%
902
12%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
-
0
-
3.
Total employee (D + E)
7,602
6,700
88%
902
12%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.
Total workers (F + G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
b.	
Differently-abled employees and workers:
S. No
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY-ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.
Total differently abled employees 
(D + E)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
DIFFERENTLY-ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.
Other than permanent (G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.
Total differently abled workers  
(F + G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
19.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
6
1
16.6%
KMP
2
0
0%
20.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Male
Female
Total*
Male
Female
Total*
Male
Female
Total*
Permanent Employees
24.3%
8.8%
19%
23.7%
19.7%
24%
14.3%
5.6%
20%
Permanent Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
* Total includes CGCL and CGHFL. CGCL standalone total turnover rate is 19.8% (FY 22-23), 23.5% (FY 21-22) and 
20.1% (FY 20-21).
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.	 (a)	
Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. No.
Name of the holding/
Subsidiary/ associate 
companies/ joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
Capri Global Housing 
Finance Limited
Subsidiary
100%
No
VI.	 CSR Details
22.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) - Yes
	
(ii)	
Turnover (in R) - 11,489.94 Million
	
(iii)	
Net worth (in R) - 33,340.01 Million
Annual Report 2022-23
77
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
(If Yes, then 
provide web-link 
for grievance 
redress policy)
Communities
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)*
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Shareholders
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Employees 
and workers
Yes
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Customers
Yes
284
3
All 3 open 
complaints 
were efficiently 
resolved and 
successfully 
closed by April 
13, 2023.
183
0
-
Value Chain 
Partners
No
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other (please 
specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
* Investors (other than shareholders) are considered as Company’s debt securities (NCDs).
24.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, and approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
1.
Increasing 
demand for 
Credit
Opportunity With the ongoing growth 
of the economy, there is 
a foreseeable surge in 
the demand for loans, 
especially among small 
businesses and individuals 
who aspire to purchase 
homes, secure financing 
for 
their 
ventures, 
or 
obtain 
personal 
loans 
to meet their financial 
needs..
Capri Global has displayed 
exceptional 
agility 
in 
recognizing 
the 
escalating 
demand for credit in recent 
years. As a testament to 
our proactive approach, we 
have not only established 
new offices across multiple 
locations in India but have also 
diversified our range of credit 
offerings to cater to evolving 
market requirements.
Positive:
With an increase in our 
product segments, we can 
cater to a wide array of 
clients from all over India
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
78
Capri Global Capital Limited
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or 
negative implications)
2.
Creating 
Impact 
through 
lending
Opportunity In line with the global 
shift towards a sustainable 
future, Capri Global is 
actively 
contributing 
to 
this 
transformative 
movement. 
Through 
our provision of Loans 
to customers, we aim to 
create a dual impact—
fostering 
environmental 
& social well-being while 
fostering 
economic 
growth.
At 
Capri 
Global, 
we 
are 
striving to serve our customers 
while creating impact. We 
are continuously innovating 
in products and services and 
working 
towards 
customer 
excellence 
and 
delivering 
impact on the ground.
Positive:
Impact lending products 
are designed to benefit a 
wider range of customers, 
while 
simultaneously 
generating revenue for 
our 
business. 
These 
products not only cater 
to 
the 
specific 
needs 
of 
environmentally 
conscious individuals and 
businesses but also align 
with our commitment to 
Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs)..
3
Digitization
Opportunity Digitization 
enhances 
operational 
efficiency, 
streamlines 
processes, 
enables 
real-time 
data 
analysis, 
improves 
customer 
experience, 
and facilitates innovation, 
ensuring competitiveness 
and ability to adapt in the 
rapidly changing business 
environment.
We are striving to transform 
Capri Global from a traditional 
NBFC to a FinTech firm by 
leveraging digitization and
advanced 
technology. 
We 
are deploying Data Analytics, 
AI, 
Machine 
learning 
and 
latest Apps etc. We have 
converted most of the business 
processes to online mode 
and further accelerating our 
efforts for enhanced customer 
experience by using Digital 
platforms.
Positive:
Seamless experience for 
customers leads to an 
increase in customer base 
and 
business 
growth. 
Also, digitization helps in 
achieving efficiency, thus, 
reduction in costs
4
Corporate
Governance
Opportunity 
and Risk
Robust 
and 
efficient 
corporate 
governance 
forms the bedrock of an 
organization, creating an 
environment grounded in 
unwavering principles.
A 
company 
endowed 
with 
sound 
corporate 
governance 
conveys 
a 
message of trust, integrity 
and transparency to the 
stakeholders.
At Capri, we execute our 
responsibilities with integrity, 
ethically and responsibly.
We 
have 
board 
level 
committees with Independent 
Directors to steer performance 
of the Company.
We also have well-established 
Policies, System & Procedures 
and 
SOPs 
as 
part 
of 
Governance mechanism.
Positive:
Robust 
corporate 
governance supports in 
gaining 
stakeholders’ 
confidence and trust. It 
is also essential for ESG 
ratings.
Negative:
Poor 
governance 
may 
lead 
to 
challenges 
in 
raising capital and hamper 
execution of identified risk 
mitigation measures.
Annual Report 2022-23
79
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure
Questions
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
Policy and management processes
1.	
a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b.	
Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/
No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
All the policies are hosted on www.capriloans.in/corporate-
governance whereas few of the policies are internal documents
2.	
Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.	
Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
4.	
Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/ standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, 
Rainforest 
Alliance, 
Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by 
your entity and mapped to each principle.
Nil
Nil
Great 
Place 
to Work 
Certifi-
cation
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5.	
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
6.	
Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure) - Covered in the beginning of Annual 
Report
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation 
and 
oversight 
of 
the 
Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide 
details.
Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee
Frequency
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any 
other – please specify)
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
P
1
P
2
P
3
P
4
P
5
P
6
P
7
P
8
P
9
Performance against above	
policies and follow up action
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
1-3 Years
Compliance 
with 
statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of any 
non-compliances
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
As and when any compliance is made 
applicable to the entity, required 
measures are being taken
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide the name of the agency.
P 1
P 2
P3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
No*
No*
No*
No*
No*
No*
No*
No*
No*
*The policies are internally evaluated by various department heads, business heads and the management.
> 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Annual Report 2022-23
80
Capri Global Capital Limited
Principle-wise Policy Mapping:
Principle
Policies
P1:	 Businesses should conduct and 
govern themselves with integrity in 
a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
The Company has robust governance mechanisms in place including a Code of 
Conduct for board members, senior management personnel and employees of the 
Company, Whistle Blower Policy, Prevention of Money Laundering - PMLA Policy, KYC 
Policy, Fair Practices Code Policy, Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading, 
Policy on Sexual Harassment, Interest Rate Model and Policies & Procedures for 
determining Interest Rates and other charges, Fraud Risk Management Policy, Model 
Code of Conduct for Direct Selling Agents (DSAs)/ Direct Marketing Agents (DMAs), 
and Risk management Policy, etc. There are various other internal SOPs/guidelines as 
well for responsible business conduct.
P2.	 Businesses should provide goods 
and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe
The Company has a fair practice code and customer grievance redressal mechanism 
which promote a culture where all efforts are directed towards providing good quality 
and services to all our customers.
P3:	 Businesses should respect and 
promote the well-being of all 
employees, including those in their 
value chains.
The Company has various policies to support employee well-being. The important 
ones include the Policy for prevention of sexual harassment, leave policy, medical 
insurance policy, policy on maternity benefits for female employees, policy on training 
& education, policy on providing loans to the employees including home loans, car 
loans etc.
P4:	 Businesses should respect the 
interests of and be responsive to all 
their stakeholders.
The Company’s CSR Policy, fair practice code and customer grievance redressal 
mechanism guide this principle.
P5:	 Businesses should respect and 
promote human rights.
The Company’s Policy on Code of Conduct, Whistle Blower mechanism and Policy on 
Sexual Harassment which encourage a workplace environment which is free from any 
kind of human rights violations.
P6:	 Businesses should respect and 
make efforts to protect and restore 
the environment.
The Company evaluates the social and environmental risks in its lending policies 
and abstain from lending to environmentally irresponsible projects and business. In 
addition, the employees of the Company are sensitized to prevent wasteful usage of 
natural resources and conserve energy.
P7:	 Businesses, 
when 
engaging 
in 
influencing public and regulatory 
policy, should do so in a manner 
that is responsible and transparent.
While the Company may share its expertise to help in the formulation of public policy, 
it does not directly engage in lobbying or advocacy activities.
P8:	 Businesses 
should 
promote 
inclusive growth and equitable 
development.
The Company’s CSR Policy aims at contributing to the social and economic 
development of the community through a series of interventions to mainstream 
economically and socially disadvantaged communities and groups and to bring them 
into the cycle of development and empowerment. The Company has aligned its CSR 
programs with the developmental agencies with an objective of bringing about a 
radical transformation in the lives of the communities and integrating them into the 
mainstream development process of the country.
P9:	 Businesses should engage with and 
provide value to their consumers in 
a responsible manner.
The Fair Practice Code, Code of Conduct, Customer Grievance Redressal Mechanism, 
Whistle Blower Policy etc. which have been laid down shall provide a facility to its 
customers, shareholders and others to share their grievances.
We also have a Business Responsibility Policy, which is approved by the Board and acts as an overall guidance and commitment 
for all the above 9 Principles.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Any other reason (please specify)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Annual Report 2022-23
81
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators 
are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leading indicators may be voluntarily disclosed 
by entities that aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, 
transparent and accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programs held
Topics/principles 
covered under the 
training and its impact
%age of persons in 
respective category covered 
by the awareness programs
Board of Directors
Nil
Nil
Nil
Key Managerial Personnel
Nil
Nil
Nil
Employees other than BoD and KMPs
7,602
Prevention on Sexual 
Harassment under P3
100%
Workers
NA
NA
NA
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Amount  
(In INR)
Brief of the 
Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Settlement
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Compounding Fee
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Punishment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
NA
NA
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web link to the policy.
	
Yes, we do have policies such as the Code of Conduct and Anti Money Laundering Policy. The policies are hosted at https://
www.capriloans.in/corporate-governance/
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
82
Capri Global Capital Limited
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Numbers
Remarks
Numbers
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties / action taken 
by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
Nil
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programs held
Topics / principles covered 
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value 
of business done with such partners) under the 
awareness programs
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflicts of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/No) If yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, we have a policy on Related Party Transactions.
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of products and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively.
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
 Nil
Nil
Nil
Capex
 Nil
Nil
Nil
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) – No
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? - NA
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
NA
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes/
No) If yes, provide 
the web-link.
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from the production or 
disposal of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through 
any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk / concern
Action Taken
NA
NA
NA
Annual Report 2022-23
83
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production 
(for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
NA
NA
NA
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at the end of life of products, the amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
E-waste
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Hazardous waste
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other waste
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in 
respective category
NA
NA
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their 
value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / 
A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / 
A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / 
A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / 
A)
Permanent employees
Male
6,700
4,633
69%
6,700
100%
NA
NA
6,700
100%
NA
NA
Female
902
498
55%
902
100%
902
100%
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
7,602
5,131
67%
7,602
100%
902
100%
6,700
100%
NA
NA
Other than Permanent employees
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers
% of workers covered by
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Category
Total 
(A)
Number 
(B)
% (B / 
A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / 
A)
Number 
(D)
% (D / 
A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / 
A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / 
A)
Permanent workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
> 
- -~
- -
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Annual Report 2022-23
84
Capri Global Capital Limited
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
96%
NA
Yes
87%
NA
Yes
Gratuity
100%
NA
NA
100%
NA
NA
ESI
32%
NA
Yes
49%
NA
Yes
Others – please specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
The accessibility of workplaces is an important consideration for us at Capri Global. We recognize the significance of creating 
an inclusive environment for all stakeholders, including those with disabilities, in line with the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
	
While we have made changes in improving accessibility, we are continuously working towards enhancing our premises and 
offices to ensure they are built with a more inclusive process in mind. We are in the process of initiating measures to address 
any existing barriers and make our workplaces more inclusive. This is also included in our policies that are available publicly 
and for internal communications too.
	
Our ongoing commitment to inclusivity reflects our dedication to providing equal opportunities for all individuals within our 
organization.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web link to the policy.
	
At Capri Global, all employees are treated equally and given an equal platform to showcase themselves. We firmly believe 
in promoting equal opportunities for all individuals, including those with disabilities. We are committed to complying with 
the provisions of the Rights of  Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and ensuring a workplace that fosters inclusivity and non-
discrimination. Our existing policy on Equal Opportunity covers disability as well. Also, our Business Responsibility Policy 
Principle 3 (which can be accessed at www.capriloans.in/corporate-governance ) guides on Equal Opportunities among 
other aspects of employee well-being.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
NA
NA
Female
100%
100%
NA
NA
Total
100%
100%
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
NA
Other than Permanent Worker
NA
Permanent Employees
Yes, we have grievance redressal mechanism in place. The Grievance 
system can be accessed by any of the employees. Upon receiving of any 
grievances, it is routed to concerned team and get addressed.
Other than Permanent Employees
NA
Annual Report 2022-23
85
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Category
Total 
employees 
/ workers 
in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D / C)
Total Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total Permanent Workers
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
6700
0
0%
1491
22%
2768
484
17%
1848
67%
Female
902
0
0%
212
24%
77
20
26%
9
12%
Total
7602
0
0%
1703
22%
2845
504
18%
1857
65%
Worker
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Male
6,700
3,725
56%
2,768
1,142
41%
Female
902
462
51%
77
62
81%
Total
7,602
41,87
55%
2,845
1,204
42%
Worker
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Has an occupational health and safety management system been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the 
coverage of such a system?
	
	
We are working for establishing a formal occupational health and safety management system, but we have already 
deployed various measures to ensure a healthy and Safe environment at our offices such as placement of Fire 
extinguishers, First Aid Kits, ensuring Electrical safety, access to medical facilities, good ergonomics to name a few. 
The coverage is across the organization.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity?
	
	
We place great importance on the safety of our employees and regularly conduct inspections of our branches to 
proactively identify and address any work-related hazards or risks. These inspections serve as a vital part of our 
commitment to maintaining a safe working environment.
	
	
During these inspections, we thoroughly assess various aspects of the workplace to ensure compliance with safety 
standards and regulations.
> 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Annual Report 2022-23
86
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Y/N)
	
	
Yes, we have established clear protocols for reporting any risks or hazards within our organization. If employees or 
personnel identify any potential risks, they are encouraged to report them promptly to the appropriate channels. We 
prioritize open communication and provide multiple avenues for reporting concerns.
	
d.	
Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
NA
NA
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
Capri Global ensures the safety and well-being of all our employees are given the right priority. There are policies available 
to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. We have been conducting various webinars on Health & Safety toward employee 
well-being. We also have good ergonomics at our branches. Our commitment to employee health and safety is an integral 
part of our organizational culture, ensuring a secure and conducive work environment for all.
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Health & Safety
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
We have implemented various security and safety measures at our branches to ensure the well-being of our employees and 
the protection of our premises.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of the death of (A) 
Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N)?
	
Yes, we have a term insurance policy for all our employees.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners.
	
The Company ensures that the applicable taxes are deducted and deposited in accordance with extant regulations. This 
activity is also reviewed as part of the internal and statutory audit. The Company expects its value chain partners to uphold 
business responsibility principles and values of transparency and accountability. The Company has statutory and internal 
audit policies and procedures to ensure the above.
Annual Report 2022-23
87
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
3.	
Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health 
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ worker
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Employees
 Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
 NA
NA
NA
NA
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with 
such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
Nil
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. – Nil
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Identifying key stakeholder groups is a crucial step in understanding and engaging with the individuals or entities that have 
a significant interest in or are affected by the operations of an entity like Capri Global. We conduct a stakeholder mapping 
exercise to identify internal and external stakeholders.
	
Our internal stakeholders include employees, who are an essential part of the organization. They play a vital role in day-
to-day operations, contribute to the company’s success, and are directly impacted by the decisions and actions of the 
organization.
	
External stakeholders encompass various groups with distinct interests such as investors/shareholders, customers, suppliers, 
regulators and local communities.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable % 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisments, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annual/Half Yearly/
Quarterly/Others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagements
Employees
No
Email, Direct Communication, 
Feedback and survey, Internal 
circulars
Daily
Information 
sharing, 
Employee engagement and 
L&D
Investors/
Shareholders
No
Investor 
Presentation, 
AGM, 
Annual Report, Investor Meet, 
Media Release
Quarterly/Annually 
and Need Based
Updates on Performance of 
the Company
Customers
No
Physical and Digital Channels
Need Based
Customer 
Feedback 
and 
Grievances, 
Information 
sharing and provide customer 
support 
throughout 
the 
lifecycle of services
Suppliers
No
Meetings, Emails, Telephone
Need Based
Product/Services delivery
Government/
Regulators
No
Email, Personal Meetings and 
Statutory Fillings
As and when required For regulatory compliance
Local 
Communities
Yes
Meetings, 
engagement 
with 
CSR Implementation Partners
As and when required CSR Project Development
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
88
Capri Global Capital Limited
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
At Capri Global, we recognize the importance of consultation with stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social 
topics. Regular stakeholder consultations are conducted through various departments and touchpoints. Basis those 
interactions, consolidated feedback is shared with Board/Board Committees depending upon the nature of the topic.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into the policies and activities of the entity.
	
Stakeholder consultation plays a crucial role in supporting the identification and management of environmental and social 
topics at Capri Global. We actively seek input and feedback from our stakeholders to shape our policies and activities. 
Through these consultations, we have incorporated stakeholder inputs into our overall ESG Strategy, Policymaking and 
identifying opportunities such as initiating systems to measure and monitor GHG Emissions.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
	
We are committed to contributing towards Sustainable Development and community well-being through our Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. We believe that CSR is not just a mandate, but an opportunity to be an efficient 
stakeholder in society and create long-lasting, positive change in the lives of people and communities around.
	
Our CSR programs are designed to align with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), focusing on education, healthcare, 
skill development, environment, and women’s empowerment for vulnerable/marginsalised stakeholder groups. We have 
mentioned details on our CSR programs in Director’s Report.
PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees
Permanent
7,602
7,602
100%
2,845
2,845
100%
Other than permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total Employees
7,602
7,602
100%
2,845
2,845
100%
Workers
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
We have considered POSH and other mandatory trainings under Human Rights
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
No. (E) % (E / D) No. (F) % (F / D)
Employees
Permanent
	
Male
6,700
20
0.3%
6,680
99.7%
2,768
42
1.5%
2,726
98.5%
	
Female
902
5
0.6%
897
99.4%
77
1
1.3%
76
98.7%
Other than Permanent
	
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
I 
I 
Annual Report 2022-23
89
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
No. (E) % (E / D) No. (F) % (F / D)
Workers
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
5
NA, as no remunerations is 
being paid to Board of Directors 
except for sitting fees
1
NA, as no remunerations is 
being paid to Board of Directors 
except for sitting fees
KMP
2
3,863,350
0
NA
Employees other than 
BoD and KMP
6,698
194,157
902
158,821
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
Yes, we have an employee grievance redressal mechanism in place that takes care of human rights-related issues as well. 
The grievance system can be accessed by all employees. Upon receiving any grievance, it is routed to the concerned team 
for redressal.
6.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Discrimination At workplace
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Wages
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other human Rights related issues
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
7.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
We have well-defined policy frameworks such as the Policy on Equal Opportunity, Policy on Discrimination & Harassment, 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment, etc. to safeguard employees in the workplace. The policies have a well-laid process 
redressal mechanism to deal with the complaints. There are defined guidelines to protect confidentiality about the complaint 
and the complainant.
8.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
We are aligning our systems to make human rights, a part of business agreements and contracts.
> 
I 
I 
Annual Report 2022-23
90
Capri Global Capital Limited
9.	
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
100%
Sexual harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
100%
Others – please specify
-
10.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 9 above.
	
Nil
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
NA
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted. 
	
We have policies and governance which protect various aspects falling under Human Rights. The coverage is across the 
organisation.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently-abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
The accessibility of workplaces is an important consideration for us at Capri Global. We recognize the significance of creating 
an inclusive environment for all stakeholders, including those with disabilities, in line with the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
	
While we have made changes in improving accessibility, we are continuously working towards enhancing our premises and 
offices to ensure they are built with a more inclusive process in mind. We are in the process of initiating measures to address 
any existing barriers and make our workplaces more inclusive. This is also included in our policies that are available publicly 
and for internal communications too.
	
Our ongoing commitment to inclusivity reflects our dedication to providing equal opportunities for all individuals within our 
organization.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Child Labour
Nil
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Nil
Wages
Nil
Others – please specify
Nil
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above.
	
NA
Annual Report 2022-23
91
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/ turnover 
in rupees)
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
-
-
-We have started measuring and monitoring our energy consumption, the same shall be reported from next FY.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
- NA because of nature of our business
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	
Surface water
-
-
(ii)	
Groundwater
-
-
(iii)	
Third party water
-
-
(iv)	
Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v)	
Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
-
-
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
-
-
	
-Due to nature of our business, Water is not a material topic for us. There is a minimal consumption of water for drinking and 
sanitation purposes only, thus, we don’t monitor our water consumption.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
Due to the nature of our business, it is not applicable to us.
5.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
NOx
-
-
-
Sox
-
-
-
Particulate matter (PM)
-
-
-
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others – please specify
-
-
-
	
Due to the nature of our business, this is not applicable to us.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
92
Capri Global Capital Limited
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of	
CO2 equivalent
-
-
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of	
CO2 equivalent
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee 
of turnover
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
-We are putting measuring and monitoring systems for GHG emissions, the same shall be reported from next FY.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emissions? If yes, then provide details.
	
At Capri, we are striving to achieve environmental excellence and Greenhouse Gas emission reduction is one of the key 
focus areas for us. We are using efficient lighting and cooling systems at our branches, resulting in electricity savings and 
thereby Greenhouse Gas reduction.
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
-
-
E-waste (B)
1,986 Kg
1,047 Kg
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
-
-
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-
up by composition i.e., by materials relevant to the sector)
-
-
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
1,986 Kg
1,047 Kg
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Recycled
-
-
(ii)	
Re-used
1,300 kg
-
(iii)	
Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
1,300 Kg
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Incineration
496 Kg
1047 Kg
(ii)	
Landfilling
190 Kg
(iii)	
Other disposal operations
Total
686 Kg
1047 Kg
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce the usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and 
processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Given the nature of our operations, we prioritize the responsible management of waste. Our activities do not generate 
hazardous or toxic chemical waste. Instead, the waste material we primarily deal with is e-waste, which we handle in an 
environmentally conscientious manner. We ensure that the e-waste is properly managed and processed by authorized 
recyclers, adhering to strict environmental regulations.
Annual Report 2022-23
93
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
10.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. No.
Location of operations/
offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
NA
NA
NA
NA
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA 
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency
(Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following 
format:
S. No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details  
of the non- 
compliance
Any fines / penalties / action taken 
by regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control boards or by courts
Corrective action taken, 
if any
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable 
sources, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
-
-
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (E)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
-
-
	
-We have started measuring and monitoring our energy consumption, the same shall be reported from next FY.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
2.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)	
To Surface water
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii)	
To Groundwater
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii)	
To Seawater
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
94
Capri Global Capital Limited
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
(iv)	
Sent to third parties
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v)	
Others
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
-
-
-Due to the nature of our business, this is not applicable to us.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
3.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations
	
(iii)	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	
Surface water
-
-
(ii)	
Groundwater
-
-
(iii)	
Third party water
(iv)	
Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v)	
Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters)
-
-
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters)
(i)	
Into Surface water
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii)	
Into Groundwater
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii)	
Into Seawater
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv)	
Sent to third parties
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v)	
Others
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kiloliters)
-
-
	
	
Due to the nature of our business, water is not a material topic for us. While we recognize the importance of water as 
a valuable resource, our operations involve minimal consumption of water, limited to drinking and sanitation purposes 
only. As a result, we do not have a significant impact on water resources, and thus, monitoring our water consumption 
or discharge is not a primary focus for our organization.
	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency. - No
Annual Report 2022-23
95
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
4.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY ￼
 
(Current Financial 
Year)
FY  
 (Previous Financial 
Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
-
-
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-We are working on measuring and monitoring systems for Scope 3 emissions, the same shall be reported from next FY.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency. - No
5.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities. - NA
6.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the 
initiative
NA
NA
NA
NA
7.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web 
link.
	
Capri Global takes the security and continuity of our operations seriously. To safeguard against potential disasters, we have 
implemented a robust disaster recovery configuration for all our production applications. This entails replicating critical and 
important business application data to a secondary site at scheduled intervals.
	
Our dedicated IT team conducts daily health checks on the disaster recovery configuration to ensure its operational 
readiness at all times. Furthermore, we proactively conduct periodic recovery drills for the relevant applications, validating 
both the data integrity and the accessibility of services from the disaster recovery site.
8.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Nil
9.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
0%
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that 
is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Finance Industry Development Council
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
NA
NA
NA
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
96
Capri Global Capital Limited
Leadership
S. No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method 
resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if 
available
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year.
Name and brief 
details of the 
project
SIA notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web 
Link
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format:
S No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. Of Project 
Affected Families
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the  
FY (in INR)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
As part of our commitment to robust CSR governance, we have established a comprehensive grievance mechanism. Prior 
to implementing our projects, we conduct a thorough needs assessment of the community and collaborate with reputable 
implementing agencies. Throughout the project lifecycle, we engage in regular stakeholder interactions with beneficiaries 
and community members, facilitated by our implementation partners and dedicated CSR team.
	
These engagement meetings serve as valuable platforms for communities to voice their grievances and provide feedback. 
We place great importance on actively listening to their concerns and addressing them appropriately. Additionally, we have 
implemented a stringent monitoring and evaluation system to ensure the successful achievement of project objectives. In 
cases where corrective measures are required, we swiftly implement them to ensure maximum impact and benefit for the 
communities we serve.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers
7.72%
7.05%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts*
64.13%
63.83%
*within district and neighboring districts are considered within State boundary
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
NA
NA
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
Sr No
State
Aspirational Date
Amount spent in INR
1
Rajasthan
Baran & Dholpur
3,500,000
2
Chhattisgarh
Rajnandagaon
751,157
3
Manipur
Chandel
170,000
4
Nagaland
Kiphrie
155,000
3.	
(a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) - No
	
(b)	
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? - NA
	
(c)	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? - NA
----l'--i-
Annual Report 2022-23
97
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr No
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes/No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit shared
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Sr No
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Correction action taken
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.	
Detail of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
S. No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized group
1
Women Empowerment & Livelihood
33,647
100%
2
Education
5,787
100%
3
Health
81,814
100%
4
Animal Welfare
2,237
-
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
Customers can raise any complaint / grievance to the Nodal Officer of the company, whose contact details are available on 
the website & also displayed at servicing branches. A customer’s complaint is heard & disposed of by a person at least one 
level higher to the person/designation against / relating to whom the grievance is made.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
NA
Recycling and/or safe disposal
NA
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY  
 (Current Financial Year)
Remarks
FY 2021-22
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
0
0
0
0
Advertising
0
0
0
0
Cyber-security
0
0
0
0
Delivery of essential services
0
0
0
0
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
0
0
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
0
0
Other
0
0
0
0
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
NA
NA
Forced recalls
NA
NA
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes, https://www.capriloans.in/corporate-governance/
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
98
Capri Global Capital Limited
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
Not applicable due to nature of our business.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
	
Information about our products are available at our branches. Further, our Corporate website also has information about our 
products and services www.capriloans.in
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
Awareness SMS about our Toll Free Number & Care email id is periodically sent to all existing customers, so that customers 
can reach out to us for any clarification
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
We have Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to mitigate the risks due to unavailability of systems and/or loss or manipulation 
of information or information data security. In case of disruption/discontinuation, we have SMS facility for informing our 
customers.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with 
regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of 
operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
	
At Capri Global, we believe in transparency and strive to provide our customers with all the relevant information they need. 
To ensure transparency, we have implemented various measures, such as prominently displaying the “Most Important Terms 
and Conditions” document in each office. This document includes details about service charges, interest rates, product 
information, service standards for various transactions, and grievance redressal mechanisms.
	
Furthermore, we make sure that our website, www.capriloans.in, is regularly updated with the latest information, including 
the aforementioned terms and conditions. This allows our customers to access and review the necessary details at their 
convenience.
	
Whenever there is a change in interest rates, we proactively communicate the updated information to all our loan customers. 
This ensures that our customers are aware of any modifications that may affect their existing loans or future borrowing 
decisions.
	
Regarding customer satisfaction surveys, we did not conduct any such surveys in the reporting year. However, we remain 
committed to continuously improving our services and enhancing customer experience. Feedback from our customers 
is invaluable to us, and we actively encourage them to provide their opinions, suggestions, and grievances through our 
established grievance redressal mechanisms.
5.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact – 0
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers - 0
Annual Report 2022-23
99
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Dear Sirs and Madam,
I, Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer of the Company, do hereby certify that:
a)	
I have reviewed the Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2023 and that to the 
best of my knowledge and belief:
	
i.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
	
ii.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the company’s affairs and are in compliance with the existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b)	
To the best of my knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year ended March 31, 2023 
are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
c)	
I accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and I have evaluated the 
effectiveness of the internal control systems of the company pertaining to the financial reporting. Deficiencies in the design 
or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which I am aware, have been disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit 
Committee and steps have been taken to rectify these deficiencies.
d)	
I have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee that:
	
i.	
there has not been any significant change in internal control over financial reporting during the year under reference;
	
ii.	
there has not been any significant change in accounting policies during the year requiring disclosure in the notes to 
the financial statements; and
	
iii.	
I am not aware of any instance during the year of significant fraud with involvement therein of the management or any 
employee having a significant role in company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
for Capri Global Capital Limited
Sd/-
Rajesh Sharma
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May  22, .2023
MANAGING DIRECTOR (MD) AND CHIEF FINANCIAL 
OFFICER (CFO) CERTIFICATE
ANNEXURE - VI
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
100
Capri Global Capital Limited
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Report on Corporate Governance of Capri Global 
Capital Limited (hereinafter referred as “CGCL and/
or the Company”) as prescribed by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, (“the SEBI 
Listing Regulations”) is given below:
1.	
The Company’s Philosophy on Corporate 
Governance
	
At CGCL, it is imperative that the corporate affairs 
are managed in a fair and transparent manner for 
enhancing long-term shareholder value and retaining 
investor trust.
	
We, at CGCL, ensure that we evolve and follow the 
best corporate governance practices. We consider it as 
inherent responsibility to disclose timely and accurate 
information regarding the performance as well as 
the leadership and governance of the Company. The 
Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance is 
to ensure fairness to the Stakeholders through timely 
and transparent disclosures, equitable treatment of 
all shareholders and empowerment of employee and 
collective decision making.
	
Your Company has adopted various codes and policies 
to carry out the duties and functions in most ethical and 
compliant manner. The Company has adopted best 
practices mandated in SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Act”), RBI Directions and all other applicable rules and 
regulations.
	
Your 
Company 
continuously 
strives 
to 
achieve 
excellence in corporate governance through its values 
– Integrity, Commitment, Passion, Seamlessness and 
Speed.
2.	
Board of Directors
	
As of March 31, 2023, the Board of Directors 
(the ‘Board’) has six members of which five were 
Independent Directors. The profiles of Directors can 
be found at https://capriloans.in/leadership-team/. 
The composition of the Board is in accordance with 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulation read with 
Section 149 of the Act.
2.1.	 None of the Directors on the Board holds directorship 
in more than ten public companies. None of the 
Independent Directors serves as an Independent 
Director on more than seven listed companies. 
Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions 
in other public companies as on March 31, 2023 have 
been made by the Directors. None of the Directors are 
related to each other.
2.2.	 Independent Directors are non-executive directors as 
defined under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations read with Section 149(6) of the Act along 
with rules framed thereunder. In terms of Regulation 
25(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed 
that they are not aware of any circumstance or situation 
which exists or may be reasonably anticipated that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties. Based on the declarations received from the 
Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has 
confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence 
as mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and that they are independent of 
the management.
2.3.	 Seven board meetings were held during the year on 
April 23, 2022; May 21, 2022; July 28, 2022; August 
9; 2022; November 4, 2022 ; January 28, 2023 and 
February 13, 2023. The gap between two meetings did 
not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
Annual Report 2022-23
101
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
2.4.	 The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, their attendance at board meetings held during the year under 
review and at the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), name of other listed entities in which the Director is a director and 
the number of Directorships and Committee Chairmanships / Memberships held by them in other public limited companies 
as on March 31, 2023 are given herein below.
Name of 
Director
DIN
Category 
in the 
Company
No. of Board 
Meetings
Attendance 
at the last 
AGM
Number of Directorships in other Public Companies1
Number of 
committee 
positions held 
in other public 
companies2
No. of 
equity 
shares held 
in CGCL as 
on March 
31, 2023
Held 
during 
their 
tenure
Attended
Listed
Name of the 
Listed Company
Category of 
Directorship
Unlisted
Chairman Member
Mr. Rajesh 
Sharma3
00020037 Managing 
Director
7
6
Yes
0
NA
NA
1
NIL
NIL
1000
Mr. Beni 
Prasad Rauka
00295213 Non-
Executive & 
Independent 
Director
7
7
Yes
0
NA
NA
3
1
NIL
NIL
Ms. Bhagyam 
Ramani
00107097 Non-
Executive & 
Independent 
Director
7
7
Yes
3
Saurashtra 
Cement Limited
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
1
1
4
NIL
Lloyds Metals 
and Energy 
Limited
Gujarat Sidhee 
Cement Limited
Mr. Mukesh 
Kacker
01569098 Non-
Executive & 
Independent 
Director
7
7
No
0
NA
NA
0
0
0
NIL
Mr. Ajit 
Mohan 
Sharan
02458844 Non-
Executive & 
Independent 
Director
7
7
Yes
1
Dabur India 
Limited
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
2
0
1
NIL
Mr. Desh Raj 
Dogra
00226775 Non-
Executive & 
Independent 
Director
7
7
 Yes
5
GR Infraprojects 
Limited
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
1
3
1
NIL
Axiscades 
Technologies 
Limited
S Chand & 
Company Limited
IFB Industries 
Limited
Welspun Corp 
Limited
1. Other directorships do not include directorships of private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under Section 8 of the Act.
2. The information pertaining to the chairmanships/memberships of Committees of the Board held by the directors includes only Audit Committee and 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations.	
3. Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director is also the Promoter of the Company
2.5.	 During the Financial Year 2022-23, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, has 
been placed before the Board for its consideration.
2.6.	 During the Financial Year 2022-23, an Independent Directors meeting was held on October 8, 2022. The Independent 
Directors, inter-alia, reviewed the performance of Non-Independent Directors, Board as a whole, taking into account the 
views of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
102
Capri Global Capital Limited
2.7.	 In accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Part C of Schedule V of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has identified 
the following skills/expertise/ competencies as required in the context of its business(es) and sector(s) for it to function 
effectively and which are taken into consideration while nominating candidates to serve on the Board of the Company:
SI. 
No.
Particulars
Skills/Expertise/Competence
Mr. Rajesh 
Sharma
Mr. Beni 
Prasad 
Rauka
Ms. 
Bhagyam 
Ramani
Mr. 
Mukesh 
Kacker
Mr. Ajit 
Mohan 
Sharan
Mr. Desh 
Raj Dogra
1
Knowledge
Industry knowledge/experience & technical 
expertise






Understanding methods of strategic analysis, 
Company’s strategic objectives, and changes of 
relevance to the Company’s strategy and future 
direction






Corporate Governance: Understanding the roles 
and responsibilities of a Board member within the 
larger governance framework






Risk: Knowledge and experience of risk 
management models






2
Skills
Strategic thinking and decision making






Interpersonal skills






Leadership






Analysis and Reporting






Ability to determine appropriate levels of 
remuneration of Executive Directors, KMPs 
and play a prime role in appointing and where 
necessary, recommending removal of Executive 
Directors and KMPs






Ability to oversee strategic Human resource 
management






3
Mind-set
Ethics






Commitment






Instinct & Business Acumen






Independent and Awareness (self and other) 
– ability to display independence by willing to 
disagree and take an independent stance in the 
face of dissenting views






	
Being a Non-Banking Finance Company, the Company’s 
business runs across different industry verticals and 
geographical markets. The Directors so appointed are 
drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess special 
skills with regard to the industries / fields from where 
they come.
2.8.	 In terms of Regulations 25(7) and 46 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the details of the familiarization programme 
imparted to Independent Directors are available on the 
Company’s website at https:// capriloans.in/corporate-
governance/
3.	
Committees of the Board
	
The Committees of the Board play an important role in 
the governance and focus on specific areas and make 
informed decisions within the delegated authority. 
Each Committee is guided by its Charter or Terms 
of Reference, which provides for the composition, 
scope, powers and duties and responsibilities. The 
recommendation and/or observations and decisions 
are placed before the Board for information or approval. 
The Chairman of respective Committee updates the 
Board regarding the discussions held / decisions taken 
at the Committee Meeting.
	
The Board has constituted the following Committees 
to take informed decisions in the best interests of the 
Company. These Committees monitor the activities 
falling within their terms of reference.
A.	
Audit Committee Composition
	
Audit Committee, duly constituted by the Board of 
Directors has a well-defined composition of members 
and terms of reference in accordance with Master 
Direction-Non-Banking 
Financial 
Companies–
Systematically Important Non-Deposit taking Company 
and Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) Direction, 
2016, Section 177 of the Act and in accordance with 
Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing Regulations. As on March 
31, 2023, the Audit Committee comprised of three (3) 
Members, all of whom are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors, financially literate and possesses accounting 
and related financial management expertise. The 
Chairman of the Audit Committee is a Non- Executive 
Independent Director and was present at last year’s 
Annual General Meeting held on September 26, 2022 
which was held through Video Conferencing.
Annual Report 2022-23
103
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
Terms of Reference
The broad terms of reference of the Audit Committee,
inter-alia, includes the following:
a.	
oversee the Company’s financial reporting process 
and disclosure of its financial information;
b.	
recommend appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of auditors of the Company;
c.	
approve payment to statutory auditors for any 
other services rendered by them;
d.	
review with the management, the annual financial 
statements before submission to the Board for 
approval, focusing particularly on:
	
i.	
matters 
to 
be 
included 
in 
Director’s 
Responsibility Statements to be included in 
Board’s report;
	
ii.	
any	 changes in accounting policies and 
practices;
	
iii.	
major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
management;
	
iv.	
significant adjustments resulting from the 
audit findings;
	
v.	
compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements relating to financial statement;
	
vi.	
disclosure of related party transactions;
	
vii.	
qualification in draft audit report.
f.	
review with the management, the quarterly 
financial statement before submission to the 
Board for their approval;
g.	
recommend appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of internal auditors, tax 
auditors, secretarial auditor and any matters of 
resignation or dismissal;
h.	
discuss with the statutory auditors before the 
audit commences, the nature and scope of the 
audit as well as post audit discussion to ascertain 
areas of concern;
i.	
review the internal audit programme, ensuring 
co-ordination between the internal and statutory 
auditors, ensuring that the internal audit function 
is adequately resourced and has appropriate 
standing within the Company, and to request 
internal auditor to undertake specific audit 
projects, having informed the management of 
their intentions;
j.	
consider 
the 
major 
findings 
of 
internal 
investigations by the internal auditors into matters 
where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or 
failure of internal control systems of a material 
nature and reporting the matter to the Board;
k.	
consider any material breaches or exposure; 
breaches of regulatory requirements or of 
ethical codes of practice to which the Company 
subscribes, or of any related codes, policies and 
procedures, which could have a material effect on 
the financial position or contingent liabilities of 
the Company;
l.	
discuss significant findings with internal auditors 
and initiate follow up action thereon;
m.	
look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the 
payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
n.	
review performance of statutory and internal 
auditors and adequacy of internal control systems;
o.	
approve transaction with related parties and 
subsequent modification to terms of contract/ 
transaction;
p.	
scrutinize inter-corporate loans and investments;
q.	
valuation of any of the undertakings or assets as 
and when necessary;
r.	
evaluate adequacy of internal financial control 
and risk management system;
s.	
review with management, the statement of uses 
/application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, 
etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer document/ 
prospectus/notice and the report submitted by 
the monitoring agency monitoring the utilization 
of proceeds of a public or rights issue , and 
making recommendation to the Board for taking 
steps in relation thereto;
t.	
approve appointment of CFO (i.e. the Whole-time 
Finance Director or any other person heading the 
finance function or discharging that function) 
after assessing the qualification, experience and 
background of the candidate;
u.	
review 
functioning 
of 
the 
Whistle 
Blower 
Policy;review the mechanism to track insider 
trading
v.	
carry out any other functions as may be falling 
within the terms of reference of the Audit 
Committee or as may be delegated to the 
Committee from time to time.
w.	
reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances 
from/investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
104
Capri Global Capital Limited
the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans / advances / investments 
existing as on the date of coming into force of this 
provision
x.	
reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;
y.	
reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances 
from/investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding H 100 crore or 10% of the 
asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower 
including existing loans / advances / investments.
z.	
ensure that an Information System Audit of the 
internal systems and processes is conducted at 
least once in two years to assess operational risks 
faced by the Company.
aa.	 review compliance with the provisions of SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
at least once in a financial year and shall verify that 
the systems for internal control are adequate and 
are operating effectively.
ab.	 oversee the functions of the Insider Trading Inquiry 
Committee (ITIC) and peruse the report of the 
ITIC to decide the action to be taken against the 
person(s) responsible for the incidence and direct 
the HR department to take disciplinary action 
which may include termination, suspension, wage 
freeze.
ac.	
Audit committee to converge with the Head 
Internal Auditor in absence of the Managing 
Director and Chief Financial Officer at least once 
in a year.
Meeting and Attendance
During the year under review, the Audit Committee met
five (5) times viz. on April 23, 2022; May 21, 2022; August 
9; 2022; November 4, 2022 and January 28, 2023 . 
The required quorum was present for all the Audit 
Committee meetings. Gap between Two (2) Committee 
Meetings did not exceed One Hundred and Twenty 
(120) days as stipulated under the Regulation 18(2) of 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
Composition of the Audit Committee and the 
attendance of each member at the said Committee 
Meetings are set out in following table:
Name of Member
Position
No. of 
meetings
held
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
Chairman
5
5
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Member
5
5
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
Member
5
5
	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Committee.
B.	
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Composition
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is duly 
constituted in accordance with Section 178 of the Act 
and in accordance with Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. As on March 31, 2023, the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee comprised of Four (4) 
Members, all of whom are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors. The Chairperson of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee is a Non- Executive 
Independent Director.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The Broad terms of reference of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, inter alia, includes the 
following:
	
a.	
to assess that a person to be appointed as Director 
is ‘fit and proper’ and fulfills the set criteria as may 
be required by the Company;
	
b.	
review the agreement(s) and/or deed(s) to be 
executed with any director to be appointed/re- 
appointed, including but not limited to the Deed 
of Covenant as required under Master Direction 
- Non-Banking Financial Company - Systemically 
Important 
Non-Deposit 
taking 
Company 
and Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016
	
c.	
review & recommend to the Board on the structure 
and composition of the Board of Directors of the 
Company; 
	
d.	
devising a policy on diversity of Board of Directors;
	
e.	
evaluate the eligibility of an individual on the 
basis of his/her qualification, positive attributes, 
independence 
and 
past 
experience, 
for 
appointment and removal as whole time director/ 
managing director/senior management of the 
company and advising the Board of Directors/ 
Shareholders with such detailed evaluation in 
the matter of appointment and removal of such 
individual;
	
f.	
review, 
recommend 
and 
/or 
approve 
the 
remuneration that can be offered to the proposed 
whole time director/managing director/ non- 
executive director/senior management of the 
Company;
	
g.	
evaluate the performance of the directors of 
the Company & review and recommend to the 
Board on their re-appointment/extension or 
continuation of their terms of appointment;
	
h.	
review, 
recommend 
and/or 
approve 
the 
modification in the remuneration of the Whole 
time director/ managing director /manager / 
Annual Report 2022-23
105
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
non- executive director and senior managerial 
personnel
	
i.	
formulate 
remuneration 
policy 
relating 
to 
directors, key managerial personnel and other 
senior managerial employees of the Company;
	
j.	
recommend to the Board, all remuneration 
payable to the senior management, in whatever 
form
	
k.	
evaluate performance of directors with respect 
to their role as Independent Director and Board 
members;
	
l.	
specify the manner for effective evaluation 
of performance of Board, its committees and 
individual directors to be carried out either by 
the Board, by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee or by an independent external agency 
and review its implementation and compliance;
	
m.	
Implement and administer the Employee Stock 
Option Scheme.”
	
Meeting and Attendance
	
During the year under review, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee met three (3) times viz. on 
April 23, 2022; May 21, 2022 and December 26, 2022 
. Composition of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the attendance of each member at the 
said Committee Meetings are set out in following table:
Name of Member
Position
No. of 
meetings
held
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
Member
3
3
Mr. Ajit M Sharan
Member
3
3
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
Member
3
3
	
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary tothe 
Committee.
	
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
	
The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy (‘Policy’) for 
the Company, inter-alia, to deal with the manner of 
selection of Board of Directors and KMP and their 
remuneration. The Policy is annexed as Annexure I to 
this Report. During the year under review the Policy 
was amendedto widen the objectives of the policy 
in accordance with RBI Circular dated April 29, 2022, 
to incorporate Clawback clause for employees and 
to amend definition of KMP/ Malus and Retention 
period in accordance with amendment to the listing 
regulations.
	
Director Remuneration:
SI.
No.
Name of the Director
Sitting Fees for attending
Board & Committee 
Meetings 
Salary and 
Perquisites
Incentive/
Bonus
Total
1.
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Nil
24,00,000
Nil
24,00,000
2.
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
20,50,000
N.A
N.A
20,50,000
3.
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
29,50,000
N.A
N.A
29,50,000
4.
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
13,00,000
N.A
N.A
13,00,000
5.
Mr. Ajit Mohan Sharan
9,50,000
N.A
N.A
9,50,000
6.
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
11,50,000
N.A
N.A
11,50,000
During the year under review, the non-executive directors of the Company had no pecuniary relationship or transactions 
with the Company, other than sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending 
meetings of the Board/ Committee of the Company. None of Directors have been granted any stock options under the 
scheme. The Managing Director of the Company is not entitled to stock options under the scheme.
	
Service contract, Severance fees and Notice Period 
	
Mr. Rajesh Sharma was appointed as the Managing Director of Capri Global Capital Limited for a period of five years 
effective from July 4, 2018, to July 3, 2023, on a remuneration of R 24,00,000 per annum. His appointment may be terminated 
by giving three months’ notice on either side and no severance fees is payable.
	
Performance Evaluation of the Board, Directors and Committees of the Board
	
The Company has devised Board Evaluation Policy as to carry out annual performance evaluation of the Independent 
Directors, Board, Committees and other individual Directors.
	
A structured questionnaire was prepared for capturing various facets of the functioning of Board, such as adequacy of the 
composition of the Board and its Committees, Board culture, execution and performance of specific duties, obligations and 
governance.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
106
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
A separate exercise was carried out to evaluate the 
performance of individual Directors , who were assessed 
to find out knowledge/skills, contribution to the 
Board and their communication/relationship with the 
Board and senior management of the Company. The 
performance evaluation of the Independent Directors 
was carried out by the entire Board. The performance 
evaluation of the Non-independent Directors were 
carried out by the Independent Directors. The Directors 
expressed their satisfaction with the evaluation process.
C.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	
The Stakeholders Relationship Committee is duly 
constituted by the Board of Directors in accordance 
with Section 178 of the Act and applicable Rules thereto 
and in accordance with Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
comprised of three (3) Members, majority of whom are 
Non-Executive Independent Directors. The Chairman 
of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee is a Non- 
Executive Independent Director and he was present 
at last year’s Annual General Meeting to address the 
queries of the shareholders.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The Broad terms of reference of the Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
inter-alia, 
includes 
the 
following:
	
a.	
Resolve the grievances of security holders 
including 
but 
not 
limited 
to 
complaints/ 
grievances pertaining to transfer / transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of annual reports, non- 
receipt of declared dividends issue of new / 
duplicate certificates, general meetings and other 
miscellaneous complaints;
	
b.	
adherence to Service Standards and Standard 
Operating Procedures relating to various services 
rendered by Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, 
and recommends measures to improve level of 
investor services.
	
c.	
Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the quantum 
of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely 
receipt of dividend warrants/ annual reports/ 
statutory notices by the shareholders, status of 
claims received and processed for unclaimed 
shares;
	
d.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders.
	
Meeting and Attendance
	
During the year under review, Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee met four (4) times viz. on May 21, 2022, 
August 09, 2022, November 04, 2022 and January 28, 
2023. Composition of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee and the attendance of each member at the 
said Committee Meetings are set out in the following 
table:
Name of Member
Position
No. of 
meetings
held
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka 
Chairman
4
4
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Member
4
4
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Member
3
3
	
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the 
Secretary to the Committee.
	
Number of Grievances:
	
There were no complaints received during the year 
under review and there was no outstanding complaint	
as on March 31, 2023.
	
Name and Designation of Compliance Officer
	
Mr. Yashesh Pankaj Bhatt, Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer
	
502, Tower – A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati 
Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013. Tel. No.: 
022 – 4354 8100
	
Email: secretarial@capriglobal.in
D.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee 
is duly constituted in accordance with Section 135 of 
the Act. As on March 31, 2023, the CSR Committee 
comprised of Three (3) Members, majority of whom are 
Non-Executive Independent Directors. The Chairman 
of the CSR Committee is a Non-Executive Independent 
Director.
	
Terms of Reference
	
The Broad terms of reference of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Committee, interalia, includes the 
following:
	
a.	
To formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which 
shall indicate the activities to be undertaken 
by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of 
Companies Act, 2013;
	
b.	
to recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on the CSR activities; and
	
c	
to monitor the implementation of the CSR Policy 
of the Company from time to time.
	
Meeting and Attendance
	
During the year under review, Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee met Two (2) times viz. on May 
21, 2022, and November 04, 2022. Composition of the 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee and 
the attendance of each member at the said Committee 
Meetings are set out in following table:
Annual Report 2022-23
107
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Name of Member
Position
No. of 
meetings
held
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Chairperson
2
2
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka Member
2
2
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Member
2
2
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the 
Committee.
E	
Risk Management Committee
	
The Risk Management Committee is duly constituted 
in accordance with RBI Master Direction - Non-Banking 
Financial Company - Systemically Important Non- 
Deposit taking Company and Deposit taking Company 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 in respect of all non- 
deposit taking NBFCs with asset size of ` 500 crores and 
above and Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Regulations. As 
on March 31, 2023, the Risk Management Committee 
comprised of Four (4) Members, majority of whom are 
Non-Executive Independent Directors. The Chairman 
of the Risk Management Committee is a Managing 
Director of the Company and he was present at last 
year’s Annual General Meeting to address the queries 
of the shareholders.
	
Terms of Reference:
	
The Broad terms of reference of the Risk Management 
Committee, interalia, includes the following:
	
a.	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy 
to include a framework for identification of 
internal and external risks specifically faced by 
the Company, in particular including financial, 
operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, 
ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks 
or any other risk as may be determined by the 
Committee; measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control of 
identified risks; Business continuity plan;
	
b.	
To 
ensure 
that 
appropriate 
methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor and 
evaluate risks associated with the business of the 
Company;
	
c.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
	
d.	
To periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity;
	
e.	
To keep the Board Of Directors informed 
about the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
	
f.	
The 
appointment, 
removal 
and 
terms 
of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall 
be subject to review by the Committee;
	
g.	
To oversee the functioning of Asset Liability 
Management Committee."
	
Meeting and Attendance
	
During the year under review, Risk Management 
Committee met four (4) times viz. on May 13, 2022, 
July 30, 2022, October 28, 2022 and January 28, 2023. 
Composition of the Risk Management Committee and 
the attendance of each member at the said Committee 
Meetings are set out in the following table:
Name of Member
Position
No. of 
meetings
held
No. of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Chairman
4
4
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
Member
4
4
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Member
4
4
Mr. D.R. Dogra
Member
4
4
	
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the 
Secretary to the Committee.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
108
Capri Global Capital Limited
4.	
General Body Meetings
A.	
The details of Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held during the last 3 years along with the details of the 
special resolutions passed there are as under:
Financial Year
Date and Time
Venue
Special Resolution passed
2019-20
July 31, 2020
04.00 P.M
Through Video Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual means (‘VC/OAVM’) 
Facility At 502 A, Peninsula Business 
Park, Lower Parel, Mumbai- 400013
•	
Raising of Funds through issuance of 
Securities including Debentures and 
other securities to the extent of R 
 1,250 Crore
•	
Conversion of Loan into Equity
2020-21
September 15, 2021
04.00 P.M
Through Video Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual means (‘VC/OAVM’) 
Facility At 502 A, Peninsula Business 
Park, Lower Parel, Mumbai- 400013
•	
Appoint Mr. Desh Raj Dogra as 
Independent Director of the Company
•	
Appointment of M/s. M M NISSIM & 
CO. LLP, Chartered Accountants, as 
Statutory Auditor
•	
Raising of Funds through issuance of 
Securities
2021-22
September 26, 2022
04.00 P.M
Through Video Conferencing/Other 
Audio Visual means (‘VC/OAVM’) 
Facility At 502 A, Peninsula Business 
Park, Lower Parel, Mumbai- 400013
•	
Re-Appoint Mr. Rajesh Sharma as 
Managing Director of the Company
•	
Raising of Funds through issuance of 
Securities
No postal ballot was conducted during the Financial year 2022-23. None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the 
ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through postal ballot.
5.	
Means of Communication
	
The quarterly/half yearly/annual results are regularly submitted to the Stock Exchanges in accordance with the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and published in English newspaper (generally Business Standard) and a Marathi daily (generally Mumbai 
Lakshdeep). The Company also issues press releases from time to time. The quarterly/half yearly/annual results/press 
releases and the presentation made to the Institutional Investors/Analysts are also uploaded on the website of the Company 
at www.capriloans.in. A Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of this Annual Report.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
(hereinafter referred to as “the SEBI Listing Regulations”), the general shareholders’ information pertaining to the Company, 
its shareholding pattern, share price movements, top 10 shareholders and such other information as prescribed under the said 
Regulations is provided herein below:
A.	
Annual General Meeting
Day
Friday
Date
September 1, 2023
Time
4:00 P.M
Venue
The Company is conducting meeting through video conferencing / other audio-visual means 
(deemed venue – Registered Office of the Company.)
Financial Year
April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023
Cut off date
Friday, August 25, 2023
Listing of Equity Shares at Stock Exchanges
1.	
BSE Limited Pheeroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai-400 001.
	
Tel No: - +91-22-22721233/1234 Fax No:- +91-22-22721919
2.	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No- C Block, 
G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai-400 051.
	
Tel No: - +91-22-26598100-8114 Fax No: - +91-22-26598120
Stock Codes
BSE: 531595
NSE: CGCL
ISIN Number
INE180C01026(Equity Shares)
Non-convertible Debentures
INE180C07072
INE180C07098
INE180C07114
Corporate Identiﬁcation Number (CIN)
L65921MH1994PLC173469
	
The Annual Listing Fees for the financial year 2023-24 to BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE) has been paid by the Company within prescribed time.
Annual Report 2022-23
109
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
B.	
Dividend
Dividend Payment Date
The final dividend, if approved by the shareholders shall be paid / 
credited on or from September 5, 2023
Address of General Correspondence
Registered Office and Corporate Office of the Company
Mr. Yashesh Bhatt
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Capri Global Capital Limited
Email: secretarial@capriglobal.in
502, A Tower, Peninsula Business Park Lower Parel, Senapati Bapat 
Marg, Mumbai-400013
Tel. No. (022)–40888100
C.	
Market price data
	
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The 
monthly high and low share prices on both the exchanges for a period starting from April 2022 to March 2023 are as below:
Month
BSE
NSE
High Price (R)
Low Price (R)
High Price (R)
Low Price (R)
April 2022
805.5
612
805
612.10
May 2022
773.15
541.75
774
539.65
June 2022
718.45
653.2
720
652
July 2022
748
671.95
748.15
671
August 2022
750
663
745
661
September 2022
750
689.75
750.90
687.35
October 2022
772.95
717.45
773.60
717.70
November 2022
765.15
727.15
768.80
727.10
December 2022
808.55
735.25
807.95
735.80
January 2023
801.4
739.1
801
739
February 2023
829.6
671.1
790
671.35
March 2023
707.7
565.85
720
566
	
Sources: www.bseindia.com , www.nseindia.com
	
The Performance of the equity share price of the Company in comparison with Broad based Indices:
70000
760
740
720
700
680
660
640
620
600
BSE Sensex
CGCL Share Price
Apr-22
May-22
Jun-22
Jul-22
Aug-22
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
50000
40000
30000
20000
10000
0
60000
> 
• 
• 
Annual Report 2022-23
110
Capri Global Capital Limited
16000 
18000 
20000 
760
740
720
700
680
660
640
620
600
Nifty 50
CGCL Share Price
Apr-22
May-22
Jun-22
Jul-22
Aug-22
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
12000
D.	
REGISTRAR AND SHARE TRANSFER AGENTS
	
Address for Investor Correspondence
	
For any assistance regarding dematerialization of shares, re-materialization of shares, share transfers, transmisons, change 
of address, non-receipt of dividend or any other query relating to shares, please write to:
	
LINK INTIME INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
	
Unit-Capri Global Capital Limited
	
C 101, 247 Park, LBS Marg, Vikhroli West, Mumbai 400 083, Maharashtra (India).
	
Tel: +91 (22) 49186270; Fax: +91 (22) 49186060
	
Email: rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in and mumbai@ linkintime.co.in Web: www.linkintime.co.in
E.	
SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM
	
Securities lodged for transfers are processed and security certificates are returned within a period of fifteen days from the 
date of receipt, subject to all documents being valid and complete in all respects. The Board of Directors has delegated the 
authority for approving transfer, transmission, etc. of the Company’s securities to Company Secretary of the Company. The 
Company obtains from a Company Secretary in Practice yearly certificate of compliance with the share transfer formalities, 
as required under Regulation 40(9) of Listing Regulations and files a copy of the certificate with Stock Exchanges.
F.	
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING
Category
Shareholders
Equity Shares
Number
Percentage (%)
Number
Percentage (%)
1-500
7009
93.5406
3,50,976
0.1704
501-1000
183
2.4423
1,40,242
0.068
1001-2000
116
1.5481
1,65,842
0.0804
2001-3000
44
0.5872
1,11,172
0.0539
3001-4000
22
0.2936
77,271
0.0375
4001-5000
16
0.2135
72,401
0.0351
5001-10000
30
0.4005
2,19,594
0.1065
10001 and above
73
0.9742
20,50,15,346
99.4482
Total
7,493
100
20,61,52,844
100
t 
t 
Annual Report 2022-23
111
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
G.	
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS ON MARCH 31, 2023
Category
No. of Equity 
Shares
Percentage of the total 
paid–up equity share 
capital (%)
Shareholding of Promoters and Promoters’ Group:
Promoters
1,878
0.00
Promoters’ Group and Persons acting in concert including relatives
14,41,25,949
69.91
Total (A)
14,41,27,827
69.91
Public Shareholding
Individuals
19,29,158
0.93
Bodies Corporate
3,12,76,322
15.17
Mutual Funds
32,17,845
1.56
Clearing Members
4,202
0.00
NBFC
13,050
0.01
HUF
1,71,846
0.08
IEPF
38,455
0.02
Non-resident Indians
33,271
0.02
Foreign Portfolio Investors
4,25,690
0.21
Insurance Companies
2,47,00,013
11.98
Others
2,15,165
0.11
Total (B)
6,20,25,017
30.09
Total (A+B)
20,61,52,844
100.00
H.	
DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES AND LIQUIDITY
	
The Company’s Shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form on NSE and BSE. Equity Shares representing 99.99 % 
of the Company’s Equity Share Capital are dematerialised as on March 31, 2023. The International Securities Identification 
Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s equity shares under the Depository System is INE180C01026.
I.	
OUTSTANDING GDRS/ADRS/WARRANTS OR ANY CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS, CONVERSION AND 
LIKELY IMPACT ON EQUITY CAPITAL
	
The Company has not issued any of the convertible instruments, hence there is no likelihood of any impact on the Equity 
Capital of the Company.
J.	
CREDIT RATING
	
During the year, Credit Analysis and Research Ltd. (“CARE”) has revised ratings with respect to the credit facilities availed by 
the Company as follows:
Nature of Borrowing
Amount (` in Mn)
Rating
Long Term Bank Facilities
37,500
CARE A+; Stable (Single A Plus; Outlook: Stable) 
Non-Convertible Debentures
4,000
CARE A+; Stable (Single A Plus; Outlook: Stable) 
	
Furthermore, Brickwork Rating India Private Limited revised rating with respect to the bank facilities availed by the Company 
as follows: 
Sl. No. Instrument/Facility
Amount (` in Mn.)
Rating 
1
Cash Credit
1,200
BWR AA- / Stable
2
Term Loans 
45,000
3
Non-Convertible Debentures
500
	
Infomerics Valuation and Rating Private Limited has re-affirmed ratings with respect to the credit facilities availed by the 
Company as follows:
Sl. No. Instrument/Facility
Amount (` in Mn.)
Rating 
1
Cash Credit
1050
IVR AA / Stable Outlook (IVR Double A with Stable 
Outlook)
2
Term Loans
79,900
IVR AA / Stable Outlook (IVR Double A with Stable 
Outlook)
3
Non-Convertible 
Debentures
3,000
IVR AA / Stable Outlook (IVR Double A with Stable 
Outlook)
4
Commercial Papers
3500
IVR A1+ (IVR A One Plus)
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
112
Capri Global Capital Limited
K.	
BRANCHES
	
Company has 736 branches located across 15 States 
and UTs in North and West India. 
6.	
Disclosures
A.	
Code of Conduct
	
The Board of Directors have laid down a Code of 
Conduct (“the Code”) for all Board Members, Key 
Managerial 
Personnel 
and 
Senior 
Management 
Personnel of your Company. The Code is posted 
on your Company’s website at https://capriloans.in/
corporate-governance/
	
The members of the Board, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed 
compliance with the Code of Conduct applicable 
to them during the year ended March 31, 2023. The 
Annual Report of the Company contains a certificate by 
the Managing Director, on the compliance declarations 
received from the members of the Board and Senior 
Management.
B.	
Disclosure on Material Related Party Transactions 
	
During the year, there were no transactions of materially 
significant nature with the Promoters or Directors or the 
Management or the subsidiaries or relatives etc. that 
had potential conflict with the interests of the Company 
at large. A statement of summary of related party 
transactions as per requirements of Indian Accounting 
Standards – 24 is duly disclosed in the Notes to 
Accounts annexed to the Financial Statements.
C.	
Policies Determining Material Subsidiaries and 
Related Party Transactions
	
Pursuant to requirements of Regulation 16 and 
Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board 
of Directors of the Company has adopted the policies 
for determining material subsidiaries and on related 
party transactions and the said policies are available 
on the Company’s website at https:// capriloans.in/
corporate-governance/
D.	
Commodity Price Risk or Foreign Exchange Risk 
and Hedging Activities
	
The Company does not deal with any commodity and 
hence not exposed to any commodity price risk. The 
Company has no foreign exchange receivable and 
payable as on March 31, 2023.
E.	
Details of Non-Compliance
	
No penalties or strictures have been imposed on the 
Company by the Stock Exchanges, SEBI or any other 
statutory authorities on any matter related to capital 
markets during the last three years.
F.	
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider 
Trading 
	
In terms of the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations,  2015, your Company has adopted a 
‘Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report 
trading by designated persons in listed or proposed 
to be listed securities’ of your Company (“the Code”). 
The Code aims at preserving and preventing misuse of 
unpublished price sensitive information. All Designated 
Persons (including Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and employees) of your Company are covered under 
the Code, which provides inter alia for periodical 
disclosures and obtaining pre- clearances for trading in 
securities of your Company. The Code is also available 
at the website of the Company at https://capriloans.in/
corporate-governance/
G. 	 Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy
	
The Whistle Blower Mechanism (Vigil Mechanism) in 
the Company enables all the directors, employees and 
its stakeholders, to report concerns about unethical 
behaviour, report for leakage of unpublished price 
sensitive information, actual or suspected fraud or 
violation of the Company’s code of conduct or ethics 
policy. This mechanism has provided adequate 
safeguards 
against 
victimisation 
of 
directors/ 
employees of the Company who avail the mechanism 
and also provide for direct access to the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. No personnel has been denied 
access to this mechanism and to the Audit Committee.
	
The Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy has 
been posted on the website of the Company at https:// 
capriloans.in/corporate-governance/
H.	
Compliance Certificate
	
•	
None of the Directors of the Company have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India or the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory 
authority. A Certificate to this effect, duly signed 
by Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Practicing Company 
Secretary is enclosed as Annexure II to this Report.
	
•	
The Company has complied with mandatory 
requirements under the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
A 
Compliance 
Certificate 
on 
Corporate 
Governance to this effect, duly signed by Mr. 
Sandeep Parekh, Practicing Company Secretary is 
enclosed as Annexure III to this Report.
I.	
Total Fees Paid to Statutory Auditors
	
The total amount of fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 
of the Company and its subsidiaries during the financial 
year 2022-23 is stated in Notes to financial statements, 
which forms part of this Annual Report.
Annual Report 2022-23
113
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
J.	
There was no instance during financial year 
2022-23 when the Board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any Committee of the Board.
K.	
Loans and advances - The Company and its 
subsidiaries has not given any loans and 
advances to firms/company in which directors 
are interested.
L.	
Details of material subsidiaries of the listed 
entity;
	
Name of Material Subsidiary - Capri Global Housing 
Finance Limited
	
Date and place of incorporation - 17/04/2006 -	
Mumbai
	
Name and date of appointment of the statutory 
auditors - M/s G.M. Kapadia & Co. Were appointed as 
Statutory auditors on August 14,  2021.
M.	 Non-compliance of any requirement of corporate 
governance report of sub-paras (2) to (10) of 
Schedule V(c) of the Listing Regulations-NIL
N	
Disclosure with respect to demat suspense 
account / unclaimed suspense account
	
The Company has opened “CAPRI GLOBAL CAPITAL 
LIMITED 
UNCLAIMED 
SUSPENSE 
A/C” 
with 
Stockholding Corporation Of India Limited pursuant 
to Regulation 39(4) and Schedule VI of Securities 
and Exchange Bord of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The 
details of the same are as follows:
Sr. no.
Particulars
Details
1
aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying at 
the beginning of the year
15,000
2
number of shareholders who approached listed entity for transfer of shares from suspense account 
during the year
0
3
number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense account during the year
0
4
aggregate number of shareholders lying at the end of the year
4
5
the outstanding shares in the suspense account lying at the end of the year
15000
6
that the voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares 
claims the shares
Yes
O.	 Details of Utilisation of Funds raised through 
Preferential Allotment and Qualified Institutional 
Placement
	
During the year under review, the Company has not 
raised funds either through Preferential Allotment or 
Qualified Institutional Placement.
P.	
Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual 	
Harassment of Women at the Workplace
	
The Company has in place a Policy for Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment 
at Workplace. Appropriate reporting mechanisms 
are in place for ensuring protection against Sexual 
Harassment and the right to work with dignity. During 
the year under review, the Company has not received 
any complaint in this regard.
Q.	 Compliance 
with 
Mandatory/Non-Mandatory 
Requirements
	
The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements of corporate governance specified in 
Regulation 17 to Regulation 27 and Clauses (b) to (i) 
of sub- regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Board has taken cognizance of the 
discretionary requirements as specified in Part E of 
Schedule II of Regulation 27(1) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and are being reviewed from time to time 
which are as follows:
	
1.	
Audit Qualifications
	
	
During the year under review, there is no audit 
qualification 
in 
your 
Company’s 
Financial 
Statements nor has there been a matter of 
emphasis made during the year. Your Company 
continues to adopt best practices to ensure a 
regime of financial statements with unmodified 
audit opinion.
	
2.	
The Board and separate posts of chairperson 
and chief executive officer
	
	
The Company does not have designated 
Chairperson appointed by the Board of Directors. 
The Chairman for the respective Board Meeting 
is appointed amongst the directors present 
at the meeting. Further, there is no Chairman 
Office being maintained by the Independent 
Director, appointed as a Chairman for respective 
Board Meeting. However, they are allowed for 
reimbursement of expenses spent in discharge of 
his/her duties. The Company has not appointed 
any Chief Executive Officer.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
114
Capri Global Capital Limited
	
3.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
	
The internal control systems of the Company 
are routinely tested and verified by Independent 
Internal Auditors and significant audit observations 
and follow-up actions are reported to the Audit 
Committee.
	
	
Pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Circular RBI 
/ 2020-21 / 88 Ref.No.DoS.CO.PPG./ SEC.05 / 
11.01.005 / 2020-21 dated February 3, 2021, the 
Company appointed Head Internal Auditor with 
effect from March 22, 2023.
	
4.	
Shareholder’s Right
	
	
The quarterly results of the Company are 
published 
in 
English 
newspaper 
(generally 
Business Standard) and a Marathi daily (generally 
Mumbai Lakshdeep). Further, the quarterly results 
are also posted on the website of the Company 
at https://capriloans.in/financial-report/. In view of 
the forgoing, the half yearly results of the Company 
are not sent to the Shareholders individually.
R.	
Managing Director (MD) and Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) Certification
	
The Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer 
of the Company give annual certification on financial 
reporting and internal controls to the Board in terms 
of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The 
Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer also 
give quarterly certification on financial results while 
placing the financial results before the Board in terms 
of Regulation 33(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The 
annual certificate given by the Managing Director and 
the Chief Financial Officer is enclosed as Annexure IV to 
this Report.
Annual Report 2022-23
115
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
This Policy has been laid down on the recommendations 
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board, and is in compliance with the requirements of 
Section 178 of Companies Act, 2013 including Companies 
(Amendment) Act, 2017, Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Regulations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 including Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 [Listing Regulations] and 
Guidelines on Compensation of Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management in NBFCs issued by Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI) vide circular dated RBI/2022-23/36 DOR.
GOV.REC.No.29/18.10.002/2022-23 on April 29, 2022 (“RBI 
Guidelines”).
1.1	 OBJECTIVES
The Policy lays down the:
(i)	
Criteria for determining inter-alia qualification, positive 
attributes and independence of Directors for their 
appointment on the Board of the Company;
(ii)	
To ensure ‘fit and proper’ status of proposed/[existing 
directors] and that there is no conflict of interest in 
appointment of directors on Board of the Company, 
KMPs and senior management.
(iii)	
Broad framework for payment of remuneration to 
the directors (Executive and Non-Executive), Key 
Managerial Personnel, Senior Management Personnel 
and other employees;
(iv)	
Ensure that the level and composition of remuneration 
is reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain reward 
and motivate directors and employees including key 
managerial personnel and senior managerial personnel 
of the quality required to run the company successfully;
(v)	
Ensure that the remuneration of whole-time directors, 
key managerial personnel and senior management 
involves a balance between fixed and variable pay 
reflecting short and long-term performance objectives 
appropriate to the working of the company and aligned 
with the regulatory requirements;
1.2	 DEFINITIONS
i.	
“Board” means Board of Directors of the Company.
ii.	
“Clawback” is a contractual agreement between the 
employee and the Company in which the employee 
agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration 
to the Company under certain circumstances.
iii.	
“Company” means “Capri Global Capital Limited.”
Annexure-I
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY
iv.	
“Committee” 
shall 
mean 
the 
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration Committee of Board of Directors of 
the Company, constituted in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Listing Regulations.
v.	
“Employees’ Stock Option” means the option given 
to the Directors, Officers or Employees of a company 
or of its holding company or subsidiary company or 
companies, if any, which gives such Directors, Officers 
or Employees, the benefit or right to purchase, or to 
subscribe for, the shares of the Company at a future 
date at a pre-determined price.
vi.	
‘fit and proper‘ person shall mean an individual who is:
	
a.	
more than thirty years in age;
	
b.	
a graduate;
	
c.	
has minimum five years experience;
	
d.	
a person of integrity, reputation and character in 
the opinion of the Committee;
vii.	
“Independent Director” means a director referred to 
in Section 149 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations.
viii.	 “Key Managerial Personnel” (KMP) means KMP as 
defined in Section 2 (51) of the Companies Act 2013, as 
amended from time to time read with Regulation 2(1)(o) 
of the Listing Regulations i.e.
	
a)	
Managing Director or Executive Director
	
b)	
Chief Executive Officer,
	
c)	
Company Secretary,
	
d)	
Whole-time Director,
	
e)	
Chief Financial Officer and
	
f)	
Such other officer, not more than one level below 
the directors who is in whole-time employment, 
designated as key managerial personnel by the 
Board; and
	
g)	
Such other officer as may be prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
ix.	
A “Malus” is an arrangement that permits the Company 
to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a 
deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not 
reverse vesting after it has already occurred.
x.	
“Managerial Person” means the Managing Director, 
Whole-time Director and/or Manager.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
116
Capri Global Capital Limited
xi.	
“Policy or This Policy” means, “Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy.”
xii.	
“Remuneration” means any money or its equivalent 
given or passed to any person for services rendered 
by him and includes perquisites as defined under the 
Income-tax Act, 1961.
xiii.	 “Retention period” means a period of time after 
the vesting of instruments which have been awarded 
as variable pay during which they cannot be sold or 
accessed.
xiv.	 “Senior Management” means officers/personnel of 
the Company who are members of its core management 
team excluding Board of Directors and shall comprise of 
all members of management one level below the Chief 
Executive Officer / Managing Director / Whole-time 
Director / Manager (including Chief Executive Officer / 
Manager, in case they are not a part of the Board) and 
shall specifically include Company Secretary and Chief 
Financial Officer.
1.3	 INTERPRETATION
	
Terms that have not been defined in this Policy shall have 
the same meaning assigned to them in the Companies 
Act, 2013, SEBI Act, 1992, Listing Regulations as 
notified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
from time to time.
1.4	 APPOINTMENT 
AND 
REMOVAL 
OF 
MANAGERIAL PERSON, DIRECTOR, KEY 
MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
i.	
Appointment criteria and qualifications:
	
a)	
The Committee shall identify and ascertain the 
integrity, qualification, expertise and experience 
of the person for appointment as Managerial 
Person, Director, KMP or Senior Management 
Personnel who may be qualified to become 
directors and recommend to the Board his / her 
appointment.
	
b)	
The Committee has discretion to decide whether 
qualification, expertise and experience possessed 
by a person are sufficient / satisfactory for the 
designated position.
	
c)	
With respect to appointment of a Senior 
Management Personnel other than the one 
mentioned 
above, 
the 
Human 
Resource 
Department with the consultation / advice /
recommendations of the respective Functional 
Heads / Promoter Director of the Company, as the 
case may be, can decide on their appointments 
and the same need not be recommended to the 
Committee/Board as the case may be.
ii.	
Term / Tenure:
	
a)	
Managing Director/Whole-time Director/Manager 
(Managerial Personnel): The Company shall 
appoint or re-appoint a person as its Managerial 
Person for a term not exceeding five years at a 
time by passing of a resolution and disclosure of 
such appointment in the Directors Report forming 
part of the Annual Report. No re-appointment 
shall be made earlier than one year before the 
expiry of term.
	
b)	
Independent Director:
	
	
i.	
An Independent Director shall hold office for 
a term up to five consecutive years on the 
Board of the Company and will be eligible 
for re-appointment on passing of a special 
resolution by the Company and disclosure of 
such appointment in the Board’s report.
	
	
ii.	
No Independent Director shall hold office 
for more than two consecutive terms, but 
such Independent Director shall be eligible 
for appointment after expiry of three years of 
ceasing to become an Independent Director.
	
	
iii.	
Provided that an Independent Director 
shall not, during the said period of three 
years, be appointed in or be associated 
with the Company in any other capacity, 
either directly or indirectly. Term can be for 
a maximum period of five years.
	
	
iv.	
At the time of appointment of Independent 
Director, it should be ensured that number 
of Boards on which such Independent 
Director serves, is restricted to seven listed 
companies as an Independent Director and 
three listed companies as an Independent 
Director in case such person is serving as a 
Whole-time Director / Managing Director of 
the Company and further an independent 
director shall not be on the Board of more 
than three NBFC’s (NBFC-ML or NBFC- UL) 
at the same time Further, the Board of the 
NBFC shall ensure that there is no conflict 
arising out of their independent directors 
being on the Board of another NBFC at the 
same time.
	
	
iii.	
Removal:
	
	
	
Due to reasons for any disqualification 
mentioned in the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) 
and rules made there under or under any 
other applicable Act, rules and regulations, 
the Committee may recommend, to the 
Board with reasons recorded in writing, 
removal of a Managerial Person, Director, 
KMP or Senior Management Personnel 
subject to the provisions and compliance of 
the Act, rules and regulations.
	
	
iv.	
Retirement:
	
	
	
The Managerial Person, Director, KMP and 
Senior Management shall retire as per the 
Annual Report 2022-23
117
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the prevailing policy of the 
Company. The Board will have the discretion 
to retain the Managerial Person, Director, 
KMP, Senior Management in the same 
position / remuneration or otherwise even 
after attaining the retirement age, for the 
benefit of the Company.
1.5	 DISQUALIFICATION FOR APPOINTMENT 
OF DIRECTORS
i.	
A person shall not be eligible for appointment as 
director of the company if:
	
a)	
he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by 
a competent court;
	
b)	
he is undischarged insolvent;
	
c)	
he has applied to be adjudicated as an insolvent 
and his application is pending;
	
d)	
he has been convicted by a court of any offence, 
weather involving moral turpitude or otherwise, 
and sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment 
for not less than six months and a period of five 
years has not elapsed from the date of expiry of 
the sentence:
	
	
Provided that if a person has been convicted of 
any offence and sentenced in respect thereof 
to imprisonment for a period of seven years or 
more, he shall not be eligible to be appointed as 
a director in any company:
	
	
1)	
an order disqualifying him for appointment 
as a director has been passed by a court or 
Tribunal and the order in force;
	
	
2)	
he has not paid any calls in respect of any 
shares of the company held by him whether 
alone or jointly with others and six months 
have elapsed from the last day fixed for the 
payment of the call;
	
	
3)	
he has been convicted of the offence dealing 
with related party transactions under section 
188 at any time during the last preceding five 
years; or
	
	
4)	
he has not complied with sub-section (3) of 
section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013.
ii.	
A person who has been a Director of the company 
which:
	
a)	
has not filed financial statements or annual returns 
for any continuous period of three financial years; 
or
	
b)	
has failed to repay the deposits accepted by it or 
pay interest thereon or to redeem any debentures 
on the due date or pay interest due thereon or 
pay dividend declared and such failure to pay or 
redeem continues for one year of more, shall be 
ineligible to be appointed as a director of the 
Company for a period of five years from the date 
on which the other company fails to do so.
iii.	
A person shall not be eligible for appointment and 
continuance as a Director, if he / she is not found ‘fit 
and proper’ by the Committee.
1.6	 REMUNERATION POLICY
	
Remuneration Policy of CGCL is designed to attract, 
motivate, and retain manpower in a competitive 
environment 
considering 
qualification, 
positive 
attribute, integrity and independence, and is guided 
by the common reward framework and set of principles 
and objectives. The Remuneration Policy applies to the 
Company’s Senior Management Personnel, including its 
Key Managerial Personnel and the Board of Directors.
	
The policy captures remuneration strategies, policies 
and practices of CGCL, including compensation, 
variable- compensation, equity-based plans and 
the process for the measurement and assessment 
of 
employee 
and 
executive 
performance. 
The 
remuneration / compensation / commission etc. to 
the Managerial Person, Director, KMP and Senior 
Management Personnel (who may be qualified to 
become directors) will be determined by the Committee 
and recommended to the Board for approval.
1.6.1 Principles for Remuneration
	
a)	
The remuneration structure will be determined by 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
who will ensure that:
	
	
The level of remuneration is supported by the 
need to retain earnings of the company and the 
need to maintain adequate capital based on 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Procedure 
(ICAAP); Compensation components are aligned 
effectively with prudent risk taking to ensure that 
compensation is adjusted for all types of risksand 
Compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk 
outcomes, Compensation pay-outs are sensitive 
to the Time Horizon of the Risk and the mix of 
cash, equity and other forms of compensation will 
be consistent with risk alignment.
	
b)	
NRC may revisit the principles basis industry 
and regulatory context, company context and 
emerging best practices from time to time
1.6.2 Remuneration Strategy for Employees at CGCL
	
The Company adopts a total compensation philosophy 
in rewarding employees. The total compensation 
package for the employees comprises of Fixed and 
Variable Component.
	
Fixed pay consists of the base salary and any recurring, 
regular allowances payable in the specific location, 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
118
Capri Global Capital Limited
Perquisites, Contributions towards superannuation, 
etc. In addition to the various cash components (salary, 
allowances etc.) the Company can also offer certain 
reimbursable perquisites with monetary ceiling and 
certain non-monetary perquisites. The perquisites 
extended would be in the nature of but not limited to 
Company Car, Company Leased Accommodation, Club 
Memberships and such other benefits or allowances in 
lieu of such perquisites/benefits.
	
Variable pay includes performance bonuses/incentives 
and Share Linked Instruments for eligible employees. 
Variable pay shall be in the form of “pay at risk”. 
Depending on performance and risk outcomes at 
individual, business units and company-wide level, the 
variable pay shall be truly variable and can even be 
reduced to zero.
	
The level of total compensation is designed to be 
appropriate to attract, retain and motivate employees 
to contribute their best. In determining the total 
compensation of employees, the Company takes into 
account the role and its responsibilities, the individuals’ 
and 
teams’ 
performance, 
and 
the 
Company’s 
performance, as well as market factors. The Company’s 
remuneration strategy is market-driven and aims at 
attracting and retaining high caliber talent.
	
Factors such as profitability and achievement of key 
performance indicators are taken into consideration, 
in determining the bonus pool for the Company and 
its business units. Individual bonus allocation is based 
on performance against various set of pre-defined 
objectives.
	
The strategy is in consonance with the existing 
industry practice and is directed towards rewarding 
performance, based on review of achievements, on a 
periodical basis.
1.6.3 Remuneration of Key Management Personnel 
and Senior Management Personnel
	
The Company shall review, at least annually, the Key 
Management and Senior Management personnel’s 
remuneration arrangements in light of current market 
benchmarks and expert advice on remuneration levels 
and, with due consideration to law and corporate 
governance principles.
	
Remuneration of the Key Management and Senior 
Management Personnel consists of a fixed component 
and a variable performance incentive. The annual 
appraisal of the Key Management personnel is based 
on a detailed performance evaluation of their Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI’s)
	
i.	
Fixed Component: As mentioned in Clause 1.6.2 
above.
	
ii.	
Perquisites: As mentioned in Clause 1.6.2 above.
	
iii.	
Retirement 
Benefits: 
Pension 
contributions, 
Gratuity payments are made in accordance with 
applicable laws and employment agreements.
	
iv.	
Severance 
payments: 
In 
accordance 
with 
termination clauses in employment agreements, 
the severance payment is in accordance with 
applicable local legal framework.
	
v.	
Medical Insurance – Coverage of R 5 Lacs every 
year to the personnel, his/her spouse, two children 
and parents (In case of female employees they 
can choose the option for including their in-laws 
in lieu of her parents).
	
vi.	
Term Insurance – Coverage between R 50 Lacs to 
R 1 Cr. based on the grade.
	
vii.	
Variable pay – shall comprise of share linked 
instruments or a mix of cash and share linked 
instruments. A substantial portion of remuneration 
will be variable and shall be linked to the below 
three factors:
	
	
a)	
the financial results of the company;
	
	
b)	
business units performance;
	
	
c)	
the individual performance and that of the 
department/team
	
	
Portion of Variable pay in the Total Compensation 
should be higher at higher level of responsibility. 
KMPs and SMPs employed in financial control, 
risk management, compliance and internal audit 
roles shall have higher proportion of Fixed Pay in 
the Total Compensation. However, care should 
be taken that reasonable proportion of Total 
Compensation should be in the form of variable 
pay to enable company to exercise malus and/or 
clawback, if required.
	
viii.	 Annual Performance Linked Bonus: Individual 
bonus allocation takes performance ratings and 
performance against various set of objectives 
mentioned below into consideration:
	
	
a)	
In the beginning of the year the Board sets 
the organization performance objectives 
based on qualitative and quantitative 
measures.
	
	
b)	
These objectives are reviewed periodically 
to ensure they remain consistent with the 
Company’s priorities and the changing 
nature of the Company’s business.
	
	
c)	
These 
objectives 
form 
part 
of 
the 
performance targets for the Managerial 
Personnel.
	
	
d)	
Performance against these objectives is 
reviewed annually by the Board and is 
reflected in the Managerial Personnel’s 
remuneration review.
Annual Report 2022-23
119
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
ix.	
Deferral of Variable Pay: Of the total variable 
pay, certain portion as may be decided by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
Board, shall be deferred to the time horizon of the 
risk. The Deferred compensation will be in the form 
of share linked instruments. The deferral period 
for share linked instruments will be governed 
by the share linked instrument Plan document 
which will be approved by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and the Board.
	
x.	
Guaranteed Bonus: No amount of bonus can be 
guaranteed to KMPs and SMPs except for hiring/
sign-on bonus to be paid to new hire. The said 
bonus shall not form part of Fixed or Variable pay.
	
xi.	
Malus/ Clawback Arrangement: The deferred 
variable compensation in a year shall be subject 
to:
	
	
a.	
Malus arrangement wherein in case of 
subdued or negative financial performance 
arising not on account of gross negligence or 
misconduct of the KMP/SMP, the Company 
may withhold cash incentives/bonus or 
vesting of share linked instrument and may 
lapse unvested share linked instrument in 
accordance with the share linked instrument 
Plan.
	
	
b.	
Clawback arrangement wherein in case of 
gross negligence or misconduct or cause as 
defined in the Company’s code of conduct, 
the KMP and/or SMP shall be liable to return 
previously paid or vested deferred variable 
compensation.
	
	
•	
NRC may invoke Malus or Clawback clause 
with respect to the KMPs and SMPs in the 
following illustrative scenarios:
	
	
o	
Gross negligence, Reckless, or willful actions 
or exhibited inappropriate values and 
behavior. Errors of judgment shall not be 
construed to be breaches under this note.
	
	
o	
Material Misstatement of the company’s 
results
	
	
o	
Fraud that requires financial restatements
	
	
o	
Reputational harms
	
	
o	
Exercise his/her responsibilities in a mala 
fide manner
	
	
o	
Significant deterioration of financial health 
of the Company
	
	
o	
Exposing Company to substantial Risk
	
	
o	
Any other situation where the Board and the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
deems invoking Malus and/or Clawback 
provision is necessary and justified.
	
	
•	
The time horizon for the applicable of malus/
clawback clause shall be three years or the 
deferral period or the Retention Period of 
the variable compensation, whichever is 
higher, from the date of reward
	
	
•	
Once 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee decides to invoke Malus and/or 
Clawback clause, it will have power to take 
any of the following action basis the nature 
and severity of trigger
	
	
In case of Malus Clause:
	
	
o	
Cancel the vesting of up to 100% of the 
deferred cash or share linked component 
due for vesting in that particular year
	
	
o	
Cancel the vesting for up to 100% of entire 
unvested deferred cash or share linked 
component including vesting remaining in 
future years
	
	
In case of Clawback Clause:
	
	
o	
Recovery of up to 100% of compensation 
received in the form of cash component 
of deferred variable pay paid over the 
applicable period
	
	
o	
Recovery of up to 100% of benefit accrued to 
the employee on account of exercise of stock 
options or through any other share linked 
instrument granted during the applicable 
period
	
	
o	
Forfeiture of up to 100% of vested but 
unexercised stock options or any other 
share linked instrument granted during the 
applicable period
	
xii.	
The terms of appointment of KMPs and Senior 
Management of the Company shall be suitably 
amended to contain suitable clause on malus/
clawback.
1.6.4 Remuneration of Other Employees.
	
In general, the principles laid down in Clause 1.6.1 above 
will be considered for governance and remuneration 
decisions related to other employees.
	
In general, the proportion of Variable Pay in the Total 
Compensation should be higher at higher level of 
responsibility.
	
There should be appropriate proportion of variable pay 
in the total compensation so that performance and/or 
risk adjustment can be affected.
1.6.5 Remuneration 
of 
Non-executive 
Directors 
including Independent Directors
	
The Non-Executive Directors / Independent Directors 
of the Company (who are not in the employment of the 
Company and /or its subsidiaries / associates) shall be 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
120
Capri Global Capital Limited
paid sitting fees as per the limits prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
Commission, if any, payable to NEDs, may be paid 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, rules made thereunder and SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, in addition to the sitting fees and shall be 
approved by the Board of the Company based on the 
recommendation of the Committee and the approval 
of the shareholders, as applicable.
	
The Non-Executive Directors / Independent Directors 
shall be covered under the Directors and Officers 
Liability Insurance (D&O) Policy.
	
An independent Director shall not be entitled to any 
Stock Options of the Company.
1.7	 DEVIATIONS FROM THE POLICY
	
Deviations on elements of this policy in extraordinary 
circumstances, when deemed necessary in the interests 
of the Company, will be made if there are specific 
reasons to do so in an individual case.
1.8	 DISCLOSURES IN THE BOARD REPORT
	
The disclosures as required under the relevant 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the rules made 
there under and the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 shall be made with regard to the 
remuneration details of the Directors, KMPs, Senior 
Management and other employees.
1.9	 AMENDMENTS
	
The Remuneration policy may be reviewed by the 
Board of the Company on the recommendation of 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the 
Board. This Policy may be amended, modified or 
supplemented from time to time to ensure compliance 
with any modification, amendment or supplementation 
to the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made there 
under, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and RBI Guidelines.
Annual Report 2022-23
121
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
To,
The Members,
Capri Global Capital Limited
502, Tower - A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Parel, Mumbai 400013
We have examined the relevant records, information, forms, and disclosures received from the Directors of Capri Global Capital 
Limited (hereinafter called the “the Company”), as may be relevant for the purpose of this certificate, which has been relied 
upon to make this certification, for the year ended 31st March, 2023. In my/our opinion and to the best of my/our information and 
according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in), we hereby 
certify pursuant to Schedule V Part C(10)(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as on 31st March, 2023 (list below), 
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as the Directors of Companies by the Board / Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs or any such other statutory authority.
Sr.
No.
Name of Director
DIN
Designation
Date of 
appointment
1
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
00020037
Managing Director
15/05/2007
2
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
00295213
Non-Executive Independent Director
12/01/2011
3
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
01569098
Non-Executive Independent Director
11/02/2012
4
Mrs. Bhagyam Ramani
00107097
Non-Executive Independent Director
28/07/2012
5
Mr. Ajit Mohan Sharan
02458844
Non-Executive Independent Director
01/06/2019
6
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
00226775
Non-Executive Independent Director
01/02/2021
For Sandeep P Parekh & Co., 
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
FCS No: 7118, CP No: 7693
Sandeep P. Parekh
Date: 22.05.2023
Place: Mumbai
Annexure-II
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRCETORS
[Pursuant to Schedule V Part C(10)(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
122
Capri Global Capital Limited
Annexure-III
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CERTIFICATE
To,
The Members,
Capri Global Capital Limited
CIN: L65921MH1994PLC173469
502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel
Mumbai 400013.
I have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Capri Global Capital Limited (“the Company”), as 
stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule 
V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2023.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My examination 
was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions 
of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said Regulations. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company.
On the basis of my findings from the examination of the records produced, explanations and information furnished to me and the 
representation made by the Management, I certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of 
Schedule V to the Listing Regulations for the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
I further state that this Certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Sandeep P Parekh & Co. 
Company Secretaries
Sd/-
FCS No: 7118, CP No: 7693
Sandeep P. Parekh
Place: Mumbai
Date: 22.05.2023
UDIN: F007118E000366367
Annual Report 2022-23
123
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Annexure-IV
DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF CONDUCT BY BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AS REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SCHEDULE V OF SECURITIES & EXCHANGE 
BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
This is to confirm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees including the Managing Director. In 
addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive and Independent Directors. These Codes are 
available on the Company’s website.
I, Rajesh Sharma, Managing Director of the Company, do hereby confirm that the Company has in respect of the year ended 
March 31, 2023, received from the Members of the Board and Senior Management Personnel a declaration of compliance with 
the Code of Conduct, as applicable to them.
for Capri Global Capital Limited
Sd/-
Rajesh Sharma
Managing Director
(DIN: 00020037)
Date: May 22, 2023
Place: Mumbai
> 
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements	
125
Consolidated Financial Statements	
223
Annual Report 2022-23
125
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
To the Members of Capri Global Capital Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone 
financial statements of Capri Global Capital Limited (‘the 
Company’), which comprise the standalone balance 
sheet as at 31 March 2023, the standalone statement 
of profit and loss (including other comprehensive 
income), the standalone statement of cash flow and 
the standalone statement of changes in equity for the 
year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial 
statements, including a summary of the significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘standalone financial 
statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind 
AS’) specified under section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015,the relevant circulars, guidelines and directions 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to 
time (‘RBI Guidelines’) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the 
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company as at 31 March 2023, and its profit (including 
other comprehensive income), its cash flows and the 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the 
rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matter
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the standalone financial statements of 
the current period. These matters were addressed in 
the context of our audit of the standalone financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment of loans and advances to customers
(Refer Note 2.6 for significant accounting policies and Note 39.2 for credit risk disclosures)
As at 31 March 2023, the Company has reported gross loan 
assets of ` 70,711.03 millions against which an impairment 
loss of ` 1,418.81 millions has been recorded. The Company 
recognized impairment provision for loan assets based on 
the Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”) approach laid down under 
‘Ind AS 109 – Financial Instruments’.
The estimation of ECL on financial instruments involves 
significant management judgement and estimates and the 
use of different modelling techniques and assumptions 
which could have a material impact on reported profits. 
Significant management judgement and assumptions 
involved in measuring ECL is required with respect to:
•	 ensuring completeness and accuracy of the data used to 
create assumption in the model.
•	 determining the criteria for a significant increase in credit 
risk.
•	 factoring in future economic assumptions
Our audit focused on assessing the appropriateness 
of management’s judgment and estimates used in the 
impairment analysis through procedures that included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
•	 Obtained an understanding of the modelling techniques 
adopted by the Company including the key inputs and 
assumptions;
•	 Considered the Company's accounting policies for 
estimation of expected credit loss on loans and assessing 
compliance with the policies in terms of Ind AS 109;
•	 Understanding 
management’s 
updated 
processes, 
systems and controls implemented in relation to 
impairment allowance process;
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
126
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
•	
techniques used to determine probability of default, 
loss given default and exposure at default.
These parameters are derived from the Company’s internally 
developed statistical models and other historical data.
During the previous years, RBI announced various relief 
measures for the borrowers which were implemented by the 
Company such as “COVID 19 Regulatory Package- Asset 
Classification and Provisioning” announced by the RBI 
on 17 April 2020 and RBI circular on “Asset Classification 
and Income Recognition following the expiry of Covid-19 
regulatory package” dated 07 April 2021 (collectively 
referred to as ‘the RBI circulars’), and “Resolution Framework 
for COVID-19 related Stress” (the ‘Resolution Framework’) 
dated on 6 August 2020 and 4 June 2021, which have been 
collectively considered by the management in identification, 
classification and provisioning of loan assets for impairment.
On the basis of an estimate made by the management, 
an overlay to the tune of ` 20.27 millions has been carried 
by the Company as at 31 March 2023 on loans basis their 
performance and outstanding position. The basis of 
estimates and assumptions involved in arriving at the overlay 
are monitored by the Company periodically and significantly 
depend on future developments in the economy.
Disclosure
The disclosures regarding the Company’s application of 
Ind AS 109 are key to explaining the key judgements and 
material inputs to the Ind AS 109 ECL results. Further, 
disclosures to be provided as per RBI circulars with regards 
to non-performing assets and provisions is also an area of 
focus.
Considering the significance of the above matter to the 
overall financial statements and extent of management’s 
estimates and judgements involved, it required significant 
auditor attention. Accordingly, we have identified this as a 
key audit matter.
•	 Accuracy of the computation of the ECL estimate 
including reasonableness of the methodology and 
assumption used to determine macro-economic overlays;
•	 Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key 
controls over completeness and accuracy of the key 
inputs and assumptions considered for calculation, 
recording, monitoring of the impairment loss recognized 
and staging of assets. Also evaluated the controls over 
the modelling process, validation of data and related 
approvals;
•	 Assessed the critical assumptions and input data used in 
the estimation of expected credit loss models for specific 
key credit risk parameters, such as the movement logic 
between stages, Exposure at default (EAD), probability of 
default (PD) or loss given default (LGD);
•	 Performed test of details over calculations of ECL, in 
relation to the completeness and accuracy of data;
•	 Obtained written representations from management and 
those charged with governance on whether they believe 
significant assumptions used in calculation of expected 
credit losses are reasonable; and
•	 Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of the related 
presentation and disclosures of Note 39 “Financial risk 
management” disclosed in the accompanying financial 
statements in accordance with the applicable accounting 
standards and related RBI circulars and Resolution 
Framework.
Information other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report thereon
6.	
The Company’s management and the Board of Directors 
are responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the 
Annual Report, but does not include the standalone 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The Annual Report is expected to be made available to 
us after the date of this auditor's report.
	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes available 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial 
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance.
Board of Director’s Responsibilities for the 
Standalone Financial Statements
7.	
The accompanying standalone financial statements 
have been approved by the Company’s Board of 
Directors. The Company’s Management and the 
Annual Report 2022-23
127
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
Board of Directors are responsible for the matters 
stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation and presentation of these standalone 
financial statements that give a true and fair view of the 
financial position, financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash 
flows of the Company in accordance with the Ind AS 
specified under section 133 of the Act, RBI Guidelines 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the standalone financial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
8.	
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Board of Directors and management are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either intend 
to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so.
9.	
The Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these standalone financial statements.
11.	 As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the Act 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control;
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Company 
has adequate internal financial controls system with 
reference to the standalone financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls based on our audit;
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management and 
the Board of Directors;
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of 
Directors and management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may 
cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the standalone financial statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Company to cease to continue as a going 
concern;
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the standalone financial statements, 
including 
the 
disclosures, 
and 
whether 
the 
standalone financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation; and
•	 Obtain 
sufficient 
appropriate 
audit 
evidence 
regarding the financial statements of the Company 
to express an opinion on the financial statements.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
128
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
12.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
13.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the standalone 
financial statements of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that 
a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
15.	 As required by section 197(16) of the Act based on 
our audit, we report that the Company has paid 
remuneration to its directors during the year in 
accordance with the provisions of and limits laid down 
under section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
16.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of section 143(11) of the Act, we give in 
the Annexure I, a statement on the matters specified 
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable.
17.	 Further to our comments in Annexure I, as required by 
section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit, we report, 
to the extent applicable, that:
	
a)	
we have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit of the accompanying 
standalone financial statements;
	
b)	
in our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books;
	
c)	
the standalone financial statements dealt with by 
this report are in agreement with the books of 
account;
	
d)	
in our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act;
	
e)	
on the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors and taken on record 
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors 
is disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of section 164(2) 
of the Act;
	
f)	
with respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company as on 31 
March 2023 and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls, refer to our separate Report 
in Annexure II wherein we have expressed an 
unmodified opinion; and
	
g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Company, as detailed in note 47 to 
the standalone financial statements, has 
disclosed the impact of pending litigations 
on its financial position as at 31 March 2023;
	
	
ii.	
The Company, as detailed in note 56.11.1 
to the standalone financial statements, 
has made provision as at 31 March 2023, 
as required under the applicable law 
or 
accounting 
standards, 
for 
material 
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts;
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Company during the year ended March 
31, 2023;
	
	
iv.	
a	
The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in note 54 (xvi) to 
the standalone financial statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
securities premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Company to 
Annual Report 2022-23
129
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
or in any person or entity, including 
foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), 
with 
the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Company (‘the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
	
b.	
The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in note 54 (xvi) to 
the standalone financial statements, 
no funds have been received by 
the Company from any person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(‘the 
Funding 
Parties’), 
with 
the 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures 
performed as considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain 
any material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company 
during the year in respect of the same 
declared for the previous year is in 
accordance with section 123 of the Act, to 
the extent it applies to payment of dividend; 
and
	
	
vi.	
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) 
Rules, 
2014 
requires 
all 
companies which use accounting software 
for maintaining their books of account, to 
use such an accounting software which has 
a feature of audit trail, with effect from the 
financial year beginning on 1 April 2023 
and accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended) is not applicable for the 
current financial year.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 107122W/W100672
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Partner
Membership No. 114049
UDIN: 23114049BGXMMF3807
Mumbai
22 May 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
130
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us 
and given by the Company and the books of account and 
records examined by us in the normal course of audit, and to 
the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
i.	
a.	
(A)	
The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of property, 
plant and equipment and right of use assets 
including quantitative details and situation 
of these assets.
	
	
(B)	
The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars of intangible 
assets.
	
b.	
As per information and explanation given to 
us and as verified by us, the property, plant and 
equipment and right of use assets have been 
physically verified by the management during the 
year and no material discrepancies were noticed 
on such verification. In our opinion, the frequency 
of physical verification adopted by the Company, 
is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets.
	
c.	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties 
held by the Company (other than properties 
where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
	
d.	
The Company has not revalued its Property, 
Plant and Equipment and Right of Use assets or 
intangible assets during the year.
	
e.	
According to information and explanations 
given to us and as verified by us, no proceedings 
have been initiated or are pending against the 
Company for holding any benami property under 
the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 
of 1988) and rules made thereunder. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(i)(e) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
ii.	
a.	
The Company does not hold any inventory. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(ii)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
Annexure I referred to in Paragraph 16 of the Independent Auditor’s 
Report of even date to the members of Capri Global Capital Limited on 
the standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
	
b.	
The Company has a working capital limit in 
excess of Rs 5 crore sanctioned by banks and 
financial institutions based on the security of 
current assets. The quarterly returns/statements, 
in respect of the working capital limits have 
been filed by the Company with such banks and 
financial institutions and as per the information 
and explanations given to us and as verified by 
us, such returns/statements are materially in 
agreement with the books of account of the 
Company for the respective periods, which were 
not subject to audit.
iii.	
a.	
The 
Company 
is 
a 
Non-Banking 
Finance 
Company and its principal business is to give 
loans. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(iii)(a) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
b.	
The investments made and terms and conditions 
of the grant of all loans and advances in the nature 
of loans are not, prima facie, prejudicial to the 
Company’s interest. Company has not provided 
any guarantee and also not given security to any 
party.
	
c.	
The Company is a Non-Banking Financial 
Company (‘NBFC’), registered under provisions 
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and rules 
made thereunder and is regulated by various 
regulations, circulars and norms issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India including Master Circular 
– Prudential norms on Income Recognition, 
Asset Classification and Provisioning pertaining 
to Advances. In respect of loans and advances in 
the nature of loans granted by the Company, we 
report that the schedule of repayment of principal 
and payment of interest has been stipulated and 
the repayments/receipts of principal and interest 
are regular except for certain instances as below.
	
	
Outstanding as on 31 March 2023 for overdue 
loans
Particulars – Days 
past due
Total amount 
outstanding 
(in millions)
No. of 
Cases
1-30 days
2,434.96
13,869
31-60 days
3,551.08
12,643
61-90 days
185.91
1,836
More than 90 days
1,379.51
1,308
Total
7,551.46
29,656
Annual Report 2022-23
131
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
d.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the total amount which is overdue 
for more than 90 days in respect of loans and 
advances in the nature of loans given in course 
of the business operations of the Company 
aggregates to Rs 1,379.51 millions as at 31 
March 2023 in respect of 1,308 number of loans. 
Further, reasonable steps as per the policies and 
procedures of the Company have been taken for 
recovery of such principal and interest amounts 
overdue.
	
e.	
The 
Company 
is 
a 
Non-Banking 
Finance 
Company, and its principal business is to give 
loans. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(iii)(e) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
f.	
The Company has not granted loans or advances 
in the nature of loans which are repayable on 
demand or without specifying any terms or period 
of repayment. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
iv.	
In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not granted 
any loans, made investments or provided guarantees 
or securities that are covered under the provisions of 
sections 185 or 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, and 
hence reporting under clause 3(iv) of the Order is not 
applicable.
v.	
The provisions of the sections 73 to 76 and any other 
relevant provisions of the Act and the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended), 
are not applicable to the Company being an non-
banking financial company registered with the Reserve 
Bank of India (‘the RBI’), and also the Company has 
not accepted any deposits from public or there is no 
amount which has been considered as deemed deposit 
within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Act. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(v) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
vi.	
The Central Government has not specified maintenance 
of cost records under sub-section (1) of section 148 of 
the Act, in respect of Company’s products/business 
activity. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(vi) of the 
Order is not applicable.
vii.	
a.	
In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, undisputed statutory 
dues including goods and services tax, provident 
fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, 
sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of 
excise, value added tax, cess and other material 
statutory dues, as applicable, have been regularly 
deposited with the appropriate authorities by 
the Company. Further, no undisputed amounts 
payable in respect thereof were outstanding at 
the year-end for a period of more than six months 
from the date they became payable.
	
b.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no statutory dues referred 
in sub-clause (a) which have not been deposited 
with the appropriate authorities on account of any 
dispute except for the following:
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Gross 
Amount
(` in millions)
Amount paid
under Protest 
(` in millions)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where 
dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 143 (3)
5.80 
5.60
Assessment Year 
2016-17
CIT (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 147
105.32 
18.74
Assessment Year 
2016-17
CIT (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 143 (3)
3.26 
 2.90
Assessment Year 
2017-18
CIT (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 147
3.01
 Nil
Assessment Year 
2017-18
CIT (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 143 (3)
4.47
 Nil
Assessment Year 
2018-19
CIT (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 143 (3)
6.10
6.09
Assessment Year 
2020-21
CIT (Appeals)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Assessment u/s 143 (3)
13.35
13.35
Assessment Year 
2021-22
CIT (Appeals)
viii.	 According to the information and explanations given to us and as verified by us, no transactions were surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) which have not been 
recorded in the books of accounts.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
132
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
ix.	
a.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has not defaulted in 
repayment of its loans or borrowings or in the 
payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
b.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us including representation received 
from the management of the Company, and on 
the basis of our audit procedures, we report that 
the Company has not been declared a willful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
other lender.
	
c.	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, money raised by way 
of term loans were applied for the purposes for 
which these were obtained, though idle/surplus 
funds which were not required for immediate 
utilisation have been invested in readily realisable 
liquid investments.
	
d.	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, funds raised by the Company on short 
term basis have not been utilised for long term 
purposes.
	
e.	
The Company did not have any associate or joint 
venture during the year. Further, according to the 
information and explanations given to us and on 
an overall examination of the financial statements 
of the Company, the Company has not taken any 
funds from any entity or person on account of or 
to meet the obligations of its subsidiary.
	
f.	
The Company did not have any associate or joint 
venture during the year. Further, according to the 
information and explanations given to us and as 
verified by us, the Company has not raised any 
loans during the year on the pledge of securities 
held in its subsidiary.
x.	
a.	
The Company has not raised any money by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments), during the year. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
	
b.	
During the year, the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or fully or partially or optionally convertible 
debentures. Accordingly, Clause 3(x)(b) of the 
order is not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
a.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, no fraud by the Company or on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during 
the period covered by our audit except for an 
instance of fraud on the Company by its customers 
amounting to Rs 11.18 million as included in Note 
49 to the accompanying standalone financial 
statements. The Company has initiated necessary 
action against the customers connected to such 
instance.
	
b.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and as verified by us, no report under 
section 143(12) of the Act has been filed with the 
Central Government for the period covered by 
our audit.
	
c.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us including the representation made 
to us by the management of the Company, there 
are no whistle-blower complaints received by the 
Company during the year.
xii.	
The Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi 
Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, all transactions entered 
into by the Company with the related parties are 
in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the 
Act, where applicable. Further, the details of such 
related party transactions have been disclosed in the 
standalone financial statements, as required under 
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related Party 
Disclosures specified in Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules 2015 as prescribed under section 133 
of the Act.
xiv.	 a.	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has 
an internal audit system as required under section 
138 of the Act which is commensurate with the 
size and nature of its business.
	
b.	
We have considered the reports issued by the 
Internal Auditors till 31 December 2022. We were 
unable to obtain the Internal auditors report for 
the quarter ended 31 March 2023 on timely basis, 
hence we were unable to consider that in our 
audit.
xv.	
According to the information and explanation given 
to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with them and accordingly, provisions of section 192 of 
the Act are not applicable to the Company.
Annual Report 2022-23
133
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
xvi.	 a.	
The Company is required to be registered under 
section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934 and such registration has been obtained by 
the Company.
	
b.	
During the year, the Company has not conducted 
any Non-Banking Financial activities without a 
valid Certificate of Registration (CoR) from the 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as per the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934. Further, Company has not 
conducted any Housing Finance activities and is 
not required to obtain CoR for such activities from 
the RBI.
	
c.	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company is not a Core Investment 
Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by the RBI. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
	
d.	
Based on the information and explanations given 
to us and as represented by the management 
of the Company, the Group (as defined in Core 
Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016) has no CICs which are registered with the 
Reserve Bank of India.
xvii.	 The Company has not incurred any cash loss in the 
current as well as the immediately preceding financial 
year.
xviii.	 There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing 
and expected dates of realisation of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the standalone financial statements, our 
knowledge of the plans of the Board of Directors and 
management, we are of the opinion that no material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that 
Company is capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet 
date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as 
to the future viability of the company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date 
of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get 
discharged by the company as and when they fall due.
xx.	
Company has fully spent the required amount towards 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and there is no 
unspent CSR amount for the year requiring a transfer 
to a Fund specified in Schedule VII to the Companies 
Act or special account in compliance with the provision 
of sub-section (6) of section 135 of the said Act. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause (xx) of the Order is 
not applicable for the year.
xxi.	 The reporting under clause (xxi) is not applicable in 
respect of audit of standalone financial statements 
of the Company. Accordingly, no comment has been 
included in respect of said clause under this report.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 107122W/W100672
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Partner
Membership No. 114049
UDIN: 23114049BGXMMF3807
Mumbai
22 May 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
134
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal 
financial controls with reference to the standalone 
financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 
of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
(Referred to in paragraph 17 (f) under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of 
our report of even date)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements of Capri Global Capital Limited (‘the 
Company’) as at and for the year ended 31 March 2023, 
we have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements of the 
Company as at that date.
Board of Director’s Responsibilities for Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial 
Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of the Company’s business, 
including adherence to the Company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records, and the timely preparation of 
reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing issued by the ICAI prescribed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements, and the Guidance 
Note issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements were established and maintained 
and if such controls operated effectively in all material 
respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements includes obtaining 
an understanding of such internal financial controls, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements include those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
Annexure II to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to 
the members of Capri Global Capital Limited on the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
135
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company's assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements and such 
controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, 
based on the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 107122W/W100672
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Partner
Membership No. 114049
UDIN: 23114049BGXMMF3807
Mumbai
22 May 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
136
Capri Global Capital Limited
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET
as at March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Particulars
Note No.
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
ASSETS
(1)
Financial assets
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
3
 14,447.89 
 910.86 
(b)
Bank Balances other than cash and cash equivalents
4
 134.25 
 16.12 
(c)
Bank Balances other than cash and cash equivalents
4
-
-
(d)
Receivables
5
 321.43 
 81.64 
(e)
Loans
6
 69,292.22 
 45,770.88 
(f)
Investments
7
 3,599.45 
 6,441.71 
(g)
Other financial assets
8
 705.32 
 217.01 
Total Financial Assets
 88,500.56 
 53,438.22 
(2)
Non-Financial assets
(a)
Current Tax Assets (Net)
9
 189.75 
 90.94 
(b)
Deferred tax assets (Net)
10
 365.10 
 293.17 
(c)
Property, plant and equipment
11
 2,657.68 
 253.42 
(d)
Capital work-in-progress
 25.22 
 - 
(e)
Intangible Assets Under Development
 73.71 
 12.39 
(f)
Other intangible assets
 53.86 
 20.33 
(g)
Other non-financial assets
12
 1,058.33 
 331.59 
Total Non-Financial Assets
 4,423.65 
 1,001.84 
Total Assets
 92,924.21 
 54,440.06 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
LIABILITIES
(1)
Financial Liabilities
(a)
Derivative financial instruments
15A
 58.05 
 8.63 
(b)
Payables
13
(A)	
Trade Payables
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 6.16 
 0.99 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 839.31 
 271.21 
(B)	
Other Payables
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 - 
 - 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 105.92 
 62.04 
(c)
Debt Securities
14
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
(d)
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
15B
 49,497.74 
 29,182.81 
(e)
Other Financial Liabilities
16
 4,031.26 
 2,222.26 
Total Financial Liabilities
 58,924.58 
 36,308.82 
(2)
Non-Financial Liabilities
(a)
Current tax liabilities (Net)
17
 5.80 
 24.85 
(b)
Provisions
18
 176.86 
 135.53 
(c)
Other non-financial liabilities
19
 111.85 
 76.33 
Total Non-Financial Liabilities
 294.51 
 236.71 
Total Liabilities
 59,219.09 
 36,545.53 
(3)
EQUITY
(a)
Equity Share Capital
20
 412.31 
 351.31 
(b)
Other equity
21
 33,292.81 
 17,543.22 
Total Equity
 33,705.12 
 17,894.53 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 92,924.21 
 54,440.06 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
137
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Particulars
Note No.
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Revenue from Operations
(i)
Interest Income
22
 8,892.41 
 6,471.07 
(ii)
Dividend Income
 - 
 1.23 
(iii)
Fees and commission Income
23
 1,494.87 
 489.35 
(iv)
Net Gain on Derecognition of Financial Instruments
24
 512.48 
 170.01 
(v)
Net gain on fair value changes
25
 103.98 
 194.12 
(vi)
Sale of Service
 145.11 
 137.06 
(vii)
Other operating income
26
 290.87 
 172.23 
(I)
Total Revenue from Operations
 11,439.71 
 7,635.07 
(II)
Other Income
27
 50.22 
 20.44 
(III)
Total Income (I+II)
 11,489.93 
 7,655.51 
Expenses
(i)
Finance costs
28
 3,831.38 
 2,354.85 
(ii)
Fees and commission Expense
 257.76 
 190.79 
(iii)
Impairment on financial instruments
29
 477.33 
 797.23 
(iv)
Employee benefit expenses
30
 3,550.25 
 1,514.48 
(v)
Depreciation and amortisation expense
11
 389.67 
 73.14 
(vi)
Other expenses
31
 1,084.70 
 555.77 
(IV)
Total expenses
 9,591.09 
 5,486.26 
(V)
Profit before Tax (III-IV)
 1,898.85 
 2,169.25 
Tax expense
-	
Current tax
34
 475.87 
 624.71 
-	
Deferred tax
35
 4.40 
 (80.10)
-	
Tax Pertaining to earlier years
 3.21 
 5.80 
(VI)
Total tax expense
 483.48 
 550.41 
(VII)
Net Profit After Tax
 1,415.37 
 1,618.84 
(VIII)
Other comprehensive income
32
(A)	
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans
 (6.49)
 0.01 
	
Income Tax impact on above
 1.63 
 (0.00)
Total (A)
 (4.86)
 0.01 
(B)	
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
	
Fair Value Gain on time value of forward element of 
forward contract in hedging relationship
 (19.80)
 (4.30)
	
Income Tax impact on above
 4.98 
 1.08 
Total (B)
 (14.82)
 (3.22)
Other Comprehensive Income (A) + (B)
 (19.68)
 (3.21)
(IX)
Total comprehensive income (VII+VIII)
 1,395.69 
 1,615.63 
(X)
Earnings per equity share (of ` 2 Each)
Basic (`)
 7.65 
 8.82 
Diluted (`)
 7.56 
 8.72 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
138
Capri Global Capital Limited
STANDALONE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Cash Flow From Operating activities
Profit before tax from continuing operations
 1,898.85
 2,169.25
Adjustments for:
Depreciation & amortisation
 389.67
 73.14
Impairment on financial instruments
 477.32
 797.23
Net Gain on Fair Valuation of Financial Instruments
 (103.98)
 (194.12)
Net Gain on Derecognition of Financial Instruments
 (512.48)
 (170.01)
Loss/(Gain) on sale of Fixed Assets
 0.81
 0.39
Write off - Fixed Assets
 0.56
 -
Gain on early termination of Lease
 (6.26)
 (1.75)
Gain on sale of Investment Property
 -
 (0.14)
Gain on sale of Investments
 -
 (0.28)
Share Based Payments to employees
 141.75
 50.10
Dividend income
 -
 (1.23)
Interest on Lease liability
 134.36
 19.88
Interest income
 (8,892.41)
 (6,471.07)
Finance cost
 3,697.02
 2,354.85
Interest received
 8,833.83
 6,412.66
Interest Paid
 (3,872.61)
 (2,467.30)
Dividend received
 -
 1.23
Operating Profit before working capital changes
 2,186.44
 2,572.82
Working capital changes
(Increase)/Decrease in
Loans
 (23,933.02)
 (10,775.12)
Trade receivables & Other Financial Assets
 (220.42)
 (59.69)
Other Non-financial Assets
 (726.73)
 (151.75)
Increase/(Decrease) in
Trade payables
 600.76
 232.31
Other financial liability
 234.83
 233.34
Other Non-financial liability
 35.89
 55.06
Provision
 47.95
 (16.35)
Cash used in Operations
 (21,774.30)
 (7,909.38)
Income tax paid
 (666.65)
 (730.27)
Net cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
 (22,440.95)
 (8,639.65)
Cash Flow From Investing activities
Increase/(decrease) in Fixed deposits not considered as cash and cash equivalent
 (117.32)
 84.12
Purchase of fixed and intangible assets
 (1,117.95)
 (74.04)
Intangible Assets Under Development
 (61.32)
 (11.70)
Capital work-in-progress
 (25.22)
 -
Proceeds from sale of property plant and equipment
 3.55
 3.91
Sale/(Purchase) of investment in Mutual Funds (net)
 2,095.87
 (518.26)
Proceeds from Sale of investment
 969.30
 3,050.60
Purchase of investment
 (116.83)
 (1,757.04)
Dividend received
 -
 -
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 1,630.08
 777.59
Annual Report 2022-23
139
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
STANDALONE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Cash Flow From Financing activities
Debt securities Redeemed (Net)
 (176.79)
 (2,166.67)
Proceed from Borrowings other than debt securities
 28,212.82
 13,200.00
Repayment of Borrowings other than debt securities Repaid
 (7,693.48)
 (4,361.15)
Other short term loan (net)
 -
 654.26
Payments for the principal portion of the lease liability
 (128.53)
 (23.27)
Payments for the interest portion of the lease liability
 (134.36)
 (19.88)
Dividends paid
 (79.83)
 (70.14)
Proceed from issue of equity Shares
 14,347.87
 21.60
Net cash flows from financing activities
 34,347.70
 7,234.76
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 13,536.83
 (627.29)
Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of the year
 911.07
 1,538.15
Cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year
 14,447.89
 910.86
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand
 160.33
 11.40
Balances with banks
	
In current accounts
 3,017.80
 893.21
	
Cheques on hand
 17.60
 6.25
	
Fixed deposits with original maturity of 3 Months or less
 11,252.16
 -
Total cash and cash equivalents
 14,447.89
 910.86
1.	
Cash flows arising on account of taxes on income are not specifically bifurcated with respect to investing & financing 
activities.
2. 	
Figures in brackets represent outflows.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
140
Capri Global Capital Limited
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended March 31, 2023
A.   EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(1)	 Current year
(` in millions)
Balance as at  
April 01, 2022
Changes in equity 
share capital due to 
prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 01, 2022
Changes in equity 
share capital during the 
current year
Balance as at March 
31, 2023
 351.31 
 -   
 351.31 
 61.00 
 412.31 
(2)	 Previous year
(` in millions)
Balance as at 
April 01, 2021
Changes in equity 
share capital due to 
prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 01, 2021
Changes in equity 
share capital during the 
current year
Balance as at March 
31, 2022
 350.57 
 -   
 350.57 
 0.74 
 351.31 
B. OTHER EQUITY
(` in millions)
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
Employee 
Share Option 
Outstanding
Statutory 
Reserve 
pursuant to 
Section 45-
IC of the RBI 
Act, 1934
Remeasurement 
of defined 
benefit plans
Fair Value Gain 
on time value of 
forward element 
of forward 
contract 
in hedging 
relationship
Total
Balance as at  
April 1, 2021
 642.05 
 4,491.79 
 8,292.52 
 78.77 
 2,407.96 
 8.99 
 - 
 15,922.08 
Changes in accounting 
policy/prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2021
 642.05 
 4,491.79 
 8,292.52 
 78.77 
 2,407.96 
 8.99 
 - 15,922.08 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 1,618.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,618.84 
Other Comprehensive 
income / (losses)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 (3.22)
 (3.22)
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 (70.14)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (70.14)
Transfer from retained 
earnings
 - 
 - 
 (323.77)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (323.77)
Addition during the Year
 - 
 49.34 
 - 
 26.31 
 323.77 
 - 
 - 
 399.42 
Balance as at  
March 31, 2022
 642.05 
 4,541.13 
 9,517.45 
 105.08 
 2,731.73 
 9.00 
 (3.22)
17,543.22 
Changes in accounting 
policy/prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
141
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive Income
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
Employee 
Share Option 
Outstanding
Statutory 
Reserve 
pursuant to 
Section 45-
IC of the RBI 
Act, 1934
Remeasurement 
of defined 
benefit plans
Fair Value Gain 
on time value of 
forward element 
of forward 
contract 
in hedging 
relationship
Total
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2022
 642.05 
 4,541.13 
 9,517.45 
 105.08 
 2,731.73 
 9.00 
 (3.22)
17,543.22 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 1,415.37 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,415.37 
Other Comprehensive 
income /(losses)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4.86)
 (14.82)
 (19.68)
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 (87.87)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (87.87)
Transfer from retained 
earnings
 - 
 - 
 (283.07)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (283.07)
On account of ESOP 
exercised
 - 
 25.34 
 - 
87.88
 283.07 
 - 
 - 
 456.79 
Securities premium 
proceeds received on 
rights issue of equity 
shares
 - 
 14,268.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,268.06 
Balance as at  
March 31, 2023
 642.05  18,834.53  10,561.87 
 253.45 
 3,014.80 
 4.14 
 (18.04)  33,292.81 
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
142
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
1.	
Corporate Information
Capri Global Capital Limited (the Company) having 
principal place of business at Registered office, 502, 
Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, Senapati Bapat 
Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400013 is engaged 
in the business of providing loans to Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), providing long 
term finance for construction of residential houses 
in India, Indirect Lending, Gold Loan in India and in 
providing ancillary services related to the said business 
activities. The Company is NBFC – Investment and 
Credit Company (NBFC-ICC), holding a Certificate of 
Registration No. B-13.01882 from the Reserve Bank 
of India (“RBI”) dated November 05, 2007, having 
CIN: L65921MH1994PLC173469.
The standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2023 were authorised for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the board of directors on 
May 22, 2023.
2.	
Significant accounting policies
2.1	 Statement of compliance and basis of preparation 
and presentation
The Standalone financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from 
time to time and notified under section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) along with other relevant 
provisions of the Act, Master Direction - Non-Banking 
Financial Company – Non-Systemically Important Non-
Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016 as amended (‘the RBI Master Directions’) and 
notification for Implementation of Indian Accounting 
Standard vide circular RBI/2019-20/170 DOR(NBFC).
CC.PD.No.109/22.10.106/2019-20 dated 13 March 2020 
(‘RBI Notification for Implementation of Ind AS’) issued 
by RBI. The Company uses accrual basis of accounting 
except in case of significant uncertainties [Refer note 
2.3 (i),(iii),(iv),(v)]. Accounting policies have been 
consistently applied to all periods presented unless 
otherwise stated.
Any application of guidance / clarification / directions 
issued by RBI or other regulations are implemented 
prospectively when they become applicable.
The standalone financial Statement has been prepared 
in accordance with and comply in all material aspects 
with Indian Accounting Standards ('Ind AS') notified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 ('the 
Act') read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from time to time 
and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India on the historical cost basis except for certain 
financial instruments that are measured at fair values at 
the end of each reporting period as explained in the 
accounting policies below and the relevant provisions 
of the Act.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly-issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted or a revision to an existing accounting 
standard requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use.
The preparation of Standalone financial statements 
requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses 
and the disclosed amount of contingent liabilities. 
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or 
complexity, or areas where assumptions are significant 
to the Company are discussed in Note 2.13 Significant 
accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The Standalone financial statements are presented in 
Indian Rupees (`) and all values are rounded to two 
decimal Millions, except when otherwise indicated.
2.2. Presentation of financial statement
The Company presents its balance sheet in the order 
of liquidity.
The Company prepares and present its Standalone 
Financial Statements in the format prescribed by 
Division III of Schedule III to the Act as amended from 
time to time.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally 
reported on a gross basis except when, there is an 
unconditional legally enforceable right to offset the 
recognised amounts without being contingent on a 
future event and the parties intend to settle on a net 
basis in the following circumstances:
i. 	
The normal course of business
ii. 	
The event of default
iii. 	
The event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the 
Company and/or its counterparties
2.3	 Revenue from operations
	
(i)	
Interest Income
	
Interest income is recognised by applying EIR 
to the gross carrying amount of financial assets 
other than credit-impaired assets and financial 
assets classified as measured at FVTPL, taking 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
143
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
into account the amount outstanding and the 
applicable interest rate. In case of credit-impaired 
financial assets (as set out in note no. 2.6 (viii) 
regarded as ‘Stage 3’), the Company recognises 
interest income on the amortised cost net of 
impairment loss of the financial asset. If the 
financial asset is no longer credit impaired, the 
Group reverts to calculating interest income on a 
gross basis.
	
The EIR is computed
	
a.	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments or receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to the 
gross carrying amount of a financial asset
	
b.	
By considering all the contractual terms 
of the financial instrument (for example, 
prepayment, extension, call and similar 
options) in estimating the cash flows
	
c.	
Including all fees paid or received between 
parties to the contract that are an integral 
part of the effective interest rate, transaction 
costs, and all other premiums or discounts.
	
	
Loan processing fees on loans is collected 
towards processing of loan, this is amortised 
on EIR basis over the average life (after 
considering the pre payment adjustment) 
of the loan for MSME, contractual tenure for 
construction finance and Indirect loans and 
average life for Gold loan.
	
(ii)	 Dividend Income
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive the payment is established.
	
(iii) 	 Fees & Commission Income
	
The Company recognises the fee and commission 
income not integral to EIR under Ind AS 109 
in accordance with the terms of the relevant 
customer contracts / agreement and when it 
is probable that the Company will collect the 
consideration for items.
	
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance 
obligation is measured at the amount of 
transaction price (net of variable consideration) 
allocated to that performance obligation. The 
transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable consideration on 
account of various discounts and schemes offered 
by the Company as part of the contract.
	
The Company recognises revenue from contracts 
with customers based on a five-step model as set 
out in Ind AS 115:
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer: A 
contract is defined as an agreement between two 
or more parties that creates enforceable rights 
and obligations and sets out the criteria for every 
contract that must be met.
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in the 
contract: A performance obligation is a promise 
in a contract with a customer to transfer a good or 
service to the customer.
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price: The 
transaction price is the amount of consideration 
to which the Company expects to be entitled 
in exchange for transferring promised goods 
or services to a customer, excluding amounts 
collected on behalf of third parties.
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract: For a 
contract that has more than one performance 
obligation, the Company allocates the transaction 
price to each performance obligation in an amount 
that depicts the amount of consideration to which 
the Company expects to be entitled in exchange 
for satisfying each performance obligation.
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the 
Company satisfies a performance obligation. Fees 
for sale of services are accounted as and when the 
service is rendered, provided there is reasonable 
certainty of its ultimate realisation.
	
Bounce/ penal charges levied on customers for 
non payment/delay payment of instalment on 
the contractual date & Foreclosure charges are 
collected from loan customers for early payment / 
closure of loan, are recognised on a point in time 
basis and are recorded when realised.
	
Distribution income is earned by selling of 
services and products of other entities under 
distribution arrangements. The income so earned 
is recognised on successful distribution on 
behalf of other entities subject to there being no 
significant uncertainty of its recovery
	
(iv)	 Sale of service
	
Sale of services includes advertising income, 
representing income earned from the activities 
incidental to the business and is recognised 
when the service is performed. Revenue is net 
of applicable indirect taxes as per the terms 
of the contract.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
144
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
	
(v)	 Net gain on Fair value changes
	
Any differences between the fair values of 
financial assets classified as FVTPL held by the 
Company on the balance sheet date is recognised 
as an unrealised gain / loss. In cases there is a net 
gain in the aggregate, the same is recognised 
in “Net gains on fair value changes” under 
Revenue from operations and if there is a net loss 
the same is disclosed as “Net loss on fair value 
changes” under Expenses in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on sale of 
financial instruments measured at FVTPL and debt 
instruments measured at FVOCI is recognised in 
net gain / loss on fair value changes.
	
However, Net gain / loss on derecognition of 
financial instruments classified as amortised cost 
is presented separately under the respective head 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
(vi)	 Assignment transactions
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
assignment transactions with significant transfer 
of risks and rewards without any retention of 
residual interest, gain arising on such assignment 
transactions is recorded upfront in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss and the corresponding 
asset is derecognized from the Balance Sheet 
immediately upon execution of such transaction. 
Further, the transfer of financial assets qualifies 
for derecognition to the extent of portion 
trasnsferred, the whole of the interest spread at 
its present value (discounted over the life of the 
asset) is recognized on the date of derecognition 
itself as interest only strip receivable (interest strip 
on assignment) and correspondingly recognized 
as profit on derecognition of financial asset.
	
(vii)	 Securitization transactions
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
securitization transactions, the Company retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the Company 
continues to recognize the financial asset and 
also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the 
proceeds received.
2.4	 Expenses
	
(i)	
Finance costs
	
Finance costs on borrowings is paid towards 
availing of loan, is amortised on EIR basis over the 
contractual life of loan.
	
The EIR in case of a financial liability is computed
	
a.	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability to the gross 
carrying amount of the amortised cost of a 
financial liability.
	
b.	
By considering all the contractual terms of 
the financial instrument in estimating the 
cash flows
	
c.	
Including all fees paid between parties to 
the contract that are an integral part of the 
effective interest rate, transaction costs, and 
all other premiums or discounts
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of the 
future cash flows is recognised in interest expense 
with the corresponding adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the liability.
	
Interest expense includes issue costs that are 
initially recognized as part of the carrying value 
of the financial liability and amortized over the 
expected life using the effective interest method. 
These include fees and commissions payable to 
advisers and other expenses such as external 
legal costs, Rating Fee etc, provided these are 
incremental costs that are directly related to the 
issue of a financial liability.
	
(ii)	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Short term employee benefit
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve 
months of rendering the service are classified as 
short-term employee benefits. These benefits 
include short term compensated absences such 
as paid annual leave. The undiscounted amount 
of short-term employee benefits expected to be 
paid in exchange for the services rendered by 
employees is recognised as an expense during 
the period. Benefits such as salaries and wages, 
etc. and the expected cost of the bonus/ex-
gratia are recognised in the period in which the 
employee renders the related service.
	
	
Post-employment employee benefits
	
a)	
Defined contribution schemes
	
	
All the eligible employees of the Company 
who have opted to receive benefits under 
the Provident Fund and Employees State 
Insurance scheme, defined contribution 
plans in which both the employee and the 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
145
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Company contribute monthly at a stipulated 
rate. The Company has no liability for future 
benefits other than its annual contribution 
and recognises such contributions as an 
expense in the period in which employee 
renders the related service. If the contribution 
payable to the scheme for service received 
before the Balance Sheet date exceeds 
the contribution already paid, the deficit 
payable to the scheme is recognised as a 
liability after deducting the contribution 
already paid. If the contribution already paid 
exceeds the contribution due for services 
received before the Balance Sheet date, 
then excess is recognised as an asset to the 
extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for 
example, a reduction in future payment or a 
cash refund.
	
b)	
Defined Benefit schemes
	
	
The Company provides for the gratuity, a 
defined benefit retirement plan covering 
all employees. The plan provides for lump 
sum payments to employees upon death 
while in employment or on separation from 
employment after serving for the stipulated 
years mentioned under ‘The Payment of 
Gratuity Act, 1972’. The present value of 
the obligation under such defined benefit 
plan is determined based on actuarial 
valuation, carried out by an independent 
actuary at each Balance Sheet date, using 
the Projected Unit Credit Method, which 
recognizes each period of service as giving 
rise to an additional unit of employee 
benefit entitlement and measures each unit 
separately to build up the final obligation.
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present 
value of the estimated future cash flows. 
The discount rates used for determining 
the present value of the obligation under 
defined benefit plan are based on the 
market yields on Government Securities as 
at the Balance Sheet date.
	
	
Net interest recognized in proﬁt or loss is 
calculated by applying the discount rate used 
to measure the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to 
the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability or asset. The 
actual return on the plan assets above or 
below the discount rate is recognized as part 
of re-measurement of net deﬁned liability 
or asset through other comprehensive 
income. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ 
from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the 
discount rate, attrition rate, future salary 
increases and mortality rates. Due to the 
complexities involved in the valuation and its 
long-term nature, these liabilities are highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. 
All assumptions are reviewed at each 
reporting date.
	
	
The Company fully contributes all ascertained 
liabilities to The Trustees – CGCL Employees 
Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme (Formerly 
known as Money Matters Financial Services 
Limited Employee Group Gratuity Assurance 
Scheme)”. Trustees administer contributions 
made to the trust and contributions are 
invested in a scheme of insurance with the 
IRDA approved Insurance Companies.
	
	
Re-measurement, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses and the return on plan 
assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability), 
are recognized immediately in the balance 
sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to 
retained earnings through OCI in the period 
in which they occur. Re-measurements 
are not reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss in 
subsequent periods.
	
(iii)	 Leases Rent
	
The 
Company 
leases 
most 
of 
its 
office 
facilities under operating lease agreements 
that are renewable on a periodic basis at the 
option of the lessor and the lessee. The lease 
agreements contain rent free periods and rent 
escalation clauses.
	
The Company assesses whether a contract contains 
a lease at the inception of the contract. A contract 
is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified asset for 
a period of time in exchange for consideration. 
To assess whether a contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset, the company 
assesses whether: (i) the contract involves the 
use of an identified asset, (ii) the company has 
substantially all of the economic benefits from the 
use of the asset through the period of the lease, 
and (iii) the company has the right to direct the 
use of the asset.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
146
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, 
the Company recognizes a ROU asset and 
a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements under which it is a lessee, except 
for short-term leases and low value leases. ROU 
assets represent the Company’s right to use an 
underlying asset for the lease term and lease 
liabilities represent the Company’s obligation 
to make lease payments arising from the lease. 
For short-term leases and low value leases, the 
Company recognizes the lease payments as an 
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the lease.
	
The lease arrangements include options to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease 
term. ROU assets and lease liabilities include 
these options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
	
The ROU assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at 
or prior to the commencement date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. 
They are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
	
ROU assets are depreciated from the date of 
commencement of the lease on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at 
amortized cost at the present value of the future 
lease payments. For leases under which the rate 
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable, 
the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate 
based on the information available at the date of 
commencement of the lease in determining the 
present value of lease payments. Lease liabilities 
are remeasured with a corresponding adjustment 
to the related ROU asset if the Company changes 
its assessment as to whether it will exercise an 
extension or a termination option.
	
At initial recognition the carrying value of the 
refundable deposits is taken at present value of all 
expected future principal repayments discounted 
using market rates prevailing at the time of 
inception For Interest expenses, the difference 
between present market value and deposit made 
is recognised as prepayment and amortised in 
the Statement of Profit and loss over the benefit 
period on systematic basis. Interest income is 
recognised at the prevailing market rates.
	
(iv)	 Other income and expenses
	
All Other income and expense are recognized in 
the period they occur.
	
(v)	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The carrying amount of assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/external factors. 
An impairment loss is recognized wherever the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of 
the assets, net selling price and value in use. In 
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
ﬂows are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and risks 
specific to the asset.
	
In determining net selling price, recent market 
transactions are taken into account, if available. 
If no such transactions can be identiﬁed, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. After 
impairment, depreciation is provided on the 
revised carrying amount of the asset over its 
remaining useful life.
	
(vi)	 Taxes
	
	
Income Tax
	
Income tax expense comprises current and 
deferred taxes. Income tax expense is recognized 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss, other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity when 
they relate to items that are recognized in the 
respective line items.
	
	
Current Tax
	
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable 
or receivable on the taxable income or loss for 
the year and any adjustment to the tax payable 
or receivable in respect of previous years. The 
amount of current tax reflects the best estimate of 
the tax amount expected to be paid or received 
after considering the uncertainty, if any, related to 
income taxes. It is measured using tax rates (and 
tax law) enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts. Deferred income tax is determined 
using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the reporting date 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
147
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.
	
Deferred tax assets are only recognised for 
temporary differences, unused tax losses and 
unused tax credits if it is probable that future 
taxable amounts will arise to utilise those 
temporary differences and losses. Deferred tax 
assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that the related tax benefit will be realised.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets and liabilities and they relate to income 
taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same 
taxable entity.
	
Goods and services tax /service tax/value 
added taxes paid on acquisition of assets or on 
incurring expenses
	
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the 
goods and services tax/service tax/value added 
taxes paid, except:
	
i.	
When the tax incurred on a purchase of 
assets or services is not recoverable from 
the taxation authority, in which case, the 
tax paid is recognised as part of the cost 
of acquisition of the asset or as part of the 
expense item, as applicable
	
ii.	
When receivables and payables are stated 
with the amount of tax included
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or 
payable to, the taxation authority is included 
as part of receivables or payables in the 
balance sheet.
2.5	 Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
Functional and presentational currency
	
The standalone financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees which is also functional 
currency of the Company and the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the 
Company operates.
	
(ii)	 Transactions and balances
	
	
Initial recognition:
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
	
	
Conversion:
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency, which are outstanding as at the 
year- end, are translated at the year-end at the 
closing exchange rate and the resultant exchange 
differences are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
Non–monetary items that are measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the spot exchange rates as at the date of 
recognition.
2.6	 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
in the company’s balance sheet on trade date, i.e. 
when the company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value. Transaction costs and revenues 
that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue 
of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair 
value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted 
from the fair value of the financial assets or financial 
liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
Transaction costs and revenues of financial assets 
or financial liabilities carried at fair value through the 
profit or loss account are recognised immediately in 
the Statement of Profit or Loss. Trade Receivables are 
measured at transaction price.
	
(i)	
Classification of financial instruments
	
The Company classifies its financial assets into the 
following measurement categories:
	
1.	
Financial assets to be measured at amortised 
cost
	
2.	
Financial assets to be measured at fair value 
through profit or loss account
	
The classification depends on the contractual 
terms of the financial assets’ cash flows and the 
Company’s business model for managing financial 
assets which are explained below:
	
	
Business model assessment
	
The Company determines its business model 
at the level that best reflects how it manages 
groups of financial assets to achieve its 
business objective.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
148
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
	
The Company’s business model is not assessed on 
an instrument-by-instrument basis, but at a higher 
level of aggregated portfolios and is based on 
observable factors such as:
•	 How the performance of the business model 
and the financial assets held within that 
business model are evaluated and reported to 
the entity’s key management personnel
• 
The risks that affect the performance of the 
business model (and the financial assets held 
within that business model) and the way those 
risks are managed
•	 How 
managers 
of 
the 
business 
are 
compensated (for example, whether the 
compensation is based on the fair value of the 
assets managed or on the contractual cash 
flows collected)
• 
The expected frequency, value and timing 
of sales are also important aspects of the 
Company’s assessment. The business model 
assessment is based on reasonably expected 
scenarios without taking ‘worst case’ or ‘stress 
case’ scenarios into account. If cash flows 
after initial recognition are realised in a way 
that is different from the Company’s original 
expectations, the Company does not change 
the classification of the remaining financial 
assets held in that business model, but 
incorporates such information when assessing 
newly originated or newly purchased financial 
assets going forward.
	
	
The Solely Payments of Principal and Interest 
(SPPI) test
	
	
As a second step of its classification process 
the Company assesses the contractual terms 
of financial assets to identify whether they 
meet the SPPI test.
	
	
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is 
defined as the fair value of the financial asset 
at initial recognition and may change over 
the life of the financial asset (for example, 
if there are repayments of principal or 
amortisation of the premium/discount).
	
	
In making this assessment, the Company 
considers whether the contractual cash 
flows are consistent with a basic lending 
arrangement i.e. interest includes only 
consideration for the time value of money, 
credit risk, other basic lending risks and a 
profit margin that is consistent with a basic 
lending arrangement. Where the contractual 
terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility 
that are inconsistent with a basic lending 
arrangement, the related financial asset is 
classified and measured at fair value through 
profit or loss.
	
	
The Company classifies its financial liabilities 
at amortised costs unless it has designated 
liabilities at fair value through the profit 
and loss account or is required to measure 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
such as derivative liabilities.
	
(ii)	 Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
Debt instruments
	
These financial assets comprises of bank balances, 
receivables, investments and other financial assets. 
Debt instruments are measured at amortised cost 
where they have:
	
a)	
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows 
on specified dates, that represent solely 
payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding; and
	
b)	
are held within a business model whose 
objective is achieved by holding to collect 
contractual cash flows.
	
These debt instruments are initially recognised 
at 
fair 
value 
plus 
directly 
attributable 
transaction costs and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost.
	
(iii)	 Financial assets measured at fair value 
through 
other 
comprehensive 
income 
(FVTOCI)
	
	
Debt instruments
	
Investments in debt instruments are measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
where they have:
	
a)	
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows 
on specified dates, that represent solely 
payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding; and
	
b)	
are held within a business model whose 
objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual 
cash 
flows 
and 
selling 
financial assets.
	
These debt instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value plus directly attributable transaction 
costs and subsequently measured at fair value. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
149
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
value are included in other comprehensive 
income within a separate component of equity. 
Impairment losses or reversals, interest revenue 
and foreign exchange gains and losses are 
recognised in Profit and Loss. Upon disposal, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income is reclassified from 
equity to the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Equity instruments
	
Investment in equity instruments that are neither 
held for trading nor contingent consideration 
recognised by the Company in a business 
combination to which Ind AS 103 ‘Business 
Combination’ applies, are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income, 
where an irrevocable election has been made by 
management and when such instruments meet 
the definition of definition of Equity under Ind 
AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation. Such 
classification is determined on an instrument- by-
instrument basis. As at reporting date, there are 
no equity instruments measured at FVTOCI.
	
Amounts presented in other comprehensive 
income 
are 
not 
subsequently 
transferred 
to profit or loss.
	
Dividends on such investments are recognised in 
Profit or Loss.
	
(iv)	 Items at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)
	
Items at fair value through profit or loss comprise:
•	 Investments (including equity shares) held for 
trading;
•	 debt instruments with contractual terms that 
do not represent solely payments of principal 
and interest.
	
Financial instruments held at FVTPL are initially 
recognised at fair value, with transaction costs 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss as 
incurred. Subsequently, they are measured at fair 
value and any gains or losses are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss as they arise.
	
	
Financial instruments designated as measured 
at FVTPL
	
Upon initial recognition, financial instruments 
may be designated FVTPL. A financial asset 
may only be designated at FVTPL if doing so 
eliminates or significantly reduces measurement 
or recognition inconsistencies (i.e. eliminates an 
accounting mismatch) that would otherwise arise 
from measuring financial assets or liabilities on a 
different basis.
	
A financial liability may be designated at FVTPL if 
it eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting 
mismatch or:
•	 if a host contract contains one or more 
embedded derivatives; or
•	 if financial assets and liabilities are both 
managed, and their performance evaluated 
on a fair value basis in accordance with 
a 
documented 
risk 
management 
or 
investment strategy.
	
Where a financial liability is designated at 
FVTPL, the movement in fair value attributable 
to changes in the Company’s own credit quality 
is calculated by determining the changes in 
credit spreads above observable market interest 
rates and is presented separately in other 
comprehensive income. As at the reporting date, 
the Company has not designated any financial 
instruments as measured at fair value through 
profit or loss.	
	
(v)	 Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
After initial measurement, debt issued, and other 
borrowed funds are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any discount or premium on 
issue funds, and costs that are an integral part of 
the Effective Interest Rate (EIR).
	
(vi)	 Reclassification
	
If the business model under which the Company 
holds financial assets undergoes changes, the 
financial assets affected are reclassified. The 
classification and measurement requirements 
related to the new category apply prospectively 
from the first day of the first reporting period 
following the change in business model that result 
in reclassifying the Company’s financial assets. 
Changes in contractual cash flows are considered 
under the accounting policy on Modification and 
derecognition of financial assets described in 
subsequent paragraphs.
	
(vii)	 Recognition and Derecognition of financial 
assets and liabilities
	
	
Recognition:
	
a)	
Loans and Advances are initially recognised 
when 
the 
Financial 
Instruments 
are 
transferred to the customers.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
150
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
	
b)	
Investments are initially recognised on the 
settlement date.
	
c)	
Debt securities and borrowings are initially 
recognised when funds are received by the 
Company.
	
d)	
Other Financial assets and liabilities are 
initially recognised on the trade date, i.e., 
the date that the Company becomes a 
party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument. This includes regular way trades: 
purchases or sales of financial assets that 
require delivery of assets within the time 
frame generally established by regulation or 
convention in the market place.
	
	
	
Derecognition of financial assets due to 
substantial modification of terms and 
conditions:
	
	
The Company derecognises a financial asset, 
such as a loan to a customer, when the terms 
and conditions have been renegotiated to 
the extent that, substantially, it becomes a 
new loan, with the difference recognised as 
a derecognition gain or loss, to the extent 
that an impairment loss has not already been 
recorded. The newly recognised loans are 
classified as Stage 1 for ECL measurement 
purposes, unless the new loan is deemed 
to be Purchased or Originated as Credit 
Impaired (POCI). In case of an existing 
exposure to the borrower in the company 
the newly recognised loans are classified as 
per the staging of the existing exposure.
	
	
If the modification does not result in 
cash flows that are substantially different, 
the 
modification 
does 
not 
result 
in 
derecognition. Based on the change in cash 
flows discounted at the original EIR, the 
Company records a modification gain or 
loss, to the extent that an impairment loss 
has not already been recorded.
	
	
	
Derecognition of financial assets other 
than due to substantial modification
	
	
a)	
Financial assets:
	
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, 
a part of a financial asset or part of 
a group of similar financial assets) 
is derecognised when the rights to 
receive cash flows from the financial 
asset have expired. The Company also 
derecognises the financial asset if it has 
both transferred the financial asset and 
the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
	
	
	
The Company has transferred the 
financial asset if, the Company has 
transferred 
its 
contractual 
rights 
to 
receive 
cash 
flows 
from 
the 
financial asset.
	
	
	
A 
transfer 
only 
qualifies 
for 
derecognition if either:
	
	
	
i.	
The Company has transferred 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or
	
	
	
ii.	
The 
Company 
has 
neither 
transferred 
nor 
retained 
substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset
	
	
	
The Company considers control to be 
transferred if and only if, the transferee 
has the practical ability to sell the asset 
in its entirety to an unrelated third 
party and is able to exercise that ability 
unilaterally 
and 
without 
imposing 
additional restrictions on the transfer.
	
	
	
When 
the 
Company 
has 
neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards and has retained 
control of the asset, the asset continues 
to be recognised only to the extent of 
the Company’s continuing involvement, 
in which case, the Company also 
recognises an associated liability. The 
transferred asset and the associated 
liability are measured on a basis that 
reflects the rights and obligations that 
the Company has retained.
	
	
b)	
Financial liabilities
	
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised 
when the obligation under the liability 
is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Where an existing financial liability is 
replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or modification is treated as a 
derecognition of the original liability and 
the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference between the carrying value 
of the original financial liability and the 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
151
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
consideration paid is recognised in the 
Statement of Profit or Loss.
	
(viii)	Impairment of financial assets
	
	
Overview of the ECL principles
	
The Company records allowance for expected 
credit losses for all loans, other debt financial 
assets not held at FVTPL, in this section all referred 
to as ‘financial instruments. Equity instruments are 
not subject to impairment under Ind AS 109.
	
The ECL allowance is based on the credit losses 
expected to arise over the life of the asset (the 
lifetime expected credit loss), unless there has 
been no significant increase in credit risk since 
origination, in which case, the allowance is based 
on the 12 months’ expected credit loss.
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses 
resulting from all possible default events over 
the expected life of a financial instrument. The 
12-month ECL is the portion of Lifetime ECL that 
represent the ECLs that result from default events 
on a financial instrument that are possible within 
the 12 months after the reporting date.
	
Both Lifetime ECLs and 12-month ECLs are 
calculated on either an individual basis or a 
collective basis, depending on the nature of the 
underlying portfolio of financial instruments. The 
Company has grouped its loan portfolio into 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), 
Construction Finance Indirect Lending and Gold 
Loan.
	
The Company has established a policy to perform 
an assessment, at the end of each reporting 
period, of whether a financial instrument’s 
credit risk has increased significantly since initial 
recognition, by considering the change in the 
risk of default occurring over the remaining life 
of the financial instrument. The Company does 
the assessment of significant increase in credit 
risk at a borrower level. If a borrower has various 
facilities having different past due status, then the 
highest days past due (DPD) is considered to be 
applicable for all the facilities of that borrower.
	
Based on the above, the Company categorises 
its loans into Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 as 
described below:
	
	
Stage 1
	
All exposures where there has not been a 
significant increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition or that has low credit risk at the 
reporting date and that are not credit impaired 
upon origination are classified under this stage. 
The Company classifies all standard advances 
and advances up to 0-30 days default under this 
category. Stage 1 loans also include facilities 
where the credit risk has reduced and the loan has 
been reclassified from Stage 2.
	
	
Stage 2
	
All exposures where there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition but 
are not credit impaired are classified under this 
stage. Financial assets past due for 31 to 90 days 
are classified under this stage. Stage 2 loans also 
include facilities where the credit risk has reduced, 
and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 3.
	
	
Stage 3
	
All exposures assessed as credit impaired when 
one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that 
asset have occurred are classified in this stage. 
For exposures that have become credit impaired, 
a lifetime ECL is recognised and interest revenue 
is calculated by applying the effective interest rate 
to the amortised cost (net of provision) rather than 
the gross carrying amount. more than 90 days 
Past Due is considered as default for classifying a 
financial instrument as credit impaired.
	
Credit-impaired financial assets:
	
At each reporting date, the company assesses 
whether financial assets carried at amortised 
cost and debt financial assets carried at FVTOCI 
are credit-impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit-
impaired’ when one or more events that have a 
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash 
flows of the financial asset have occurred.
	
Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired 
includes the following observable data:
	
a)	
Significant financial difficulty of the borrower 
or issuer;
	
b)	
A breach of contract such as a default or past 
due event;
	
c)	
The restructuring of a loan or advance by the 
company on terms that the company would 
not consider otherwise;
	
d)	
It is becoming probable that the borrower 
will enter bankruptcy or other financial 
reorganisation; or
	
e)	
The disappearance of an active market for a 
security because of financial difficulties.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
152
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
	
	
The mechanics of ECL:
	
The assessment of credit risk and estimation 
of ECL are unbiased and probability weighted. 
It incorporates all information that is relevant 
including information about past events, current 
conditions and reasonable forecasts of future 
events and economic conditions at the reporting 
date. In addition, the estimation of ECL takes into 
account the time value of money. Forward looking 
economic scenarios determined with reference to 
external forecasts of economic parameters that 
have demonstrated a linkage to the performance 
of our portfolios over a period of time have been 
applied to determine impact of macro economic 
factors.
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined 
below and the key elements are, as follows:
	
Probability of Default (PD) - Probability of default 
(“PD”) is defined as the likelihood of default over 
a particular time horizon. The PD of an obligor 
is a fundamental risk parameter in credit risk 
analysis and depends on obligor specific as well 
as macroeconomic risk factors.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) - Loss Given Default 
(“LGD”) is defined as the loss rate on the 
exposure, given the borrower has defaulted. LGD 
is being calculated for all financial instruments 
under risk parameter approach by way of 
evaluation of historical data on defaults, recovery 
amounts, collateral liquidation, direct expenses, 
and opportunity cost for each default.
	
Exposure at Default (EAD) - The Exposure at 
Default is an estimate of the exposure at a future 
default date including the undrawn commitments. 
EAD is taken as the gross exposure under a 
facility upon default of an obligor. The principal 
outstanding, overdue principal, accrued interest, 
overdue interest less excess received from the 
customers is considered as EAD for the purpose 
of ECL computation.
	
	
Forward looking information
	
While estimating the expected credit losses, the 
Company reviews macro-economic developments 
occurring in the economy and market it operates 
in. On a periodic basis, the Company analyses if 
there is any relationship between key economic 
trends like GDP, unemployment rates, benchmark 
rates set by the Reserve Bank of India, inﬂation 
etc. with the estimate of PD determined by the 
Company based on its internal data/external 
data. While the internal estimates of PD rates 
by the Company may not be always reﬂective of 
such relationships, temporary overlays, if any, are 
embedded in the methodology to reﬂect such 
macro-economic trends reasonably.
	
	
Collateral repossessed
	
In its normal course of business, company 
repossess assets under SARFAESI/ arbitration 
Act, but do not transfer these assets in its book of 
accounts. The company continues to show these 
loans account as Non-Performing Assets (NPA) in 
the books, till the liquidation of the secured assets 
through public auction and realise actual payment 
against these loans.
	
(ix)	 Write-offs
	
The Company reduces the gross carrying amount 
of a financial asset when the Company has no 
reasonable expectations of recovering a financial 
asset in its entirety or a portion thereof. This is 
generally the case when the Company determines 
that the borrower does not have assets or sources 
of income that could generate sufﬁcient cash ﬂows 
to repay the amounts subjected to write-offs. Any 
subsequent recoveries against such loans are 
credited to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss.
	
(x)	 Determination of fair value
	
On initial recognition, all the financial instruments 
are measured at fair value. For subsequent 
measurement, the Company measures certain 
categories of financial instruments (as explained 
in note.) at fair value on each balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to 
sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
	
i.	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
	
ii.	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
153
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified 
based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, as 
summarised below:
	
Level 1 financial instruments - Those where the 
inputs used in the valuation are unadjusted quoted 
prices from active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities that the Company has access to at 
the measurement date. The Company considers 
markets as active only if there are sufficient trading 
activities with regards to the volume and liquidity 
of the identical assets or liabilities and when there 
are binding and exercisable price quotes available 
on the balance sheet date.
	
Level 2 financial instruments - Those where the 
inputs that are used for valuation are significant 
and are derived from directly or indirectly 
observable market data available over the entire 
period of the instrument’s life. Such inputs include 
quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities 
in active markets, quoted prices for identical 
instruments in inactive markets and observable 
inputs other than quoted prices such as interest 
rates and yield curves, implied volatilities, and 
credit spreads. In addition, adjustments may 
be required for the condition or location of the 
asset or the extent to which it relates to items 
that are comparable to the valued instrument. 
However, if such adjustments are based on 
unobservable inputs which are significant to the 
entire measurement, the Company will classify the 
instruments as Level 3.
	
Level 3 financial instruments - Those that include 
one or more unobservable input that is signiﬁcant 
to the measurement as whole.
	
The Company recognises transfers between 
levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of 
the reporting period during which the change 
has occurred.
	
	
Difference between transaction price and fair 
value at initial recognition
	
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial 
instrument at initial recognition is the transaction 
price (i.e. the fair value of the consideration given 
or received) unless the fair value of that instrument 
is evidenced by comparison with other observable 
current market transactions in the same instrument 
(i.e. without modification or repackaging) or 
based on a valuation technique whose variables 
include only data from observable markets. When 
such evidence exists, the Company recognises 
the difference between the transaction price and 
the fair value in profit or loss on initial recognition 
(i.e. on day one).
	
When the transaction price of the instrument 
differs from the fair value at origination and the 
fair value is based on a valuation technique using 
only inputs observable in market transactions, 
the Company recognises the difference between 
the transaction price and fair value in net gain 
on fair value changes. In those cases where fair 
value is based on models for which some of the 
inputs are not observable, the difference between 
the transaction price and the fair value is not 
recognised at the initial recognition stage.
	
(xi)	 Derivative Financial Instruments
	
The 
Company 
holds 
derivative 
financial 
instruments to hedge its foreign currency 
and interest rate risk exposures. Embedded 
derivatives 
are 
separated 
from 
the 
host 
contract and accounted for separately if certain 
criteria are met.
	
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at 
each balance sheet date. The resulting gain/loss 
is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
immediately unless the derivative is designated 
and is effective as a hedging instrument, in 
which event the timing of the recognition in the 
statement of profit and loss depends on the 
nature of the hedge relationship.
	
The Company designates certain derivatives as 
hedging instruments to hedge the variability 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
154
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
in cash flows associated with its floating rate 
borrowings arising from changes in interest rates 
and exchange rates. At inception of designated 
hedging relationships.
	
The Company documents the risk management 
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. 
The Company also documents the economic 
relationship between the hedged item and 
the hedging instrument, including whether the 
changes in cash flows of the hedged item and 
hedging instrument are expected to offset each 
other. "
	
	
Cash flow hedges
	
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow 
hedging instrument, the effective portion of 
changes in the fair value of the derivative is 
recognised in OCI and accumulated in the other 
equity under ‘effective portion of cash flows 
hedges’. The effective portion of changes in the 
fair value of the derivative that is recognised 
in OCI is limited to the cumulative change in 
fair value of the hedged item, determined on a 
present value basis, from inception of the hedge. 
Any ineffective portion of changes in fair value of 
the derivative is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss.
	
The Company designates only the change in fair 
value of the spot element of forward exchange 
contracts as the hedging instrument in cash 
flow hedge relationships change in fair value of 
the forward element of the forward exchange 
contracts (‘forward points’) is separately accounted 
for as cost of hedging and recognised separately 	
zwithin equity.
	
If a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting or the hedging instrument is sold, 
expires, is terminated or is exercised, then hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the 
hedged future cash flows are no longer expected 
to occur, then the amounts that have been 
accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified to profit or loss.
2.7	 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise the net amount 
of short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash (short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less) and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value. They are held for the purposes of meeting short-
term cash commitments (rather than for investment or 
other purposes).
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash 
and cash equivalents consist of cash and short- term 
deposits, as defined above.
2.8	 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are measured at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment, (if any). The total cost of assets comprises 
its purchase price, freight, duties, taxes and any other 
incidental expenses directly attributable to bringing 
the asset to the location and condition necessary for 
it to be capable of operating in the manner intended 
by the management. Changes in the expected useful 
life are accounted for by changing the amortisation 
period or methodology, as appropriate, and treated as 
changes in accounting estimates.
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of tangible 
asset are added to its gross value only if it increases 
the future benefits of the existing asset, beyond its 
previously assessed standards of performance and 
cost can be measured reliably. Other repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed off as and when 
incurred.
Property, plant and equipment not ready for the 
intended use on the date of Balance Sheet are disclosed 
as “Capital work-in-progress.
	
Depreciation
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of tangible 
asset are added to its gross value only if it increases 
the future benefits of the existing asset, beyond 
its previously assessed standards of performance 
and cost can be measured reliably. Other repairs 
and maintenance costs are expensed off as and 
when incurred.
Property plant and equipment is derecognised on 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset) is recognised in other income / 
expense in the statement of profit and loss in the year 
the asset is derecognised. The date of disposal of an 
item of property, plant and equipment is the date the 
recipient obtains control of that item in accordance with 
the requirements for determining when a performance 
obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115.
ROU assets are depreciated from the date of 
commencement of the lease on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of 
the underlying asset.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
155
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
2.9 	Intangible assets
An intangible asset is recognised only when its cost 
can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the 
expected future economic benefits that are attributable 
to it will flow to the Company.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. The cost of an intangible 
asset comprises its purchase price and any directly 
attributable expenditure on making the asset ready 
for its intended use and net of any trade discounts and 
rebates. Following initial recognition, intangible assets 
are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to 
be either finite or infinite. Intangible assets with finite 
lives are amortised over the useful economic life. The 
amortisation period and the amortisation method for 
an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed 
at least at each financial year-end.
Changes in the expected useful life, or the expected 
pattern of consumption of future economic benefits 
embodied in the asset, are accounted for by 
changing the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, which are then treated as changes 
in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense 
on intangible assets with finite lives is presented as a 
separate line item in the statement of profit and loss. 
Amortisation on assets acquired/sold during the year 
is recognised on a pro-rata basis to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss from / upto the date of acquisition/sale.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight–line 
method to write down the cost of intangible assets to 
their residual values over their estimated useful lives. 
Intangible assets comprising of software are amortised 
on a straight-line basis over a period of 3 years, unless 
it has a shorter useful life.
Gains or losses from derecognition of intangible 
assets are measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
when the asset is derecognised.
Intangible assets not ready for the intended use on 
the date of Balance Sheet are disclosed as “Intangible 
under development.
2.10	Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the enterprise has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of past events, and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, 
the enterprise determines the level of provision by 
discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate 
reflecting the current rates specific to the liability. The 
expense relating to any provision is presented in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss net of any reimbursement.
2.11	Contingent Liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be conﬁrmed 
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events beyond the control of the 
Company or a present obligation that is not recognized 
because it is not probable that an outﬂow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent 
liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is 
a liability that cannot be recognized because it cannot 
be measured reliably. The Company does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
2.12	Earning Per Share
The Company reports basic and diluted earnings per 
share in accordance with Ind AS 33 on Earnings per 
share. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net proﬁt 
or loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders 
(after deducting preference dividend and attributable 
taxes) by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year.
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net proﬁt or loss for the year attributable to 
equity shareholders and the weighted average number 
of shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for 
the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive 
potential equity shares are deemed converted as of the 
beginning of the period, unless they have been issued 
at a later date. In computing the dilutive earnings per 
share, only potential equity shares that are dilutive and 
that either reduces the earnings per share or increases 
loss per share are included.
2.13	Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity 
with the Ind AS requires the management to make 
judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and 
liabilities and the accompanying disclosure and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
156
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
reporting period. Estimates and underlying assumptions 
are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimates are revised and future periods are 
affected. Although these estimates are based on the 
management’s best knowledge of current events and 
actions, uncertainty about these assumptions and 
estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
or liabilities in future periods.
In particular, information about signiﬁcant areas of 
estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in 
applying accounting policies that have the most 
signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognized in the 
ﬁnancial statements is included in the following notes:
(i)	
Deﬁned employee beneﬁt assets and liabilities 
- Refer 2.4(ii)
(ii)	
Impairment of loans portfolio - Refer 2.6(viii)
(iii)	 Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method - Refer 
2.3(i) and 2.4(i)
(iv)	 Lease accounting - Refer 2.4(iii)
(v)	
Impairment test of non-financial assets - Refer 
2.4(v)
(vi)	 Useful life of property, plant, equipment and 
intangibles - Refer 2.8 & 2.9
(vii)	 Provision for income taxes, including amount 
expected to be paid/recovered for uncertain 
tax positions - Refer 2.4(vi)
(viii)	Recognition and Measurement of Provision 
and Contingencies - Refer 2.10 and 2.11
(ix)	 Determination of the fair value of financial 
instruments - Refer 2.6(x)
(x)	
Business Model Assessment - Refer 2.6(i)
2.14	 Recent accounting pronouncements
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) on 31st 
March 2023 through Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 has notified 
the following amendments to IND AS which are 
applicable for the annual periods beginning on or after 
1st April, 2023.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 1 – Presentation 
of financial statements – This amendment requires the 
Company to disclose its material accounting policies 
rather than their significant accounting policies.
The Company will carry out a detailed review of 
accounting policies to determine material accounting 
policy information to be disclosed going forward.
The Company does not expect this amendment to 
have any material impact in its financial statements.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 8 – Accounting 
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
– This amendment has changed the definition of a 
“change in accounting estimates” to a definition of 
“accounting estimates”. The amendment clarifies how 
companies should distinguish changes in accounting 
policies from changes in accounting estimates.
The Company does not expect this amendment to 
have any material impact in its financial statements.
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 12 – Income taxes 
– This amendment has done away with the recognition 
exemption on initial recognition of assets and liabilities 
that give rise to equal and offsetting temporary 
differences.
The Company does not expect this amendment to 
have any material impact in its financial statements.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
157
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 3. Cash and cash equivalents
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Cash on hand 
 160.33 
 11.40 
Cheques on hand 
 17.60 
 6.25 
Balances with banks: 
 -	
In Current Accounts 
 3,017.80 
 893.21 
 -	
Fixed deposits with original maturity of 3 Months or less 
 11,252.16 
 - 
 Total
 14,447.89 
 910.86 
Note 4. Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Earmarked balances with banks 
- Original Maturity more than 3 months 
 134.06 
 15.91 
- Unclaimed Dividend Account 
 0.19 
 0.21 
 Total
 134.25 
 16.12 
Out of the above ` 134.06 millions (March 2022 - ` 15.91 millions) balance in deposit accounts with banks are being earmarked 
towards overdraft facilities, bank guarantee and against customer advance.
Deposits are made for varying period from 6 month to 2 years and earn interest from 4.9% to 7.7% p.a
Note 5. Receivables
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
 Secured considered good 
-	
Outstanding for a period exceeding six months from the due date of payment 
 - 
 - 
-	
Outstanding for a period less than six months 
 332.83 
 81.64 
 Total – Gross (A) 
 332.83 
 81.64 
 Less: Provision for impairment 
 (11.40)
 - 
 Total – Net (A)
 321.43 
 81.64 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days.
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly with any other 
person. Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, 
a director or a member.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
158
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Ageing schedule 
(1)	 Current year 
(` in millions)
Particulars 
 Not Due 
 Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
(i)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 
 321.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 321.43 
(ii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of receivable is determined from the date of transaction
(2)	 Previous year
(` in millions)
Particulars 
 Not Due 
 Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
(i)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good 
 - 
 81.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 81.64 
(ii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of receivable is determined from the date of transaction.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
159
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 6. Loans and advances
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
At amortised cost
Total
At amortised cost
Total
Secured
Term Loans
 70,707.99
 70,707.99
 47,177.33
 47,177.33
Unsecured
Loan to employees
 3.04
 3.04
 0.94
 0.94
Total – Gross (A)
 70,711.03
 70,711.03
 47,178.27
 47,178.27
Less: Expected Credit Loss
 (1,418.81)
 (1,418.81)
 (1,407.39)
 (1,407.39)
Total – Net (A)
 69,292.22
 69,292.22
 45,770.88
 45,770.88
(i)	
Secured by Tangible Assets
 67,297.03
 67,297.03
 44,055.00
 44,055.00
(ii)	
Secured by Book Debts
 3,410.96
 3,410.96
 3,122.33
 3,122.33
(iii)	
Unsecured
 3.04
 3.04
 0.94
 0.94
Total – Gross (B)
 70,711.03
 70,711.03
 47,178.27
 47,178.27
Less: Expected Credit Loss
 (1,418.81)
 (1,418.81)
 (1,407.39)
 (1,407.39)
Total – Net (B)
 69,292.22
 69,292.22
 45,770.88
 45,770.88
Loans in India
(i) Public Sector
 -
 -
 -
 -
(ii) Others
 70,711.03
 70,711.03
 47,178.27
 47,178.27
Total - Gross (C)
 70,711.03
 70,711.03
 47,178.27
 47,178.27
Less: Expected Credit Loss
 (1,418.81)
 (1,418.81)
 (1,407.39)
 (1,407.39)
Total – Net (C)
 69,292.22
 69,292.22
 45,770.88
 45,770.88
Note 1 - The Company's business model is to hold contractual cash flows, being the payment of Principal and Interest till maturity 
and accordingly the loans are measured at amortised cost.
Note 2 - Underlying for the term loans secured by tangible assets are properties and Gold Jewellery
Note 3 - The Company does not have any loans outside India.
Note 7. Investments
(` in millions)
Investments
As at March 31, 2023
At Fair Value 
Through 
profit or loss
At Amortized 
Cost
Others*
Total
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)=(1)+(2)+(3)
Investments in Mutual funds
 300.98
 -
 -
 300.98
Investments in Debt Securities
- Pass Through Certificates
 -
 48.47
 -
 48.47
Investments in Subsidiaries
 -
 -
 3,250.00
 3,250.00
Total
 300.98
 48.47
 3,250.00
 3,599.45
(i)	
Investments outside India
 -
 -
 -
 -
(ii)	
Investments in India
 300.98
 48.47
 3,250.00
 3,599.45
 Total
 300.98
 48.47
 3,250.00
 3,599.45
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
160
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Investments
As at March 31, 2022
At Fair Value 
Through 
profit or loss
At Amortized 
Cost
Others*
Total
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)=(1)+(2)+(3)
Investments in Mutual funds 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 - 
 2,304.43 
Investments in Debt Securities 
- Debt Instrument 
 - 
 247.66 
 - 
 247.66 
- Pass Through Certificates 
 - 
 591.51 
 - 
 591.51 
Investments in Equity Instruments 
 48.11 
 - 
 - 
 48.11 
Investments in Subsidiaries 
 - 
 - 
 3,250.00 
 3,250.00 
Total
 2,352.54 
 839.17 
 3,250.00 
 6,441.71 
(i)	
Investments outside India 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Investments in India 
 2,352.54 
 839.17 
 3,250.00 
 6,441.71 
 Total
 2,352.54 
 839.17 
 3,250.00 
 6,441.71 
* As per para 10 of Ind AS 27, the Company has opted to account the investments in subsidiary entity at cost. 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
 Numbers/Units
 Numbers/Units
Investment in Subsidiaries
1.	
Capri Global Housing Finance Limited Equity Shares of ` 10/- each fully paid 
up
 71,203,790
 71,203,790
Investment in Equity
1.	
Equity Shares of CARE Ratings Limited of `10/- each fully paid up
 -
 94,242
Investment in Mutual Funds
1.	
ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 -
 9,290,561
2.	
DSP Liquidity Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 46,707
 -
3.	
ICICI Pru. Floating Interest Fund -Direct Growth
 452,359
 -
4.	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Savings Fund - DG
 -
 676,390
5.	
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund Regular Growth
 -
 198,269
6.	
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund Direct Growth
 -
 1,629,144
7.	
Nippon India Money Market Fund Direct Growth
 -
 185,170
8.	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Money Manager Fund - Direct Growth
 -
 669,388
9.	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Direct Growth
 -
 583,100
10.	 Nippon Indian Liquid Fund Direct Growth
 -
 38,440
Investment in Bonds
6.Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd - 11 NCD 05OCT23 FVRS10LAC
 -
 250
Investment in Pass Through Certificates
2. INDIAN RECEIVABLE TRUST 2019 SERIES 5 - SERIES A2 PTC 01MR19
 143
 1,168
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
161
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 8. Other Financial Assets
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Security Deposits
 113.37 
 25.11 
Interest Accrued but not due on Debt Instruments
 - 
 2.03 
Interest Accrued but not due on PTC
 0.29 
 3.06 
Receivable from Subsidiary Company
 1.61 
 16.75 
Spread receivable on assigned portfolio
 589.77 
 168.45 
Other Receivable
 0.28 
 1.61 
Total
 705.32 
 217.01 
Note 9. Current Tax Assets (Net)
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Advance Tax
 189.75 
 90.94 
[Net of provision for tax March 2023 ` 3,618.32 Millions (31 March 2022 ` 2,940.50 
Millions)]
Total
 189.75 
 90.94 
Note 10. Deferred Tax Assets
The major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are :
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
a)	
Depreciation
 34.63
 -
 20.27
 -
b)	
Amortised finance cost
 -
 0.29
 -
 0.65
c)	
Provisions for Loans
 371.20
 -
 297.69
 -
d)	
Provision for Employee Benefits
 23.54
 -
 12.28
 -
e)	
Others (net)
 28.46
 -
 5.01
 -
f)	
Amortised Fees Income
 1.01
 -
 2.79
 -
g)	
Unrealised gain on Financial 
Instruments at FVTPL
 -
 0.15
 -
 1.82
h)	
ECL on Interest on NPA
 55.13
 -
 -
 -
i)	
Gain on derecognition of financial 
instruments
 -
 148.43
 -
 42.40
Total
 513.97
 148.87
 338.04
 44.87
Net Deferred Tax Asset
 365.10
 293.17
Refer Note 35 for Deferred tax Movement	
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
162
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 11. Property, plant and equipment & Intangible Assets
Current Year:
Property, plant and equipment :
(` in millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2022 Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at April 
01,2022
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 
31,2022
Buildings
Buildings
 2.70
 -
 -
 2.70
 0.60
 0.10
 -
 0.70
 2.00
 2.10
Leasehold 
Premises
 22.85
 164.29
 0.43
 186.71
 17.65
 19.59
 0.35
 36.89
 149.82
 5.20
Computer 
Hardware
 92.41
 159.55
 7.19
 244.77
 56.80
 68.96
 6.75
 119.01
 125.76
 35.61
Furniture and 
Fixtures
 42.96
 366.59
 0.27
 409.28
 31.96
 39.69
 0.18
 71.47
 337.81
 11.00
Office Equipments
 23.43
 214.01
 2.19
 235.25
 19.55
 39.22
 2.06
 56.71
 178.54
 3.88
Vehicles
 56.65
 11.36
 9.57
 58.44
 39.40
 6.60
 6.80
 39.20
 19.24
 17.25
Electrical 
Installation
 9.64
 140.60
 0.22
 150.02
 7.54
 14.67
 0.19
 22.02
 128.00
 2.10
Right of Use
 284.35
 1,744.07
 46.20
 1,982.22
 108.07
 172.84
 15.19
 265.72
 1,716.50
 176.28
 Total
 534.99
 2,800.47
 66.07
 3,269.39
 281.57
 361.67
 31.52
 611.72
 2,657.68
 253.42
Note: The Company confirms that the title deeds of immpovable property are held in the name of the Capri Global Capital 
Limited.
Capital work-in-progress:
(` in millions)
Particulars
 GROSS BLOCK
 As at 
April 01,2022 
 Additions 
 Deductions 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Computer Hardware
 - 
 71.17 
 65.84 
 5.33 
Furniture & Fixtures
 - 
 207.26 
 192.20 
 15.06 
Office Equipments
 - 
 175.24 
 170.40 
 4.84 
Electrical Installation
 - 
 51.77 
 51.77 
 - 
Total
 - 
 505.44 
 480.22 
 25.22 
Intagible Assets under development:
(` in millions)
Particulars 
 GROSS BLOCK
 As at 
April 01,2022 
 Additions 
 Deductions 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Software
 12.39 
 92.29 
 30.97 
 73.71 
Total
 12.39 
 92.29 
 30.97 
 73.71 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
163
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Intangible assets :
(` in millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2022 Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at April 
01,2022
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 
31,2022
Software
 89.63 
 61.53 
 - 
 151.16 
 69.30 
 28.00 
 - 
 97.30 
 53.86 
 20.33 
Total
 89.63 
 61.53 
 - 
 151.16 
 69.30 
 28.00 
 - 
 97.30 
 53.86 
 20.33 
Previous Year
Property, plant and equipment :
(` in millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2021 Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at April 
01,2021
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 
31,2021
Buildings :
Buildings
 2.70
 -
 -
 2.70
 0.49
 0.11
 -
 0.60
 2.10
 2.21
Leasehold Premises
 22.85
 -
 -
 22.85
 15.83
 1.82
 -
 17.65
 5.20
 7.02
Computer Hardware
 65.16
 40.10
 12.85
 92.41
 51.77
 17.11
 12.08
 56.80
 35.61
 13.39
Furniture and Fixtures
 42.22
 1.45
 0.71
 42.96
 29.02
 3.51
 0.57
 31.96
 11.00
 13.20
Office Equipments
 24.32
 2.48
 3.37
 23.43
 21.12
 1.57
 3.14
 19.55
 3.88
 3.20
Vehicles
 56.72
 8.51
 8.58
 56.65
 39.49
 5.32
 5.41
 39.40
 17.25
 17.23
Electrical Installation
 9.64
 -
 -
 9.64
 6.81
 0.73
 -
 7.54
 2.10
 2.83
Right of Use
 264.10
 41.09
 20.84
 284.35
 91.26
 28.73
 11.92
 108.07
 176.28
 172.84
Total
 487.71
 93.63
 46.35
 534.99
 255.79
 58.90
 33.12
 281.57
 253.42
 231.92
Intagible Assets under development : 
(` in millions)
Particulars 
 GROSS BLOCK
 As at 
April 01, 2021 
 Additions 
 Deductions 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Software
 0.69 
 12.71 
 1.01 
 12.39 
Total
 0.69 
 12.71 
 1.01 
 12.39 
Intangible assets :
(` in millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2021
Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at April 
01,2021
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at March 
31,2021
Software
 68.13 
 21.50 
 - 
 89.63 
 55.06 
 14.24 
 - 
 69.30 
 20.33 
 13.07 
Total
 68.13 
 21.50 
 - 
 89.63 
 55.06 
 14.24 
 - 
 69.30 
 20.33 
 13.07 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
164
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 12. Other Non-Financial Assets
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Capital Advances
 178.75 
 156.95 
Less: Provision on Capital Advances
 - 
 3.71 
Net Capital Advances
 178.75 
 153.24 
Assets Held for sale
 187.94 
 42.98 
Less: Provision on Assets held for sale
 42.98 
 42.98 
Net Assets Held for Sale
 144.96 
 - 
Prepaid Expenses
 68.39 
 26.25 
Accrued Income
 419.04 
 141.29 
Advance to vendor
 226.11 
 7.07 
Other Assets
 21.08 
 3.74 
Total
 1,058.33 
 331.59 
Note 13. Payables
Trade Payables
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises*
 6.16 
 0.99 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 839.31 
 271.21 
Total
 845.47 
 272.20 
* The information as required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 has been determined to the extent 
such parties have been identified on the basis of Information available with the Company. The amount of principal and interest outstanding during the year 
is given below.
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
1) 	
Principal amount due and remaining unpaid
 6.16
 0.99
2) 	
Interest due on (1) above and the unpaid interest
 -
 -
3) 	
Interest paid on all delayed payment under the MSMED Act
 -
 -
4) 	
Payment made beyond the appointed day during the year
 -
 -
5) 	
Interest due and payable for the period of delay other than (3) above
 -
 -
6) 	
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 -
 -
7) 	
Amount of further interest remaining due and payable in succeeding years
 -
 -
Note: Trade Payable includes amount due to Related Parties as on March 31, 2023 ` Nil (As at March 2022 ` Nil)
Ageing schedule
(1)	
Current year
(` in millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
MSME
0.00 
6.14 
0.00 
0.02 
 - 
 6.16 
(ii)	
Others
824.82 
12.87 
1.15 
0.46 
0.01 
 839.31 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
165
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(2)	
Previous year
(` in millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
MSME
0.00 
0.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.99 
(ii)	
Others
267.32 
2.69 
0.08 
1.13 
 - 
 271.22 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction
Other  Payables
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Accrued Employee Benefit Expense
 105.92 
 62.04 
Total
 105.92 
 62.04 
Ageing schedule
(1)	
Current year
(` in millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
Others
 - 
104.49 
1.43 
 - 
 - 
 105.92 
Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction
(2)	
Previous year
(` in millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
Others
 - 
61.99 
0.05 
 - 
 - 
 62.04 
Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction
Note 14. Debt Securities
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
At 
Amortised Cost
Total
At 
Amortised Cost
Total
Non Convertible Debentures
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Total (A)
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Debt securities in India
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Debt securities outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total (B)
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
166
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Terms of repayment, nature of security & rate of interest in case of Non Convertible Debentures.
(` in millions)
Name of Security
Maturity date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/ 
Interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Series 4 (FV `10 Lacs)
09-08-2029
Bullet payment on 
maturity
10.23%
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
Series 8 (FV `10 Lacs)
23-07-2023
Payable in 3 equal 
annual instalments
8.80%
 166.67 
 333.33 
Series 6 (FV `10 Lacs)
05-06-2023
Bullet payment on 
maturity
9.00%
 500.00 
 500.00 
Series 5 (FV `10 Lacs)
22-05-2023
Bullet payment on 
maturity
8.80%
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Total (A)
 4,166.67 
 4,333.33 
Add: Interest accrued but 
not due (B)
 219.85 
 229.98 
Less: Unammortised 
borrowing cost (C)
 (0.38)
 (2.43)
Total (A+B-C)
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
Disclosure under regulation 53(e) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
Debenture Trustees:
Catalyst Trusteeship Limited
604, Windsor, Off CST Road,
Kalina, Santacruz East,
Mumbai - 400098.
Contact : + 91 (022) 49220555
Disclosure under regulation 53(f) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
Related party transaction - Refer Note 41
Disclosure under regulation 54(2) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
Asset Cover
The above NCD's are secured against first pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation on the immovable property, loan receivables/
book debts, bank balances and investments of the company with asset cover range of 1.25 to 1.33 times.
The company has not defaulted in the repayment of debt securities and interest thereon for the year ended March 31, 2023 and 
March 31, 2022 respectively.
Note 15A - Derivative financial instruments
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Notional 
Amounts *
Fair Value - 
 Assets
Fair Value - 
Liabilities
Notional 
Amounts *
Fair Value 
- Assets
Fair Value 
- Liabilities
Part I
(i)	
Currency Derivatives:
	
-	
Forwards
 9,563.89 
 - 
 58.05 
 4,238.82 
 - 
 8.63 
Total Derivative Financial Instruments
 9,563.89 
 - 
 58.05 
 4,238.82 
 - 
 8.63 
Part II
Included in above (Part I) are derivatives 
held for hedging and risk management 
purposes as follows:
(i)	
Cashflow Hedging:
-	
Currency Derivatives : Forwards
 9,563.89 
 - 
 58.05 
 4,238.82 
 - 
 8.63 
Total Derivative Financial Instruments
 9,563.89 
 - 
 58.05 
 4,238.82 
 - 
 8.63 
* Notional amount of the respective currency has been converted as at March 31,2023 exchange rate.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
167
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 15B. Borrowings (Other Than Debt Securities) - At Amortised Cost
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Secured
Term Loans from Banks*
 45,336.46
 23,991.32
Term Loans from others**
 3,517.78
 4,489.94
Loan Repayable on Demand
From Banks (Cash Credit)
 643.50
 701.55
From Banks (Overdraft)
 -
 -
Others
Commercial Paper- Unsecured
 -
 -
Total (A)
 49,497.74
 29,182.81
Borrowings in India
 49,497.74
 29,182.81
Borrowings outside India
 -
 -
Total (B)
 49,497.74
 29,182.81
*First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of the company’s loan receivables / book debts, bank balance and investments with asset cover in the range 
of 1.10 to 1.33 times and weighted average cost for FY 22-23 is 8.64% p.a. and for FY 21-22 is 8.44% p.a.
** Exclusive charge by way of hypothecation of Company’s loan receivables with minimum assets cover of 1.25 times in favour of borrowing from NABARD 
of ` 2800 million.
Borrowings other than above: First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of the Company’s loan receivables / book debts, 
bank balance and investments with asset cover in the range of 1.10 to 1.33 times.
Weighted average cost of borrowings for FY 22-23 is 8.32% p.a. and for FY 21-22 is 8.27% p.a.
Terms of repayment & rate of interest in case of Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
(` in millions)
Nature of Facility
Maturity Range
Interest Range
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Term Loans
0-3 yrs
8.05% - 9.90%
 17,640.55 
 5,416.05 
Term Loans
3-5 yrs
8.25% - 10.20%
 17,743.79 
 13,184.78 
Term Loans
5-7 yrs
8.25% - 9.40%
 13,756.79 
 9,999.43 
Cash Credit
NA
8.20% - 11.20%
 643.50 
 701.55 
Total (A)
 49,784.63 
 29,301.81 
Add: Interest accrued but not due (B)
 19.93 
 8.19 
Less : Unamortised borrowing cost (C)
 (306.82)
 (127.19)
Total (A+B-C)
 49,497.74 
 29,182.81 
The company has not defaulted in the repayment of borrowings (other than debt) and interest thereon for the year ended March 
31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 respectively.
The quarterly returns/statements of current assets filed by the company with the banks or financial institutions are in agreement 
with the books of accounts.
Note 16. Other Financial Liabilities 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Book Overdraft
 2,155.88
 1,893.70
Unclaimed dividend
 0.19
 0.21
Margin money received from Customers
 87.53
 95.39
Advance from Customers
 8.55
 1.55
Lease Liability
 1,770.38
 196.21
Other Financial Liabilities
 8.73
 35.20
Total
 4,031.26
 2,222.26
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
168
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 17. Current tax liabilities (Net) 	
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Provision for Tax
[net of advance tax of March 31,2023 ` 5.80 Millions (March 31,2022 ` 563.79 
Millions)] 
 5.80 
 24.85 
Total 
 5.80 
 24.85 
Note 18. Provisions 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Provision on non-fund exposure
 63.28
 76.39
Provision for Employee Benefits
- Gratuity
 20.04
 10.36
- Compensated Absences
 93.54
 48.78
Total
 176.86
 135.53
Note 19. Other non-financial liabilities
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Statutory Dues 
 100.58 
 76.33 
Other non financial liability 
 11.27 
 - 
Total
 111.85 
 76.33 
Note 20. Equity Share Capital
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Authorised
36,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ` 2 each
 720.00 
 720.00 
(Previous Year 36,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ` 2 each)
 720.00 
 720.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
20,61,52,844 Equity Shares of  ` 2 each
 412.31 
 351.31 
(Previous Year 17,56,54,055  Equity Shares of  ` 2 each)
 412.31 
 351.31 
Reconciliation of number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number
Amount
(` in millions)
Number
Amount
(` in millions)
Equity shares outstanding as at the 
beginning of the year
 17,56,54,055 
 351.31 
 17,52,85,355 
 350.57 
Issued during the year*
 3,04,98,789 
 61.00 
 3,68,700 
 0.74 
Equity shares outstanding as at the 
end of the year
 20,61,52,844 
 412.31 
 17,56,54,055 
 351.31 
*During the year, the Company has allotted 1,83,000 equity shares of ` 2/- each for consideration of ` 12.49 millions as ESOPs. In previous year, the Company 
had allotted 3,68,700 equity shares of ` 2/- each for consideration of ` 21.60 millions as ESOPs.
*During the year, the Company has allotted 3,03,15,789 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each (“Rights Equity Shares”) at a premium of ` 473/- per share 
aggregating up to ` 14,400 millions
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
169
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Details of shareholders holding more than 5 percent shares in the Company are given below:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number
%
Number
%
Capri Global Holdings Pvt. Ltd.
9,82,25,914
47.65%
 6,78,24,643
38.61%
Capri Global Advisory Services Pvt. Ltd.
 -
 -
 1,75,17,060
9.97%
Life Insurance Corporation Of India
1,99,75,981
9.69%
 1,18,00,000
6.72%
Rajesh Sharma
4,59,00,035
22.27%
 4,59,00,035
26.13%
Details of Promoters holding shares in the Company are given below:
(` in millions)
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
% change 
during the 
year
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Individuals / Hindu Undivided Family
Ramesh Chandra Sharma
 278
0.00%
 -
0.00%
0.00%
Rajesh Sharma
 1,000
0.00%
 500
0.00%
100.00%
Jahnavi Sharma
 200
0.00%
 100
0.00%
100.00%
Jinisha Sharma
 200
0.00%
 100
0.00%
100.00%
Raghav Sharma
 200
0.00%
 100
0.00%
100.00%
Promoter Trust
Rajesh Sharma
 4,59,00,035
22.27%
 4,59,00,035
26.13%
0.00%
Bodies Corporate
Capri Global Holdings Private Limited
 9,82,25,914
47.65%
 6,78,24,643
38.61%
44.82%
Capri Global Advisory Services Private Limited
 -
0.00%
 1,75,17,060
9.97%
-100.00%
Total
 14,41,27,827
69.91%
 13,12,42,538
74.72%
9.82%
Terms/Rights attached to equity shares:
1.	
The Company has only one class of equity share having a par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled 
to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees.
2. 	
In the event of liquidation of the company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the 
Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be proportion to the number of equity shares 
held by the shareholders.
Shares reservation :
In FY 2022-23 No. of 30,60,400 (FY 2021-22 No. of 30,40,800) shares of ` 2 each towards outstanding employee stock options 
granted (Refer Note 45)
Objective for managing capital:
The Company maintains an actively managed capital base to cover risks inherent in the business and is meeting the capital 
adequacy requirements of the regulator, Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The adequacy of the Company’s capital is monitored using, 
among other measures, the regulations issued by RBI.
There are no shares reserved for issue under options, contracts, commitments for the sale of shares or divestments.
There are no shares in the preceding 5 years allotted as fully paid up without payment being received in cash/bonus shares/ 
bought back.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
170
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 21. Other equity
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
 2,731.73
 2,407.96
Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 283.07
 323.77
Closing balance
 3,014.80
 2,731.73
Securities premium
Opening Balance
 4,541.13
 4,491.79
Add: On account of ESOP Exercised
 25.34
 49.34
Add: Proceed from right issue
 14,268.06
 -
Closing balance
 18,834.53
 4,541.13
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 642.05
 642.05
Closing balance
 642.05
 642.05
Other reserves & surplus - Employee stock option outstanding
Opening Balance
 105.08
 78.77
Add/Less: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss
 148.37
 26.31
Closing balance
 253.45
 105.08
Retained earnings (Surplus in profit & loss account)
Opening Balance
 9,523.23
 8,301.51
Profit for the year / period
 1,415.37
 1,618.84
Other Comprehensive Income
 (19.68)
 (3.21)
Dividend Paid
 (87.87)
 (70.14)
Transfer to Reserve Fund under Section 45 I C(1) of Reserve Bank of India Act,1934
 (283.07)
 (323.77)
Closing balance
 10,547.98
 9,523.23
TOTAL
 33,292.81
 17,543.22
Securities premium
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited purposes 
such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
General reserve
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a specified 
percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. The purpose of these transfers was to ensure that if a dividend distribution 
in a given year is more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the Company for that year, then the total dividend distribution is 
less than the total distributable results for that year. Consequent to introduction of Companies Act 2013, the requirement to 
mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn. However, the amount 
previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies 
Act, 2013.
Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934
Every non-banking financial company is required to create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty per cent 
of its net profit every year as disclosed in the statement of profit and loss before any dividend is declared.
Employee stock option outstanding reserves
This reserve is used to record the employee stock options which are outstanding. The said reserve will be utilised for issuance of 
share to the eligible employees.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
171
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Rights Issue
During the year, the Company has allotted 3,03,15,789 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each (“Rights Equity Shares”) at a 
premium of ` 473/- per share aggregating up to ` 14,400 Millions in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements), 2018, as amended, and various applicable circulars that have been issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) from time to time.
The total expenses on rights issue ` 71.31 Millions has been adjusted against securities Premium.
The object of the Issue is to augment the capital base of the Company. The net proceeds to be utilised to meet the future 
capital requirements, which are expected to arise out of growth of Company’s business and assets, including but not limited to, 
onward lending under company's four lending vertical viz; MSME loans, construction finance loans, Indirect lending and gold 
loans, ensuring compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, payment of operating expenditure and funding growth 
opportunities for the above verticals.
(` in millions)
Total shares 
issued and 
subscribed  (nos.)
Proceeds received 
from rights issue
Expenses incurred 
related to rights 
issue
Net proceeds 
available for 
utilisation
Utilised till March 
31, 2023
Balance unutilised 
balance as on 
March 31, 2023
 3,03,15,789 
 14,400.00 
 110.00 
 14,290.00 
 2,039.19 
 12,250.81 
The balance net proceeds will be utilised by financial year 2024.
Note 22. Interest Income
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year 
ended March 31, 
2023
For the year 
ended March 31, 
2022
On Financial 
Assets measured 
at Amortised Cost
On Financial 
Assets measured 
at Amortised Cost
Interest on Loans
 8,758.43 
 6,269.39 
Interest on deposits
 62.23 
 20.66 
Interest income from investments
 67.66 
 179.39 
Interest on Others
 4.09 
 1.63 
Total
 8,892.41 
 6,471.07 
Note 23. Fee and commission Income
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Application fees
 57.81 
 22.39 
Commission on loan sourcing
 1,437.06 
 466.96 
Total
 1,494.87 
 489.35 
Note 24. Net Gain on Derecognition of Financial Instruments
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments
 523.75 
 170.01 
Loss on sale of pool DA
 (11.27)
 - 
Total
 512.48 
 170.01 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
172
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 25. Net gain on fair value changes
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(A)	 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
	
(i)	
On trading portfolio
	
	
-	
Investments in Shares
 11.55 
 139.49 
	
	
-	
Mutual Fund & Bonds
 92.43 
 54.63 
(B)	 Total Net gain on fair value changes
 103.98 
 194.12 
(C)	 Fair Value changes:
	
-Realised
 103.39 
 186.90 
	
-Unrealised
 0.59 
 7.22 
Total Net gain on fair value changes
 103.98 
 194.12 
Note 26. Other Operating Income
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Foreclosure Fees
 139.64 
 80.19 
Bad Debts Recovered
 - 
 0.34 
Other charges
 151.23 
 91.70 
Total
 290.87 
 172.23 
Note 27. Other Income
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Profit on sale of Investment Property
 - 
 0.14 
Profit on sale of Investment
 - 
 0.28 
Service Fees from Subsidiary
 40.77 
 12.00 
Write Back
 1.16 
 5.88 
Other Income
 8.29 
 2.14 
Total
 50.22 
 20.44 
Note 28. Finance Costs
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
On Financial 
liabilities measured 
at Amortised Cost
On Financial 
liabilities measured 
at Amortised Cost
Interest on borrowings Other than debt Securities
 3,276.36 
 1,775.96 
Interest on Bank Overdraft
 1.94 
 - 
Interest on debt securities
 411.50 
 551.89 
Interest on Bank CC
 7.22 
 7.12 
Interest on Lease Liability
 134.36 
 19.88 
Total
 3,831.38 
 2,354.85 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
173
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 29. Impairment on financial instruments (at Amortised Cost)
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Loans and advances to customers
 2.38 
 408.19 
Loan commitments
 (13.11)
 48.75 
Others Impairment
 16.39 
 - 
Bad Debts Written Off
 471.67 
 340.29 
Total
 477.33 
 797.23 
Note 30. Employee Benefits Expenses
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Salaries and Bonus 
 3,143.14 
 1,364.44 
Contribution to Provident Fund and Other Funds
 177.84 
 71.62 
Staff Training and Welfare Expenses
 87.52 
 28.32 
Share Based Payments to employees
 141.75 
 50.10 
Total
 3,550.25 
 1,514.48 
Note 31. Other Expenses
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Advertising
 16.73
 4.54
Auditors' Remuneration
 4.44
 4.20
Business Development Expenses
 43.64
 22.92
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
 39.97
 38.67
Directors' Fees and Commission
 9.05
 6.41
Electricity Charges
 43.16
 5.57
Legal and Professional Expenses
 233.31
 157.69
Loss On Sale of Fixed Assets
 0.81
 0.39
Membership & Subscription Expenses
 3.51
 2.47
Processing Fees on Co Lending
 7.66
 0.03
Postage, Telephone and Fax
 41.56
 19.44
Printing and Stationery
 24.41
 14.00
Recruitment Expenses
 15.98
 36.12
Rent
 24.26
 20.15
Software Expenses
 121.15
 46.82
Filing & Other Fees to ROC
 0.05
 0.03
Travelling and Conveyance
 197.75
 89.00
Service fees Subsidiary
 61.10
 33.10
NOC Review Charges
 19.18
 13.52
Write off - Others
 1.03
 1.34
Write off - Fixed Assets
 0.56
 -
Miscellaneous Expenses
 175.39
 39.36
Total
 1,084.70
 555.77
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
174
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
1.	
Auditors' Remuneration
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
a)	
For Statutory Audit
 2.23 
 1.50 
b)	
For Tax Audit
 0.33 
 0.30 
c) 	
For Limited Review
 1.05 
 0.90 
d) 	
For other services (Certification Fees and Interim audit Fees)
 0.34 
 0.97 
e) 	
For reimbursement of expenses
 0.14 
 0.06 
f) 	
GST to the extent of ITC not availed
 0.35 
 0.47 
Total
 4.44 
 4.20 
2.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Gross Amount Required to be spent during the year
 39.97 
 38.67 
Amount spent during the year on CSR 
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
On purposes other than (i) above
 39.97 
 38.67 
Shortfall at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
Total of previous years shortfall
 - 
 - 
Reason for shortfall
 NA 
 NA 
Nature of CSR activities
3.	
Nature of CSR activities - Women Empowerment, Livelihood Initiative, Education Initiative, Health Initiative and Animal 
Welfare.
4.	
Disclosure in relation to undisclosed income - There are no transactions which are not recorded in the books of account 
which have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
5.	
Details of Crypto currency or Virtual currency - The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual 
currency during the financial year
Note 32. Other Comprehensive Income
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
Remeasurement gain on defined benefit plan
 (6.49)
 0.01
	
Income tax relating to these items
 1.63
 (0.00)
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
 
	
Fair Value Gain on time value of forward element of forward contract in 
hedging relationship
 (19.80)
 (4.30)
	
Income tax relating to these items
 4.98
 1.08
Total comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)
 (19.68)
 (3.21)
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
175
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 33 - MSME Loans
1.1	 Credit quality of assets
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade #
Performing
High grade
 32,421.23 
 - 
 - 
 32,421.23 
 24,458.84 
 - 
 - 
 24,458.84 
Standard grade
 1,591.65 
 - 
 - 
 1,591.65 
 1,468.90 
 - 
 - 
 1,468.90 
Sub-standard grade
 - 
 2,047.00 
 - 
 2,047.00 
 - 
 1,204.54 
 - 
 1,204.54 
Past due but not impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,564.06 
 - 
 1,564.06 
Restructured 
 - 
 1,209.89 
 - 
 1,209.89 
 - 
 1,937.56 
 - 
 1,937.56 
Non Performing
 - 
Individually impaired
 - 
 - 
 1,305.84 
 1,305.84 
 - 
 - 
 1,276.66 
 1,276.66 
Total
34,012.88 
 3,256.89 
 1,305.84 38,575.61 
25,927.74 
 4,706.16 
 1,276.66 31,910.56 
1.2 An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount (excluding interest) and the corresponding ECL allowances 
in relation to lending is as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 25,927.74
 4,706.16
 1,276.66
 31,910.56
 20,450.58
 3,531.02
 1,389.58
 25,371.18
New assets originated and 
Increase in loan exposure in 
existing loan facility
 14,720.12
 145.29
 20.43
 14,885.84
 11,510.38
 -
 -
 11,510.38
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (6,920.57)
 (469.79)
 (178.27)
 (7,568.63)
 (4,010.62)
 (519.24)
 (264.42)
 (4,794.28)
Transfers to Stage 1
 1,363.63
 (1,104.51)
 (259.12)
 -
 549.53
 (334.83)
 (214.70)
 -
Transfers to Stage 2
 (797.03)
 876.33
 (79.30)
 -
 (2,205.65)
 2,287.75
 (82.10)
 -
Transfers to Stage 3
 (202.42)
 (549.45)
 751.87
 -
 (265.18)
 (203.52)
 468.70
 -
Amounts written off*
 (78.59)
 (347.14)
 (226.44)
 (652.17)
 (101.30)
 (55.02)
 (20.40)
 (176.72)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
34,012.88
 3,256.89
 1,305.84
38,575.61
25,927.74
 4,706.16
 1,276.66
31,910.56
* The amount written off are subject to enforcement of collaterals and other legal remedies that are available to the company.
1.3 Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
 189.15 
 691.08 
 393.17 
 1,273.40 
 135.58 
 381.95 
 394.91 
 912.44 
New assets originated
 48.15 
 5.92 
 0.52 
 54.59 
 79.66 
 - 
 - 
 79.66 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (108.55)
 (35.03)
 (4.64)
 (148.22)
 (21.74)
 (66.34)
 (80.72)
 (168.80)
Transfers to Stage 1
 11.51 
 (100.44)
 (70.15)
 (159.08)
 6.08 
 (4.78)
 (1.30)
 (0.01)
Transfers to Stage 2
 (7.27)
 158.89 
 (23.85)
 127.76 
 (210.43)
 216.87 
 (6.44)
 0.00 
Transfers to Stage 3 
 (1.59)
 (100.30)
 194.71 
 92.82 
 (67.13)
 (59.67)
 126.80 
 (0.01)
Other movements (on 
account of change in EAD)
 30.55 
 124.02 
 (10.17)
 144.40 
 268.29 
 223.94 
 18.77 
 511.00 
Amounts written off
 (1.77)
 (111.68)
 (141.25)
 (254.70)
 (1.16)
 (0.89)
 (58.85)
 (60.90)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
 160.17 
 632.46 
 338.35 
 1,130.98 
 189.15 
 691.08 
 393.17 
 1,273.40 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
176
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
#Internal rating grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade
0 DPD
Stage 1
Standard grade
1-30 DPD
Stage 1
Sub-standard grade
31-60 DPD
Stage 2
Past due but not impaired
61-90 DPD
Stage 2
Restructured
<90 DPD & Resturctured 
Stage 2
Individually impaired
>90 DPD & Restructured
Stage 3
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
23.38
27.04
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
1.99
2.56
Stage 2
75.28
36.92
Stage 3
 100.00 
 100.00 
Details of collateral received against loan portfolio :
Nature of security against advances :
Underline securities for the assets secured by tangible assets - Property & and book debts.
Advances (LTV band wise) : 	
(` in millions)
LTV ratio
Gross carrying amount 
of advances
Cumulative loss 
allowance
<= 50%
 12,706.05 
 267.76 
>50% <= 70%
 18,047.71 
 378.07 
>70% <=90%
 6,515.86 
 146.80 
>90% <=100%
 0.15 
 0.00 
Credit impaired advances (LTV band wise) :	
(` in millions)
LTV ratio
 Gross carrying amount 
of advances 
 Cumulative loss 
allowance 
<= 50%
 340.51 
 88.00 
>50% <= 70%
 729.95 
 188.83 
>70% <=90%
 235.38 
 61.53 
>90% <=100%
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
177
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 33.1- Construction Finance Loans
1.1	 Credit quality of assets
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade #
Performing
High grade
 21,477.98 
 - 
 - 
 21,477.98 
 15,209.18 
 - 
 - 
 15,209.18 
Standard grade
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.05 
 - 
 - 
 3.05 
Sub-standard grade
 - 
 170.38 
 - 
 170.38 
 - 
 569.57 
 - 
 569.57 
Past due but not impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Non Performing
 - 
 - 
 - 
Individually impaired
 - 
 - 
 60.88 
 60.88 
 - 
 - 
 23.18 
 23.18 
Total
21,477.98 
 170.38 
 60.88 21,709.24 
15,212.23 
 569.57 
 23.18 15,804.98 
1.2	  An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount (excluding interest) and the corresponding ECL allowances 
in relation to  lending is as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 15,212.23 
 569.57 
 23.18 
 15,804.98 
 11,018.45 
 791.41 
 16.75 
 11,826.61 
New assets originated and 
Increase in loan exposure in 
existing loan facility
 13,768.53 
 54.67 
 - 
 13,823.20 
 8,404.76 
 - 
 - 
 8,404.76 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (7,694.35)
 (175.07)
 (49.52)
 (7,918.94)
 (3,951.11)
 (311.73)
 -  (4,262.84)
Transfer to Stage 1
 292.11 
 (292.11)
 - 
 - 
 (553.73)
 553.73 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 2
 (95.54)
 95.54 
 - 
 - 
 351.44 
 (351.44)
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 3
 (5.00)
 (82.22)
 87.22 
 - 
 (23.18)
 - 
 23.18 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (34.40)
 (112.40)
 (16.75)
 (163.55)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
21,477.98 
 170.38 
 60.88 21,709.24 
15,212.23 
 569.57 
 23.18 15,804.98 
1.3 Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
 107.90 
 21.29 
 4.80 
 133.99 
 65.85 
 4.08 
 16.75 
 86.68 
New assets originated
 101.68 
 2.92 
 11.10 
 115.70 
 108.66 
 - 
 - 
 108.66 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (65.20)
 (7.22)
 - 
 (72.42)
 (8.76)
 (0.83)
 - 
 (9.59)
Transfers to Stage 1
 12.22 
 (13.34)
 - 
 (1.12)
 (21.19)
 21.18 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 (0.51)
 6.49 
 - 
 5.98 
 2.52 
 (2.53)
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3 
 (0.03)
 (0.44)
 44.98 
 44.51 
 (4.80)
 - 
 4.80 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (34.40)
 (0.61)
 (16.75)
 (51.76)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
 156.06 
 9.70 
 60.88 
 226.64 
 107.90 
 21.29 
 4.80 
 133.99 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
178
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
# Internal rating grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade
0 DPD
Stage 1
Standard grade
1-30 DPD
Stage 1
Sub-standard grade
31-60 DPD
Stage 2
Past due but not impaired
61-90 DPD
Stage 2
Individually impaired
>90 DPD & Restructured
Stage 3
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
 24.33 
 20.70 
Probability of Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
 3.64 
 2.56 
Stage 2
 19.71 
 4.05 
Stage 3
 100.00 
 100.00 
Note 33.2- Gold Loans
1.1  Credit quality of assets
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade #
Performing
High grade
 9,750.46 
 - 
 - 
 9,750.46 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Standard grade
 782.93 
 - 
 - 
 782.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Sub-standard grade
 - 
 523.63 
 - 
 523.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Past due but not impaired
 - 
 185.91 
 - 
 185.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Non Performing
 - 
 - 
 - 
Individually impaired
 - 
 - 
 12.78 
 12.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
10,533.39 
 709.54 
 12.78 11,255.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1.2	 An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount (excluding interest) and the corresponding ECL allowances 
in relation to lending is as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
New assets originated
 10,533.39 
 709.54 
 12.78  11,255.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
10,533.39 
 709.54 
 12.78 11,255.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
179
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
1.3 Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
New assets originated
 57.01 
 3.51 
 0.67 
 61.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
 57.01 
 3.51 
 0.67 
 61.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
# Internal rating grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade
0 DPD
Stage 1
Standard grade
1-30 DPD
Stage 1
Sub-standard grade
31-60 DPD
Stage 2
Past due but not impaired
61-90 DPD
Stage 2
Individually impaired
>90 DPD & Restructured
Stage 3
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
 5.17 
-
Probability of Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
 11.56 
-
Stage 2
 11.56 
-
Stage 3
 100.00 
-
Details of collateral received against loan portfolio :
Nature of security against advances :
Underline securities for the assets secured by tangible assets (Gold jewellary)
Advances (LTV band wise) : 	
(` in millions)
LTV ratio
Gross carrying amount 
of advances
Cumulative loss 
allowance
<= 50%
 304.26 
 1.68 
>50% <= 70%
 4,506.18 
 21.14 
>70% <=90%
 6,432.49 
 37.70 
>90% <=100%
-
-
>100%
 - 
 - 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
180
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Credit impaired advances (LTV band wise) :	
(` in millions)
LTV ratio
 Gross carrying amount 
of advances 
 Cumulative loss 
allowance 
<= 50%
 0.18 
 0.01 
>50% <= 70%
 12.57 
 0.65 
>70% <=90%
 0.03 
 0.00 
>90% <=100%
 - 
 - 
Note 34 - Income Taxes relating to continuing operations
1. 	 Income Tax recognised in statement of profit and loss
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Current Tax
In respect of the current year
 475.87 
 624.71 
In respect of prior years
 3.21 
 5.80 
 479.08 
 630.51 
Deferred Tax
In respect of the current year
 4.40 
 (80.10)
Total Income tax expense recognised in the current year relating to 
continuing operations
483.48
550.41
2. 	 Reconciliation of income tax expense for the year:
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Standalone Profit Before tax
 1,898.85
 2,169.25
Total tax expense (As per P&L)
- Current tax
 475.87
 624.71
- Deferred tax
 4.40
 (80.10)
Total Tax Expenses
 480.27
 544.61
Effective tax rate (%)
 25.29
 25.11
Adjustments of allowable and non-allowable income and expenses:
Effect on Effective Tax rate due Permenant Difference
a)	
Non allowability of Claim of CSR
 39.97
 38.67
b)	
Earlier years provision for ECL / Lease adjustments
 -
 8.83
c)	
STT & Brokerage
 (0.25)
 0.72
d)	
Loss on Sale of Fixed assets
 -
 (0.42)
e)	
Deduction under Chapter VI A u/s 80M & 80JJA
 (26.97)
 (8.77)
Total (A)
 12.75
 39.03
Difference due to Tax Rate of STCG
 11.55
 139.49
Total (B)
 11.55
 139.49
Total of items affecting tax rate (A+B)
 24.30
 178.52
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
181
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
3. 	 Reconciliation of income tax rate is as follows:
(in %)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Normal Tax Rate
 22.00 
 22.00 
Surcharge (@ 10% of Normal Tax Rate)
 2.20 
 2.20 
Health and Education Cess
 0.97 
 0.97 
Total Tax Rate
 25.17 
 25.17 
Effect in Tax rate due to permenant difference
 0.17 
 0.45 
Difference due to Tax Rate of STCG
 (0.05)
 (0.51)
Effecttive Tax Rate
 25.29 
 25.11 
Note 35 - Deferred Tax
(` in millions)
Particulars
Deferred Tax 
Assets
Income 
Statement
OCI
Deferred Tax 
Assets
As at 
March 31, 2022
2022-23
2022-23
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets:
Provision for Employee Benefits
 12.28
 11.26
 -
 23.54
Depreciation
 20.27
 14.36
 -
 34.63
Impairment allowance for financial assets
 297.69
 128.64
 -
 426.33
Unmortised fees on loans
 2.79
 (1.78)
 -
 1.01
Others
 5.01
 23.46
 -
 28.46
Deferred Tax Liabilities:
Financial Instruments at FVTPL
 (1.82)
 1.66
 -
 (0.15)
Unmortised fees on borrowings
 (0.65)
 0.36
 -
 (0.29)
Gain on derecognition of financial instruments*
 (42.40)
 (106.03)
 -
 (148.43)
Deferred Tax Assets (net)
 293.17
 71.93
 -
 365.10
* As per Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’, on derecognition of loans, the Company recognise difference between the carrying amount (measured at the 
date of derecognition) and consideration received (including new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) as gain in Statement of profit and loss 
account. Such gain recognised on derecognition of loans is not a real income as per Income tax Act, 1961, hence is offered to tax over the tenure of loans. 
Accordingly, deferred tax liability has been created on the Spread receivable on assigned portfolio (Co-lending portfolio).
Deferred Tax assets created on account of past years tax adjustments has been shown and adjusted against tax expenses provided 
for earlier years.
(` in millions)
Particulars
Deferred Tax 
Assets
Income 
Statement
OCI
Deferred Tax 
Assets
As at 
March 31, 2021
2021-22
2021-22
As at 
March 31, 2022
Deferred Tax Assets:
Provision for Employee Benefits
 10.04
 2.24
 -
 12.28
Depreciation
 19.38
 0.89
 -
 20.27
Impairment allowance for financial assets
 166.59
 131.10
 -
 297.69
Unmortised fees on loans
 13.75
 (10.96)
 -
 2.79
Others
 7.68
 (2.67)
 -
 5.01
Deferred Tax Liabilities:
Financial Instruments at FVTPL
 (1.83)
 0.01
 -
 (1.82)
Unmortised fees on borrowings
 (2.54)
 1.89
 -
 (0.65)
Gain on derecognition of financial instruments*
 -
 (42.40)
 -
 (42.40)
Deferred Tax Assets (net)
 213.07
 80.10
 -
 293.17
Deferred Tax Assets / Liabilities are calculated at the applicable rate of 25.17%.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
182
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 36 - Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or 
settled. They have been classified to mature and/or be repaid within 12 months. With regards to loans and advances to customers, 
the Company uses the same basis of expected repayment as used for estimating the EIR.
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
ASSETS
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 14,447.89
 -
 14,447.89
 910.86
 -
 910.86
Bank Balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
 131.75
 2.50
 134.25
 16.04
 0.08
 16.12
Receivables
 321.43
 -
 321.43
 81.64
 -
 81.64
Loans
 18,220.43
 51,071.79
 69,292.22
 6,939.30
 38,831.58
 45,770.88
Investments
 306.36
 3,293.09
 3,599.45
 2,358.39
 4,083.32
 6,441.71
Other financial Assets
 136.73
 568.59
 705.32
 82.44
 134.57
 217.01
Total Financial Assets
 33,564.59
 54,935.97
 88,500.56
 10,388.67
 43,049.55
 53,438.22
Non-Financial assets
Current Tax Assets (Net)
 189.75
 -
 189.75
 90.94
 -
 90.94
Deferred tax assets (Net)
 -
 365.10
 365.10
 -
 293.17
 293.17
Property, plant and equipment
 -
 2,657.68
 2,657.68
 -
 253.42
 253.42
Capital work-in-progress
 -
 25.22
 25.22
 -
 -
 -
Intangible Assets Under Development
 -
 73.71
 73.71
 12.39
 -
 12.39
Other intangible assets
 -
 53.86
 53.86
 -
 20.33
 20.33
Other non-financial assets
 727.86
 330.47
 1,058.33
 177.13
 154.46
 331.59
Total Non financial Assets
 917.61
 3,506.04
 4,423.65
 280.46
 721.38
 1,001.84
Total Assets
 34,482.20
 58,442.01
 92,924.21
 10,669.13
 43,770.93
 54,440.06
LIABILITIES
Financial Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments
 58.05
 -
 58.05
 8.63
 -
 8.63
Payables
-	
Trade Payables
 843.83
 1.64
 845.47
 272.20
 -
 272.20
-	
Other Payables
 104.49
 1.43
 105.92
 62.04
 -
 62.04
Debt Securities
 2,886.14
 1,500.00
 4,386.14
 396.65
 4,164.23
 4,560.88
Borrowings (Other than debt securities)
 13,877.67
 35,620.07
 49,497.74
 6,458.24
 22,724.57
 29,182.81
Other financial liabilities
 2,405.70
 1,625.56
 4,031.26
 1,931.84
 290.42
 2,222.26
Total Financial Liabilities
 20,175.88
 38,748.70
 58,924.58
 9,129.60
 27,179.22
 36,308.82
Non-Financial Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Current tax liability
 5.80
 -
 5.80
 24.85
 -
 24.85
Provisions
 60.49
 116.37
 176.86
 25.47
 110.07
 135.53
Other Non Financials Liabilities
 111.85
 -
 111.85
 76.32
 -
 76.32
Total Non-Financial Liabilities
 178.14
 116.37
 294.51
 126.64
 110.07
 236.70
Total Liabilities
 20,354.02
 38,865.07
 59,219.09
 9,256.24
 27,289.29
 36,545.52
Net
 14,128.18
 19,576.94
 33,705.12
 1,412.89
 16,481.64
 17,894.54
Capital Management
The primary objectives of the Company’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Company complies with externally 
imposed capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and 
to maximise shareholders value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it according to changes in 
economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities. Capital Management Policy, objectives and processes are under 
constant review by the Board. For details of Capital to Risk Assets Ratio (CRAR) refer Note no. 56.1.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
183
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 37 - Change in liabilities arising from financing activities
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
April 1, 2022
Cash flows
Other*
As at 
March 31, 2023
Debt Securities
 4,560.88 
 (176.79)
 2.05 
 4,386.14 
Borrowings other than debt securities
 29,182.81 
 20,519.34 
 (204.41)
 49,497.74 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 33,743.69 
 20,342.55 
 (202.36)
 53,883.88 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
April 1, 2021
Cash flows
Other*
As at 
March 31, 2022
Debt Securities
 6,844.54 
 (2,288.42)
 4.76 
 4,560.88 
Borrowings other than debt securities
 19,693.78 
 8,839.33 
 649.70 
 29,182.81 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 26,538.32 
 6,550.91 
 654.46 
 33,743.69 
*includes the effect of amortisation of borrowing cost, interest accrued on borrowings, conversation factor of derivative instruments.
Note 38- Fair value measurements
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal 
(or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions, regardless of whether that price is 
directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
Ind AS 109, ‘Financial Instrument - Disclosure’ requires classification of the valuation method of financial instruments measured 
at fair value in the balance Sheet, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which reflects the significance of inputs used in the 
measurements). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to un-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair-
value-hierarchy under Ind AS 107 are described below:
38.1 Financial instruments by category	
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
FVTOCI
Total
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
FVTOCI
Total
Financial assets
Investments
- Mutual funds
 300.98
 -
 -
 300.98
 2,304.43
 -
 -
 2,304.43
- Equity instruments
 -
 -
 -
 -
 48.11
 -
 -
 48.11
- Debt Instrument
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 247.66
 -
 247.66
- Pass Through Certificates
 -
 48.47
 -
 48.47
 -
 591.51
 -
 591.51
Trade receivables
 -
 321.43
 -
 321.43
 -
 81.64
 -
 81.64
Loans
 -
 69,292.22
 -
 69,292.22
 -
 45,770.88
 -
 45,770.88
Cash and cash equivalents
 -
 14,447.89
 -
 14,447.89
 -
 910.86
 -
 910.86
Bank Balances other than 
above
 -
 134.25
 -
 134.25
 -
 16.12
 -
 16.12
Other financial Assets
 -
 705.32
 -
 705.32
 -
 217.01
 -
 217.01
Total financial assets
 300.98
 84,949.58
 -  85,250.56
 2,352.54  47,835.68
 -  50,188.22
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial 
instruments
 -
 -
 58.05
 58.05
 -
 -
 8.63
 8.63
Borrowings (including Debt 
Securities)
 -
 53,883.88
 -
 53,883.88
 -
 33,743.69
 -
 33,743.69
Trade payables
 -
 951.39
 -
 951.39
 -
 334.24
 -
 334.24
Other financial liabilities
 -
 4,031.26
 -
 4,031.26
 -
 2,222.26
 -
 2,222.26
Total financial liabilities
 -
 58,866.53
 58.05  58,924.58
 -  36,300.19
 8.63  36,308.82
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
184
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
38.2 Fair value hierarchy
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a) 
recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial 
statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classified 
its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows 
underneath the table.
(` in millions)
Financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value - recurring fair value 
measurements
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2023
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVTPL
Listed equity investments
7
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Mutual funds
7
 300.98
 -
 300.98
 -
 300.98
Total financial assets
 300.98
 -
 300.98
 -
 300.98
Financial liabilities
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Derivative financial instruments
 58.05
 -
 58.05
 -
 58.05
Total financial liabilities
 58.05
 -
 58.05
 -
 58.05
(` in millions)
Assets and liabilities which are measured 
at amortised cost for which fair values are 
disclosed
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2023
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
3
 14,447.89
 -
 -
 -
 14,447.89
Bank Balance other than above
4
 134.25
 -
 -
 -
 134.25
Trade Receivable
5
 321.43
 -
 -
 -
 321.43
Loans
6
 -
Loans to employees
 3.04
 -
 -
 -
 3.04
Loans - SME,CF,IRL& GL
 69,289.18
 -
 -
 67,192.51
 67,192.51
Investments
- Pass Through Certificates
7
 48.47
 48.47
 48.47
Other financial assets
8
 705.32
 -
 -
 705.32
 705.32
Total financial assets
 84,949.58
 -
 -
 67,946.30
 82,852.91
Financial Liabilities
Trade Payable
13
 951.39
 -
 -
 951.39
 951.39
Debt Securities
14
 4,386.14
 -
 4,289.37
 -
 4,289.37
Borrowings other than Debt Securities
15B
 49,497.74
 -
 -
 49,497.74
 49,497.74
Other Financial Liabilities
16
 4,031.26
 -
 -
 4,031.26
 4,031.26
Total financial liabilities
 58,866.53
 -
 4,289.37
 54,480.39
 58,769.76
(` in millions)
Financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value - recurring fair value 
measurements	
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2022
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVTPL
Listed equity investments
7
 48.11 
 48.11 
 - 
 - 
 48.11 
Mutual funds
7
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,304.43 
Total financial assets
 2,352.54 
 48.11 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,352.54 
Financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Derivative financial instruments
 8.63 
 - 
 8.63 
 - 
 8.63 
Total financial liabilities
 8.63 
 - 
 8.63 
 - 
 8.63 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
185
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Assets and liabilities which are measured 
at amortised cost for which fair values are 
disclosed
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2022
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
3
 910.86
 -
 -
 -
 910.86
Bank Balance other than above
4
 16.12
 -
 -
 -
 16.12
Trade Receivable
5
 81.64
 -
 -
 -
 81.64
Loans
6
 -
Loans to employees
 0.94
 -
 -
 -
 0.94
Loans - SME & CF
 45,769.94
 -
 -
 46,047.48
 46,047.48
Investments
 -
- Commercial Paper
7
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
- Debt Securities
 247.66
 -
 -
 247.66
 247.66
- Pass Through Certificates
 591.51
 -
 -
 591.51
 591.51
Other financial assets
8
 217.01
 -
 -
 217.01
 217.01
Total financial assets
 47,835.68
 -
 -
 47,103.66
 48,113.22
Financial Liabilities
Trade Payable
13
 334.24
 -
 -
 334.24
 334.24
Debt Securities
14
 4,560.88
 -
 4,452.63
 -
 4,452.63
Borrowings other than Debt Securities
15B
 29,182.81
 -
 -
 29,182.81
 29,182.81
Other Financial Liabilities
16
 2,222.26
 -
 -
 2,222.26
 2,222.26
Total financial liabilities
 36,300.19
 -
 4,452.63
 31,739.31
 36,191.94
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes listed equity instruments, 
traded bonds and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments (including bonds) which are traded 
in the stock exchanges is valued using the closing price as at the reporting period. The mutual funds are valued using the closing 
NAV.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the- 
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little 
as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This 
is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Short-term financial assets and liabilities For financial assets and financial liabilities that have a short-term maturity (less than 
twelve months), the carrying amounts, which are net of impairment, are a reasonable approximation of their fair value. Such 
instruments include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, balances other than cash and cash equivalents and trade 
payables without a specific maturity
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
186
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 39.1. Risk Disclosures
Company’s risk is managed through an integrated risk management framework, including ongoing identification, measurement 
and monitoring, subject to risk limits and other controls. This process of risk management is critical to the Company’s continuing 
profitability and each individual within the Company is accountable for the risk exposures relating to his or her responsibilities. 
The Company is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
It is the Company’s policy to ensure that a robust risk awareness is embedded in its organisational risk culture.
39.2. Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the Company will incur a loss because its customers or counterparties fail to discharge their contractual 
obligations. The Company manages and controls credit risk by setting limits on the amount of risk it is willing to accept for 
individual counterparties.
39.2.1 Impairment assessment
39.2.1.1 Exposure at Default
The Exposure at Default is an estimate of the exposure at a future default date including the undrawn commitments. EAD is taken 
as the gross exposure under a facility upon default of an obligor. The principal outstanding, overdue principal, accrued interest, 
overdue interest less excess received from the customers is considered as EAD for the purpose of ECL computation.
The advances have been bifurcated into following three stages:
Stage 1 – All exposures where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition or that has low credit 
risk at the reporting date and that are not credit impaired upon origination are classified under this stage. The Company classifies 
all standard advances and advances up to 0-30 days default under this category. Stage 1 loans also include facilities where the 
credit risk has reduced and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 2.
Stage 2 – All exposures where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition but are not credit 
impaired are classified under this stage. Financial assets past due for 31 to 90 days are classified under this stage. Stage 2 loans 
also include facilities where the credit risk has reduced, and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 3.
Stage 3 – All exposures assessed as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated 
future cash flows of that asset have occurred are classified in this stage. For exposures that have become credit impaired, a 
lifetime ECL is recognised and interest revenue is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (net of 
provision) rather than the gross carrying amount. more than 90 days Past Due is considered as default for classifying a financial 
instrument as credit impaired."
39.2.1.2 Significant increase in credit risk
The Company continuously monitors all assets subject to ECLs. In order to determine whether an instrument or a portfolio of 
instruments is subject to 12 months ECL or lifetime ECL, the Company assesses whether there has been a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition. The Company considers an exposure to have significantly increased in credit risk if contractual 
payments are more than 30 days past due.
39.2.1.3 Definition of default and cure
The Company considers a financial instrument defaulted and therefore Stage 3 (credit impaired) for ECL calculations in all cases 
when the borrower becomes more than 90 days past due on its contractual payments.
As a part of a qualitative assessment of whether a customer is in default, the Company also considers a variety of instances that 
may indicate inability to pay. When such events occur, the Company carefully considers whether the event should result in treating 
the customer as defaulted and therefore assessed as Stage 3 for ECL calculations or whether Stage 2 is appropriate. Such events 
include:
a)	
Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
b)	
A breach of contract such as a default or past due event;
c) 	
The restructuring of a loan or advance by the company on terms that the company would not consider otherwise; or
d) 	
It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
187
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
It is the Company’s policy to consider a financial instrument as ‘cured’ and therefore re-classified out of Stage 3 when the borrower 
makes necessary payments & the borrower is not 90 days past due after such payments. The decision whether to classify an asset 
as Stage 2 or Stage 1 once cured depends on the updated credit grade, at the time of the cure, and whether this indicates there 
has been a significant increase in credit risk compared to initial recognition.
39.2.1.4 Probability of Default ("PD") estimation process
Probability of default (“PD”) is defined as the likelihood of default over a particular time horizon. The PD of an obligor is a 
fundamental risk parameter in credit risk analysis and depends on obligor specific as well as macroeconomic risk factors.
a)	
The Company has applied 12 months PD to stage 1 advances
b)	
The Lifetime PD is computed using basic exponentiation technique after considering the residual maturity of the respective 
loan.
c) 	
PD of 100% is considered for Stage 3 assets.
Days past due are a primary input for the determination of the PD for exposures. The Company collects performance and default 
information about its credit risk exposures analysed by portfolio. For some portfolios, rating based published information is used.
The Company employs statistical models to analyse the data collected and generate estimates of the remaining lifetime PD 
of exposures and how these are expected to change as a result of the passage of time. Such statistical models are selected 
considering the availability of information related to the probability of default for each product. This analysis includes the 
identification and calibration of relationships between changes in default rates and changes in key macro-economic factors.
For the purpose of determination of impact of forward looking information, the Company applies various macro economic (ME) 
variables as stated above to each portfolio and assess the trend of the historical probability of defaults as compared to the 
forecasted probability of default. Based on the directional trend of output, management applies an overlay if required. Overtime, 
new ME variable may emerge to have a better correlation and may replace ME being used now.
The loans are segmented into homogenous product categories to determine the historical PD/LGD as per similar risk profiles, 
this segmentation is subject to regular review For portfolios in respect of which the Company has limited historical data, external 
benchmark information is used to supplement the internally available data.
The Company does not have any historic data of default in case of Gold Loan portfolio, so it has relied upon the published data 
of competitors.
39.2.1.5 Loss Given Default ("LGD")
Loss Given Default (“LGD”) is defined as the loss rate on the exposure, given the borrower has defaulted. LGD is being calculated 
for all financial instruments under risk parameter approach by way of evaluation of historical data on defaults, recovery amounts, 
collateral liquidation, direct expenses, and opportunity cost for each default. LGD has been computed using the volatility-based 
model in case of Gold Loan portfolio.
39.2.1.6 Forward looking information
in its EGL models, the Company relies on a broad range of forward looking information as economic inputs, such as. GDP growth, 
Consumer Price Index, Unemployment rate, Lending Interest Rate etc The inputs and models used for calculating ECLs may not 
always capture all characteristics of the market at the date of the financial statements. To reflect this, qualitative adjustments or 
overlays are occasionally made as temporary adjustments when such differences are significantly material
During the current year, the Company has made refinement in the ECL model and said changes have been updated in the ECL 
policy which is duly approved by the audit committee.
39.2.2 Analysis of risk concentration - Refer Note 56.11.3.2
39.2.3 Collateral and other credit enhancements
"The Company holds collateral and other credit enhancements against certain of its credit exposures. The loans are collateralized 
against equitable mortgage of property, pledge of shares, hypothecation of assets, physical gold jewellery, undertaking to create 
security.
Management monitors the market value of collateral and will request additional collateral in accordance with the underlying 
agreement. In case of defaults by customers, where the Company is unable to recover the dues, the Company through a legal 
process enforces the security and recovers the dues.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
188
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
39.3. Liquidity risk and funding management
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. Liquidity risk arises because of the possibility that the 
Company might be unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due as a result of mismatches in the timing of the cash 
flows under both normal and stress circumstances. Such scenarios could occur when funding needed for illiquid asset positions 
is not available to the Company on acceptable terms. To limit this risk, management has arranged for diversified funding sources 
and adopted a policy of managing assets by monitoring future cash flows and liquidity on a daily basis.
Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with our Asset Liability Management Policy. This policy is framed as per the current 
regulatory guidelines and is approved by the Board of Directors. The Asset Liability Management Policy is reviewed periodically 
to incorporate changes as required by regulatory stipulation or to realign the policy with changes in the economic landscape. The 
Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) of the Company formulates and reviews strategies and provides guidance for management of 
liquidity risk within the framework laid out in the Asset Liability Management Policy. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flow of the Company’s financial liabilities:
Current Year
(` in millions)
Particulars
upto 
30/31 
days
Over 1 
month 
upto 2 
months
Over 2 
months 
upto 3 
months
Over 3 
monthsto 
6 months
Over 6 
months to 
1 year
Over 1 
year to 3 
year
Over 3 
year to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Total
Debt Securities
 -
 2,386.16
 581.99
 230.14
 77.31
 306.94
 306.86
 1,768.27
 5,657.67
Borrowings
 1,117.83
 916.46
 2,415.74
 4,583.01
 8,833.94
 24,573.71
 13,631.72
 4,695.85
 60,768.26
Trade Payable
 951.39
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 951.39
Lease liability
 30.43
 30.41
 37.73
 83.95
 181.00
 739.23
 679.66
 1,071.22
 2,853.63
Other Financial 
Liability
 2,260.88
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 2,260.88
Previous Year
(` in millions)
Particulars
upto 
30/31 
days
Over 1 
month 
upto 2 
months
Over 2 
months 
upto 3 
months
Over 3 
monthsto 
6 months
Over 6 
months to 
1 year
Over 1 
year to 3 
year
Over 3 
year to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Total
Debt Securities
 229.98 
 213.42 
 45.00 
 234.68 
 77.36 
 3,209.23 
 306.90 
 1,882.99 
 6,199.56 
Borrowings
 246.87 
 578.35 
 924.07 
 1,928.48 
 4,293.63 
 15,648.74 
 8,405.64 
 2,826.74 
 34,852.52 
Trade Payable
 334.24 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 334.24 
Lease liability
 4.69 
 4.70 
 4.69 
 14.24 
 28.81 
 107.00 
 74.11 
 8.23 
 246.47 
Other Financial 
Liability
 2,026.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,026.05 
39.4. Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial 
instruments. The core business of the company is providing loans to MSME, Construction Finance, Indirect lending and Gold 
loan. The company borrows through various financial instruments to finance its core lending activity. These activities expose the 
company to interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is measured through earnings at risk from an earnings perspective and through duration of equity from an 
economic value perspective. Further, exposure to fluctuations in interest rates is also measured by way of gap analysis, providing 
a static view of the maturity and re-pricing characteristic of Balance sheet positions. An interest rate sensitivity gap report is 
prepared by classifying all rate sensitive assets and rate sensitive liabilities into various time period categories according to 
contracted/behavioural maturities or anticipated re-pricing date. The difference in the amount of rate sensitive assets and rate 
sensitive liabilities maturing or being re-priced in any time period category, gives an indication of the extent of exposure to the 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
189
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
risk of potential changes in the margins on new or re-priced assets and liabilities. The interest rate risk is monitored through above 
measures on a quarterly basis.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (all other variables being 
considered as constant) of the Company’s statement of profit and loss and equity.
(` in millions)
Currency
Increase / (decrease) in 
basis points
Sensitivity of profit 
or loss
Sensitivity of 
equity
2022-23
Loans (`)
50 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 299.44
Impact on equity
 223.71
100 Basis point Up
 598.88
 447.42
50 Basis point Down
 (299.44)
 (223.71)
100 Basis point Down
 (598.88)
 (447.42)
Borrowings (`)
50 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 (248.92)
Impact on equity
 (185.97)
100 Basis point Up
 (497.85)
 (371.94)
50 Basis point Down
 248.92
 185.97
100 Basis point Down
 497.85
 371.94
2021-22
Loans (`)
25 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 116.08
Impact on equity
 86.87
50 Basis point Up
 232.16
 173.73
25 Basis point Down
 (116.08)
 (86.87)
50 Basis point Down
 (232.16)
 (173.73)
Borrowings (`)
25 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 (84.09)
Impact on equity
 (62.92)
50 Basis point Up
 (168.18)
 (125.85)
25 Basis point Down
 84.09
 62.92
50 Basis point Down
 168.18
 125.85
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to operate 
effectively, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss. The 
Company cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but it endeavours to manage these risks through a control framework 
and by monitoring and responding to potential risks. Controls include maker-checker controls, effective segregation of duties, 
access, authorisation and reconciliation procedures, staff education and assessment processes, such as the use of internal audit.
Capital Management :
Company’s capital management objective is primarily to safeguard business continuity. The Company’s capital raising policy 
is aligned to macro economic situation and incidental risk factors. The Company’s cashflows are regularly monitored in sync 
with annual operating plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The operational funding requirements are 
met through debt and operating cash flows generated. The company believes this approach would create shareholder value in 
long run. Also, the company has adopted a conservative approach for ALM management with primacy to adequate liquidity. At 
present a large portion of the company’s resource base is equity. Therefore the company enjoys a low gearing.
The Company maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities and the 
board reviews the capital position on a regular basis.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
190
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Gearing ratio :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
The gearing ratio at each date were as follows :
*Debt (I) (` in millions)
 55,654.26 
 33,939.90 
Cash and bank balances (II) (refer note 3) (` in millions)
 14,447.89 
 910.86 
Net debt (I - II) (` in millions)
 41,206.37 
 33,029.04 
Total equity (` in millions)
 33,705.12 
 17,894.53 
Net debt to equity ratio
 1.22 
 1.85 
* Debt includes debt securities, borrowings and lease liabilities.
Note 40A- Defined Contribution Plan
The Company’s state governed provident fund scheme are defined contribution plan for its employees. The Contribution by the 
employer and employee together with interest accumulated there on are payable to the employee at the time of separation from 
company or retirement whichever is earlier. The benefit vests immediately on rendering of services by the employee.
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Employer's contribution to provident fund
 147.21 
 51.59 
Employer's contribution to National Pension Scheme
 3.71 
 2.70 
Total
 150.92 
 54.29 
Note 40B- Defined Benefit Plan
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan in India (funded). The Company’s defined benefit gratuity plan is a final salary 
plan for its employees, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund. The gratuity plan is governed 
by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the act, employee who has completed five years of service is entitled to specific 
benefit. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and salary at separation/retirement. The 
fund has the form of a trust and it is governed by the Board of Trustees, which consists of an equal number of employer and 
employee representatives. The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of 
the investment strategy.
The following table sets out the status of the Defined Benefit Gratuity Plan as per the actuarial valuation by the independent 
Actuary appointed by the Company:-
Principal assumptions used for the actuarial valuations are as follows:
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Discount Rate 
7.20%
5.66%
Expected Rate of return on Plan Asset 
7.20%
5.66%
Salary Escalation 
9.00%
5.00%
Attrition Rate
For service 2 years and 
below 50.00% p.a. 
For service 3 years to 4 
years 30.00% p.a. 
For service 5 years and 
above 20.00% p.a.
24.00%
Mortality Table
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality 
 2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality 
 2012-14 (Urban)
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
191
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Present value of benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 43.67 
 34.62 
Interest cost
 2.46 
 1.93 
Current service cost
 13.00 
 10.15 
Benefit Paid From the Fund
 (5.80)
 (3.52)
Actuarial (Gains)/Losses on Obligations - Due to Change in Demographic 
Assumptions
 (11.17)
 (1.76)
Actuarial (Gains)/Losses on Obligations - Due to Change in Financial Assumptions
 4.95 
 (0.12)
Actuarial (Gains)/Losses on Obligations - Due to Experience
 13.20 
 2.36 
Present Value of Benefit Obligation at the End of the year
 60.31 
 43.66 
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Fair Value of Plan Assets at the Beginning of the year
 33.31 
 30.15 
Interest income
 1.87 
 1.68 
Contributions by employer 
 10.40 
 4.50 
Benefit Paid From the Fund
 (5.80)
 (3.52)
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
 0.49 
 0.49 
Fair Value of Plan Assets at the End of the year
 40.27 
 33.30 
Amount recognized in the balance sheet from the Group's obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is as 
follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(Present Value of Benefit Obligation at the end of the year)
 (60.31)
 (43.67)
Fair value of plan assets 
 40.28 
 33.31 
Funded status (Surplus/ (Deficit))
 (20.04)
 (10.36)
Net (Liability)/Asset Recognized in the Balance Sheet
 (20.03)
 (10.36)
Net Interest Cost for the year:
(` in millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Present Value of Benefit Obligation at the Beginning of the year
 43.67 
 34.62 
(Fair Value of Plan Assets at the Beginning of the year)
 (33.31)
 (30.15)
Net Liability/(Asset) at the Beginning
 10.36 
 4.47 
Interest Cost
 2.46 
 1.93 
(Interest Income)
 (1.87)
 (1.68)
Net Interest Cost for the year
 0.59 
 0.25 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
192
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss in respect of these defined benefit plans are as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Service cost:
Current service cost
 13.00 
 10.15 
Net interest expense
 0.59 
 0.25 
Expense Recognized
 13.59 
 10.40 
Amounts recognised in the Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in respect of these defined benefit plans are as 
follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
 6.98 
 (0.49)
Actuarial (gains) / losses on defined benefit obligations
 (0.49)
 0.48 
Net (Income)/Expense For the year Recognized in OCI
 6.49 
 (0.01)
The fair value of the plan assets for India are as follows:
(` in millions)
Category of Assets
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Insurer Managed Funds
 40.28 
 33.31 
Total
 40.28 
 33.31 
Maturity Analysis of benefit payments
(` in millions)
Projected Benefits Payable in Future Years From the Date of Reporting
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
1st Following Year
 9.74 
 7.89 
2nd Following Year
 8.92 
 7.19 
3rd Following Year
 7.67 
 7.14 
4th Following Year
 7.80 
 5.75 
5th Following Year
 7.65 
 5.64 
Sum of Years 6 To 10
 25.27 
 14.64 
Sum of Years 11 and above
 19.89 
 6.04 
The estimates of future salary growth, factored in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. Such estimates are very long term and are not based on 
limited past experience / immediate future. Empirical evidence also suggests that in very long term, consistent high salary growth 
rates are not possible. The said estimates and assumptions have been relied upon by the auditors.
Sensitivity analysis
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Sensitivity Level
1% increase
1% increase
1% decrease
1% decrease
Impact on defined benefit obligation (in `)
1)	
Discount Rate 
 (2.41)
 (1.42)
 2.64 
 1.53 
2)	
Future Salary Increases 
 2.30 
 1.46 
 (2.18)
 (1.40)
3)	
Employee Turnover 
 (0.78)
 (0.42)
 0.81 
 0.43 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
193
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note :
-	
The sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
-	
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the projected benefit obligation 
as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be 
correlated.
-	
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the projected benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same method as applied 
in calculating the projected benefit obligation as recognised in the balance sheet.
-	
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior years.
Note 41: Related party	
A.	
List of Related Parties and related party relationship:	
Considering only parties with whom transaction has entered during the FY 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Related Party
Relationship
a)	
Related Parties over which control exists:
	
1	
Capri Global Housing Finance Limited
Wholly owned Subsidiary
b)	
Enterprises over which Management and/or their 
relatives have control
	
1	
Capri Global Holdings Private Limited
	
2	
Parshwanath Buildcon Private Limited
c)	
Key Management Personnel of the Company
1	
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer
2	
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
Independent Director 
3	
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Independent Director 
4	
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
Independent Director 
5	
Mr. Ajit Mohan Sharan 
Independent Director
6	
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
Independent Director
d)	
Trust under common control:
1	
Capri Foundation
2	
Money Matters Financial Services Limited Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
194
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
e)	
Details of transactions during the year and closing balances as at the year end:
(` in millions)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Wholly owned Subsidiary
Enterprises over which 
management and/or their 
relatives have control
Key management 
personnel
Relative of key 
management personnel
Trust under common 
control
Total
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
a.
Transaction during 
the year
I
INCOMES :
i
Interest on Loan 
Given to Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Resources Private 
Limited
 - 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
ii
Service Charge 
Income from 
Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited
 40.77 
 12.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 40.77 
 12.00 
iii
Sale of Investment
 - 
Capri Global 
Holdings Pvt. Ltd.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
iii
Interest income 
from sale of loans
 - 
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited 
 1.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.04 
 - 
II
EXPENSES :
i
Rent Paid
Parshwanath 
Buildcon Private 
Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 0.10 
ii
Service Charge 
Expenses to 
Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited
 51.60 
 26.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 51.60 
 26.74 
iii
Salaries, 
Commission and 
other benefits
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.40 
 2.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.40 
 2.40 
Mr. Pranay Rauka
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.88 
 - 
11 
I 
I 
I 
11 
I 
I 
1111 
I 
I 
I 
11 
11 
I 
I 
I 
11 
I 
I 
1111 
I 
I 
I 
11 
11 
I 
I 
I 
11 
I 
I 
1111 
I 
I 
I 
11 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
195
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Wholly owned Subsidiary
Enterprises over which 
management and/or their 
relatives have control
Key management 
personnel
Relative of key 
management personnel
Trust under common 
control
Total
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Ms. Jinisha Sharma
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 - 
iv
Director Sitting 
Fees
Mr. Beni Prasad 
Rauka
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.23 
 1.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.23 
 1.26 
Ms. Bhagyam 
Ramani
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.11 
 2.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.11 
 2.76 
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 0.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 0.84 
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.78 
Mr. Ajit Sharan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.04 
 0.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.04 
 0.60 
Mr. Ajay Kumar Relan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
iv
Employee Benefits
Money Matters 
Financial Services 
Limited Employees 
Group Gratuity 
Assurance Scheme
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.40 
 4.50 
 10.40 
 4.50 
v
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Capri Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.63 
> 
I 
I 
I 
111111 
I 
1
1 
I 
I 
I 
111111 
I 
1
1 
I 
I 
I 
111111 
I 
1
1 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
196
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Wholly owned Subsidiary
 Enterprises over which 
Management and/or their 
relatives have control 
 Key Management 
Personnel 
Relative of key 
management personnel
 Post-employment  
benefit plan 
Total
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
b
Balance Sheet Items 
(Transaction during 
year):
i
Investment in Equity 
Shares of Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited
 - 
 1,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,500.00 
ii
Loan Given to 
Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Resources Private 
Limited
 - 
 0.54 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.54 
iii
Loan Paid by 
Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Resources Private 
Limited
 - 
 0.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.74 
Iv
Sale of Investment to 
Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited 
 361.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 361.86 
 - 
Iv
Sale of loans to 
Subsidiary
 - 
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited 
 23.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 23.44 
 - 
c
Balance Sheet Items 
(Closing Balances):
i
Investment in Equity 
Shares of Subsidiary
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited
 3,250.00 
 3,250.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,250.00 
 3,250.00 
ii
Other Receivable
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited
 1.61 
 16.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.61 
 16.75 
Note:	
Related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in an arm’s length transactions provided that such terms can be substantiated.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
197
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note - 42 Segment Information (IND-AS 108)
Operating Segment:
The Company operates mainly in the business segment of fund based financing activity. All other activities revolve around the 
main business. Further, all activities are carried out within India. As such, there are no separate reportable segments as per the 
provisions of IND AS 108 on ‘Operating Segments’.
Note - 43 In Accordance with IND AS - 33 Earnings Per Share
The computation of earning per share is set out below:
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net Profit after tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss 
( A )
` in millions
 1,415.37 
 1,618.84 
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Basic EPS
( B )
Nos.
 18,49,90,406 
 18,35,75,044 
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Diluted EPS
( C )
Nos.
 18,70,98,040 
 18,55,53,681 
Basic earnings per equity share (in `) (Face value of ` 2/- per 
share)
(A)/(B)
`
 7.65 
 8.82 
Diluted earnings per equity share (in `) (Face value of ` 2/- 
per share)
(A)/(C)
`
 7.56 
 8.72 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating EPS 
Nos.
 18,49,90,406 
 18,35,75,044 
Add : Equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock 
options under ESOP
Nos.
 21,07,634 
 19,78,637 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculation of diluted 
EPS
Nos.
 18,70,98,040 
 18,55,53,681 
Note - 44 Leases	
The changes in the carrying value of ROU assets are as follows:
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Gross carrying value 
Balance as at the beginning of the Year 
 284.35 
 264.11 
Additions/Modifications 
 1,744.07 
 41.09 
Terminations 
 46.20 
 20.84 
Balance as at the end of the Year 
 1,982.22 
 284.36 
Accumulated depreciation 
Balance as at the beginning of the Year 
 108.07 
 91.27 
Depreciation 
 172.84 
 28.73 
Terminations/modifications 
 15.19 
 11.92 
Balance as at the end of the Year 
 265.72 
 108.08 
Net Carrying Value at the end of the Year
 1,716.50 
 176.28 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
198
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
The following is the movement in lease liabilities during the year: 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Lease liabilities 
Balance as at the beginning of the Year 
 196.21 
 197.55 
Additions/Modification 
 1,681.68 
 32.42 
Terminations/modifications 
 29.77 
 10.51 
Finance expense 
 134.36 
 19.88 
Payment of lease liabilities 
 212.10 
 43.14 
Balance as at the end of the Year
 1,770.38 
 196.21 
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2023, on an undiscounted 
basis: 
(` in millions)
Particulars
 31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
 Less than 1 year 
 363.52 
 1.57 
 1-3 years 
 739.23 
 19.33 
 3-5 years 
 679.66 
 202.57 
 More than 5 years 
 1,071.22 
 23.01 
 Total
 2,853.63 
 246.48 
The entity has adequate liquidity for payment of lease liabilities. The Company regularly monitor and pays lease rentals on timely 
manner as per the terms of respective leave and license agreement.
The Company has right to extend lease term as per mutually agreed terms laid down in respective leave and license agreement. 
The Company takes into account effect of extended lease term while recording the lease assets and lease liabilities accordingly.
Note - 45 Note-Employee Stock Option
The Company has granted Employee Stock Options (ESOP) under the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2009 (ESOP 2009) to 
employees of the Company/Subsidiary spread over a period 1 to 4 years.
Employee Stock Option Plans
A Summary of the general terms of grants under stock options plans are as under: -
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number of 
options 
under the Plan
Range of 
Exercise Price
Number of 
options 
under the Plan
Range of 
Exercise Price
Employee Stock Option Plan
 30,60,400 
` 2 to ` 520
 30,40,800 
` 2 to ` 300
The activity of the Stock Plans is summarised below:
Particulars
Year ended
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 5,65,400 
 2.00 
 7,32,950 
 2.00 
 1,99,500 
 70.00 
 2,85,000 
 70.00 
 2,88,400 
 100.00 
 4,42,000 
 100.00 
 22,500 
 130.00 
 50,500 
 130.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 70,000 
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
 8,75,000 
 250.00 
 - 
 - 
 9,50,000 
 300.00 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
199
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Particulars
Year ended
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Granted
 2,00,000 
 300.00 
 10,000 
 232.80 
 75,000 
 425.00 
 3,70,000 
 225.00 
 1,00,000 
 450.00 
 8,75,000 
 250.00 
 25,000 
 500.00 
 9,50,000 
 300.00 
 20,000 
 510.00 
 - 
 - 
 10,000 
 520.00 
 - 
 - 
Exercised
 12,900 
 2.00 
 1,29,600 
 2.00 
 1,57,500 
 70.00 
 85,500 
 70.00 
 6,600 
 100.00 
 1,53,600 
 100.00 
 6,000 
 130.00 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited, expired and cancelled
 27,900 
 2.00 
 37,950 
 2.00 
 22,000 
 100.00 
 28,000 
 130.00 
 2,500 
 130.00 
 10,000 
 232.80 
 25,000 
 250.00 
 3,00,000 
 225.00 
 1,50,000 
 300.00 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 5,24,600 
 2.00 
 5,65,400 
 2.00 
 42,000 
 70.00 
 1,99,500 
 70.00 
 2,59,800 
 100.00 
 2,88,400 
 100.00 
 14,000 
 130.00 
 22,500 
 130.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 70,000 
 225.00 
 70,000 
 225.00 
 8,50,000 
 250.00 
 8,75,000 
 250.00 
 10,00,000 
 300.00 
 9,50,000 
 300.00 
 75,000 
 425.00 
 - 
 - 
 1,00,000 
 450.00 
 - 
 - 
 25,000 
 500.00 
 - 
 - 
 20,000 
 510.00 
 - 
 - 
 10,000 
 520.00 
 - 
 - 
The weigted average fair value of the new ESOPs granted during the year is ` 470.72 per share (previous year ` 335.20 per share)
The following table summarises information about stock option plans
Exercise Price (`)
Year ended
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Numbers
Weighted 
Average 
Remaining Life 
(Months)
Numbers
Weighted 
Average 
Remaining Life 
(Months)
 2.00 
 5,24,600 
 11 
 5,65,400 
 21 
 70.00 
 42,000 
 5 
 1,99,500 
 6 
 100.00 
 2,59,800 
 2 
 2,88,400 
 10 
 130.00 
 14,000 
 13 
 22,500 
 19 
 174.00 
 50,000 
 9 
 50,000 
 19 
 194.90 
 20,000 
 23 
 20,000 
 35 
 225.00 
 70,000 
 31 
 70,000 
 44 
 250.00 
 8,50,000 
 34 
 8,75,000 
 46 
 300.00 
 10,00,000 
 37 
 9,50,000 
 48 
 425.00 
 75,000 
 40 
 450.00 
 1,00,000 
 40 
 500.00 
 25,000 
 40 
 510.00 
 20,000 
 41 
 520.00 
 10,000 
 42 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
200
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Fair value methodology
The fair value of shares are measured using Black-scholes-merton formula. Measurement input includes share price on 
measurement date, exercise date of the instrument, exercise price, expected life, risk free interest rate, dividend yield, expected 
volatility
The following table summarizes the assumptions used in calculating the grant date fair value.
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Expected life of the options
2.5 to 5 Years
3 to 5 Years
Expected volatility
40% to 50%
50% to 60%
Dividend yield
0.18% to 0.30%
1%
Risk-free interest rate
7.09% to 7.39%
4.72% to 6.28%
Expected life of the options: Expected life of the options is the period for which the company expects the Options to be live. 
The minimum life of a stock option is the minimum period before which the options cannot be exercised, and the maximum life 
is the period after which the options cannot be exercised.
Expected volatility: The measure of volatility used in ESOP pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return (calculated by log function) on the share over a period prior to the date of grant corresponding to 
the expected life of the option.
Dividend yield: Dividend Yield has been calculated as an average of dividend yields of six financial years preceding the date of 
grant. The dividend yield for the year is derived by dividing the dividend per share by the share price as on dividend effective 
date.
Risk-free interest rate: The rate used to discount employee benefit obligations reflects the estimated timing of benefit payments 
and the currency in which the benefits are to be paid. We have used the Discount Rate which relates to the par-yield rate available 
on ZYC Government Securities (G. Sec.) for the tenure of the expected life of options. (Ref: G Sec. rates available through www.
fbil.org.in with prices/yields published by FBIL).
The Weighted average market price of the ESOPs exercised during the year is ` 722.35 Per share (previous Year ` 530.71 Per share)
ESOP cost recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss for March 31, 2023 ` 141.75 millions (March 31, 2022 ` 50.10 millions)
As at March 31, 2023 amount of ` 1.61 millions (as at March 31, 2022 ` 16.75 millions) being the difference between the exercise 
price and fair value of the options is receivable from the subsidiary company with which employees are employed.
Note 46 - Expenditure in Foreign Currency
Software Expenses	 	
	
	
` 5.15 millions (March 31, 2022 ` 1.47 millions)
Professional Expenses	
	
	
` 9.24 millions (March 31, 2022 ` Nil millions)
Note 47 - Contingent Liabilities
Income Tax matters under dispute: March 31, 2023 ` 139.44 millions (March 31, 2022 ` 114.27 millions)
Note 48 - Capital and Other Commitments
a)	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for March 31, 2023 ` 213.15 
millions (March 31, 2022 ` 65.27 millions)
b)	
Amount payable towards acquisition of Property for March 31, 2023 ` 53.15 millions (March 31, 2022 ` 39.82 millions)
c)	
Other Commitments- Pending disbursements of sanctioned loans for March 31,2023 ` 12,325.40 millions (March 31,2022 
` 10,513.73 millions)
Note 49 - Fraud Reporting
The company has reported frauds aggregating March 31, 2023 ` 11.18 millions (March 31, 2022 NIL) based on management 
reporting to risk committee and to the RBI through prescribed returns.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
201
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Note 50 - Details of all collateral used as security for liabilities
(` in millions)
Particulars
Carrying amount of  
financial assets pledged
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Assets type
Loans receivable as collateral under lending agreements
70,137.64
 46,415.70 
Loans receivable as collateral under PTC agreements
 48.47 
 594.57 
Receivables from investment in securities as collateral
 300.98 
 2,554.12 
Cash and other bank balance collateral under lending agreements
 14,447.89 
 910.86 
Disclosures as per the Reserve Bank of India
Note 51. Schedule to the Balance Sheet under Annex IV of Master Direction - Non-Banking Financial 
Company - Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Company and Deposit taking Company (Reserve 
Bank) Directions, 2016
 (` in millions)
Particulars
 Amount O/S
 Amount Overdue
Liabilities Side
(1)
Loans and advances availed by the non banking financial company inclusive of 
interest accrued thereon but not paid:
a)	
Debentures:
	
Secured
 4,386.14
 -
	
Unsecured
	
(other than falling within the meaning of public deposits)
 -
 -
b)	
Deferred Credits
 -
 -
c)	
Term Loans
 48,854.24
 -
d)	
Intercorporate loans and borrowings
 -
 -
e)	
Commercial Paper
 -
 -
f)	
Other Loans (Cash Credit & Overdraft Facility)
 643.50
 -
Total
 53,883.88
 -
Assets Side
 Amount 
Outstanding
(2)
Breakup of Loans and Advances including bills receivables (other than those 
included in (4) below):
a)	
Secured
 70,707.99
b)	
Unsecured
 3.04
(3)
Breakup of Leased Assets and stock on hire and other assets counting towards 
AFC activities
i)	
Lease assets including lease rentals under sundry debtors:
	
a)	
Financial Lease
 -
	
b)	
Operating Lease
 -
ii)	
Stock on hire including hire charges under sundry debtors:
	
a)	
Assets on hire
 -
	
b)	
Repossed Assets
 -
iii)	
Other loans counting towards AFC activities
	
a)	
Loans where assets have been repossessed
 -
	
b)	
Loans other than (a) above
 -
(4)
Breakup of Investments:
Current Investments:
1. 	
Quoted:
	
i) 	
Shares: 	
(a) 	 Equity
 -
	
	
	
	
(b)	
Preference
 -
	
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
 5.37
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
202
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Assets Side
 Amount 
Outstanding
	
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 300.98
	
iv)	
Government Securities
 -
	
v)	
Others (please specify)
 -
	
	
- Commercial Paper
2.	
Unquoted:
	
i)	
Shares:	
(a)	
Equity
 -
	
	
	
	
(b)	
Preference
 -
	
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
 -
	
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 -
	
iv)	
Government Securities
 -
	
v)	
Others (please specify)
 -
Long Term investments:
1.	
Quoted:
	
i)	
Shares:	
(a)	
Equity
 -
	
	
	
	
(b)	
Preference
 -
	
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
 43.09
	
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 -
	
iv)	
Government Securities
 -
	
v)	
Others (please specify)
 -
2.	
Unquoted:
i)	
Shares: 	
(a)	
Equity
 3,250.00
	
	
	
(b)	
Preference
 -
ii)	
Debentures and Bonds
 -
iii)	
Units of mutual funds
 -
iv)	
Government Securities
 -
v)	
Others
 -
(5) 	 Borrower groupwise  classification  of assets financed as in (2) and (3) above:	
(` in millions)
Category
 Amount net of Provisions
 Secured
 Unsecured
 Total
	
1.	
Related Parties
	
	
a)	
Subsidiaries
 -
 -
 -
	
	
b)	
Companies in the same group
 -
 -
 -
	
	
c)	
Other related parties
 -
 -
 -
	
2.	
Other than related parties
 69,289.18
 3.04
 69,292.22
	
Total
 69,289.18
 3.04
 69,292.22
(6)	
Investor groupwise classification of all investments (current and long term) in shares and securities (both quoted and 
unquoted): 	
(` in millions) 
Category
 Market Value/
Break up or fair 
value or NAV 
 Book Value (Net 
of Provisions) 
	
1.	
Related Parties
	
	
a)	
Subsidiaries*
 5,077.84 
 3,250.00 
	
	
b)	
Companies in the same group
 - 
 - 
	
	
c)	
Other related parties
 - 
 - 
	
2.	
Other than related parties
 - 
 - 
	
Total
 5,077.84 
 3,250.00 
* The fair value of Investment is considered as net worth of Company 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
203
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
 (7) 	  Other information	
(` in millions) 
Particulars
 Amount
	
i)	
Gross Non Performing Assets
	
	
a)	
Related Parties
 -
	
	
b)	
Other than related parties
 1,379.50
	
ii)	
Net Non Performing Assets
	
	
a)	
Related Parties
 -
	
	
b)	
Other than related parties
 979.60
	
iii)	
Assets acquired in satisfaction of debt
 -
Note 52 -There are no Restructured Accounts as per Appendix 4 of Master Direction - Non-Banking Financial Company - 
Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Company and Deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016.
Note 53 - Disclosure Pursuant to RBI Notification - RBI/2020-21/17 DOR No. BP. BC/3/21.04.048/2020-21 dated 6 August 2020 ( 
for restructuring of accounts of micro, small and Medium Enterprises ( MSME Sector- Restructuring of Advances having exposure 
less than or equal to ` 25 Crores)
Type of Borrower
Number of Accounts 
restructured
Amount 
(` in millions)
MSMEs (Current year)
-
-
MSMEs (Previous year)
571
 1,152.16
Note 54 - Additional regulatory information under division III to schedule III as per notification dated 
March 24, 2021
(i)	
Title deeds of Immovable Property:
	
The Company confirms that, the title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company.
(ii)	 Revaluation of Property, Plant and Equipment:
	
The Company has not revalued Property, Plant and Equipment during the year.
(iii)	 Revaluation of Intangible Assets:
	
The Company has not revalued Intangible assets during the year.
(iv)	 Loans or Advances:
	
During the year, the Company has not provided any loans or advances granted to promoters, directors and KMPs.
(v)	 Intangible assets under development ageing schedule:
(` in millions)
Intangible Assets under development
Amount in Intangible Assets  
under development for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
 Projects in progress (Software) 
 73.25 
 0.46 
 - 
 - 
 73.71 
(vi)	 Capital work in progress ageing schedule:
(` in millions)
Capital work in progress
Amount in Capital work in progress for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
 Projects in progress (CWIP) 
 25.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25.22 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
204
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(vii)	 Details of Benami Property held:
	
No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition 
of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended from time to time) and the rules made thereunder.
(viii)	Security of current assets against borrowings:
	
Quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by the Company with banks or financial institutions are in agreement 
with the books of accounts.
(ix)	 Wilful Defaulter:
	
The Company has not been declared as wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
(x)	 Relationship with Struck off Companies:  There are no transaction with Struck off companies during the year.
(xi)	 Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies (ROC):
	
During the year, there was no delay in registration of charge or satisfaction with ROC and no charge is pending for registration.
(xii)	 Compliance with number of layers of companies:
	
The Company has complied with the requirements of number of layers as per Section 186 of Companies Act, 2013.
(xiii)	Analytical Ratios:
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
As at 31st 
March, 2023
As at 31st 
March, 2022
% Variance Reason for variance  
(if above 25%)
(a)	
Capital to 
risk-weighted 
assets ratio 
(CRAR)
Total Capital 
Funds
Total risk 
weighted 
assets/ 
exposures 
39.86%
29.39%
35.62% CRAR has increased 
primarily due to infusion of 
Fresh Capital on account 
of Rights Issue  
(b)	
Tier I CRAR
Net Owned 
Fund
Total risk 
weighted 
assets/ 
exposures 
39.35%
28.77%
36.77% Tier I Capital has 
increased due to infusion 
of Fresh Capital on 
account of Rights Issue  
(c)	
Tier II CRAR
Aggregate 
Tier II 
Capital 
Total risk 
weighted 
assets/ 
exposures 
0.51%
0.62%
-17.74% NA
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
For the 
quarter 
ended March 
31, 2023
For the 
quarter 
ended March 
31, 2022
% Variance Reason for variance  
(if above 25%)
(d)	
Liquidity 
Coverage 
Ratio
Stock of 
High Quality 
Liquid 
Assets
Total Cash Net 
Outflows over 
the next 30 
calendar days.
257.34%
120.69%
113.23% LCR has increased 
primarily due to infusion of 
Fresh Capital on account 
of Rights Issue  
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
205
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(xiv)	Compliance with approved Scheme(s) of Arrangements: Not applicable
(xv)	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium
Borrowed funds have been utilised for the purpose they have been sanctioned and share premium has been utilised in working 
capital.
(xvi)
(a)	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources 
or other kind of funds) to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(b)	
The Company has not received any funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) from any person or 
entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Note 55: Disclosures in Financial Statements- Notes to Accounts of NBFCs refer to circular RBI/2022-
23/26 DOR.ACC.REC.No.20/21.04.018/2022-23 Scale Based Regulation (SBR) dated 19th April 2022
55.1 Exposures
55.1.1 Exposure to Real Estate Sector
(` in millions)
Category
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
a)	
Direct Exposure
	
i)	
Residential Mortgages -
	
	
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or 
will be occupied by the borrower or that is rented; Exposure would also 
include non-fund based (NFB) limits
 -
 -
	
ii)	
Commercial Real Estate -
	
	
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estates (office 
buildings, retail space, multipurpose commercial premises, multi-family 
residential budlings, multi-tenanted commercial premises, industrial 
or warehouse space, hotels, land acquisition, development and 
construction, etc. Exposure shall also include non-fund based limits
 18,301.08
 12,676.73
	
iii)	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised 
exposures -
	
	
a.	
Residential
 -
 -
	
	
b.	
Commercial Real Estate
 -
 -
b)	
Indirect Exposure
	
Fund based and non-fund based exposure on National Housing Bank (NHB) 
and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs.)
 3,250.00
 3,250.00
	
Total Exposure to real estate sector
 21,551.08
 15,926.73
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
206
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
55.1.2 Exposure to Capital Market
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
i)	
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures 
and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively 
invested in corporate debt;
 -
 48.11
ii)	
Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities or on 
clean basis to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs / ESOPs), 
convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented 
mutual funds;
 -
 -
iii) 	
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or 
convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as 
primary security;
 -
 -
iv) 	
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral 
security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of 
equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the primary security other than shares 
/ convertible bonds / convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual 
funds 'does not fully cover the advances;
 -
 -
v)	
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on 
behalf of stockbrokers and market makers;
 -
 -
vi)	
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / 
debentures or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter's 
contribution to the equity of new companies in anticipation of raising 
resources;
 -
 -
vii)	
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues;
 -
 -
viii)	 Underwriting commitments taken up by the NBFCs in respect of primary issue 
of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity 
oriented mutual funds
 -
 -
ix)	
Financing to stockbrokers for margin trading
 -
 -
x)	
All exposures to Alternative Investment Funds:
	
(i)	
Category I
	
(ii)	
Category II
	
(iii)	
Category III
 -
 -
Total Exposure to Capital Market
-
 48.11
55.1.3 Sectoral exposure
Sectors
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet and 
off-balance sheet 
exposure) 
(` millions)
Gross 
NPAs 
(` millions)
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure in 
that sector
Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet 
and off-balance 
sheet exposure) 
(` millions)
Gross 
NPAs 
(` millions)
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure in 
that sector
1.	
Agriculture and Allied 
Activities 
 2,232.62 
 38.90 
1.74%
 1,599.76 
 14.81 
0.93%
2.	
Industry
 - 
 - 
	
i.	
Chemicals & 
chemical products
 3,793.55 
 83.88 
2.21%
 3,328.29 
 63.00 
1.89%
	
ii.	
Engineering
 4,923.47 
 107.37 
2.18%
 4,252.84 
 88.37 
2.08%
	
iii.	
Food 
Manufacturing and 
Processing
 3,450.80 
 117.46 
3.40%
 3,016.79 
 89.36 
2.96%
	
iv.	
Textiles
 5,578.53 
 187.38 
3.36%
 4,943.83 
 90.92 
1.84%
Total of Industry
 17,746.35 
 496.09 
2.80%
 15,541.75 
 331.65 
2.13%
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
207
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Sectors
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet and 
off-balance sheet 
exposure) 
(` millions)
Gross 
NPAs 
(` millions)
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure in 
that sector
Total Exposure 
(includes on 
balance sheet 
and off-balance 
sheet exposure) 
(` millions)
Gross 
NPAs 
(` millions)
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to total 
exposure in 
that sector
3.	
Services
	
Professional and Other 
Services
 12,029.62 
 637.90 
5.30%
 11,518.85 
 856.48 
7.44%
Total of Services
 12,029.62 
 637.90 
5.30%
 11,518.85 
 856.48 
7.44%
4.	
Personal Loans
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5.	
Others, if any
	
5.1	 Trade
	 	
(i) Retail Trade
 7,285.35 
 114.23 
1.57%
 4,484.14 
 52.05 
1.16%
	 	
(ii) Wholesale Trade
 24.01 
 - 
0.00%
 1.02 
 - 
0.00%
	
5.2	 Financials 
intermediation
	
(i)	
Banking and 
Finance Service
 3,389.87 
 15.90 
0.47%
 3,178.26 
 23.18 
0.73%
	
(ii)	
Investment 
Company
 18.30 
 - 
0.00%
 - 
 - 
0.00%
	
5.3	 Transport and 
other support 
services
 833.31 
 19.83 
2.38%
 705.12 
 22.71 
3.22%
	
5.4	 Construction
 29,030.28 
 65.48 
0.23%
 21,193.02 
 - 
0.00%
	
5.5	 others
 11,276.26 
 12.78 
0.11%
 7.37 
 1.41 
19.10%
Total of others
 51,857.38 
 228.22 
0.44%
 29,568.93 
 99.35 
0.34%
55.1.4 Intra-group exposures
i)	
Total amount of intra-group exposures- Nil
ii)	
Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures- Nil
iii)	
Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the NBFC on borrowers/customers- Nil
55.1.5 Unhedged foreign currency exposure- Not applicable
55.2 Related party transaction
(` in millions)
Related Party
Parent (as per 
ownership or 
control)
Subsidiary
Associates/ Joint 
ventures
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Others
Total
Items
Current 
year
Previous 
year
Current 
year
Previous 
year
Current 
year
Previous 
year
Current 
year
Previous 
year
Current 
year
Previous 
year
Current 
year
Previous 
Year
Current 
year
Previous 
year
Borrowings
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Deposits
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Placement of 
deposits
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Advances
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Investments
 -
 -
 3,250.00
 3,250.00
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 3,250.00
 3,250.00
Purchase of 
fixed/other 
assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Sale of fixed/
other assets
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Interest paid
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Interest 
received
 -
 -
 1.04
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 1.04
 -
Others
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Sale of 
Investment to 
Subsidiaries
 -
 -
 361.86
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 361.86
 -
Sale of loans 
to Subsidiaries
 -
 -
 23.44
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
 23.44
 -
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
208
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
55.3 Disclosure of complaints
55.3.1 Summary information on complaints received by the NBFCs from customers and from the Offices of 
Ombudsman
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Complaints received by the NBFC from its customers
284
183
(1)	
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
0
0
(2)	
Number of complaints received during the year
284
183
(3)	
Number of complaints disposed during the year
281
183
	
Of which, number of complaints rejected by the NBFC
105
77
(4)	
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
3
0
	
Maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from Office of Ombudsman
(5)	
Number of maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from Office of 
Ombudsman
107
81
	
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the NBFC by Office of 
Ombudsman
105
81
	
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/
advisories issued by Office of Ombudsman
2
0
	
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by Office of 
Ombudsman against the NBFC
0
0
(6)	
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than 
those appealed)
0
0
Note: As IO was appointed in FY'23 Q3 and IO SOP was approved in next Board Meeting held in FY'23 Q4, complaints were 
referred to IO post approval of SOP by board i.e. since Feb'23.
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 
2021 (Previously The Ombudsman Scheme for Non-Banking Financial Companies, 2018) and covered within the ambit of the 
Scheme.
* It shall only be applicable to NBFCS which are included under The Reserve Bank - Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021
55.3.2 Top five grounds2 of complaints received by the NBFCs from customers
Grounds of 
complaints, 
(i.e. complaints 
relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase/ decrease 
in the number of 
complaints received 
over the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
Current Year
Ground 1 
0
0
0.00%
0
0
Ground 2
0
57
35.71%
0
0
Ground 3
0
0
0.00%
0
0
Ground 4
0
0
0.00%
0
0
Ground 5
0
22
-31.25%
0
0
Ground 6
0
105
41.89%
0
0
Ground 7
0
0
0.00%
0
0
Ground 8
0
0
0.00%
0
0
Ground 9
0
0
0.00%
0
0
Ground 10
0
100
185.71%
3
0
Total
0
284
55.19%
3
0
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
209
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Grounds of 
complaints, 
(i.e. complaints 
relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
beginning of the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
received during 
the year
% increase/ decrease 
in the number of 
complaints received 
over the previous 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at the 
end of the year
Of 5, number 
of complaints 
pending beyond 
30 days
Previous Year
Ground 1 
0
0
NA
0
0
Ground 2
0
42
NA
0
0
Ground 3
0
0
NA
0
0
Ground 4
0
0
NA
0
0
Ground 5
0
32
NA
0
0
Ground 6
0
74
NA
0
0
Ground 7
0
0
NA
0
0
Ground 8
0
0
NA
0
0
Ground 9
0
0
NA
0
0
Ground 10
0
35
NA
0
0
Total
0
183
NA
0
0
2	
The list of grounds of complaints given below are indicative only.
1. 	 Credit Cards
2. 	 Difficulty in operation of 
accounts
3. 	 Mis-selling
4.	
Recovery Agents/ Direct 
Sales Agents
5. 	 Loans and advances
6. 	 Levy of charges without 
prior notice/ excessive 
charges/ 
foreclosure 
charges
7.	
Non-observance of fair 
practices code
8.	
Staff behaviour
9. 	 Facilities for customers 
visiting the office/ 
adherence to prescribed 
working hours, etc.
10. 	 Others
56	 Disclosures required in terms of Annexure XIV of the RBI Master Direction DNBR. 
PD.008/03.10.119/2016-17 dated 1 September 2016 “Master Direction - Non-Banking Financial 
Company - Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Company and Deposit taking Company 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016 are mentioned as below:
56.1 Capital Adequacy Ratio
Sr.No.
Items 
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
i)
CRAR (%)
39.86%
29.39%
ii)
CRAR  - Tier I Capital (%)
39.35%
28.77%
iii)
CRAR  - Tier II Capital (%)
0.51%
0.62%
iv)
Amount of subordinated debt raised as  Tier-II capital
-
-
v)
Amount raised by issue of  Perpetual Debt Instruments
-
-
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
210
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.2 Investments
(` in millions)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
1
Value of Investments
(i)
Gross Value of Investments
(a)
In India
 3,599.45
 6,441.71
(b)
Outside India,
 -
 -
(ii)
Provisions for Depreciation
(a)
In India
 -
 -
(b)
Outside India,
 -
 -
(iii)
Net Value of Investments
(a)
In India
 3,599.45
 6,441.71
(b)
Outside India.
 -
 -
2
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments.
(i)
Opening balance
 -
 -
(ii)
Add: Provisions made during the year
 -
 -
(iii)
Less: Write-off/write-back of excess provisions during the year
 -
 -
(iv)
Closing balance
 -
 -
56.3 Derivatives
56.3.1 Forward Rate Agreement (FRA)/ Interest Rate Swap	
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i)	
The notional principal of swap agreements
 9,563.89
 4,238.82
(ii)	
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfil their 
obligations under the agreements
 -
 -
(iii)	
Collateral required by the NBFC upon entering into swaps
 NA
 N.A
(iv)	
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps
 NA
 N.A
(v)	
The fair value of the swap book
 58.05
 8.63
56.3.2 Exchange Traded Interest Rate (IR) Derivative
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i)	
Notional principal amount of exchange traded IR derivatives undertaken 
during the year (instrument wise)
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
Notional principal amount of exchange traded IR derivatives outstanding as 
on 31st March 2022 (instrument wise)
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Notional principal amount of exchange traded IR derivatives outstanding 
and not “highly effective” (instrument wise)
 - 
 - 
(i)	
Mark-to-market value of exchange traded IR derivatives outstanding and not 
“highly effective” (instrument wise)
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
211
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.3.3 Disclosures on Risk Exposure in Derivatives
A.	
Qualitative Disclosure
The Company undertakes derivative transactions for hedging on-balance sheet liabilities, these derivative transactions are in form 
of Forward Exchange Contracts.
The Asset Liability Management Committee and Risk Management Committee closely monitors such transactions and reviews the 
risks involved. The Company has entered into these Forward Exchange Contract to mitigate the foreign exchange risk pertaining 
to FCNR (B) Term Loan.
All derivative contracts including the Forward Exchange Contracts are recognised on the balance sheet and measured at fair 
value. Hedge accounting is applied to all the derivative instruments including the Forward Exchange Contracts  as per IND 
AS 109. Gain / loss arising on account of fair value changes are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss to the extent of 
ineffective portion of hedge instruments and hedged items. The gains / losses of effective portion of hedge instrument are offset 
against gain / losses of hedged items in Other Comprehensive Income.
Foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at the Balance Sheet date, are recorded at fair value. The premium or discount 
arising at the inception of such forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of the contract. The 
Company has entered into cashflow hedges to hedge currency risk on certain foreign currency loans and to cover future interest 
on foreign currency borrowings.
B.	 Quantitative Disclosure	 	
	
	
	
	
(` in millions)
Category
Currency 
Derivatives
Interest Rate 
Derivatives
(i)	
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
 9,563.89 
 - 
(ii)	
Marked to Market Positions
 (58.05)
 - 
	
(a)	
Assets (+)
 - 
 - 
	
(b)	
Liability (-)
 58.05 
 - 
(iii)	
Credit Exposure
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Unhedged Exposures
 - 
 - 
56.4 Maturity Pattern of Assets & Liabilities
(` in millions)
As at March 
31, 2023
1 to 7 
days
8 to 14 
days
15 days 
to 30/31 
days
Over one 
Month to 
2 Months
Over 2 
Months to 
3 Months
Over 3 
Months to 
6 Months
Over 6 
Months to 
1 Year
Over 1 to 
3 Years
Over 3 to 
5 Years
Over 5 
Years
Total
Deposits
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Advances
 - 
 - 
 514.83 
 948.08 
 1,849.27 
 7,462.28 
 7,445.97 
 15,249.85 
 11,917.61 
 25,320.10 
 70,707.99 
Investments
 - 
 0.43 
 300.99 
 0.43 
 0.43 
 1.33 
 2.76 
 10.77 
 11.04 
 3,271.27 
 3,599.45 
Borrowings 
 645.96 
 23.65 
 82.39 
 2,711.85 
 2,591.55 
 3,712.75 
 6,995.66 
 19,812.14 
 11,707.35 
 5,600.58 
 53,883.88 
Foreign 
currnecy 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign 
currency 
assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
212
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
As at March 
31, 2022
1 to 7 
days
8 to 14 
days
15 days 
to 30/31 
days
Over one 
Month to 
2 Months
Over 2 
Months to 
3 Months
Over 3 
Months to 
6 Months
Over 6 
Months to 
1 Year
Over 1 to 
3 Years
Over 3 to 
5 Years
Over 5 
Years
Total
Deposits
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Advances 
 - 
 15.60 
 1,613.40 
 1,062.50 
 345.40 
 1,120.30 
 2,782.10 
 9,129.90 
 7,463.40 
 23,644.73 
 47,177.33 
Investments 
 - 
 24.30 
 2,154.40 
 4.29 
 134.30 
 13.30 
 27.80 
 416.80 
 128.40 
 3,538.12 
 6,441.71 
Borrowings 
 701.50 
 20.80 
 258.97 
 375.00 
 729.90 
 1,520.20 
 3,248.30 
 15,494.30 
 7,405.50 
 3,989.22 
 33,743.69 
Foreign 
Currency 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign 
Currency 
assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
i)	
Borrowings includes cash credit and overdraft facility classified under upto 30 days maturity period which are generally 
availed as rollover facility and Debt Securities
56.5 Exposures
56.5.1 Exposure to Real Estate Sector
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
a)	
Direct Exposure
	
i)	
Residential Mortgages -
	
	
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or 
will be occupied by the borrower or that is rented;
 -
 -
	
ii)	
Commercial Real Estate -
	
	
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estates (office 
buildings, retail space, multipurpose commercial premises, multi-family 
residential budlings, multi-tenanted commercial premises, industrial 
or warehouse space, hotels, land acquisition, development and 
construction, etc. Exposure shall also include non-fund based limits
 18,301.08
 12,676.73
	
iii)	
Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised 
exposures -
	
	
a.	
Residential
 -
 -
	
	
b.	
Commercial Real Estate
 -
 -
b)	
Indirect Exposure
	
Fund based and non-fund based exposure on National Housing Bank (NHB) 
and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)*
 3,250.00
 3,250.00
	
Invest in Pass Through Certificate
 48.47
 591.51
* investment made in wholly owned housing Finance Subsidiary Registered with the National Housing Bank .
The above exposure doesn’t include advances given based on estimation of underlying business cash flows as part of credit 
underwriting process though the securities given might include real estate assets.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
213
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.5.2 Exposure to Capital Market
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
i)	
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures 
and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively 
invested in corporate debt;
 -
 48.11
ii)	
Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities or on 
clean basis to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs / ESOPs), 
convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented 
mutual funds;
 -
 -
iii)	
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or 
convertible debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as 
primary security;
 -
 -
iv)	
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral 
security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of 
equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the primary security other than shares 
/ convertible bonds / convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual 
funds does not fully cover the advances;
 -
 -
v)	
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on 
behalf of stockbrokers and market makers;
 -
 -
vi)	
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / 
debentures or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter's 
contribution to the equity of new companies in anticipation of raising 
resources;
 -
 -
vii)	
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues;
 -
 -
viii)	 All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered)
 -
 -
Total Exposure to Capital Market
-
 48.11
56.6 Details of financing of parent company products
Not applicable as the company is not financing products of parent company.
56.7 Details of Single Borrower Limit (SGL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL) exceeded by the NBFC
These details are not applicable to Company as the Company has not exceeded the SGL and GBL as prescribed by RBI during 
the financial year.
56.8 Unsecured Advances
The exposure to unsecured advances is as at March 31, 2023 ` 3.04 millions (March 31, 2022 ` 0.94 millions)
56.9 Miscellaneous
56.9.1 Registration number obtained from RBI
B-13.01882
56.9.2 Disclosure of penalties imposed by RBI and other regulators
During the year ended March 31, 2023 no penalties have been imposed by RBI and other regulators (March 31, 2022: Nil)
56.9.3 Related Party Transactions
Refer note 41 to the standalone financial statements
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
214
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.9.4 Ratings assigned by credit rating agencies and migration of ratings during the year
(` in millions)
Sr. No. Instrument
Rating assigned
Agency
Date of Rating
Amount
1
Term Loans
CARE A+/Stable
CARE Ratings Limited
06-07-2022
 37,500.00
2
Non convertible 
debentures
CARE A+/Stable
CARE Ratings Limited
06-07-2022
 4,000.00
3
Term Loans
IVR AA/Stable
Infomerics valuation and 
rating private limited
31-03-2023
 79,900.00
4
Cash Credit
IVR AA/Stable
Infomerics valuation and 
rating private limited
31-03-2023
 1,050.00
5
Non convertible 
debentures
IVR AA/Stable
Infomerics valuation and 
rating private limited
31-03-2023
 3,000.00
6
Commercial Papers
IVR A1+
Infomerics valuation and 
rating private limited
31-03-2023
 3,500.00
7
Term Loans
BWR AA-/Stable
Brickwork Ratings
25-07-2022
 45,000.00
8
Cash Credit
BWR AA-/Stable
Brickwork Ratings
25-07-2022
 1,200.00
9
Non convertible 
debentures
BWR AA-/Stable
Brickwork Ratings
25-07-2022
 333.30
56.9.5 Remuneration of Directors
Refer note 41 to the standalone financial statements.
56.9.6 Management
The annual report has a detailed chapter on Management Discussion and Analysis.
56.9.7 Net Profit or Loss for the period, prior period items and changes in accounting policies
There are no prior period items that have an impact on the current year's profit.
56.9.8 Revenue Recognition
There has been no instances in which revenue recognition has been postponed pending resolution of significant uncertainties.
56.9.9 Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS)
The Company has prepared Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 110 - Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
56.10.1 Master Direction Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 (Updated as on 
December 05, 2022) RBI/DOR/2021-22/86 DOR.STR.REC.51/21.04.048/2021-22
a)	
Details of transfer through assignment in respect of loans not in default:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Amount of Loan accounts assigned (` in millions)
 4,110.63 
Retention of Beneficial Economic Interest (in %)
 20.00 
Weighted Average Maturity (in years)
 12.05 
Weighted Average Holding Period (in years)
 0.33 
Coverage of tangible security Coverage (in %)
 203.10 
The above transaction is pursuant to Co-Lending option II (Direct Assignment) pursuant to RBI notification RBI/2020-21/63/FIDD.
CO.Plan.BC.No.8/04.09.01/2020-21 dated September 04, 2020
b)	
The Company has not acquired any loan not in default during the ended March 31, 2023
c)	
The Company has transferred stressed loan to subsidiary company during the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
215
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
Details of stressed loans transferred during the year (to be made separately for loans classified as NPA and SMA)
Particulars
To ARCs To permitted 
transferees
To other transferees 
(please specify)
No: of accounts
 - 
 32.00 
 - 
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (` in millions)
 - 
 43.95 
 - 
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (In 
months)
 - 
 177.27 
 - 
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) (` in 
millions)
 - 
 34.60 
 - 
Aggregate consideration (` in millions)
 - 
 23.44 
 - 
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred 
in earlier years (` in millions)
 - 
 - 
 - 
Details of loans acquired during the year
All amounts in  (` in millions)
From lenders 
listed in Clause 3
From ARCs
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans acquired
 - 
 - 
Aggregate consideration paid
 - 
 - 
Weighted average residual tenor of loans acquired (In months)
 - 
 - 
56.11 Additional Disclosures
56.11.1 Provisions and Contingencies
(` in millions)
Break up of 'Provisions and Contingencies' shown under the head Expenditure 
in Profit and Loss Account
For the year 
March 31, 2023
For the year 
March 31, 2022
Provisions for depreciation on Investment
 - 
 - 
Provision towards NPA
 1.94 
 -13.70 
Provision made towards Income tax
 483.48 
 550.41 
Other Provision and Contingencies
	
Provision for Standard Assets 
 9.48 
 470.53 
	
Floating Provision Against Standard Asset
 - 
 - 
	
Provision for depreciation
 389.67 
 73.14 
	
Provision for gratuity
 9.68 
 5.90 
	
Provision for Compensated Absence 
 44.77 
 12.06 
56.11.2 Draw Down from Reserves
The Company has not made any draw down from reserves during the current year.
56.11.3 Concentration of Public deposits, Advances, Exposures and NPAs
56.11.3.1 Concentration of Deposits
There are no Public Deposits during the year ended March 31, 2023. Hence Related Disclosures are not applicable.
56.11.3.2 Concentration of Advances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Total loans & advances to twenty largest borrowers (Amount in ` in millions)
 7,202.56 
 6,512.70 
Percentage of Advances to twenty largest borrowers to Total Advances of the 
applicable NBFC
10.07%
13.65%
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
216
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.11.3.3 Concentration of Exposures
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers (Amount in ` in millions)
 9,121.50 
 7,785.90 
Percentage of Exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers to Total 
Exposure of the applicable NBFC on borrowers / customers
11.04%
13.37%
56.11.3.4 Concentration of NPAs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Total Exposure to top four NPA accounts (Gross) (Amount in ` in millions)
 150.32 
 138.40 
56.11.3.5 Sector-wise NPAs
Sr. 
No.
Sector
Percentage of NPAs to Total Advances 
in that sector
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
1
Agriculture & allied activities
-
-
2
MSME
3.39%
4.00%
3
Corporate borrowers 
0.28%
0.15%
4
Services
-
-
5
Unsecured personal loans
-
-
6
Auto loans
-
-
7
Other personal loans
0.11%
-
56.11.4 Movement of NPAs 
(` in millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i)
Net NPAs to Net Advances (%) (Net of Overall Provision)
-ve
-ve
Net NPAs to Net Advances (%) (Net of Provision on NPA)
1.38%
1.91%
(ii)
Movement of NPAs (Gross)
(a)	
Opening balance
 1,299.84
 1,406.33
(b)	
Additions during the year
 872.22
 475.11
(c)	
Reductions during the year
 792.56
 581.60
(d)	
Closing balance
 1,379.50
 1,299.84
(iii)
Movement of Net NPAs
(a)	
Opening balance
 901.87
 994.67
(b)	
Additions during the year
 729.04
 324.73
(c)	
Reductions during the year
 651.31
 417.53
(d)	
Closing balance
 979.60
 901.87
(iv)
Movement of provisions for NPAs (excluding provisions on standard assets)
(a)	
Opening balance
 397.97
 411.67
(b)	
Provisions made during the year
 143.18
 150.37
(c)	
Write-off / write-back of excess provisions
 141.25
 164.07
(d)	
Closing balance
 399.90
 397.97
	
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
217
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.11.5 Overseas Assets
The Company does not have any overseas assets.
56.11.6 Off-balance Sheet SPVs sponsored
The Company has not sponsored any SPVs. Accordingly, the disclosure is not applicable
56.11.7 Customer Complaints
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(a)
No. of complaints pending at the beginning of the year
0
0
(b)
No. of complaints received during the year
284
183
(c)
No. of complaints redressed during the year
281
183
(d)
No. of complaints pending at the end of the year
3
0
56.12 Disclosure on liquidity risk pursuant to RBI circular dated 4 November 2019 on ‘Liquidity Risk Management 
Framework for Non-Banking Financial Companies and Core Investment Companies’ is as follows:
56.12.1 Funding Concentration based on significant counterparty (both deposits and borrowings)
Sr. 
No.
Number of Significant 
Counterparties
Amount (in ` millions)
% of Total deposits
% of Total liabilities
1
14
 52,395.70 
 NA 
88.48%
56.12.2 Top 20 large deposits
Not Applicable to the Company as it does not accept public deposits.
56.12.3 Top 10 borrowings
Amount (` millions) of Borrowings from Top 10 Lenders
% of Total borrowings
 47,021.53 
86.77%
56.12.4 Funding concentration based on significant instrument/product
Sr. 
No.
Name of instrument/product
Amount 
(in ` millions)
% of Total 
liabilities
1
Term Loans from Bank
 45,643.28 
77.08%
2
Term Loan from Financial Institution
 3,517.78 
5.94%
3
Non-Convertible Debentures
 4,386.52 
7.41%
4
Loans repayable on demand from Bank (Cash Credit Facility)
 643.50 
1.09%
56.12.5 Stock ratios
Particulars
as a % of total public 
funds*
as a % of total 
liabilities
as a % of total assets
Commercial papers
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
Non-Convertible Debentures 
(original maturity of less than 1 year)
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
Other short term liabilities #
37.56%
34.37%
21.90%
*"Public funds" includes funds raised either directly or indirectly through public deposits, inter-corporate deposits, bank finance and all funds received 
from outside sources such as funds raised by issue of Commercial Papers, debentures etc. but excludes funds raised by issue of instruments compulsorily 
convertible into equity shares within a period not exceeding 5 years from the date of issue.
# Other short term liabilities are excluding Commercial paper & short term non-convertible debentures.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
218
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.12.6 Institutional set-up for liquidity risk management
The Board of Directors are responsible for the overall risk management approach and for approving the risk management 
strategies and principles. The Board has constituted the Risk Management Committee (RMC) which is responsible for monitoring 
the overall risk process within the Company.
The meetings of RMC are held at quarterly interval. The Risk owners are responsible for monitoring compliance with risk principles, 
policies and limits across the Company. RMC ensures that the credit and investment exposure to any party / Company / group 
of parties or companies does not exceed the internally set limits as well as statutory limits as prescribed by Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time. RMC Develops risk policies and procedures and verify adherence to various risk parameters and prudential 
limits; review the risk monitoring system and ensure effective risk management.
The Company’s Treasury is responsible for managing its assets and liabilities and the overall financial structure. It is also primarily 
responsible for the funding and liquidity risks of the Company.
The Board of Directors has constitution of Asset Liability Committee (ALCO). The Company’s ALCO monitors asset liability 
mismatches to ensure that there are no imbalances or excessive concentrations on either side of the balance sheet. ALCO 
conducts quarterly reviews relating to the liquidity position and stress test assuming various ‘what if’ scenarios. The ALCO is 
a decision-making unit responsible for balance sheet planning from risk-return perspective including strategic management 
of interest rate and liquidity risks. The ALCO also evaluates the Borrowing Plan of subsequent quarters based on previous 
borrowings of the Company.
In assessing the Company's liquidity position, consideration is given to: (1) present and anticipated asset quality (2) present and 
future earnings capacity (3) historical funding requirements (4) current liquidity position (5) anticipated future funding needs, 
and (6) sources of funds. The Company maintains a portfolio of marketable assets that are assumed to be easily liquidated and 
undrawn cash credit limits which can be used in the event of an unforeseen interruption in cash flow. In accordance with the 
Company’s policy, the liquidity position is assessed under a variety of scenarios, giving due consideration to stress factors relating 
to both the market in general and specifically to the Company. Net liquid assets consist of cash, short–term bank deposits and 
investments in mutual fund available for immediate sale. Borrowings from banks and financial institutions and issue of debentures 
are considered as important sources of funds to finance lending to customers.
The minutes of ALCO meetings are placed before the RMC and the Board of Directors meeting for noting.
"The Company exceeds the regulatory requirement of liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) introduced by the RBI in FY 2020. This 
requirement stipulates that NBFCs with an asset size of ` 5,000 crore and above are required to maintain 50% of its expected net 
cash outflows in a stressed scenario in high quality liquid assets (HQLA) by December 2021; which has to be increased to 100% 
by December 2024 in a phased manner.
As of 31 March 2023, Company maintained LCR of 257.34% which is well above the stipulated norms.
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the quarter ended March 31, 2023
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 2,305.09
 2,305.09
Cash Outflows
 -
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 -
 -
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 -
 -
4
Secured wholesale funding
 -
 -
5
Additional requirements, of which
 -
 -
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
 -
 -
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 -
 -
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
 1,664.58
 1,914.27
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
219
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the quarter ended March 31, 2023
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 746.03
 857.93
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 704.97
 810.72
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 3,115.58
 3,582.92
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 -
 -
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 1,356.71
 1,017.53
11
Other cash inflows
 5,732.43
 4,299.32
12
TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 7,089.14
 5,316.86
13
TOTAL HQLA
 2,305.09
 2,305.09
14
TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 778.89
 895.73
15
LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
295.94%
257.34%
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the quarter ended 
 December 31, 2022
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 810.88 
 810.88 
Cash Outflows
 - 
 - 
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
 1,082.21 
 1,244.55 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 615.42 
 707.73 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 1,262.09 
 1,451.40 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 2,959.72 
 3,403.68 
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 - 
 - 
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 1,804.34 
 1,353.25 
11
Other cash inflows
 2,290.88 
 1,718.16 
12
TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 4,095.22 
 3,071.41 
13
TOTAL HQLA
 810.88 
 810.88 
14
TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 739.93 
 850.92 
15
LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
109.59%
95.29%
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
220
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the quarter ended  
September 30, 2022
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 660.47 
 660.47 
Cash Outflows
 - 
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
 876.48 
 1,007.95 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 246.26 
 283.20 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 1,129.40 
 1,298.81 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 2,252.14 
 2,589.96 
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 - 
 - 
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 1,606.43 
 1,204.82 
11
Other cash inflows
 4,787.27 
 3,590.45 
12
TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 6,393.70 
 4,795.27 
13
TOTAL HQLA
 660.47 
 660.47 
14
TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 563.04 
 647.49 
15
LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
117.30%
102.00%
(` in millions)
Particulars
For the quarter ended June 30, 2022
Total Unweighted 
Value (average)
Total Weighted 
Value (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 479.70 
 479.70 
Cash Outflows
 - 
 - 
2
Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
 - 
 - 
3
Unsecured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
4
Secured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
5
Additional requirements, of which
 - 
 - 
(i)
Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
 - 
 - 
(ii)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products
 - 
 - 
(iii)
Credit and liquidity facilities
 990.24 
 1,138.78 
6
Other contractual funding obligations
 264.48 
 304.16 
7
Other contingent funding obligations
 1,163.50 
 1,338.02 
8
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS
 2,418.22 
 2,780.96 
Cash Inflows
9
Secured lending
 - 
 - 
10
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 1,738.60 
 1,303.95 
11
Other cash inflows
 5,145.16 
 3,858.87 
12
TOTAL CASH INFLOWS
 6,883.76 
 5,162.82 
13
TOTAL HQLA
 479.70 
 479.70 
14
TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS
 604.56 
 695.24 
15
LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%)
79.35%
69.00%
Composition of HQLA: The HQLA maintained by Company comprises cash balance maintained in current account.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
221
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
56.13 Provisioning Details as on 31st March 2023
(` in millions)
Asset Classification as per 
RBI Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind AS 
109
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount as 
per Ind AS
Loss Allowances 
(Provisions) as 
required under 
Ind AS 109
Net 
Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between Ind AS 
109 provisions 
and IRACP norms
1
2
3
4
(5)=(3)-(4)
6
(7) = (4)-(6)
1. Performing Assets
Standard
Stage 1
 66,024.25
 373.24
 65,651.02
 287.34
 85.90
Stage 2
 4,136.81
 645.67
 3,491.14
 99.84
 545.83
Subtotal of Performing 
Assets
 70,161.06
 1,018.91
 69,142.15
 387.18
 631.73
2. Non-Performing Assets 
(NPA)
a. Substandard
Stage 3
 804.27
 243.57
 560.70
 93.27
 150.30
b. Doubtful
- up to 1 year
Stage 3
 225.94
 69.48
 156.46
 48.13
 21.35
- 1 to 3 years
Stage 3
 293.28
 72.92
 220.36
 87.99
 (15.07)
- More than 3 years
Stage 3
 56.01
 13.93
 42.08
 28.01
 (14.08)
Subtotal for doubtful
 575.23
 156.33
 418.90
 164.13
 (7.80)
c. Loss Assets
Stage 3
 -
 -
 -
 -
 -
Subtotal of NPA
 1,379.50
 399.90
 979.60
 257.40
 142.50
Other items such 
as guarantees, loan 
commitments, etc. which 
are in the scope of Ind AS 
109 but not covered under 
current Income Recognition, 
Asset Classification and 
Provisioning (IRACP) norms.
Stage 1
 11,064.11
 44.53
 11,019.58
 -
 44.53
Stage 2
 9.31
 0.05
 9.25
 -
 0.05
Stage 3
 19.44
 18.70
 0.74
 -
 18.70
Subtotal
 11,092.86
 63.28
 11,029.57
 -
 63.28
Total
Stage 1
 66,024.25
 417.76
 65,606.49
 287.34
 130.43
Stage 2
 4,136.81
 645.72
 3,491.09
 99.84
 545.88
Stage 3
 1,379.50
 418.60
 960.89
 257.40
 161.19
Total
 71,540.56
 1,482.08
 70,058.47
 644.58
 837.50
56.14 Provisioning Details as on 31st March 2022
(` in millions)
Asset Classification as per 
RBI Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind AS 
109
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount as 
per Ind AS
Loss Allowances 
(Provisions) as 
required under 
Ind AS 109
Net 
Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between Ind AS 
109 provisions 
and IRACP norms
1
2
3
4
(5)=(3)-(4)
6
(7) = (4)-(6)
1. Performing Assets
Standard
Stage 1
 41,139.97 
 297.04 
 40,842.93 
 191.98 
 105.06 
Stage 2
 5,275.73 
 712.38 
 4,563.35 
 150.56 
 561.82 
Subtotal of Performing 
Assets
 46,415.70 
 1,009.42 
 45,406.28 
 342.54 
 666.88 
2. Non-Performing Assets 
(NPA)
a. Substandard
Stage 3
 563.05 
 155.37 
 407.68 
 57.10 
 98.27 
b. Doubtful 
- up to 1 year
Stage 3
 339.72 
 91.86 
 247.86 
 71.70 
 20.16 
- 1 to 3 years
Stage 3
 307.12 
 83.04 
 224.08 
 97.91 
 (14.87)
- More than 3 years
Stage 3
 30.50 
 8.25 
 22.25 
 15.25 
 (7.00)
Subtotal for doubtful
 677.34 
 183.15 
 494.19 
 184.86 
 (1.71)
c. Loss Assets
Stage 3
 59.45 
 59.45 
 - 
 59.45 
 - 
Subtotal of NPA
 1,299.84 
 397.97 
 901.87 
 301.41 
 96.56 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
222
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in millions)
Asset Classification as per 
RBI Norms
Asset 
classification 
as per Ind AS 
109
Gross 
Carrying 
Amount as 
per Ind AS
Loss Allowances 
(Provisions) as 
required under 
Ind AS 109
Net 
Carrying 
Amount
Provisions 
required as 
per IRACP 
norms
Difference 
between Ind AS 
109 provisions 
and IRACP norms
Other items such 
as guarantees, loan 
commitments, etc. which are 
in the scope of Ind AS 109 
but not covered under current 
Income Recognition, Asset 
Classification and Provisioning 
(IRACP) norms.
Stage 1
 10,170.83 
 60.40 
 10,110.43 
45.51
 14.89 
Stage 2
 340.47 
 15.40 
 325.07 
12.50
 2.90 
Stage 3
 2.45 
 0.60 
 1.85 
0.31
 0.29 
Subtotal
 10,513.75 
 76.40 
 10,437.35 
 58.32 
 18.08 
Total
Stage 1
 41,139.97 
 357.44 
 40,782.53 
 237.49 
 119.95 
Stage 2
 5,275.73 
 727.78 
 4,547.95 
 163.06 
 564.72 
Stage 3
 1,299.84 
 398.57 
 901.27 
 301.72 
 96.85 
Total
 47,715.54 
 1,483.79 
 46,231.75 
 702.27 
 781.52 
57: Loans and Advances – Regulatory Restrictions - NBFCs refer to circular RBI/2022-23/29 DOR.CRE.
REC.No.25/03.10.001/2022-23 Scale Based Regulation (SBR) dated April 19, 2022
Loans to Directors, Senior Officers and relatives of Directors
(` in millions)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
1
Directors and their relatives
-
-
2
Entities associated with directors and their relatives
-
-
3
Senior Officers and their relatives
-
-
Note 58 Previous year figures
Previous year's figures have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to confirm to current year’s presentation.
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
223
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
To the Members of Capri Global Capital Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Capri Global Capital Limited 
(‘the Holding Company’) and its subsidiary – Capri 
Global Housing Finance Limited (the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary together referred to as the ‘Group’), 
which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 
31 March 2023, the Consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), 
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the 
year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of the significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘consolidated financial 
statements’).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, and based on 
the consideration of report of other auditor on separate 
financial statements of a subsidiary, the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in the 
manner so required and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind 
AS’) specified under section 133 of the Act, read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, the relevant circulars, guidelines and directions 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) from time to 
time (‘RBI Guidelines’) and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India of the consolidated state 
of affairs of the Group as at 31 March 2023, and their 
consolidated profit (including other comprehensive 
income), consolidated cash flows and the consolidated 
changes in equity for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
section of our report. We are independent of the 
Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the 
rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence obtained by us along with the consideration 
of audit report of the other auditor referred to in the 
‘Other Matter’ paragraph below is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements of 
the current period. These matters were addressed in 
the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters.
5.	
We have determined the matters described below to 
be the key audit matters to be communicated in our 
report.
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment of loans and advances to customers
(Refer Note 2.7 for significant accounting policies and Note 39.2 for credit risk disclosures)
As at 31 March 2023, the Group has reported gross loan 
assets of ` 96,547.99 millions against which an impairment 
loss of ` 1,794.47 millions has been recorded. The Group 
recognized impairment provision for loan assets based on 
the Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”) approach laid down under 
‘Ind AS 109 – Financial Instruments’.
The estimation of ECL on financial instruments involves 
significant management judgement and estimates and the 
use of different modelling techniques and assumptions 
which could have a material impact on reported profits. 
Significant management judgement and assumptions 
involved in measuring ECL is required with respect to:
•	
ensuring completeness and accuracy of the data used to 
create assumption in the model
Our audit focused on assessing the appropriateness 
of management’s judgment and estimates used in the 
impairment analysis through procedures that included, but 
were not limited to, the following:
•	 Obtained an understanding of the modelling techniques 
adopted by the Group including the key inputs and 
assumptions;
•	 Considered 
the 
Group's 
accounting 
policies 
for 
estimation of expected credit loss on loans and assessing 
compliance with the policies in terms of Ind AS 109;
•	 Understanding 
management’s 
updated 
processes, 
systems and controls implemented in relation to 
impairment allowance process.
Independent Auditor’s Report
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
224
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
•	
determining the criteria for a significant increase in credit 
risk.
•	
factoring in future economic assumptions
•	
techniques used to determine probability of default, loss 
given default and exposure at default.
These parameters are derived from the Group’s internally 
developed statistical models and other historical data.
During the previous years, RBI announced various relief 
measures for the borrowers which were implemented by the 
Company such as “COVID 19 Regulatory Package- Asset 
Classification and Provisioning” announced by the RBI 
on 17 April 2020 and RBI circular on “Asset Classification 
and Income Recognition following the expiry of Covid-19 
regulatory package” dated 07 April 2021 (collectively 
referred to as ‘the RBI circulars’), and “Resolution Framework 
for COVID-19 related Stress” (the ‘Resolution Framework’) 
dated on 6 August 2020 and 4 June 2021, which have been 
collectively considered by the management in identification, 
classification and provisioning of loan assets for impairment.
On the basis of an estimate made by the management, an 
overlay to the tune of ` 76.30 millions
has been recognized by the Holding Company as at 31 March 
2023 on loans basis their performance and outstanding 
position. The basis of estimates and assumptions involved 
in arriving at the overlay are monitored by the Holding 
Company periodically and significantly depend on future 
developments in the economy.
Disclosure
The disclosures regarding the Group’s application of Ind AS 
109 are key to explaining the key judgements and material 
inputs to the ECL results. Further, disclosures to be provided 
as per RBI circulars with regards to non-performing assets 
and provisions is also an area of focus.
Considering the significance of the above matter to the 
overall financial statements, and extent of management’s 
estimates and judgements involved, it required significant 
auditor attention. Accordingly, we have identified this as a 
key audit matter.
•	 Accuracy of the computation of the ECL estimate 
including reasonableness of the methodology and 
assumption used to determine macro-economic overlays;
•	 Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key 
controls over completeness and accuracy of the key 
inputs and assumptions considered for calculation, 
recording, monitoring of the impairment loss recognized 
and staging of assets.;
•	 Assessed the critical assumptions and input data used in 
the estimation of expected credit loss models for specific 
key credit risk parameters, such as the movement logic 
between stages, Exposure at default (EAD), probability of 
default (PD) or loss given default (LGD);
•	 Evaluated the reports and working for the methodology 
used in the computation of Through The Cycle PD, Point 
In Time PD and LGD, among others;
•	 Performed test of details over calculation of ECL, in 
relation to the completeness and accuracy of the data;
•	 Obtained written representations from management and 
those charged with governance on whether they believe 
significant assumptions used in calculation of expected 
credit losses are reasonable; and
•	 Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of the related 
presentation and disclosures of Note 39 “Financial risk 
management” disclosed in the accompanying financial 
statements in accordance with the applicable accounting 
standards and related RBI circulars and Resolution 
Framework.
Information 
other 
than 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report 
thereon
6.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the 
Annual Report, but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
The Annual Report is expected to be made available to 
us after the date of this auditor's report.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it becomes 
available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
consolidated financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be 
materially misstated.
Annual Report 2022-23
225
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance.
Board of Director’s Responsibilities for the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
7.	
The accompanying consolidated financial statements 
have been approved by the Holding Company’s Board 
of Directors. The Holding Company’s Board of Directors 
are responsible for the matters stated in section 
134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation and 
presentation of these consolidated  financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
financial position, consolidated financial performance 
including other comprehensive income, consolidated 
changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the 
Group in accordance with the Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, RBI Guidelines 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. The respective Board of Directors of the entities 
included in the Group are responsible for maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of their respective Company and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as 
aforesaid.
8.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for assessing the 
ability of respective Company to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the respective Board of Directors 
either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
9.	
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are also responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
10.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that 
an audit conducted in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the 
basis of these consolidated financial statements.
11.	 As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing specified under section 143(10) of the Act, 
we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control;
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on the internal financial 
controls with reference to the consolidated financial 
statements and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls based on our audit;
•	 Evaluate 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by the 
Board of Directors;
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of 
Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
226
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group to cease to continue as a going concern;
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated financial statements, 
including 
the 
disclosures, 
and 
whether 
the 
consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation; and
•	 Obtain 
sufficient 
appropriate 
audit 
evidence 
regarding the financial information of such entities 
or business activities within the Group, to express 
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of financial statements of 
such entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements, of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entity included in the 
consolidated financial statements, which have been 
audited by other auditor, such other auditor remain 
responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
12.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Holding Company, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
13.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
14.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, 
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that 
a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
15.	 The consolidated financial statements include the 
audited financial statements of a subsidiary, whose 
financial statements reflect total assets (before 
consolidation adjustments) of ` 28,262.84 million as 
at 31 March, 2023, total revenue (before consolidation 
adjustments) of ` 3,236.72 million and net profit after 
tax (before consolidation adjustments) of ` 620.47 
million and net cash outflows of ` 1,994.36 million 
for the year ended on that date, as considered in the 
consolidated financial statements, which has been 
audited by its independent auditor. The independent 
auditor’s report on the financial statements of this entity 
has been furnished to us by the Management and our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so 
far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of this subsidiary, is based solely on the 
report of such auditor and the procedures performed 
by us are as stated in paragraph above.
	
Our opinion above on the consolidated financial 
statements, and our report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements below, are not modified in respect of the 
above matter with respect to our reliance on the work 
done and the report of the other auditor.
Report 
on 
Other 
Legal 
and 
Regulatory 
Requirements
16.	 As required by section 197(16) of the Act based on 
our audit and the report of the statutory auditor of a 
subsidiary company incorporated in India which was 
not audited by us, we report that the remuneration paid 
during the current year by the Holding Company and 
its subsidiary company to its directors is in accordance 
with the provisions of and limits laid down under section 
197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
17.	 With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 
3(xxi) and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (the “Order”/“CARO”) issued by the Central 
Government in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, to 
be included in the Auditor’s report, according to the 
information and explanations given to us, and based 
on the CARO reports issued by us for the Company 
and its subsidiary included in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Company, we report that there are no 
qualifications or adverse remarks in these CARO reports.
18.	 As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditor on separate financial statements of a subsidiary, 
as noted in ‘other matters paragraph’, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements;
	
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the report of the other auditor;
	
c)	
The consolidated financial statements dealt with 
by this report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account maintained for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements;
Annual Report 2022-23
227
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015;
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company, and 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company and reports of the statutory 
auditor of its subsidiary company incorporated 
in India, none of the directors of the Group 
Companies incorporated in India is disqualified 
as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act.
	
f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary company incorporated in India, and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate report in ‘Annexure I’ wherein we 
have expressed an unmodified opinion; and
	
g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with 
rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and 
to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us and based on the 
consideration of report of the other auditor on the 
separate financial statements of the subsidiary as 
noted in other matter paragraph:
	
	
i.	
The 
consolidated 
financial 
statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position of 
the Group as detailed in Note 47 to the 
consolidated financial statements;
	
ii.	
The Group has made provision as at 31 March 
2023, as required under the applicable law or 
accounting standards, for material foreseeable 
losses, if any, on long-term contracts including 
derivative contracts;
	
iii.	
There are no amounts which were required to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company, and its 
subsidiary company incorporated in India during 
the year ended 31 March 2023;
	
iv.	
a.	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief as 
disclosed in note 51A to the consolidated 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or securities premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Holding Company to or in any persons 
or entities, including foreign entities (‘the 
intermediaries’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Holding Company 
(‘the Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
	
b.	
The management, as disclosed in the note 
51A to the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
no funds have been received by the 
Holding Company from any person(s) or 
entity(ies), including foreign entities (‘the 
Funding Parties’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Holding Company shall, whether 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
	
c.	
Based on such audit procedures performed, 
as considered reasonable and appropriate 
in the circumstances, nothing has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that 
the management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain any 
material misstatement;
	
v.	
The dividend declared during the year ended 
31 March 2023 by the Holding Company is in 
compliance with section 123 of the Act; and
	
vi.	
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 requires all companies which use 
accounting software for maintaining their books of 
account, to use such an accounting software which 
has a feature of audit trail, with effect from the financial 
year beginning on 1 April 2023 and accordingly, 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended) is not applicable 
for the current financial year.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 107122W/W100672
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Partner
Membership No. 114049
UDIN: 23114049BGXMMH4757
Mumbai
22 May 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
228
Capri Global Capital Limited
Independent Auditor’s Report (Contd.)
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 
of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
(Referred to in paragraph 18 (f) under ‘Report on 
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of 
our report of even date)
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of Capri Global Capital Limited 
(‘the Holding Company’) and its subsidiary (collectively 
referred as ‘Group’) as at and for the year ended 31 
March 2023, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to the consolidated financial 
statements of Group, as at that date.
Board of Director’s Responsibilities for Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group, which are companies covered 
under the Act, are responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal financial controls with reference to the 
consolidated financial statements based on the criteria 
established by the respective Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls over Financial Reporting (‘the Guidance Note’) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of the 
Company’s business, including adherence to the 
Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Holding Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Standards on Auditing issued by the ICAI 
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to the consolidated financial 
statements, and the Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to the consolidated financial statements 
were established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements includes obtaining 
an understanding of such internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditor in 
the subsidiary company in terms of their report referred 
to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference 
to the consolidated financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company's internal financial 
controls with reference to the consolidated financial 
statements include those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
Annexure I
Annual Report 2022-23
229
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company's assets that could have a material effect on 
the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent 
Limitations 
of 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls with Reference to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to the consolidated financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to the 
consolidated financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with 
reference to the consolidated financial statements may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, 
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Group, have in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
the consolidated financial statements and such controls 
were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based 
on the internal financial controls with reference to the 
consolidated financial statements criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI.
Other Matter
9.	
Our aforesaid report under Section 143 (3) (i) of the 
Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of 
the internal financial controls with reference to the 
consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to 
a subsidiary company, which is a company incorporated 
in India, is based on the corresponding report of the 
auditor of such company incorporated in India.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 107122W/W100672
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Partner
Membership No. 114049
UDIN: 23114049BGXMMH4757
Mumbai
22 May 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
230
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at March 31, 2023
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Note No.
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
ASSETS
(1)
Financial assets
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
3
 14,767.73 
 3,225.06 
(b)
Bank Balance other than above
4
 335.07 
 306.15 
(c)
Receivables
5
 322.34 
 93.26 
(d)
Loans
6
 94,753.52 
 62,708.03 
(e)
Investments
7
 2,150.41 
 3,774.84 
(f)
Other financial assets
8
 755.49 
 210.52 
Total Financial Assets
 1,13,084.56 
 70,317.86 
(2)
Non-Financial assets
(a)
Current tax assets (net)
9
 195.04 
 100.38 
(b)
Deferred tax assets
10
 476.09 
 366.83 
(c)
Property, plant and equipment
11
 2,839.92 
 318.02 
(d)
Capital work-in-progress
 25.22 
 - 
(e)
Intagible Assets under development
 148.05 
 23.20 
(f)
Other Intangible assets
 69.67 
 25.66 
(g)
Other non financial assets
12
 1,107.60 
 375.74 
Total Non-Financial Assets
 4,861.59 
 1,209.83 
Total Assets
 1,17,946.15 
 71,527.69 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
LIABILITIES
(1)
Financial Liabilities
(a)
Derivative financial instruments
15A
 75.72 
 12.42 
(b)
Payables
(A)	
Trade Payables
13
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 6.52 
 1.75 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 960.95 
 333.10 
(B)	
Other Payables
	
(i)	
total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 - 
 - 
	
(ii)	
total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 144.99 
 78.25 
(c)
Debt Securities
14
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
(d)
Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
15B
 70,726.65 
 43,761.16 
(e)
Other Financial liabilities
16
 5,629.85 
 3,270.64 
Total Financial Liabilities
 81,930.82 
 52,018.20 
(2)
Non-Financial Liabilities
(a)
Current tax liabilities (net)
17
 12.92 
 27.89 
(b)
Provisions
18
 214.96 
 166.19 
(c)
Other non-financial liabilities
19
 132.79 
 90.70 
Total Non-Financial Liabilities
 360.67 
 284.78 
Total Liabilities
 82,291.49 
 52,302.98 
(3)
EQUITY
(a)
Equity Share Capital
20
 412.31 
 351.31 
(b)
Other equity
21
 35,242.35 
 18,873.40 
Total Equity
 35,654.66 
 19,224.71 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 1,17,946.15 
 71,527.69 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
231
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Note No.
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Revenue from Operations
(i)
Interest income
22
 11,672.92 
 8,395.78 
(ii)
Dividend income
 - 
 1.23 
(iii)
Fee and commission income
23
 1,540.97 
 506.77 
(iv)
Net Gain on Derecognition of Financial Instruement
24
 557.31 
 170.01 
(v)
Net gain on fair value changes
25
 214.00 
 236.17 
(vi)
Sale of Service
 265.07 
 250.65 
(vii)
Other operating income
26
 383.18 
 242.51 
(I)
Total Revenue from operations
 14,633.45 
 9,803.12 
(II)
Other Income
27
 16.52 
 14.41 
(III)
Total Income (I + II)
 14,649.97 
 9,817.53 
Expenses
(i)
Finance costs
28
 5,311.18 
 3,308.47 
(ii)
Fees and commission Expense
 257.76 
 190.79 
(iv)
Impairement of financial instruments
29
 641.82 
 1,056.34 
(v)
Employee benefit expenses
30
 4,060.78 
 1,746.04 
(vi)
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 439.13 
 98.77 
(vii)
Other expenses
31
 1,256.46 
 690.89 
(IV)
Total Expenses
 11,967.13 
 7,091.30 
(V)
Profit before tax (III- IV)
 2,682.84 
 2,726.23 
Tax expense
- Current tax
34
 653.96 
 779.55 
- Deferred tax
35
 (6.41)
 (109.53)
- Tax Pertaining to earlier years
 (11.25)
 5.80 
(VI)
Total tax expense
 636.30 
 675.82 
(VII)
Net Profit After Tax
 2,046.54 
 2,050.41 
(VIII)
Other comprehensive income
32
(A)	
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
Remeasurement of defined benefit plans
 (12.50)
 (0.47)
	
Income Tax impact on above
 3.15 
 0.12 
Total (A)
 (9.35)
 (0.35)
(B)	
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
	
Fair Value Gain on time value of forward element of 
forward contract in hedging relationship
 (29.53)
 (6.10)
	
Income Tax impact on above
 7.43 
 1.53 
Total (B)
 (22.10)
 (4.57)
Other Comprehensive Income (A) + (B)
 (31.45)
 (4.92)
(IX)
Total comprehensive income (VII+VIII)
 2,015.09 
 2,045.49 
(X)
Earnings per equity share (of ` 2 Each)
Basic (`)
 11.06 
 11.17 
Diluted (`)
 10.94 
 11.05 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
232
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Cash Flow From Operating activities
Profit before tax from continuing operations 
 2,682.84 
 2,726.23 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation & amortisation
 439.13 
 98.77 
Impairment on financial instruments
 631.34 
 1,056.68 
Net Gain on Fair Valuation of Financial Instruments
 (214.00)
 (236.17)
Net Gain on Derecognition of Financial Instruments
 (546.03)
 (170.01)
Loss/(Gain) on sale of Fixed Assets
 1.07 
 1.22 
Write off - Fixed Assets
 1.76 
 - 
Gain on early termination of Lease
 (6.26)
 (1.75)
Gain on sale of Investment Property
 (6.30)
 (2.93)
Gain on sale of Investments
 - 
 (0.28)
Share Based Payments to employees
 161.59 
 54.78 
Dividend income
 - 
 (1.23)
Interest on Lease liability
 147.62 
 26.12 
Interest income
 (11,661.61)
 (8,395.78)
Finance cost
 5,163.56 
 3,308.47 
Interest received
 11,512.86 
 8,285.99 
Interest Paid
 (5,338.93)
 (3,434.45)
Dividend received
 - 
 1.23 
Operating Profit before working capital changes
 2,968.64 
 3,316.90 
Working capital changes
(Increase)/Decrease in
Loans
 (32,538.57)
 (16,701.66)
Trade receivables & Other Financial Assets
 (216.31)
 (55.83)
Other Non-financial Assets
 (736.30)
 (175.79)
Increase/(Decrease) in
Trade payables 
 663.13 
 261.31 
Other financial liability
 821.67 
 836.13 
Other Non-financial liability
 (116.03)
 55.06 
Provision 
 59.93 
 (15.11)
Cash used in Operations
 (29,093.84)
 (12,478.99)
Income tax paid
 (844.64)
 (922.41)
Net cash flows from/(used in) operating activities
 (29,938.48)
 (13,401.40)
Cash Flow From Investing activities
Increase/(decrease) in Fixed deposits not considered as cash and cash equivalent
 (22.33)
 235.14 
Purchase of fixed and intangible assets
 (1,225.31)
 (106.55)
Intangible Assets Under Development
 (61.32)
 (11.70)
Capital work-in-progress
 (25.22)
 - 
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment
 3.81 
 3.98 
Proceeds from sale of Investment Properties
 10.76 
 5.01 
Sale/(Purchase) of investment in Mutual Funds (net)
 (14,797.73)
 2,323.90 
Proceeds from Sale of investment
 17,112.49 
 3,234.27 
Purchase of investment in shares
 (474.22)
 (2,518.59)
Net cash flows from/(used in) investing activities
 520.93 
 3,165.47 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
233
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Cash Flow From Financing activities
Debt securities Redeemed (Net)
 (176.79)
 (2,416.67)
Proceed from Borrowings other than debt securities
 38,312.82 
 18,640.00 
Repayment of Borrowings other than debt securities Repaid
 (11,138.77)
 (6,514.25)
Other short term loan (net)
 - 
 654.26 
Payments for the principal portion of the lease liability
 (157.48)
 (33.59)
Payments for the interest portion of the lease liability 
 (147.62)
 (26.12)
Dividends paid
 (79.83)
 (70.14)
Proceed from issue of equity Shares
 14,347.89 
 1,521.60 
Net cash flows from financing activities
 40,960.22 
 11,755.10 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
 11,542.67 
 1,519.15 
Cash and cash equivalents as at beginning of the year
 3,225.06 
 1,705.91 
Cash and cash equivalents as at end of the year
 14,767.73 
 3,225.06 
Components of cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand
 164.66 
 14.88 
Balances with banks
	
In current accounts
 3,223.26 
 1,101.37 
	
Cheques on hand
 27.58 
 8.81 
	
Fixed deposits with original maturity of 3 Months or less
 11,352.23 
 2,100.00 
Total cash and cash equivalents
 14,767.73 
 3,225.06 
1.	
Cash flows arising on account of taxes on income are not specifically bifurcated with respect to investing & financing activities.
2.	
Figures in brackets represent outflows.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
234
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended March 31, 2023
A.   EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(1)	 Current year
(` in Millions)
Balance as at  
April 01, 2022
Changes in equity 
share capital due to 
prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 01, 2022
Changes in equity 
share capital during the 
current year
Balance as at March 
31, 2023
 351.31 
 -   
 351.31 
 61.00 
 412.31 
(2)	 Previous year
(` in Millions)
Balance as at 
April 01, 2021
Changes in equity 
share capital due to 
prior period errors
Restated balance as at 
April 01, 2021
Changes in equity 
share capital during the 
current year
Balance as at March 
31, 2022
 350.57 
 -   
 350.57 
 0.74 
 351.31 
B.	 OTHER EQUITY
(` in Millions)
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive 
Income
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
Employee 
Share Option 
Outstanding
Statutory 
Reserve 
pursuant to 
Section 45-
IC of the 
RBI Act, 
1934
Statutory 
Reserve 
under Section 
29C of the 
National 
Housing Bank 
Act, 1987
Employee 
Benefit 
Expenses 
(Gratuity - 
OCI)
Hedging 
Reserve 
(Forward 
Contract - 
OCI)
Total
Balance as at  
April 1, 2021
 642.05 
 4,491.79 
 9,035.79 
 78.77 
 2,407.96 
 158.30 
 7.75 
 - 
 16,822.41 
Changes in accounting 
policy/prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2021
 642.05  4,491.79 
 9,035.79 
 78.77 
 2,407.96 
 158.30 
 7.75 
 -  16,822.41 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 2,050.41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,050.41 
Other Comprehensive 
income / (losses)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (0.35)
 (4.57)
 (4.92)
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 (70.15)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (70.15)
Transfer from retained 
earnings
 - 
 - 
 (410.17)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (410.17)
Addition during the Year
 - 
 49.34 
 26.31 
 323.77 
 86.40 
 - 
 - 
 485.82 
Balance as at  
March 31, 2022
 642.05  4,541.13 10,605.88 
 105.08 
 2,731.73 
 244.70 
 7.40 
 (4.57)  18,873.40 
Changes in accounting 
policy/prior period errors
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
235
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended March 31, 2023
(` in Millions)
Reserves and Surplus
Other Comprehensive 
Income
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
Earnings
Employee 
Share Option 
Outstanding
Statutory 
Reserve 
pursuant to 
Section 45-
IC of the 
RBI Act, 
1934
Statutory 
Reserve 
under Section 
29C of the 
National 
Housing Bank 
Act, 1987
Employee 
Benefit 
Expenses 
(Gratuity - 
OCI)
Hedging 
Reserve 
(Forward 
Contract - 
OCI)
Total
Restated balance as at 
April 1, 2022
 642.05  4,541.13 10,605.88 
 105.08 
 2,731.73 
 244.70 
 7.40 
 (4.57)  18,873.40 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 2,046.54 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,046.54 
Other Comprehensive 
income / (losses)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (9.35)
 (22.10)
 (31.45)
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 (87.91)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (87.91)
Transfer from retained 
earnings
 - 
 - 
 (448.06)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (448.06)
Addition during the Year
 - 
 25.34 
 - 
 148.37 
 283.07 
 164.99 
 - 
 - 
 621.77 
Securities premium 
proceeds received on 
rights issue of equity 
shares
 - 
 14,268.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,268.06 
Balance as at March 31, 
2023
 642.05 18,834.53 12,116.45 
 253.45 
 3,014.80 
 409.69 
 (1.95)
 (26.67)  35,242.35 
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
236
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Capri Global Capital Limited (“the Company/Holding 
Company”) having principal place of business at 
Registered office, 502, Tower A, Peninsula Business Park, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400013 is 
engaged in the business of providing loans to Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), providing 
long term finance for construction of residential houses 
in India, Indirect Lending, Gold Loan in India and in 
providing ancillary services related to the said business 
activities. The Holding company is NBFC – Investment 
and Credit Company (NBFC-ICC), holding a Certificate 
of Registration No. B-13.01882 from the Reserve Bank 
of India (“RBI”) dated November 05, 2007, having CIN: 
L65921MH1994PLC173469.
	
Capri Global Housing Finance Limited (the Subsidiary 
Company) having principal place of business at 
Registered office, 502, Tower A, Peninsula Business 
Park, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 
400013 is engaged in the business of providing loans 
primarily to customers for purchase / construction 
/ repair and renovation of residential property. The 
Company holds registration certificate No. 07.0139.16 
with National Housing Bank under section 29A of the 
National Housing Bank Act, 1987 dated July 18, 2016
	
The consolidated financial statements relate to 
the Holding Company and its Subsidiary Company 
(together regrouped as the “Group”).
	
The Consolidated financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 were authorised for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the board of directors 
on May 22, 2023.
2.1	 Basis of Consolidation
	
(i)	
The following subsidiary company has been considered in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements:
% of holding and voting power
Name of Entity
Relationship
Country of 
Incorporation
Ownership  
held by
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capri Global Housing 
Finance Limited
Subsidiary
India 
Capri Global 
Capital Limited
100%
100%
	
(ii)	
Principles of Consolidation:
	
	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) 110 - “Consolidated Financial 
Statements” notified under the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as 
amended from time to time). The consolidated 
financial statements have been prepared on the 
following basis:
	
	
a)	
The financial statements of Group have been 
combined on a line by line basis of like items 
of assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses 
and cash flows of the Holding Company with 
those of its subsidiary. For this purpose, 
income and expenses of the subsidiary are 
based on the amounts of the assets and 
liabilities recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements as at March 31, 2023.
	
	
b)	
The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared using uniform accounting 
policies for like transactions and other events 
in similar circumstances and are presented, 
to the extent possible, in the same manner 
as the Holding Company’s separate financial 
statements. Appropriate adjustments have 
been made in the financial statements of 
the subsidiary with respect to different 
accounting policies for like transaction 
and events in similar circumstances for the 
purpose of preparation of consolidated 
financial statements.
	
	
c)	
Elimination of the carrying amount of the 
Holding Company’s investment in each 
subsidiary and the Holding Company’s 
portion of equity of each subsidiary.
	
	
d)	
The financial statements of the subsidiary 
used in consolidation are drawn up to the 
same reporting date as that of the Holding 
Company i.e. year ended March 31, 2023.
2.2	 Statement of compliance and basis of preparation 
and presentation
	
The Consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from 
time to time and notified under section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) The Group uses accrual 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
237
basis of accounting except in case of significant 
uncertainties [Refer note 2.4 (i),(iii),(iv),(v)]. Accounting 
policies have been consistently applied to all periods 
presented unless otherwise stated.
	
Any application of guidance / clarification / directions 
issued by RBI or other regulations are implemented 
prospectively when they become applicable.
	
The Consolidated financial Statement has been 
prepared in accordance with and comply in all material 
aspects with Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) 
notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(‘the Act’) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from time to time 
and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India on the historical cost basis except for certain 
financial instruments that are measured at fair values at 
the end of each reporting period as explained in the 
accounting policies below and the relevant provisions 
of the Act.
	
Accounting policies have been consistently applied 
except where a newly-issued accounting standard is 
initially adopted or a revision to an existing accounting 
standard requires a change in the accounting policy 
hitherto in use.
	
The preparation of Consolidated financial statements 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the 
disclosed amount of contingent liabilities. Areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
or areas where assumptions are significant to The 
Group are discussed in Note 2.13 Significant accounting 
judgements, estimates and assumptions.
	
The Consolidated financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees (`) and all values are rounded to two 
decimal Millions, except when otherwise indicated.
2.3.	Presentation of financial statement
	
The Group presents its balance sheet in the 
order of liquidity.
	
The Group prepares and present its Consolidated 
Financial Statements in the format prescribed by 
Division III of Schedule III to the Act as amended from 
time to time.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are generally 
reported on a gross basis except when, there is an 
unconditional legally enforceable right to offset the 
recognised amounts without being contingent on a 
future event and the parties intend to settle on a net 
basis in the following circumstances:
	
i.	
The normal course of business
	
ii.	
The event of default
	
iii.	
The event of insolvency or bankruptcy of The 
Group and/or its counterparties
2.4	 Revenue from operations
	
(i)	
Interest Income
	
	
Interest income is recognised by applying EIR 
to the gross carrying amount of financial assets 
other than credit-impaired assets and financial 
assets classified as measured at FVTPL, taking 
into account the amount outstanding and the 
applicable interest rate. In case of credit-impaired 
financial assets (as set out in note no. 2.6 (viii) 
regarded as ‘Stage 3’), The Group recognises 
interest income on the amortised cost net of 
impairment loss of the financial asset. If the 
financial asset is no longer credit impaired, the 
Group reverts to calculating interest income on a 
gross basis.
	
	
The EIR is computed
	
	
a.	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments or receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to the 
gross carrying amount of a financial asset
	
	
b.	
By considering all the contractual terms 
of the financial instrument (for example, 
prepayment, extension, call and similar 
options) in estimating the cash flows
	
	
c.	
Including all fees paid or received between 
parties to the contract that are an integral 
part of the effective interest rate, transaction 
costs, and all other premiums or discounts.
	
	
Loan processing fees on loans is collected towards 
processing of loan, this is amortised on EIR basis 
over the average life (after considering the pre 
payment adjustment) of the loan for MSME, 
contractual tenure for construction finanace and 
Indirect loans and average life for Gold loan.
	
(ii)	 Dividend Income
	
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive the payment is established.
	
(iii)	 Fees & Commission Income
	
	
The Group recognises the fee and commission 
income not integral to EIR under Ind AS 109 in 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
238
accordance with the terms of the relevant customer 
contracts / agreement and when it is probable 
that The Group will collect the consideration 
for items.
	
	
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance 
obligation is measured at the amount of 
transaction price (net of variable consideration) 
allocated to that performance obligation. The 
transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable consideration on 
account of various discounts and schemes offered 
by The Group as part of the contract.
	
	
The Group recognises revenue from contracts 
with customers based on a five-step model as set 
out in Ind AS 115:
	
	
Step 1: Identify contract(s) with a customer: 
A contract is defined as an agreement between 
two or more parties that creates enforceable 
rights and obligations and sets out the criteria for 
every contract that must be met.
	
	
Step 2: Identify performance obligations in the 
contract: A performance obligation is a promise 
in a contract with a customer to transfer a good or 
service to the customer.
	
	
Step 3: Determine the transaction price: The 
transaction price is the amount of consideration 
to which The Group expects to be entitled 
in exchange for transferring promised goods 
or services to a customer, excluding amounts 
collected on behalf of third parties.
	
	
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the 
performance obligations in the contract: For a 
contract that has more than one performance 
obligation, The Group allocates the transaction 
price to each performance obligation in an amount 
that depicts the amount of consideration to which 
The Group expects to be entitled in exchange for 
satisfying each performance obligation.
	
	
Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) The Group 
satisfies a performance obligation. Fees for sale of 
services are accounted as and when the service is 
rendered, provided there is reasonable certainty 
of its ultimate realisation.
	
	
Bounce/ penal charges levied on customers for 
non payment/delay payment of instalment on 
the contractual date & Foreclosure charges are 
collected from loan customers for early payment 
/ closure of loan, are recognised on realisation.
	
	
Distribution income is earned by selling of 
services and products of other entities under 
distribution arrangements. The income so earned 
is recognised on successful distribution on 
behalf of other entities subject to there being no 
significant uncertainty of its recovery
	
(iv)	 Sale of service
	
	
Sale of services includes advertising income, 
representing income earned from the activities 
incidental to the business and is recognised 
when the service is performed. Revenue is net 
of applicable indirect taxes as per the terms 
of the contract.
	
(v)	 Net gain on Fair value changes
	
	
Any differences between the fair values of 
financial assets classified as FVTPL held by The 
Group on the balance sheet date is recognised as 
an unrealised gain / loss. In cases there is a net 
gain in the aggregate, the same is recognised in 
“Net gains on fair value changes” under Revenue 
from operations and if there is a net loss the same 
is disclosed as “Net loss on fair value changes” 
under Expenses in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
	
Similarly, any realised gain or loss on sale of 
financial instruments measured at FVTPL and debt 
instruments measured at FVOCI is recognised in 
net gain / loss on fair value changes.
	
	
However, Net gain / loss on derecognition of 
financial instruments classified as amortised cost 
is presented separately under the respective head 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
(vi)	 Assignment transactions
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
assignment transactions with significant transfer 
of risks and rewards without any retention of 
residual interest, gain arising on such assignment 
transactions is recorded upfront in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss and the corresponding 
asset is derecognized from the Balance Sheet 
immediately upon execution of such transaction. 
Further, the transfer of financial assets qualifies 
for derecognition to the extent of portion 
trasnsferred, the whole of the interest spread at 
its present value (discounted over the life of the 
asset) is recognized on the date of derecognition 
itself as interest only strip receivable (interest strip 
on assignment) and correspondingly recognized 
as profit on derecognition of financial asset.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
239
	
(vii)	 Securitization transactions
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 109, in case of 
securitization transactions, The Group retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, The Group 
continues to recognize the financial asset and 
also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the 
proceeds received.
2.5	 Expenses
	
(i) 	 Finance costs
	
	
Finance costs on borrowings is paid towards 
availing of loan, is amortised on EIR basis over the 
contractual life of loan.
	
	
The EIR in case of a financial liability is computed
	
	
a.	
As the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash payments through the expected 
life of the financial liability to the gross 
carrying amount of the amortised cost of a 
financial liability.
	
	
b.	
By considering all the contractual terms of 
the financial instrument in estimating the 
cash flows
	
	
c.	
Including all fees paid between parties to 
the contract that are an integral part of the 
effective interest rate, transaction costs, and 
all other premiums or discounts
	
	
Any subsequent changes in the estimation of the 
future cash flows is recognised in interest expense 
with the corresponding adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the liability.
	
	
Interest expense includes issue costs that are 
initially recognized as part of the carrying value 
of the financial liability and amortized over the 
expected life using the effective interest method. 
These include fees and commissions payable to 
advisers and other expenses such as external 
legal costs, Rating Fee etc, provided these are 
incremental costs that are directly related to the 
issue of a financial liability.
	
(ii)	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
	
Short term employee benefit
	
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve 
months of rendering the service are classified as 
short-term employee benefits. These benefits 
include short term compensated absences such 
as paid annual leave. The undiscounted amount 
of short-term employee benefits expected to 
be paid in exchange for the services rendered 
by employees is recognised as an expense 
during the period. Benefits such as salaries 
and wages, etc. and the expected cost of the 
bonus/ex-gratia are recognised in the period in 
which the employee renders the related service.
	
	
Post-employment employee benefits
	
a)	
Defined contribution schemes
	
	
	
All the eligible employees of The Group 
who have opted to receive benefits under 
the Provident Fund and Employees State 
Insurance scheme, defined contribution 
plans in which both the employee and The 
Group contribute monthly at a stipulated 
rate. The Group has no liability for future 
benefits other than its annual contribution 
and recognises such contributions as an 
expense in the period in which employee 
renders the related service. If the contribution 
payable to the scheme for service received 
before the Balance Sheet date exceeds 
the contribution already paid, the deficit 
payable to the scheme is recognised as a 
liability after deducting the contribution 
already paid. If the contribution already paid 
exceeds the contribution due for services 
received before the Balance Sheet date, 
then excess is recognised as an asset to the 
extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for 
example, a reduction in future payment or a 
cash refund.
	
b)	
Defined Benefit schemes
	
	
	
The Group provides for the gratuity, a 
defined benefit retirement plan covering 
all employees. The plan provides for lump 
sum payments to employees upon death 
while in employment or on separation from 
employment after serving for the stipulated 
years mentioned under ‘The Payment of 
Gratuity Act, 1972’. The present value of 
the obligation under such defined benefit 
plan is determined based on actuarial 
valuation, carried out by an independent 
actuary at each Balance Sheet date, using 
the Projected Unit Credit Method, which 
recognizes each period of service as giving 
rise to an additional unit of employee 
benefit entitlement and measures each unit 
separately to build up the final obligation.
	
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present 
value of the estimated future cash flows. 
The discount rates used for determining 
the present value of the obligation under 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
240
defined benefit plan are based on the 
market yields on Government Securities as 
at the Balance Sheet date.
	
	
	
Net interest recognized in proﬁt or loss is 
calculated by applying the discount rate used 
to measure the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to 
the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability or asset. The 
actual return on the plan assets above or 
below the discount rate is recognized as part 
of re-measurement of net deﬁned liability 
or asset through other comprehensive 
income. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ 
from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the 
discount rate, attrition rate, future salary 
increases and mortality rates. Due to the 
complexities involved in the valuation and its 
long-term nature, these liabilities are highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. 
All assumptions are reviewed at each 
reporting date.
	
	
	
The Group fully contributes all ascertained 
liabilities to the Trustees – CGCL Employees 
Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme (Formerly 
known as Money Matters Financial Services 
Limited Employee Group Gratuity Assurance 
Scheme)” and CGHFL Employees Group 
Gratuity 
Assurance 
Scheme 
(Formerly 
known as Money Matters Securities Private 
Limited Employee Group Gratuity Assurance 
Scheme)” . Trustees administer contributions 
made to the trust and contributions are 
invested in a scheme of insurance with the 
IRDA approved Insurance Companies.
	
	
	
Re-measurement, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses and the return on plan 
assets (excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability), 
are recognized immediately in the balance 
sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to 
retained earnings through OCI in the period 
in which they occur. Re-measurements 
are not reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss in 
subsequent periods.
	
(iii)	 Leases Rent
	
	
The Group leases most of its office facilities under 
operating lease agreements that are renewable 
on a periodic basis at the option of the lessor and 
the lessee. The lease agreements contain rent 
free periods and rent escalation clauses.
	
	
The Group assesses whether a contract contains a 
lease at the inception of the contract. A contract 
is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the 
right to control the use of an identified asset for 
a period of time in exchange for consideration. 
To assess whether a contract conveys the right 
to control the use of an identified asset, The 
Group assesses whether: (i) the contract involves 
the use of an identified asset, (ii) The Group has 
substantially all of the economic benefits from the 
use of the asset through the period of the lease, 
and (iii) The Group has the right to direct the use 
of the asset.
	
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, 
The Group recognizes a ROU asset and a 
corresponding 
lease 
liability 
for 
all 
lease 
arrangements under which it is a lessee, except 
for short-term leases and low value leases. ROU 
assets represent The Group’s right to use an 
underlying asset for the lease term and lease 
liabilities represent The Group’s obligation to 
make lease payments arising from the lease. For 
short-term leases and low value leases, The Group 
recognizes the lease payments as an expense on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
	
The lease arrangements include options to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease 
term. ROU assets and lease liabilities include 
these options when it is reasonably certain that 
they will be exercised.
	
	
The ROU assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at 
or prior to the commencement date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. 
They are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
	
	
ROU assets are depreciated from the date of 
commencement of the lease on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at 
amortized cost at the present value of the future 
lease payments. For leases under which the rate 
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable, 
The Group uses its incremental borrowing rate 
based on the information available at the date of 
commencement of the lease in determining the 
present value of lease payments. Lease liabilities 
are remeasured with a corresponding adjustment 
to the related ROU asset if The Group changes 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
241
its assessment as to whether it will exercise an 
extension or a termination option.
	
	
At initial recognition the carrying value of the 
refundable deposits is taken at present value of all 
expected future principal repayments discounted 
using market rates prevailing at the time of 
inception For Interest expenses, the difference 
between present market value and deposit made 
is recognised as prepayment and amortised in 
the Statement of Profit and loss over the benefit 
period on systematic basis. Interest income is 
recognised at the prevailing market rates.
	
(iv)	 Other income and expenses
	
	
All Other income and expense are recognized in 
the period they occur.
	
(v)	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The carrying amount of assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date if there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal/external factors. 
An impairment loss is recognized wherever the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of 
the assets, net selling price and value in use. In 
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
ﬂows are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and risks 
specific to the asset.
	
	
In determining net selling price, recent market 
transactions are taken into account, if available. 
If no such transactions can be identiﬁed, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. After 
impairment, depreciation is provided on the 
revised carrying amount of the asset over its 
remaining useful life.
	
(vi)	 Taxes
	
	
Income Tax
	
	
Income tax expense comprises current and 
deferred taxes. Income tax expense is recognized 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss, other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity when 
they relate to items that are recognized in the 
respective line items.
	
	
Current Tax
	
	
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable 
or receivable on the taxable income or loss for 
the year and any adjustment to the tax payable 
or receivable in respect of previous years. The 
amount of current tax reflects the best estimate of 
the tax amount expected to be paid or received 
after considering the uncertainty, if any, related to 
income taxes. It is measured using tax rates (and 
tax law) enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date.
	
	
Deferred tax
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised 
for temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts. Deferred income tax is determined 
using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the reporting date 
and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred income tax liability is settled.
	
	
Deferred tax assets are only recognised for 
temporary differences, unused tax losses and 
unused tax credits if it is probable that future 
taxable amounts will arise to utilise those 
temporary differences and losses. Deferred tax 
assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that the related tax benefit will be realised.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets and liabilities and they relate to income 
taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same 
taxable entity.
	
	
Goods and services tax /service tax/value added 
taxes paid on acquisition of assets or on incurring 
expenses
	
	
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the 
goods and services tax/service tax/value added 
taxes paid, except:
	
	
i.	
When the tax incurred on a purchase of 
assets or services is not recoverable from 
the taxation authority, in which case, the 
tax paid is recognised as part of the cost 
of acquisition of the asset or as part of the 
expense item, as applicable
	
	
ii.	
When receivables and payables are stated 
with the amount of tax included
	
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or 
payable to, the taxation authority is included 
as part of receivables or payables in the 
 balance sheet.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
242
2.6	 Foreign currency translation
	
(i)	
Functional and presentational currency
	
	
The 
Consolidated 
financial 
statements 
are 
presented in Indian Rupees which is also 
functional currency of The Group and the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which 
The Group operates.
	
(ii)	 Transactions and balances
	
	
Initial recognition:
	
	
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
	
	
Conversion:
	
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currency, which are outstanding as at the 
year- end, are translated at the year-end at the 
closing exchange rate and the resultant exchange 
differences are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
	
Non–monetary items that are measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated 
using the spot exchange rates as at the date of 
recognition.
2.7	 Financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in 
The Group’s balance sheet on trade date, i.e. when The 
Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument.
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value. Transaction costs and revenues 
that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue 
of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than 
financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair 
value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted 
from the fair value of the financial assets or financial 
liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 
Transaction costs and revenues of financial assets 
or financial liabilities carried at fair value through the 
profit or loss account are recognised immediately in 
the Statement of Profit or Loss. Trade Receivables are 
measured at transaction price.
	
(i)	
Classification of financial instruments
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets into the 
following measurement categories:
	
	
1.	
Financial assets to be measured at amortised 
cost
	
	
2.	
Financial assets to be measured at fair value 
through profit or loss account
	
	
The classification depends on the contractual 
terms of the financial assets’ cash flows and The 
Group’s business model for managing financial 
assets which are explained below:
	
	
Business model assessment
	
	
The Group determines its business model at the 
level that best reflects how it manages groups of 
financial assets to achieve its business objective.
	
	
The Group’s business model is not assessed on 
an instrument-by-instrument basis, but at a higher 
level of aggregated portfolios and is based on 
observable factors such as:
	
	
•	
How the performance of the business model 
and the financial assets held within that 
business model are evaluated and reported 
to the entity’s key management personnel
	
	
•	
The risks that affect the performance of the 
business model (and the financial assets held 
within that business model) and the way 
those risks are managed
	
	
• 	
How 
managers 
of 
the 
business 
are 
compensated (for example, whether the 
compensation is based on the fair value of 
the assets managed or on the contractual 
cash flows collected)
	
	
•	
The expected frequency, value and timing 
of sales are also important aspects of The 
Group’s assessment. The business model 
assessment is based on reasonably expected 
scenarios without taking ‘worst case’ or 
‘stress case’ scenarios into account. If cash 
flows after initial recognition are realised 
in a way that is different from The Group’s 
original expectations, The Group does not 
change the classification of the remaining 
financial assets held in that business 
model, but incorporates such information 
when assessing newly originated or newly 
purchased financial assets going forward.
	
	
The Solely Payments of Principal and Interest 
(SPPI) test
	
	
As a second step of its classification process The 
Group assesses the contractual terms of financial 
assets to identify whether they meet the SPPI test.
	
	
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is defined 
as the fair value of the financial asset at initial 
recognition and may change over the life of 
the financial asset (for example, if there are 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
243
repayments of principal or amortisation of the 
premium/discount).
	
	
In making this assessment, The Group considers 
whether the contractual cash flows are consistent 
with a basic lending arrangement i.e. interest 
includes only consideration for the time value of 
money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and 
a profit margin that is consistent with a basic 
lending arrangement. Where the contractual 
terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility that 
are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, 
the related financial asset is classified and 
measured at fair value through profit or loss.
	
	
The Group classifies its financial liabilities at 
amortised costs unless it has designated liabilities 
at fair value through the profit and loss account 
or is required to measure liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss such as derivative liabilities.
	
(ii)	 Financial assets measured at amortised cost
	
	
Debt instruments
	
	
These financial assets comprises of bank balances, 
receivables, investments and other financial 
assets.
	
	
Debt instruments are measured at amortised cost 
where they have:
	
	
a)	
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows 
on specified dates, that represent solely 
payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding; and
	
	
b)	
are held within a business model whose 
objective is achieved by holding to collect 
contractual cash flows.
	
	
These debt instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value plus directly attributable transaction 
costs and subsequently measured at amortised 
cost.
	
(iii)	 Financial assets measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
	
	
Debt instruments
	
	
Investments in debt instruments are measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive income 
where they have:
	
	
a)	
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows 
on specified dates, that represent solely 
payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding; and
	
	
b)	
are held within a business model whose 
objective is achieved by both collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling financial 
assets.
	
	
These debt instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value plus directly attributable transaction 
costs and subsequently measured at fair value. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
value are included in other comprehensive 
income within a separate component of equity. 
Impairment losses or reversals, interest revenue 
and foreign exchange gains and losses are 
recognised in Profit and Loss. Upon disposal, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income is reclassified from 
equity to the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Equity instruments
	
	
Investment in equity instruments that are neither 
held for trading nor contingent consideration 
recognised by The Group in a business 
combination to which Ind AS 103 ‘Business 
Combination’ applies, are measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income, 
where an irrevocable election has been made by 
management and when such instruments meet 
the definition of definition of Equity under Ind 
AS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation. Such 
classification is determined on an instrument- by-
instrument basis. As at reporting date, there are 
no equity instruments measured at FVTOCI.
	
	
Amounts presented in other comprehensive 
income are not subsequently transferred to profit 
or loss.
	
	
Dividends on such investments are recognised in 
Profit or Loss.
	
(iv)	 Items at fair value through profit or loss 
(FVTPL)
	
	
Items at fair value through profit or loss comprise:
	
	
•	
Investments (including equity shares) held 
for trading;
	
	
•	
debt instruments with contractual terms 
that do not represent solely payments of 
principal and interest.
	
	
Financial instruments held at FVTPL are initially 
recognised at fair value, with transaction costs 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss as 
incurred. Subsequently, they are measured at fair 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
244
value and any gains or losses are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss as they arise.
	
	
Financial instruments designated as measured 
at FVTPL
	
	
Upon initial recognition, financial instruments 
may be designated FVTPL. A financial asset 
may only be designated at FVTPL if doing so 
eliminates or significantly reduces measurement 
or recognition inconsistencies (i.e. eliminates an 
accounting mismatch) that would otherwise arise 
from measuring financial assets or liabilities on a 
different basis.
	
	
A financial liability may be designated at FVTPL if 
it eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting 
mismatch or:
	
	
•	
if a host contract contains one or more 
embedded derivatives; or
	
	
•	
if financial assets and liabilities are both 
managed, and their performance evaluated 
on a fair value basis in accordance with a 
documented risk management or investment 
strategy.
	
	
Where a financial liability is designated at FVTPL, 
the movement in fair value attributable to changes 
in The Group’s own credit quality is calculated by 
determining the changes in credit spreads above 
observable market interest rates and is presented 
separately in other comprehensive income. As at 
the reporting date, The Group has not designated 
any financial instruments as measured at fair value 
through profit or loss.
	
(v)	 Debt securities and other borrowed funds
	
	
After initial measurement, debt issued, and other 
borrowed funds are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any discount or premium on 
issue funds, and costs that are an integral part of 
the Effective Interest Rate (EIR).
	
(vi)	 Reclassification
	
	
If the business model under which The Group 
holds financial assets undergoes changes, the 
financial assets affected are reclassified. The 
classification and measurement requirements 
related to the new category apply prospectively 
from the first day of the first reporting period 
following the change in business model that 
result in reclassifying The Group’s financial assets. 
Changes in contractual cash flows are considered 
under the accounting policy on Modification and 
derecognition of financial assets described in 
subsequent paragraphs.
	
(vii)	 Recognition and Derecognition of financial 
assets and liabilities
	
	
Recognition:
	
	
a)	
Loans and Advances are initially recognised 
when 
the 
Financial 
Instruments 
are 
transferred to the customers.
	
	
b)	
Investments are initially recognised on the 
settlement date.
	
	
c)	
Debt securities and borrowings are initially 
recognised when funds are received by The 
Group.
	
	
d)	
Other Financial assets and liabilities are 
initially recognised on the trade date, i.e., the 
date that The Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. This 
includes regular way trades: purchases or 
sales of financial assets that require delivery 
of assets within the time frame generally 
established by regulation or convention in 
the market place.
	
	
Derecognition of financial assets due to 
substantial 
modification 
of 
terms 
and 
conditions:
	
	
The Group derecognises a financial asset, such 
as a loan to a customer, when the terms and 
conditions have been renegotiated to the extent 
that, substantially, it becomes a new loan, with 
the difference recognised as a derecognition 
gain or loss, to the extent that an impairment 
loss has not already been recorded. The newly 
recognised loans are classified as Stage 1 for 
ECL measurement purposes, unless the new 
loan is deemed to be Purchased or Originated 
as Credit Impaired (POCI). In case of an existing 
exposure to the borrower in The Group the newly 
recognised loans are classified as per the staging 
of the existing exposure.
	
	
If the modification does not result in cash flows 
that are substantially different, the modification 
does not result in derecognition. Based on the 
change in cash flows discounted at the original 
EIR, The Group records a modification gain or 
loss, to the extent that an impairment loss has not 
already been recorded.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
245
	
	
Derecognition of financial assets other than 
due to substantial modification
	
a)	
Financial assets:
	
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a 
part of a financial asset or part of a group 
of similar financial assets) is derecognised 
when the rights to receive cash flows from 
the financial asset have expired. The Group 
also derecognises the financial asset if it has 
both transferred the financial asset and the 
transfer qualifies for derecognition.
	
	
	
The Group has transferred the financial asset 
if, The Group has transferred its contractual 
rights to receive cash flows from the financial 
asset.
	
	
	
A transfer only qualifies for derecognition 
if either:
	
	
	
i.	
The Group has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, or
	
	
	
ii.	
The Group has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset
	
	
	
The 
Group 
considers 
control 
to 
be 
transferred if and only if, the transferee has 
the practical ability to sell the asset in its 
entirety to an unrelated third party and is 
able to exercise that ability unilaterally and 
without imposing additional restrictions on 
the transfer.
	
	
	
When The Group has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards and has retained control of the 
asset, the asset continues to be recognised 
only to the extent of The Group’s continuing 
involvement, in which case, The Group 
also recognises an associated liability. The 
transferred asset and the associated liability 
are measured on a basis that reflects the 
rights and obligations that The Group has 
retained.
	
b)	
 Financial liabilities
	
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged, 
cancelled or expires. Where an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from 
the same lender on substantially different 
terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as a derecognition of 
the original liability and the recognition of 
a new liability. The difference between the 
carrying value of the original financial liability 
and the consideration paid is recognised in 
the Statement of Profit or Loss.
	
(viii) Impairment of financial assets
	
	
Overview of the ECL principles
	
	
The Group records allowance for expected credit 
losses for all loans, other debt financial assets not 
held at FVTPL, in this section all referred to as 
‘financial instruments. Equity instruments are not 
subject to impairment under Ind AS 109.
	
	
The ECL allowance is based on the credit losses 
expected to arise over the life of the asset (the 
lifetime expected credit loss), unless there has 
been no significant increase in credit risk since 
origination, in which case, the allowance is based 
on the 12 months’ expected credit loss.
	
	
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses 
resulting from all possible default events over 
the expected life of a financial instrument. The 
12-month ECL is the portion of Lifetime ECL that 
represent the ECLs that result from default events 
on a financial instrument that are possible within 
the 12 months after the reporting date.
	
	
Both Lifetime ECLs and 12-month ECLs are 
calculated on either an individual basis or a 
collective basis, depending on the nature of the 
underlying portfolio of financial instruments. 
The Group has grouped its loan portfolio into 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), 
Construction Finance Indirect Lending and 
Gold Loan.
	
	
The Group has established a policy to perform an 
assessment, at the end of each reporting period, 
of whether a financial instrument’s credit risk has 
increased significantly since initial recognition, 
by considering the change in the risk of default 
occurring over the remaining life of the financial 
instrument. The Group does the assessment of 
significant increase in credit risk at a borrower 
level. If a borrower has various facilities having 
different past due status, then the highest days 
past due (DPD) is considered to be applicable for 
all the facilities of that borrower.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
246
	
	
Based on the above, The Group categorises 
its loans into Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 as 
described below:
	
	
Stage 1
	
	
All exposures where there has not been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition or 
that has low credit risk at the reporting date and 
that are not credit impaired upon origination are 
classified under this stage. The Group classifies all 
standard advances and advances up to 0-30 days 
default under this category. Stage 1 loans also 
include facilities where the credit risk has reduced 
and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 2.
	
	
Stage 2
	
	
All exposures where there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial recognition but 
are not credit impaired are classified under this 
stage. Financial assets past due for 31 to 90 days 
are classified under this stage. Stage 2 loans also 
include facilities where the credit risk has reduced, 
and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 3.
	
	
Stage 3
	
	
All exposures assessed as credit impaired when 
one or more events that have a detrimental 
impact on the estimated future cash flows of that 
asset have occurred are classified in this stage. 
For exposures that have become credit impaired, 
a lifetime ECL is recognised and interest revenue 
is calculated by applying the effective interest rate 
to the amortised cost (net of provision) rather than 
the gross carrying amount. more than 90 days 
Past Due is considered as default for classifying a 
financial instrument as credit impaired.
	
	
Credit-impaired financial assets:
	
	
At each reporting date, The Group assesses 
whether financial assets carried at amortised 
cost and debt financial assets carried at FVTOCI 
are credit-impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit-
impaired’ when one or more events that have a 
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash 
flows of the financial asset have occurred.
	
	
Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired 
includes the following observable data:
	
	
a)	
Significant financial difficulty of the borrower 
or issuer;
	
	
b)	
A breach of contract such as a default or past 
due event;
	
	
c) 	
The restructuring of a loan or advance by 
The Group on terms that The Group would 
not consider otherwise;
	
	
d) 	
It is becoming probable that the borrower 
will enter bankruptcy or other financial 
reorganisation; or
	
	
e)	
The disappearance of an active market for a 
security because of financial difficulties.
	
	
The mechanics of ECL:
	
	
The assessment of credit risk and estimation 
of ECL are unbiased and probability weighted. 
It incorporates all information that is relevant 
including information about past events, current 
conditions and reasonable forecasts of future 
events and economic conditions at the reporting 
date. In addition, the estimation of ECL takes into 
account the time value of money. Forward looking 
economic scenarios determined with reference to 
external forecasts of economic parameters that 
have demonstrated a linkage to the performance 
of our portfolios over a period of time have been 
applied to determine impact of macro economic 
factors.
	
	
The mechanics of the ECL calculations are outlined 
below and the key elements are, as follows:
	
Probability of Default (PD) - Probability of default 
(“PD”) is defined as the likelihood of default over 
a particular time horizon. The PD of an obligor 
is a fundamental risk parameter in credit risk 
analysis and depends on obligor specific as well 
as macroeconomic risk factors.
	
Loss Given Default (LGD) - Loss Given Default 
(“LGD”) is defined as the loss rate on the 
exposure, given the borrower has defaulted. LGD 
is being calculated for all financial instruments 
under risk parameter approach by way of 
evaluation of historical data on defaults, recovery 
amounts, collateral liquidation, direct expenses, 
and opportunity cost for each default.
	
Exposure at Default (EAD) - The Exposure at 
Default is an estimate of the exposure at a future 
default date including the undrawn commitments. 
EAD is taken as the gross exposure under a 
facility upon default of an obligor. The principal 
outstanding, overdue principal, accrued interest, 
overdue interest less excess received from the 
customers is considered as EAD for the purpose 
of ECL computation.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
247
	
	
Forward looking information
	
	
While estimating the expected credit losses, The 
Group reviews macro-economic developments 
occurring in the economy and market it operates 
in. On a periodic basis, The Group analyses if there 
is any relationship between key economic trends 
like GDP, unemployment rates, benchmark rates 
set by the Reserve Bank of India, inﬂation etc. 
with the estimate of PD determined by The Group 
based on its internal data/external data. While 
the internal estimates of PD rates by The Group 
may not be always reﬂective of such relationships, 
temporary overlays, if any, are embedded in the 
methodology to reﬂect such macro-economic 
trends reasonably.
	
	
Collateral repossessed
	
	
In its normal course of business, the group 
repossess assets under SARFAESI/ arbitration 
Act, but do not transfer these assets in its book 
of accounts. The Group continues to show these 
loans account as Non-Performing Assets (NPA) in 
the books, till the liquidation of the secured assets 
through public auction and realise actual payment 
against these loans.
	
(ix)	 Write-offs
	
	
The Group reduces the gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset when The Group has no reasonable 
expectations of recovering a financial asset in 
its entirety or a portion thereof. This is generally 
the case when The Group determines that the 
borrower does not have assets or sources of 
income that could generate sufﬁcient cash ﬂows 
to repay the amounts subjected to write-offs. Any 
subsequent recoveries against such loans are 
credited to the Statement of Proﬁt and Loss.
	
(x)	 Determination of fair value
	
	
On initial recognition, all the financial instruments 
are measured at fair value. For subsequent 
measurement, The Group measures certain 
categories of financial instruments (as explained 
in note.) at fair value on each balance sheet date.
	
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to 
sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
	
	
i.	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
	
	
ii.	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability
	
	
The principal or the most advantageous market 
must be accessible by The Group.
	
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
	
In order to show how fair values have been 
derived, financial instruments are classified 
based on a hierarchy of valuation techniques, as 
summarised below:
	
Level 1 financial instruments - Those where 
the inputs used in the valuation are unadjusted 
quoted prices from active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities that The Group has access to 
at the measurement date. The Group considers 
markets as active only if there are sufficient trading 
activities with regards to the volume and liquidity 
of the identical assets or liabilities and when there 
are binding and exercisable price quotes available 
on the balance sheet date.
	
Level 2 financial instruments - Those where the 
inputs that are used for valuation are significant and 
are derived from directly or indirectly observable 
market data available over the entire period of 
the instrument’s life. Such inputs include quoted 
prices for similar assets or liabilities in active 
markets, quoted prices for identical instruments 
in inactive markets and observable inputs other 
than quoted prices such as interest rates and yield 
curves, implied volatilities, and credit spreads. In 
addition, adjustments may be required for the 
condition or location of the asset or the extent 
to which it relates to items that are comparable 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
248
to the valued instrument. However, if such 
adjustments are based on unobservable inputs 
which are significant to the entire measurement, 
The Group will classify the instruments as Level 3.
	
Level 3 financial instruments - Those that include 
one or more unobservable input that is signiﬁcant 
to the measurement as whole.
	
	
The Group recognises transfers between levels of 
the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
	
	
Difference between transaction price and fair 
value at initial recognition
	
	
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial 
instrument at initial recognition is the transaction 
price (i.e. the fair value of the consideration given 
or received) unless the fair value of that instrument 
is evidenced by comparison with other observable 
current market transactions in the same instrument 
(i.e. without modification or repackaging) or 
based on a valuation technique whose variables 
include only data from observable markets. When 
such evidence exists, The Group recognises the 
difference between the transaction price and the 
fair value in profit or loss on initial recognition (i.e. 
on day one).
	
	
When the transaction price of the instrument 
differs from the fair value at origination and the 
fair value is based on a valuation technique using 
only inputs observable in market transactions, 
The Group recognises the difference between 
the transaction price and fair value in net gain 
on fair value changes. In those cases where fair 
value is based on models for which some of the 
inputs are not observable, the difference between 
the transaction price and the fair value is not 
recognised at the initial recognition stage.
	
(xi)	 Derivative Financial Instruments
	
	
The Group holds derivative financial instruments 
to hedge its foreign currency and interest rate risk 
exposures. Embedded derivatives are separated 
from the host contract and accounted for 
separately if certain criteria are met.
	
	
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at 
each balance sheet date. The resulting gain/loss 
is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
immediately unless the derivative is designated 
and is effective as a hedging instrument, in 
which event the timing of the recognition in the 
statement of profit and loss depends on the 
nature of the hedge relationship.
	
	
The Group designates certain derivatives as 
hedging instruments to hedge the variability 
in cash flows associated with its floating rate 
borrowings arising from changes in interest rates 
and exchange rates. At inception of designated 
hedging relationships.
	
	
The Group documents the risk management 
objective and strategy for undertaking the 
hedge. The Group also documents the economic 
relationship between the hedged item and 
the hedging instrument, including whether the 
changes in cash flows of the hedged item and 
hedging instrument are expected to offset each 
other.
	
	
Cash flow hedges
	
	
When a derivative is designated as a cash flow 
hedging instrument, the effective portion of 
changes in the fair value of the derivative is 
recognised in OCI and accumulated in the other 
equity under ‘effective portion of cash flows 
hedges’. The effective portion of changes in the 
fair value of the derivative that is recognised 
in OCI is limited to the cumulative change in 
fair value of the hedged item, determined on a 
present value basis, from inception of the hedge. 
Any ineffective portion of changes in fair value of 
the derivative is recognised immediately in profit 
or loss.
	
	
The Group designates only the change in fair 
value of the spot element of forward exchange 
contracts as the hedging instrument in cash 
flow hedge relationships change in fair value of 
the forward element of the forward exchange 
contracts (‘forward points’) is separately accounted 
for as cost of hedging and recognised separately 
within equity.
	
	
If a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting or the hedging instrument is sold, 
expires, is terminated or is exercised, then hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the 
hedged future cash flows are no longer expected 
to occur, then the amounts that have been 
accumulated in other equity are immediately 
reclassified to profit or loss.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
249
2.8	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents comprise the net amount 
of short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash (short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less) and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value. They are held for the purposes of meeting short-
term cash commitments (rather than for investment or 
other purposes).
	
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash 
and cash equivalents consist of cash and short- term 
deposits, as defined above.
2.9	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are measured at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment, (if any). The total cost of assets comprises 
its purchase price, freight, duties, taxes and any other 
incidental expenses directly attributable to bringing 
the asset to the location and condition necessary for 
it to be capable of operating in the manner intended 
by the management. Changes in the expected useful 
life are accounted for by changing the amortisation 
period or methodology, as appropriate, and treated as 
changes in accounting estimates.
	
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of tangible 
asset are added to its gross value only if it increases 
the future benefits of the existing asset, beyond 
its previously assessed standards of performance 
and cost can be measured reliably. Other repairs 
and maintenance costs are expensed off as and 
when incurred.
	
Property, plant and equipment not ready for the 
intended use on the date of Balance Sheet are disclosed 
as “Capital work-in-progress.
	
Depreciation
	
Subsequent expenditure related to an item of tangible 
asset are added to its gross value only if it increases 
the future benefits of the existing asset, beyond its 
previously assessed standards of performance and 
cost can be measured reliably. Other repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed off as and when 
incurred.
	
Property plant and equipment is derecognised on 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset) is recognised in other income / 
expense in the statement of profit and loss in the year 
the asset is derecognised. The date of disposal of an 
item of property, plant and equipment is the date the 
recipient obtains control of that item in accordance with 
the requirements for determining when a performance 
obligation is satisfied in Ind AS 115.
	
ROU assets are depreciated from the date of 
commencement of the lease on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of 
the underlying asset.
2.10	Intangible assets
	
An intangible asset is recognised only when its cost 
can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the 
expected future economic benefits that are attributable 
to it will flow to The Group.
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. The cost of an intangible 
asset comprises its purchase price and any directly 
attributable expenditure on making the asset ready 
for its intended use and net of any trade discounts and 
rebates. Following initial recognition, intangible assets 
are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and any accumulated impairment losses.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to 
be either finite or infinite. Intangible assets with finite 
lives are amortised over the useful economic life. The 
amortisation period and the amortisation method for 
an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed 
at least at each financial year-end.
	
Changes in the expected useful life, or the expected 
pattern of consumption of future economic benefits 
embodied in the asset, are accounted for by 
changing the amortisation period or methodology, 
as appropriate, which are then treated as changes 
in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense 
on intangible assets with finite lives is presented as a 
separate line item in the statement of profit and loss. 
Amortisation on assets acquired/sold during the year 
is recognised on a pro-rata basis to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss from / upto the date of acquisition/sale.
	
Amortisation is calculated using the straight–line 
method to write down the cost of intangible assets to 
their residual values over their estimated useful lives. 
Intangible assets comprising of software are amortised 
on a straight-line basis over a period of 3 years, unless 
it has a shorter useful life.
	
Gains or losses from derecognition of intangible 
assets are measured as the difference between the 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
250
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
when the asset is derecognised.
	
Intangible assets not ready for the intended use on 
the date of Balance Sheet are disclosed as “Intangible 
under development”
2.11	Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the enterprise has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result 
of past events, and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
	
When the effect of the time value of money is material, 
the enterprise determines the level of provision by 
discounting the expected cash flows at a pre-tax rate 
reflecting the current rates specific to the liability. The 
expense relating to any provision is presented in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss net of any reimbursement.
2.12 Contingent Liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be conﬁrmed 
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events beyond the control of The 
Group or a present obligation that is not recognized 
because it is not probable that an outﬂow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent 
liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is 
a liability that cannot be recognized because it cannot 
be measured reliably. The Group does not recognize 
a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
2.13 Earning Per Share
	
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per share 
in accordance with Ind AS 33 on Earnings per share. 
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net proﬁt or loss 
for the year attributable to equity shareholders (after 
deducting preference dividend and attributable taxes) 
by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net proﬁt or loss for the year attributable to 
equity shareholders and the weighted average number 
of shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for 
the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive 
potential equity shares are deemed converted as of the 
beginning of the period, unless they have been issued 
at a later date. In computing the dilutive earnings per 
share, only potential equity shares that are dilutive and 
that either reduces the earnings per share or increases 
loss per share are included.
2.14	Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity 
with the Ind AS requires the management to make 
judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and 
liabilities and the accompanying disclosure and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the 
reporting period. Estimates and underlying assumptions 
are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimates are revised and future periods are 
affected. Although these estimates are based on the 
management’s best knowledge of current events and 
actions, uncertainty about these assumptions and 
estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
or liabilities in future periods.
	
In particular, information about signiﬁcant areas of 
estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in 
applying accounting policies that have the most 
signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognized in the 
ﬁnancial statements is included in the following notes:
	
(i)	
Deﬁned employee beneﬁt assets and liabilities - 
Refer 2.5(ii)
	
(ii)	
Impairment of loans portfolio - Refer 2.7(viii)
	
(iii)	
Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method - Refer 2.4(i) 
and 2.5(i)
	
(iv)	
Lease accounting - Refer 2.5(iii)
	
(v)	
Impairment test of non-financial assets - Refer 
2.5(v)
	
(vi)	
Useful life of property, plant, equipment and 
intangibles - Refer 2.9 & 2.10
	
(vii)	 Provision for income taxes, including amount 
expected to be paid/recovered for uncertain tax 
positions - Refer 2.5(vi)
	
(viii)	 Recognition and Measurement of Provision and 
Contingencies - Refer 2.11 and 2.12
	
(ix)	
Determination of the fair value of financial 
instruments - Refer 2.7(x)
	
(x)	
Business Model Assessment - Refer 2.7(i)
2.15	Recent accounting pronouncements
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) on 31st 
March 2023 through Companies (Indian Accounting 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
251
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 has notified 
the following amendments to IND AS which are 
applicable for the annual periods beginning on or after 
1st April, 2023.
	
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 1 – Presentation 
of financial statements – This amendment requires 
The Group to disclose its material accounting policies 
rather than their significant accounting policies.
	
The Group will carry out a detailed review of accounting 
policies to determine material accounting policy 
information to be disclosed going forward.
	
The Group does not expect this amendment to have 
any material impact in its financial statements.
	
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 8 – Accounting 
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
– This amendment has changed the definition of a 
“change in accounting estimates” to a definition of 
“accounting estimates”. The amendment clarifies how 
companies should distinguish changes in accounting 
policies from changes in accounting estimates.
	
The Group does not expect this amendment to have 
any material impact in its financial statements.
	
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 12 – Income taxes 
– This amendment has done away with the recognition 
exemption on initial recognition of assets and liabilities 
that give rise to equal and offsetting temporary 
differences.
	
The Group does not expect this amendment to have 
any material impact in its financial statements.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
252
Note 3 - Cash and cash equivalents 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Cash on hand 
 164.66 
 14.88 
Cheques on hand 
 27.58 
 8.81 
Balances with banks: 
 - In Current Accounts 
 3,223.26 
 1,101.37 
 - Fixed deposits with original maturity of 3 Months or less 
 11,352.23 
 2,100.00 
 Total
 14,767.73 
 3,225.06 
Note 4 - Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Earmarked balances with banks 
- Original Maturity more than 3 months 
 334.88 
 305.94 
- Unclaimed Dividend Account 
 0.19 
 0.21 
 Total
 335.07 
 306.15 
Out of the above ` 320.46 Millions (March 31, 2022 - ` 200.51 Millions) balance in deposit accounts with banks are being earmarked 
towards Borrowings from National Housing Bank , overdraft facilities, bank guarantee and against customer advance.
Deposits are made for varying period from 10 days to 10 years and earn interest from 4.90% to 7.70% p.a.
 Note 5 - Receivables 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Secured considered good 
- Outstanding for a period exceeding six months from the due date of payment of 
payment 
 - 
 - 
- Outstanding for a period less than six months 
 333.74 
 93.26 
Total – Gross (A) 
 333.74 
 93.26 
Less: Provision for impairment 
 (11.40)
 - 
Total – Net (A)
 322.34 
 93.26 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days.
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Group either severally or jointly with any other person. 
Nor any trade or other receivable are due from firms or private companies respectively in which any director is a partner, a director 
or a member.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
253
Ageing schedule 
(1)	 Current year 
(` in Millions)
Particulars 
 Not Due 
 Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
(i)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good
 - 
 322.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 322.34 
(ii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	
Disputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of receivable is determined from the date of transaction 
(2)	 Previous year
(` in Millions)
Particulars 
 Not Due 
 Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment 
 Total 
 Less than 
6 months 
 6 months 
- 1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More than 
3 years 
(i)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - 
considered good 
 - 
 93.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 93.26 
(ii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Undisputed Trade receivables - credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	
Disputed Trade receivables - 
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	
Disputed Trade receivables - which 
have significant increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	
Disputed Trade receivables -  
credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of receivable is determined from the date of transaction 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
254
Note 6 - Loans
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 
2023
As at March 31, 
2022
Total
Total
Secured (Amortised Cost)
Term Loans
 96,544.56 
 64,413.67 
Unsecured (Amortised Cost)
Loan to employees
 3.43 
 1.13 
Total – Gross (A)
 96,547.99 
 64,414.80 
Less : Expected Credit Loss
 (1,794.47)
 (1,706.77)
Total – Net (A)
 94,753.52 
 62,708.03 
(i)	
Secured by Tangible Assets
 93,133.60 
 61,291.34 
(ii)	
Secured by Book Debts
 3,410.96 
 3,122.33 
(iii)	
Unsecured
 3.43 
 1.13 
Total – Gross (B)
 96,547.99 
 64,414.80 
Less: Expected Credit Loss
 (1,794.47)
 (1,706.77)
Total – Net (B)
 94,753.52 
 62,708.03 
Loans in India
(i) Public Sector
 - 
 - 
(ii) Others
 96,547.99 
 64,414.80 
Total - Gross (C)
 96,547.99 
 64,414.80 
Less: Expected Credit Loss
 (1,794.47)
 (1,706.77)
Total – Net (C)
 94,753.52 
 62,708.03 
Note 1 - The Group's business model is to Collect contractual cash flows, being the payment of Principal and Interest, accordingly 
the loans are measured at amortised cost.
Note 2 - Underlying for the term loans secured by tangible assets are properties and Gold Jewellery
Note 3 - The Group does not have any loans outside India.
Note 7 - Investments
(` in Millions)
Investments
As at March 31, 2023
 As at March 31, 2022
 At Fair Value 
Through 
profit and loss 
 At 
Amortized 
Cost 
 Total 
 At Fair Value 
Through profit 
and loss 
 At 
Amortized 
Cost 
 Total 
Investments in Mutual funds
 1,364.73 
 - 
 1,364.73 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,304.43 
Investments in Debt Securities
- Debt Instrument
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 247.66 
 247.66 
- Pass Through Certificates
 - 
 785.68 
 785.68 
 - 
 1,174.64 
 1,174.64 
Investments in Equity Instruments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.11 
 - 
 48.11 
Total - Gross (A)
 1,364.73 
 785.68 
 2,150.41 
 2,352.54 
 1,422.31 
 3,774.84 
i) Investments outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii) Investments in India
 1,364.73 
 785.68 
 2,150.41 
 2,352.54 
 1,422.31 
 3,774.84 
Total (B)
 1,364.73 
 785.68 
 2,150.41 
 2,352.54 
 1,422.31 
 3,774.84 
* As per para 10 of Ind AS 27, the Group has opted to account the investments in subsidiary entity at cost.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
255
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
 Numbers/Units
 Numbers/Units
Investment in Subsidiaries
1.	
Equity Shares of CARE Ratings Limited of ` 10/- each fully paid up
-
 94,242.00 
Investment in Mutual Funds
1.	
ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Term Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 - 
 9,290,561.00 
2.	
DSP Liquidity Fund - Direct Plan - Growth
 46,707.43 
 - 
3.	
ICICI Pru.  Floating Interest Fund -Direct Growth
 452,358.55 
 - 
4.	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Savings Fund - DG
 692,366.47 
 676,389.73 
5.	
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund Regular Growth
 - 
 198,269.03 
6.	
ICICI Prudential Money Market Fund Direct Growth
 - 
 1,629,143.98 
7.	
Nippon India Money Market Fund Direct Growth
 - 
 185,170.45 
8.	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Money Manager Fund - Direct Growth
 - 
 669,388.31 
9.	
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Direct Growth
 - 
 583,099.82 
10.	 Nippon Indian Liquid Fund Direct Growth
 - 
 38,439.85 
11.	 Baroda Liquid Fund
 80,394.50 
 - 
12.	 Nippon India Money Market Fund 
 100,752.44 
 - 
13.	 ICICI Prudential Ultra Short Fund
 10,034,017.04 
 - 
Investment in Bonds
1.	
Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd - 11 NCD 05OCT23 FVRS10LAC	
 - 
 250.00 
Investment in Pass Through Certificates
1.	
INDIAN RECEIVABLE TRUST 2019 SERIES 5 - SERIES A2 PTC 01MR19
 2,318.00 
 2,318.00 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
256
Note 8. Other Financial Assets
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Security Deposits 
 127.37 
 32.30 
Interest Accrued but not due on Debt Instruments 
 - 
 2.03 
Interest Accrued but not due on PTC 
 4.74 
 6.08 
Spread receivable on assigned portfolio 
 622.01 
 168.46 
Other Receivable 
 1.37 
 1.65 
Total 
 755.49 
 210.52 
 Note 9 - Current Tax Assets (Net)
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
 Advance Tax 
 195.04 
 100.38 
 [net of provision for tax of ` 3,850 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 3,129.87 Millions)] 
 Total 
 195.04 
 100.38 
Note 10. Deferred Tax Assets
 The major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are : 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
 a)	
Depreciation 
 39.16 
 - 
 24.25 
 - 
 b)	
Provision for Employee Benefits 
 29.74 
 - 
 15.21 
 - 
 c)	
Unmortised fees on borrowings 
 - 
 0.68 
 - 
 1.40 
 d)	
Impairment allowance for financial 
assets 
 464.90 
 - 
 359.09 
 - 
 e)	
Unmortised fees on loans 
 1.55 
 - 
 4.21 
 - 
 f)	
Financial Instruments at FVTPL 
 - 
 1.05 
 0.76 
 - 
 g)	
Others 
 32.46 
 - 
 7.11 
 - 
 h)	
Interest Income on NPA 
 66.56 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 i)	
Gain on derecognition of financial 
instruments 
 - 
 156.55 
 - 
 42.40 
Total
 634.37 
 158.28 
 410.63 
 43.80 
Net Deferred Tax Asset
 476.09 
 366.83 
Refer Note 35 for Deferred tax Movement
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
257
Note 11 - Property, plant and equipment & Intangible Assets
Current Year:
Property, plant and equipment :
(` in Millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2022 Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at April 
01,2022
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 
31,2022
 Buildings :
Buildings
 2.70
 -
 -
 2.70
 0.60
 0.10
 -
 0.70
 2.00
 2.10
Leasehold 
Premises
 22.85
 164.28
 0.43
 186.70
 17.65
 19.59
 0.35
 36.89
 149.81
 5.20
 Computer 
Hardware
 128.83
 173.75
 10.44
 292.14
 82.28
 79.94
 9.84
 152.38
 139.76
 46.55
 Furniture and 
Fixtures
 49.37
 367.03
 0.55
 415.85
 36.48
 40.23
 0.41
 76.30
 339.55
 12.89
 Office 
Equipments
 33.43
 220.76
 2.62
 251.57
 27.42
 41.28
 2.47
 66.23
 185.34
 6.01
 Vehicles
 62.71
 14.78
 11.15
 66.34
 42.65
 7.69
 7.96
 42.38
 23.96
 20.05
 Electrical 
Installation
 9.82
 140.85
 0.22
 150.45
 7.67
 14.70
 0.19
 22.18
 128.27
 2.15
 Right of Use
 352.94
 1,885.98
 64.46
 2,174.46
 129.87
 200.35
 26.98
 303.24
 1,871.22
 223.07
 Total
 662.65
 2,967.44
 89.89
 3,540.22
 344.62
 403.88
 48.20
 700.30
 2,839.92
 318.02
 Note: The Group confirms that the title deeds of immpovable property are held in the name of the Capri Global Capital Limited. 
Capital work-in-progress:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
 GROSS BLOCK
 As at 
April 01,2022 
 Additions 
 Deductions 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Computer Hardware
 - 
 71.16 
 65.84 
 5.32 
Furniture & Fixtures
 - 
 207.25 
 192.19 
 15.06 
Office Equipments
 - 
 175.23 
 170.40 
 4.83 
Total
 - 
 453.63 
 428.44 
 25.22 
Intangible Assets under development:
(` in Millions)
Particulars 
 GROSS BLOCK
 As at 
April 01,2022 
 Additions 
 Deductions 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Software
 23.20 
 156.85 
 32.00 
 148.05 
Total
 23.20 
 156.85 
 32.00 
 148.05 
Intangible assets :
(` in Millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2022 Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at April 
01,2022
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 
31,2022
Software
 107.22 
 79.27 
 - 
 186.49 
 81.56 
 35.26 
 - 
 116.82 
 69.67 
 25.66 
Total
 107.22 
 79.27 
 - 
 186.49 
 81.56 
 35.26 
 - 
 116.82 
 69.67 
 25.66 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
258
Previous Year
Property, plant and equipment :
(` in Millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2021 Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at April 
01,2021
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 
31,2021
Buildings :
Buildings
 2.70
 -
 -
 2.70
 0.49
 0.11
 -
 0.60
 2.10
 2.21
Leasehold Premises
 22.85
 -
 -
 22.85
 15.84
 1.81
 -
 17.65
 5.20
 7.01
Computer Hardware
 91.67
 51.92
 14.76
 128.83
 75.37
 20.80
 13.89
 82.28
 46.55
 16.30
Furniture and Fixtures
 50.31
 1.52
 2.46
 49.37
 34.03
 4.25
 1.80
 36.48
 12.89
 16.28
Office Equipments
 33.22
 3.96
 3.75
 33.43
 28.35
 2.54
 3.47
 27.42
 6.01
 4.87
Vehicles
 61.40
 9.88
 8.58
 62.70
 42.02
 6.04
 5.41
 42.65
 20.05
 19.38
Electrical Installation
 9.94
 -
 0.12
 9.82
 7.02
 0.74
 0.09
 7.67
 2.15
 2.92
Right of Use
 296.79
 93.90
 37.75
 352.94
 111.15
 42.82
 24.10
 129.87
 223.07
 185.64
 Total
 568.88
 161.18
 67.42
 662.64
 314.27
 79.11
 48.76
 344.62
 318.02
 254.61
Intagible Assets under development : 
(` in Millions)
Particulars 
 GROSS BLOCK
 As at 
April 01, 2021 
 Additions 
 Deductions 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Software
 0.70 
 23.52 
 1.02 
 23.20 
Total
 0.70 
 23.52 
 1.02 
 23.20 
Intangible assets :
(` in Millions)
Particulars
GROSS BLOCK
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
NET BLOCK
As at April 
01,2021
Additions
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at April 
01,2021
For the 
Year
Deductions
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at March 
31,2021
Software
 78.74 
 28.48 
 - 
 107.22 
 61.93 
 19.63 
 - 
 81.56 
 25.66 
 16.81 
Total
 78.74 
 28.48 
 - 
 107.22 
 61.93 
 19.63 
 - 
 81.56 
 25.66 
 16.81 
Note 12. Other Non-Financial Assets
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Capital Advances 
 178.75 
 156.95 
Less: Provision on Capital Advances 
 - 
 3.71 
Net Capital Advances 
 178.75 
 153.24 
Assets Held for sale 
 187.93 
 47.44 
Less: Provision on Assets held for sale 
 42.98 
 42.98 
Net Assets Held for Sale 
 144.95 
 4.46 
Prepaid expenses 
 78.36 
 35.33 
Accrued Income 
 447.20 
 170.46 
Advance to vendor 
 236.34 
 7.59 
Other Assets 
 22.00 
 4.66 
Total 
 1,107.60 
 375.74 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
259
Note 13. Payables
Trade Payables
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises* 
 6.52 
 1.75 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises 
 960.95 
 333.10 
 Total 
 967.47 
 334.85 
*The information as required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 has been determined to the extent 
such parties have been identified on the basis of Information available with the Group. The amount of principal and interest outstanding during the year is 
given below.
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
1) 	
Principal amount due and remaining unpaid
 6.52
 1.75
2) 	
Interest due on (1) above and the unpaid interest
 -
 -
3) 	
Interest paid on all delayed payment under the MSMED Act
 -
 -
4) 	
Payment made beyond the appointed day during the year
 -
 -
5) 	
Interest due and payable for the period of delay other than (3) above
 -
 -
6) 	
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 -
 -
7) 	
Amount of further interest remaining due and payable in succeeding years
 -
 -
Total
 6.52
 1.75
Note: Trade Payable includes amount due to Related Parties as on March 31, 2023 ` Nil (As at March 2022 ` Nil)
Ageing schedule
(1)	
Current year
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
MSME
 - 
 6.50 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 - 
 6.52 
(ii)	
Others
 940.76 
 18.30 
 1.27 
 0.60 
 0.01 
 960.95 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction 
(2)	
Previous year
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
MSME
 - 
 1.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.75 
(ii)	
Others
 325.10 
 6.21 
 0.24 
 1.55 
 - 
 333.10 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
260
Other  Payables
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Accrued Employee Benefit Expense 
 144.99 
 78.25 
Total 
 144.99 
 78.25 
Ageing schedule
(1)	
Current year
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
Others
 - 
 143.56 
 1.43 
 - 
 - 
 144.99 
Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction
(2)	
Previous year
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods  
from due date of payment
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
(i)	
Others
 78.20 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 78.25 
 Note: Ageing of payable is determined from the date of transaction 
Note 14. Debt Securities
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
At 
Amortised Cost
Total
At 
Amortised Cost
Total
Non Convertible Debentures
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Total (A)
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Debt securities in India
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Debt securities outside India
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total (B)
 4,386.14 
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
 4,560.88 
Terms of repayment, nature of security & rate of interest in case of Non Convertible Debtenture.
(` in Millions)
Name of Security
Maturity date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/ 
Interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Series 4 (FV `10 Lacs)
 09-08-2029 
Bullet payment on 
maturity 
10.23%
 1,500.00 
 1,500.00 
Series 8 (FV `10 Lacs)
 23-07-2023 
Payable in 3 equal 
annual instalments 
8.80%
 166.67 
 333.33 
Series 6 (FV `10 Lacs)
 05-06-2023 
Bullet payment on 
maturity 
9.00%
 500.00 
 500.00 
Series 5 (FV `10 Lacs)
 22-05-2023 
Bullet payment on 
maturity 
8.80%
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Total (A)
 4,166.67 
 4,333.33 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
261
(` in Millions)
Name of Security
Maturity date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/ 
Interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Add: Interest accrued but 
not due (B)
 219.85 
 229.99 
Less: Unammortised 
borrowing cost (C)
 (0.38)
 (2.44)
Total (A+B-C)
 4,386.14 
 4,560.88 
Disclosure under regulation 53(e) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
Debenture Trustees:
Catalyst Trusteeship Limited
604, Windsor, Off CST Road,
Kalina, Santacruz East,
Mumbai - 400098.
Contact : + 91 (022) 49220555
Disclosure under regulation 53(f) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
Related party transaction - Refer Note 41
Disclosure under regulation 54(2) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
Asset Cover
The above NCD's are secured against first pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation on the immovable property, loan receivables/
book debts, bank balances and investments of the Group with asset cover range of 1.25 to 1.33 times.
Note 15A - Derivative financial instruments
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Notional 
Amounts *
Fair Value - 
Assets
Fair Value - 
Liabilities
Notional 
Amounts
Fair Value - 
Assets
Fair Value 
- Liabilities
Part I
(i)	
Currency Derivatives:
	
- Forwards
 14,162.86 
 - 
 75.72 
 6,129.63 
 - 
 12.42 
Total Derivative Financial Instruments
 14,162.86 
 - 
 75.72 
 6,129.63 
 - 
 12.42 
Part II
Included in above (Part I) are derivatives 
held for hedging and risk management 
purposes as follows:
(i)	
Cashflow Hedging:
-	
Currency Derivatives : Forwards
 14,162.86 
 - 
 75.72 
 6,129.63 
 - 
 12.42 
Total Derivative Financial Instruments
 14,162.86 
 - 
 75.72 
 6,129.63 
 - 
 12.42 
* Notional amount of the respective currency has been converted as at March 31,2023 exchange rate.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
262
Note 15B - Borrowings (Other Than Debt Securities) - At Amortised Cost 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
 Secured 
 Term Loans from Banks* 
 61,211.26 
 37,022.92 
 Term Loans from others** 
 8,871.89 
 6,036.69 
 Loan Repayable on Demand 
 From Banks (Cash Credit) 
 643.50 
 701.55 
 From Banks (Overdraft) 
 - 
 - 
 Others 
 Commercial Paper- Unsecured 
 - 
 - 
 Total (A) 
 70,726.65 
 43,761.16 
 Borrowings in India 
 70,726.65 
 43,761.16 
 Borrowings outside India 
 - 
 - 
 Total (B) 
 70,726.65 
 43,761.16 
* Exclusive charge by way of hypothecation of Group’s loan receivables, bank balances with asset cover of 1.20 times in favour of borrowing from SBI of ` 
1,353.36 Millions.
Borrowings other than above: First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of the Group’s loan receivables / book debts, bank 
balances and investments with asset cover of 1.10 to 1.33 times.
** Exclusive charge by way of hypothecation of Group’s loan receivables with minimum assets cover of 1.25 times in favour of borrowing from NABARD of ` 
2,800 Millions and asset cover of 1.25 to 1.35 times in favour of borrowing from NHB of ` 5,354.11 Millions.
Borrowings other than above: First pari-passu charge by way of hypothecation of the Group’s loan receivables / book debts, bank 
balance and investments with asset cover in the range of 1.10 to 1.33 times.
Terms of repayment & rate of interest in case of Borrowings (Other than Debt Securities)
(` in Millions)
Nature of Facility
Maturity Range
Interest Range
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Term Loans 
 0-3 yrs 
 8.05% - 9.90% 
 21,087.64 
 5,770.10 
Term Loans 
 3-5 yrs 
 8.25% - 10.20% 
 22,913.24 
 17,623.67 
Term Loans 
 5-7 yrs 
 8.25% - 9.40% 
 21,105.35 
 16,561.00 
Term Loans 
 Beyond 7 years 
 7.50% - 10.65% 
 - 
 1,749.99 
Refinance from NHB 
 0-3 yrs 
 3% - 6.50% 
 222.69 
 347.20 
Refinance from NHB 
 3-5 yrs 
 3% - 6.50% 
 582.78 
 4.85 
Refinance from NHB 
 5-7 yrs 
 3% - 6.50% 
 2,431.50 
 795.91 
Refinance from NHB 
 Beyond 7 years 
 3% - 6.50% 
 2,117.15 
 398.80 
Cash Credit 
 NA 
 8.20% - 11.20% 
 643.50 
 701.55 
Total (A) 
 71,103.85 
 43,953.07 
Add: Interest accrued but not due (B) 
 19.93 
 8.19 
Less : Unamortised borrowing cost (C) 
 (397.13)
 (200.10)
Total (A+B-C) 
 70,726.65 
 43,761.16 
The Group has not defaulted in the repayment of borrowings (other than debt)  and interest thereon for the year ended March 
31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 respectively.
The quarterly returns/statements of current assets filed by the Group with the banks or financial institutions are in agreement with 
the books of accounts
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
263
Note 16. Other Financial Liabilities 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Book Overdraft
 3,552.60 
 2,817.53 
Unclaimed dividend
 0.19 
 0.21 
Margin money received from Customer
 126.14 
 139.98 
Advances from customers
 8.55 
 1.55 
Lease Liability
 1,928.87 
 248.20 
Interest Accrued but not due on borrowings
 0.22 
 - 
Other Financial Liabilities
 13.28 
 63.17 
Total
 5,629.85 
 3,270.64 
Note 17 - Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Provision for Tax 
 12.92 
 27.89 
[net of advance tax of March 2023 ` 329 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 740.87 Millions)]
Total
 12.92 
 27.89 
Note 18. Provisions 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Provision on non-fund exposure
 70.11 
 93.77 
Provision for employee benefits
 - Gratuity 
 28.74 
 13.15 
 - Compensated Absences
 116.11 
 59.27 
Total
 214.96 
 166.19 
Note 19. Other non-financial liabilities
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Statutory Remittances
 121.52 
 90.70 
Other non financial liability
 11.27 
 - 
Total
 132.79 
 90.70 
Note 20. Equity Share Capital
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
AUTHORISED
36,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ` 2 each
 720.00 
 720.00 
(Previous Year 36,00,00,000 Equity Shares of ` 2 each)
 720.00 
 720.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
20,61,52,844 Equity Shares of  ` 2 each
 412.31 
 351.31 
(Previous Year 17,56,54,055  Equity Shares of  ` 2 each)
 412.31 
 351.31 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
264
Reconciliation of number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number
Amount
(` in Millions)
Number
Amount
(` in Millions)
Equity shares outstanding as at the 
beginning of the year
 17,56,54,055 
 351.31 
 17,52,85,355 
 350.57 
Issued during the year*
 3,04,98,789 
 61.00 
 3,68,700 
 0.74 
Equity shares outstanding as at the 
end of the year
 20,61,52,844 
 412.31 
 17,56,54,055 
 351.31 
*During the year the Holding Company has allotted 1,83,000 equity shares of ` 2/- each for consideration of ` 12.49 Millions as ESOPs. In previous year the 
Holding Company had allotted 3,68,700 equity shares of ` 2/- each for consideration of ` 21.60 Millions as ESOPs.
*During the year, the Holding Company has allotted 3,03,15,789 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each (“Rights Equity Shares”) at a premium of ` 473/- per 
share aggregating up to ` 14,400 Millions
Details of shareholders holding more than 5 percent shares in the Holding Company are given below:	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number
%
Number
%
Capri Global Holdings Pvt. Ltd.
9,82,25,914
47.65%
6,78,24,643
38.61%
Capri Global Advisory Services Pvt. Ltd.
 -
0.00%
1,75,17,060
9.97%
Life Insurance Corporation Of India
1,99,75,981
9.69%
 1,18,00,000
6.72%
Rajesh Sharma
4,59,00,035
22.27%
 4,59,00,035
26.13%
Details of Promoters holding shares in the Company are given below:
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
% change 
during the 
year
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Individuals / Hindu Undivided Family
Ramesh Chandra Sharma 
 278 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
0.00%
Rajesh Sharma 
 1,000 
0.00%
 500 
0.00%
100.00%
Jahnavi Sharma 
 200 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
100.00%
Jinisha Sharma 
 200 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
100.00%
Raghav Sharma 
 200 
0.00%
 100 
0.00%
100.00%
Promoter Trust
Rajesh Sharma 
 4,59,00,035 
22.27%
 4,59,00,035 
26.13%
0.00%
Bodies Corporate
Capri Global Holdings Private Limited 
 9,82,25,914 
47.65%
 6,78,24,643 
38.61%
44.82%
Capri Global Advisory Services Private Limited 
 - 
0.00%
 1,75,17,060 
9.97%
-100.00%
Total
 14,41,27,827 
69.91%
 13,12,42,538 
74.72%
9.82%
Terms/Rights attached to equity shares:	
1.	
The Holding Company has only one class of equity share having a par value of ` 2/- per share. Each holder of equity shares 
is entitled to one vote per share. The Holding Company declares and pays dividends in Indian Rupees.
2. 	
In the event of liquidation of the Holding Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets 
of the Holding Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be proportion to the number of 
equity shares held by the shareholders.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
265
Shares reservation :
In FY 2022-23 No. of 30,60,400 (FY 2021-22 No. of 30,40,800) shares of ` 2 each towards outstanding employee stock options 
granted (Refer Note 45)
Objective for managing capital:
The Group maintains an actively managed capital base to cover risks inherent in the business and is meeting the capital adequacy 
requirements of the regulator, Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The adequacy of the Holding Company’s capital is monitored using, 
among other measures, the regulations issued by RBI.
There are no shares reserved for issue under options, contracts, commitments for the sale of shares or divestments.
There are no shares in the preceding 5 years allotted as fully paid up without payment being received in cash/bonus shares/ 
bought back.
Note 21. Other equity
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
 March 31, 2022
Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934
Opening Balance
 2,731.73
 2,407.96
Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 283.07
 323.77
Closing balance
 3,014.80
 2,731.73
Statutory Reserve Section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
Opening Balance
 244.70
 158.30
Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and Loss
 164.99
 86.40
Closing balance
 409.69
 244.70
Securities premium
Opening Balance
 4,541.13
 4,491.79
Add: On account of ESOP Exercised
 25.34
 49.34
Add: Proceed from right issue
 14,268.06
 -
Closing balance
 18,834.53
 4,541.13
General Reserve
Opening Balance
 642.05
 642.05
Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the statement of profit and loss
 -
 -
Closing balance
 642.05
 642.05
Other reserves & surplus - Employee stock option outstanding
Opening Balance
 105.08
 78.77
Add/Less: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss
 148.37
 26.31
Closing balance
 253.45
 105.08
Retained earnings (Surplus in profit & loss account)
Opening Balance
 10,608.71
 9,043.54
Profit for the year
 2,046.54
 2,050.41
Other Comprehensive Income
 (31.45)
 (4.92)
Dividend Paid
 (87.91)
 (70.15)
Transfer to Reserve Fund Section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
 (164.99)
 (86.40)
Transfer to Reserve Fund under Section 45-IC of Reserve Bank of India Act,1934
 (283.07)
 (323.77)
Closing Balance
 12,087.83
 10,608.71
Total
 35,242.35
 18,873.40
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
266
Securities premium
Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for limited purposes 
such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
General reserve
Under the erstwhile Companies Act 1956, general reserve was created through an annual transfer of net income at a specified 
percentage in accordance with applicable regulations. The purpose of these transfers was to ensure that if a dividend distribution 
in a given year is more than 10% of the paid-up capital of the Holding Company for that year, then the total dividend distribution 
is less than the total distributable results for that year. Consequent to introduction of Companies Act 2013, the requirement 
to mandatorily transfer a specified percentage of the net profit to general reserve has been withdrawn. However, the amount 
previously transferred to the general reserve can be utilised only in accordance with the specific requirements of Companies 
Act, 2013.
Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 45-IC of the RBI Act, 1934
Every non-banking financial company is required to create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty per cent 
of its net profit every year as disclosed in the statement of profit and loss before any dividend is declared.
Statutory Reserve pursuant to Section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987
Every housing finance institution which is a company shall create a reserve fund and transfer therein a sum not less than twenty 
per cent of its profit every year as disclosed in the profit and loss account and before any dividend is declared. Explanation - A 
housing finance institution creating and maintaining any special reserve in terms of clause (viii) of sub-section (1) of section 36 
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) may take into account any sum transferred by it for the year to such special reserve for 
the purposes of this sub-section. For the previous comparative periods, company has maintained transfer to statutory reserve on 
profit calculated under erstwhile GAAP.
Employee Stock Option Reserve
This reserve is used to record the employee stock options which are outstanding. The said reserve will be utilised for issuance of 
share to the eligible employees.
Rights Issue
During the year, the Holding Company has allotted 3,03,15,789 equity shares of face value of ` 2/- each (“Rights Equity Shares”) 
at a premium of ` 473/- per share aggregating up to ` 14,400 Millions in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements), 2018, as amended, and various applicable circulars that have been issued 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) from time to time.
The total expenses on rights issue ` 71.31 Millions has been adjusted against securities Premium.
The object of the Issue is to augment the capital base of the Holding Company. The net proceeds to be utilised to meet the future 
capital requirements, which are expected to arise out of growth of Holding Company’s business and assets, including but not 
limited to, onward lending under Holding Company's four lending vertical viz; MSME loans, construction finance loans, Indirect 
lending and gold loans, ensuring compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, payment of operating expenditure and 
funding growth opportunities for the above verticals
(` in Millions)
Total shares 
issued and 
subscribed  (nos.)
Proceeds received 
from rights issue
Expenses incurred 
related to rights 
issue
Net proceeds 
available for 
utilisation
Utilised till March 
31, 2023
Balance unutilised 
balance as on 
March 31, 2023
 3,03,15,789 
 14,400.00 
 110.00 
 14,290.00 
 2,039.19 
 12,250.81 
The balance net proceeds will be utilised by financial year 2024
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
267
Note 22. Interest Income
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year 
ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year 
ended 
March 31, 2022
On Financial 
Assets measured 
at Amortised Cost
On Financial 
Assets measured 
at Amortised Cost
Interest on Loans
 11,442.61 
 8,100.22 
Interest on deposits
 88.22 
 32.71 
Interest income from investments
 137.04 
 260.83 
Interest on Others
 5.05 
 2.02 
Total
 11,672.92 
 8,395.78 
Note 23 - Fee and commission Income
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Application Fees 
 103.91 
 39.81 
Car Loan Commission
 1,437.06 
 466.96 
Total
 1,540.97 
 506.77 
Note 24. Net Gain on Derecognition of Financial Instruments
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net gain on derecognition of financial instruments
 557.31 
 170.01 
Total
 557.31 
 170.01 
Note 25 - Net gain on fair value changes
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(A) 	 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
	
(i)	
On trading portfolio
	
	
-	
Investments in Shares
 16.02 
 144.75 
	
	
-	
Mutual Fund & Bonds
 197.98 
 91.42 
(B)	
Others
   
(C)	
Total Net gain on fair value changes
 214.00 
 236.17 
(D)	
Fair Value changes:
	
-Realised
 199.61 
 228.95 
	
-Unrealised
 14.39 
 7.22 
Total Net gain on fair value changes
 214.00 
 236.17 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
268
Note 26 - Other Operating Income
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Foreclosure Fees
 139.64 
 80.19 
Legal Charges Received
 20.19 
 13.93 
Other Charges
 223.35 
 148.39 
Total
 383.18 
 242.51 
Note 27 - Other Income
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Profit on sale of Investment Property
 6.30 
 2.93 
Write Back
 1.55 
 7.47 
Other
 8.67 
 4.01 
Total
 16.52 
 14.41 
Note 28. Finance Costs
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
On Financial 
liabilities measured 
at Amortised Cost
On Financial 
liabilities measured 
at Amortised Cost
Interest on borrowings Other than debt Securities 
 4,742.90 
 2,721.83 
Interest on Bank Overdraft 
 1.94 
 - 
Interest on debt securities 
 411.50 
 553.40 
Interest on Bank CC 
 7.22 
 7.12 
Interest on Lease Liability 
 147.62 
 26.12 
Total 
 5,311.18 
 3,308.47 
Note 29 - Impairment on financial instruments (at Amortised Cost) 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Loans and advances to customers 
 78.64 
 562.59 
Loan commitments 
 (23.67)
 55.16 
Others Impairment 
 16.38 
 - 
Bad Debts Written Off 
 570.47 
 438.59 
Total impairment loss 
 641.82 
 1,056.34 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
269
Note 30 - Employee Benefit Expense 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Salaries and Bonus 
 3,585.03 
 1,569.47 
Contribution to provident and other funds 
 213.49 
 84.65 
Share Based Payments to employees 
 161.59 
 54.78 
Staff Training and Welfare Expenses 
 100.67 
 37.14 
Total 
 4,060.78 
 1,746.04 
Note 31. Other Expenses
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Advertising 
 20.67 
 6.17 
Auditors' Remuneration (Refer no. 1) 
 5.49 
 5.76 
Banking Charges 
 9.21 
 7.44 
Business Development Expenses 
 43.64 
 22.92 
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer no. 2) 
 48.43 
 44.92 
Directors' Fees and Commission 
 11.50 
 7.93 
Electricity Charges 
 51.37 
 13.07 
Legal and Professional Expenses 
 334.22 
 224.61 
Loss On Sale of Fixed Assets 
 1.07 
 1.02 
Recruitment Expenses 
 15.98 
 36.12 
Membership & Subscription Expenses 
 3.51 
 2.47 
Processing Fees on Co Lending 
 7.66 
 0.03 
Postage, Telephone and Fax 
 53.02 
 33.98 
Printing and Stationery 
 30.57 
 21.65 
Rent 
 30.45 
 28.42 
Software Expenses 
 133.44 
 62.39 
Filing & Other Fees to ROC 
 0.10 
 0.09 
Travelling and Conveyance 
 226.71 
 103.85 
Service fees* 
 8.71 
 3.96 
NOC Review Charges 
 19.18 
 13.52 
Write off - Others 
 1.03 
 1.34 
Write off - Fixed Assets 
 1.76 
 - 
Miscellaneous Expenses 
 198.74 
 49.23 
Total 
 1,256.46 
 690.89 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
270
1.	
Auditors' Remuneration
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
a) 	
For Statutory Audit 
 2.48 
 1.66 
b) 	
For Tax Audit 
 0.40 
 0.38 
c) 	
For Limited Review 
 1.21 
 1.08 
d) 	
For other services (Certification Fees and Interim audit Fees) 
 0.81 
 2.09 
e) 	
For reimbursement of expenses 
 0.15 
 0.08 
f) 	
GST to the extent of ITC not availed 
 0.44 
 0.47 
Total
 5.49 
 5.76 
2.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Gross Amount Required to be spent during the year 
 48.43 
 44.92 
Amount spent during the year on CSR  
 - 
 - 
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset 
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
On purposes other than (i) above 
 48.43 
 44.92 
Shortfall at the end of the year 
 - 
 - 
Total of previous years shortfall 
 - 
 - 
Reason for shortfall 
 NA 
 NA 
Nature of CSR activities 
 Refer note 3 below  Refer note 3 below 
3.	
Nature of CSR activities - Women Empowerment, Livelihood Initiative, Education Initiative, Health Initiative,Animal 
Welfare, Village Development and Sustainable Environment
4.	
Disclosure in relation to undisclosed income - There are no transactions which are not recorded in the books of account 
which have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
5.	
Details of Crypto currency or Virtual currency - The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual 
currency during the financial year
Note 32 - Other Comprehensive Income
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
	
Remeasurement loss (gain) on defined benefit plan 
 (12.50)
 (0.47)
	
Income tax relating to these items 
 3.15 
 0.12 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 
	
Fair Value Gain on time value of forward element of forward contract in 
hedging relationship 
 (29.53)
 (6.10)
	
Income tax relating to these items 
 7.43 
 1.53 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 
 (31.45)
 (4.92)
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
271
Note 33 - MSME Loans
1.1	 Credit quality of assets
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade # 
Performing 
High grade 
 32,421.23 
 - 
 - 
 32,421.23 
 24,458.84 
 - 
 - 
 24,458.84 
Standard grade 
 1,610.49 
 - 
 - 
 1,610.49 
 1,468.90 
 - 
 - 
 1,468.90 
Sub-standard grade 
 - 
 2,071.71 
 - 
 2,071.71 
 - 
 1,204.54 
 - 
 1,204.54 
Past due but not impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,564.06 
 - 
 1,564.06 
Restructured  
 - 
 1,209.89 
 - 
 1,209.89 
 - 
 1,937.56 
 - 
 1,937.56 
Non Performing 
Individually impaired 
 - 
 - 
 1,305.84 
 1,305.84 
 - 
 - 
 1,276.66 
 1,276.66 
Total 
34,031.72 
 3,281.60 
 1,305.84 38,619.16 
25,927.74 
 4,706.16 
 1,276.66 31,910.56 
 1.2 An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount (excluding interest) and the corresponding ECL allowances 
in relation to lending is as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance 
 25,927.74 
 4,706.16 
 1,276.66 
 31,910.56 
 20,450.58 
 3,531.02 
 1,389.58 
 25,371.18 
New assets originated 
 14,720.12 
 145.29 
 20.44 
 14,885.85 
 11,510.38 
 - 
 - 
 11,510.38 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs) 
 (6,901.73)
 (445.08)
 (178.27)
 (7,525.08)
 (4,010.62)
 (519.24)
 (264.42)
 (4,794.28)
Transfers to Stage 1 
 1,363.63 
 (1,104.51)
 (259.12)
 - 
 549.53 
 (334.83)
 (214.70)
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2 
 (797.03)
 876.33 
 (79.30)
 (0.00)
 (2,205.65)
 2,287.75 
 (82.10)
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3 
 (202.42)
 (549.45)
 751.87 
 0.00 
 (265.18)
 (203.52)
 468.70 
 - 
Amounts written off* 
 (78.59)
 (347.14)
 (226.44)
 (652.17)
 (101.30)
 (55.02)
 (20.40)
 (176.72)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance 
34,031.72 
 3,281.60 
 1,305.84 38,619.16 
25,927.74 
 4,706.16 
 1,276.66 31,910.56 
 * The amount written off are subject to enforcement of collaterals and other legal remedies that are available to the Holding company. 
1.3  Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below: 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance 
 189.15 
 691.08 
 393.17 
 1,273.40 
 135.58 
 381.95 
 394.91 
 912.44 
New assets originated 
 48.15 
 5.90 
 0.52 
 54.57 
 79.66 
 - 
 - 
 79.66 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs) 
 (104.15)
 (29.25)
 (4.64)
 (138.04)
 (21.74)
 (66.34)
 (80.72)
 (168.80)
Transfers to Stage 1 
 11.51 
 (100.44)
 (70.15)
 (159.08)
 6.08 
 (4.78)
 (1.30)
 0.00 
Transfers to Stage 2 
 (7.27)
 158.89 
 (23.85)
 127.77 
 (210.43)
 216.87 
 (6.44)
 0.00 
Transfers to Stage 3  
 (1.59)
 (100.30)
 194.71 
 92.82 
 (67.13)
 (59.67)
 126.80 
 0.00 
Other movements (on 
account of change in EAD) 
 30.55 
 124.02 
 (10.17)
 144.40 
 268.29 
 223.94 
 18.77 
 511.00 
Amounts written off 
 (1.77)
 (111.68)
 (141.25)
 (254.70)
 (1.16)
 (0.89)
 (58.85)
 (60.90)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance 
 164.58 
 638.22 
 338.35 
 1,141.15 
 189.15 
 691.08 
 393.17 
 1,273.40 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
272
#Internal rating grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade 
 0 DPD 
 Stage 1 
Standard grade 
 1-30 DPD 
 Stage 1 
Sub-standard grade 
 31-60 DPD 
 Stage 2 
Past due but not impaired 
 61-90 DPD 
 Stage 2 
Restructured 
 <90 DPD & Resturctured 
 Stage 2 
Individually impaired 
 >90 DPD & Restructured 
 Stage 3 
Note - Higher grade has been considered for Customers having 2 or more loans based on the highest DPD
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
 23.38 
 27.04 
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
 1.99 
 2.56 
Stage 2
 75.28 
 36.92 
Stage 3
 100.00 
 100.00 
E.	
Details of collateral received against loan portfolio : 
Nature of security against advances : 
Underline securities for the assets secured by tangible assets - Property & and book debts. 
Advances (LTV band wise) : 	
(` in Millions)
LTV ratio
Gross carrying amount 
of advances
Cumulative loss 
allowance
<= 50% 
 12,730.82 
 273.55 
>50% <= 70% 
 18,064.99 
 382.11 
>70% <=90% 
 6,517.36 
 147.16 
>90% <=100% 
 0.15 
 0.00 
Credit impaired advances (LTV band wise) :	
(` in Millions)
LTV ratio
 Gross carrying amount 
of advances 
 Cumulative loss 
allowance 
<= 50% 
 340.51 
 88.00 
>50% <= 70% 
 729.95 
 188.83 
>70% <=90% 
 235.38 
 61.52 
>90% <=100% 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
273
Note 33.1- Construction Finance Loans
1.1	 Credit quality of assets
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade #
Performing
High grade
 21,477.98 
 - 
 - 
 21,477.98 
 15,209.18 
 - 
 - 
 15,209.18 
Standard grade
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.05 
 - 
 - 
 3.05 
Sub-standard grade
 - 
 170.38 
 - 
 170.38 
 - 
 569.57 
 - 
 569.57 
Past due but not impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Non Performing
Individually impaired
 - 
 - 
 60.88 
 60.88 
 - 
 - 
 23.18 
 23.18 
Total
21,477.98 
 170.38 
 60.88 21,709.24 
15,212.23 
 569.57 
 23.18 15,804.98 
1.2  An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount (excluding interest) and the corresponding ECL allowances 
in relation to  lending is, as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 15,212.23 
 569.57 
 23.18 
 15,804.98 
 11,018.45 
 791.41 
 16.75 
 11,826.61 
New assets originated
 13,768.53 
 54.67 
 - 
 13,823.20 
 8,404.76 
 - 
 - 
 8,404.76 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (7,694.35)
 (175.07)
 (49.52)
 (7,918.94)
 (3,951.11)
 (311.73)
 -  (4,262.84)
Transfer to Stage 1
 292.11 
 (292.11)
 - 
 - 
 (553.73)
 553.73 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 2
 (95.54)
 95.54 
 - 
 - 
 351.44 
 (351.44)
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 3
 (5.00)
 (82.22)
 87.22 
 - 
 (23.18)
 - 
 23.18 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (34.40)
 (112.40)
 (16.75)
 (163.55)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
21,477.98 
 170.38 
 60.88 21,709.24 
15,212.23 
 569.57 
 23.18 15,804.98 
1.3 Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
 107.89 
 21.30 
 4.80 
 133.99 
 65.85 
 4.08 
 16.75 
 86.68 
New assets originated
 101.68 
 2.92 
 11.10 
 115.70 
 108.66 
 - 
 - 
 108.66 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (65.20)
 (7.22)
 - 
 (72.42)
 (8.76)
 (0.83)
 - 
 (9.59)
Transfers to Stage 1
 12.22 
 (13.34)
 - 
 (1.12)
 (21.19)
 21.19 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 (0.51)
 6.49 
 - 
 5.98 
 2.53 
 (2.53)
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3 
 (0.03)
 (0.44)
 44.98 
 44.51 
 (4.80)
 - 
 4.80 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (34.40)
 (0.61)
 (16.75)
 (51.76)
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
 156.06 
 9.71 
 60.88 
 226.64 
 107.89 
 21.30 
 4.80 
 133.99 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
274
# Internal rating grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade
0 DPD
Stage 1
Standard grade
1-30 DPD
Stage 1
Sub-standard grade
31-60 DPD
Stage 2
Past due but not impaired
61-90 DPD
Stage 2
Individually impaired
>90 DPD & Restructured
Stage 3
Note - Higher grade has been considered for Customers having 2 or more loans based on the highest DPD
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
 24.33 
 20.70 
Probability of Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
 3.64 
 2.56 
Stage 2
 19.71 
 4.05 
Stage 3
 100.00 
 100.00 
Note 33.2- Gold Loans
1.1  Credit quality of assets
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade #
Performing
High grade
 9,750.46 
 - 
 - 
 9,750.46 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Standard grade
 782.93 
 - 
 - 
 782.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Sub-standard grade
 - 
 523.63 
 - 
 523.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Past due but not impaired
 - 
 185.91 
 - 
 185.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Non Performing
Individually impaired
 - 
 - 
 12.78 
 12.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
10,533.39 
 709.54 
 12.78 11,255.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1.2  An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount (excluding interest) and the corresponding ECL allowances 
in relation to  lending is, as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
New assets originated
 10,533.39 
 709.54 
 12.78  11,255.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfer to Stage 3
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
10,533.39 
 709.54 
 12.78 11,255.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
275
1.3 Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
New assets originated
 57.01 
 3.51 
 0.67 
 61.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Transfers to Stage 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
 57.01 
 3.51 
 0.67 
 61.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
# Internal rating grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade
0 DPD
 Stage 1 
Standard grade
1-30 DPD
 Stage 1 
Sub-standard grade
31-60 DPD
 Stage 2 
Past due but not impaired
61-90 DPD
 Stage 2 
Individually impaired
>90 DPD & Restructured
 Stage 3 
Loan Given Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
 5.17 
 - 
Probability of Default
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
 11.56 
 - 
Stage 2
 11.56 
 - 
Stage 3
 100.00 
 - 
Details of collateral received against loan portfolio :
Nature of security against advances :
Underline securities for the assets secured by tangible assets (Gold jewellary)
Advances (LTV band wise) : 	
(` in Millions)
LTV ratio
Gross carrying amount 
of advances
Cumulative loss 
allowance
<= 50%
304.26
 1.68 
>50% <= 70%
4,506.18
 21.14 
>70% <=90%
6,432.49
 37.70 
>90% <=100%
 - 
 - 
>100%
 - 
 - 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
276
Credit impaired advances (LTV band wise) :	
(` in Millions)
LTV ratio
 Gross carrying amount 
of advances 
 Cumulative loss 
allowance 
<= 50%
 0.18 
 0.02 
>50% <= 70%
 12.57 
 0.65 
>70% <=90%
 0.03 
 0.00 
>90% <=100%
 - 
 - 
Note 33.3 - Housing Loans
1.1 Credit quality of assets
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Internal rating grade*
Performing
High grade
 24,213.99 
 - 
 -  24,213.99 
 15,272.03 
 - 
 -  15,272.03 
Standard grade
 662.93 
 - 
 - 
 662.93 
 842.71 
 - 
 - 
 842.71 
Sub-standard grade
 - 
 841.88 
 - 
 841.88 
 - 
 447.97 
 - 
 447.97 
Past due but not impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 517.49 
 - 
 517.49 
Restructured Assets
 - 
 104.99 
 - 
 104.99 
 - 
 131.44 
 - 
 131.44 
Non Performing
 - 
 - 
 - 
Individually impaired
 - 
 - 
 324.46 
 324.46 
 - 
 - 
 261.94 
 261.94 
Total
24,876.92 
 946.87 
 324.46 26,148.25 
16,114.74  1,096.90 
 261.94 17,473.58 
1.2 An analysis of changes in the gross carrying amount and the corresponding ECL allowances in relation to 
lending is as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Gross carrying amount 
opening balance
 16,114.74 
 1,096.90 
 261.94  17,473.58 
 10,701.93 
 757.92 
 202.06  11,661.91 
New assets originated or 
purchased and increase in 
existing facility
 11,819.52 
 55.91 
 3.74  11,879.17 
 7,921.01 
 - 
 - 
 7,921.01 
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (2,982.21)
 (59.40)
 (51.10)
 (3,092.71)
 (1,876.52)
 (95.39)
 (38.79)
 (2,010.70)
Transfers to Stage 1
 411.16 
 (361.07)
 (50.09)
 (0.00)
 233.86 
 (216.67)
 (17.19)
 - 
Transfers to Stage 2
 (367.99)
 370.37 
 (2.38)
 - 
 (703.27)
 718.84 
 (15.57)
 0.00 
Transfers to Stage 3
 (110.84)
 (137.26)
 248.10 
 - 
 (110.92)
 (43.62)
 154.54 
 - 
Amounts written off
 (7.46)
 (18.58)
 (85.75)
 (111.78)
 (51.35)
 (24.18)
 (23.11)
 (98.64)
Gross carrying amount 
closing balance
24,876.92 
 946.87 
 324.46 26,148.25 
16,114.74  1,096.90 
 261.94 17,473.58 
1.3 Reconciliation of ECL balance is given below:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
ECL allowance - opening 
balance
 80.29 
 141.28 
 77.85 
 299.42 
 35.34 
 57.58 
 52.07 
 144.99 
New assets originated or 
purchased and increase in 
existing facility
 42.33 
 27.72 
 8.65 
 78.70 
 195.07 
 - 
 - 
 195.07 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
277
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1 
Stage 2 
Stage 3
Total
Assets derecognised or 
repaid (excluding write offs)
 (40.79)
 (2.13)
 1.10 
 (41.82)
 (5.21)
 (21.11)
 (14.32)
 (40.64)
Transfers to Stage 1
 4.59 
 (39.79)
 (14.38)
 (49.58)
 2.23 
 (2.12)
 (0.11)
 0.00 
Transfers to Stage 2
 (2.34)
 60.90 
 (0.68)
 57.88 
 (114.81)
 116.96 
 (2.15)
 (0.00)
Transfers to Stage 3 
 (0.89)
 (24.00)
 93.18 
 68.29 
 (34.60)
 (12.51)
 47.11 
 - 
Other movements
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.27 
 2.48 
 (4.75)
 - 
Amounts written off
 (0.23)
 (8.00)
 (39.17)
 (47.40)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ECL allowance - closing 
balance
 82.96 
 155.98 
 126.55 
 365.49 
 80.29 
 141.28 
 77.85 
 299.42 
* Internal Rating Grades are classified on below basis
Grade
Classification Basis
Stage
High grade
0 DPD
Stage 1
Standard grade
1-30 DPD
Stage 1
Sub-standard grade
31-60 DPD
Stage 2
Past due but not impaired
61-90 DPD
Stage 2
Restructured Assets
0 DPD & Restructured
Stage 2
Individually impaired
>90 DPD & Restructured
Stage 3
Note - Higher grade has been considered for Customers having 2 or more loans based on the highest DPD
Loan Given Default $
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
LGD
 34.37 
28.68
Probability of Default$
(In %)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Stage 1
 1.02 
1.66
Stage 2
37.99
33.21
Stage 3
100.00
100.00
Details of collateral received against loan portfolio :
Nature of security against advances :
Underlying securities for the assets secured by tangible assets - Property & book debts.
Advances (LTV band wise) : 	
(` in Millions)
LTV ratio
Gross carrying amount 
of advances
Cumulative loss 
allowance
<= 50%
 8,308.76 
 68.25 
> 50% - <= 70%
 7,027.87 
 57.36 
> 70% - <= 90%
 10,487.16 
 113.33 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
278
Credit impaired advances (LTV band wise) :	
(` in Millions)
LTV ratio
 Gross carrying amount 
of advances 
 Cumulative loss 
allowance 
<= 50%
 53.93 
 20.90 
> 50% - <= 70%
 52.54 
 20.61 
> 70% - <= 90%
 217.99 
 85.04 
Note 34 - Income Taxes relating to continuing operations
1. 	 Income Tax recognised in statement of profit and loss
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Current Tax
In respect of the current year
 653.96 
 779.55 
In respect of prior years
 (11.25)
 5.80 
 642.71 
 785.35 
Deferred Tax
In respect of the current year
 (6.41)
 (109.53)
 (6.41)
 (109.53)
Total Income tax expense recognised in the current year relating to 
continuing operations
 636.30 
 675.82 
2.	
Reconciliation of income tax expense for the year:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Consolidated Profit Before tax 
2,682.84
Total tax expense (As per P&L)
- Current tax
 653.96 
 779.55 
- Deferred tax
 (6.41)
 (109.53)
- Tax Pertaining to earlier Years
 (11.25)
 5.80 
Total Tax Expenses
 636.30 
 675.82 
Effective tax rate (%)
24.14%
24.58%
Adjustments of allowable and non-allowable income and expenses:
Effect on Effective Tax rate due to permanent difference
a)	
Non allowability of Claim of CSR, Other Expenses & Special Reserve 
 94.37 
 50.12 
b)	
Difference due to Tax Rate of STCG & LTCG
 16.02 
 146.41 
c)	
Deferred Tax Assets/MAT credit reversal u/s 115JB
 (11.25)
 (8.08)
Total of items affecting tax rate
 99.14 
 188.45 
3.	
Reconciliation of income tax rate is as follows:
(In %)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Normal Tax Rate
 22.00 
 22.00 
Surcharge (@ 10% of Normal Tax Rate)
 2.20 
 2.20 
Education cess (including secondary and higher education cess)
Health and Education Cess
 0.97 
 0.97 
Total Tax Rate
 25.17 
 25.17 
Tax Impact on Non allowability of Claim of CSR, Other Expenses & Special 
Reserve 
 (0.89)
 (0.46)
Tax Impact on Capital Gain on sale of shares, mutual funds, interest, Property etc.
 (0.05)
 (0.43)
Tax Impact on Deferred Tax Assets/MAT credit Reversal u/s 115JB
 (0.42)
 0.30 
Effective Tax Rate
 23.81 
 24.58 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
279
Note 35 - Deferred Tax 
The following table shows deferred tax recorded in the balance sheet and changes recorded in the Income tax expense: 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Deferred Tax 
Assets
Income 
Statement
OCI
Deferred Tax 
Assets
As at 
March 31, 2022
2022-23
2022-23
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets: 
Provision for Employee Benefits 
 15.21 
 14.51 
 - 
 29.73 
Depreciation 
 24.25 
 14.91 
 - 
 39.16 
Impairment allowance for financial assets 
 359.09 
 105.83 
 - 
 464.91 
Unmortised fees on loans 
 4.21 
 (2.66)
 - 
 1.55 
Others 
 7.11 
 25.35 
 - 
 32.46 
Interest Income on NPA 
 - 
 66.56 
 - 
 66.56 
Deferred Tax Liabilities: 
Financial Instruments at FVTPL 
 0.76 
 (1.79)
 - 
 (1.04)
Unmortised fees on borrowings 
 (1.40)
 0.70 
 - 
 (0.69)
Gain on derecognition of financial instruments* 
 (42.40)
 (114.15)
 - 
 (156.55)
Deferred Tax Assets (net) 
 366.83 
 109.27 
 - 
 476.09 
*As per Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’, on derecognition of loans, the Group recognise difference between the carrying amount (measured at the date 
of derecognition) and consideration received (including new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) as gain in Statement of profit and loss account. 
Such gain recognised on derecognition of loans is not a real income as per Income tax Act, 1961, hence is offered to tax over the tenure of loans. Accordingly, 
deferred tax liability has been created on the Spread receivable on assigned portfolio (Co-lending portfolio).
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Deferred Tax 
Assets
Income 
Statement
OCI
Deferred Tax 
Assets
As at 
March 31, 2021
2021-22
2021-22
As at 
March 31, 2022
Deferred Tax Assets: 
Provision for Employee Benefits 
 12.63 
 2.58 
 - 
 15.21 
Depreciation 
 22.95 
 1.30 
 - 
 24.25 
Impairment allowance for financial assets 
 195.69 
 163.39 
 - 
 359.08 
Unmortised fees on loans 
 18.08 
 (13.88)
 - 
 4.20 
Others 
 8.03 
 (0.91)
 - 
 7.12 
MAT Credit Entitlement 
 8.08 
 (8.08)
 - 
 - 
Deferred Tax Liabilities: 
Financial Instruments at FVTPL 
 (3.81)
 4.56 
 - 
 0.75 
Unmortised fees on borrowings 
 (4.36)
 2.98 
 - 
 (1.38)
Gain on derecognition of financial instruments* 
 - 
 (42.40)
 - 
 (42.40)
Deferred Tax Assets (net) 
 257.29 
 109.54 
 - 
 366.83 
 Deferred Tax Assets / Liabilities are calculated at the applicable rate of 25.17%
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
280
Note 36 - Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities
The table below shows an analysis of assets and liabilities analysed according to when they are expected to be recovered or 
settled. They have been classified to mature and/or be repaid within 12 months. With regards to loans and advances to customers, 
the Group uses the same basis of expected repayment as used for estimating the EIR.
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
Within 12 
months
After 12 
months
Total
ASSETS
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 14,767.73
 -
 14,767.73
 3,225.06
 -
 3,225.06
Bank Balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
 213.44
 121.63
 335.07
 198.57
 107.58
 306.15
Receivables
 322.34
 -
 322.34
 93.26
 -
 93.26
Loans
 18,970.55
 75,782.97
 94,753.52
 8,366.10
 54,341.93
 62,708.03
Investments
 1,451.84
 698.57
 2,150.41
 2,411.89
 1,362.95
 3,774.84
Other financial Assets
 152.23
 603.26
 755.49
 67.28
 143.24
 210.52
Total Financial Assets
 35,878.13
 77,206.43 1,13,084.56
 14,362.16
 55,955.70
 70,317.86
Non-Financial assets
Current Tax Assets (Net)
 195.04
 -
 195.04
 100.38
 -
 100.38
Deferred tax assets (Net)
 -
 476.09
 476.09
 -
 366.83
 366.83
Property, plant and equipment
 -
 2,839.92
 2,839.92
 -
 318.02
 318.02
Capital work-in-progress
 -
 25.22
 25.22
 -
 -
 -
Intangible Assets Under Development
 74.33
 73.72
 148.05
 12.38
 10.82
 23.20
Other intangible assets
 -
 69.67
 69.67
 -
 25.66
 25.66
Other non-financial assets
 773.84
 333.76
 1,107.60
 217.09
 158.65
 375.74
Total Non financial Assets
 1,043.21
 3,818.38
 4,861.59
 329.85
 879.98
 1,209.82
Total Assets
 36,921.34
 81,024.81 1,17,946.15
 14,692.01
 56,835.68
 71,527.69
LIABILITIES
Financial Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments
 75.72
 -
 75.72
 12.42
 -
 12.42
Payables
-Trade Payables
 965.82
 1.65
 967.47
 334.85
 -
 334.85
-Other Payables
 143.56
 1.43
 144.99
 78.25
 -
 78.25
Debt Securities
 2,886.14
 1,500.00
 4,386.14
 396.65
 4,164.23
 4,560.88
Borrowings (Other than debt securities)
 17,986.27
 52,740.38
 70,726.65
 9,210.03
 34,551.13
 43,761.16
Other financial liabilities
 3,831.26
 1,798.59
 5,629.85
 2,886.33
 384.31
 3,270.64
Total Financial Liabilities
 25,888.77
 56,042.04
 81,930.82
 12,918.53
 39,099.67
 52,018.20
Non-Financial Liabilities
Current tax liability
 12.92
 -
 12.92
 27.89
 -
 27.89
Provisions
 83.52
 131.44
 214.96
 48.70
 117.49
 166.19
Other Non Financials Liabilities
 132.79
 -
 132.79
 90.70
 -
 90.70
Total Non-Financial Liabilities
 229.23
 131.44
 360.67
 167.29
 117.49
 284.78
Total Liabilities
 26,117.99
 56,173.48
 82,291.49
 13,085.83
 39,217.16
 52,302.98
Net
 10,803.35
 24,851.33
 35,654.67
 1,606.18
 17,618.51
 19,224.71
Capital Management
The primary objectives of the Group’s capital management policy are to ensure that the Group complies with externally imposed 
capital requirements and maintains strong credit ratings and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise 
shareholders value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it according to changes in economic 
conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities. Capital Management Policy, objectives and processes are under constant 
review by the Board. 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
281
Note 37 - Change in liabilities arising from financing activities
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
April 1, 2022
Cash flows
Other*
As at 
March 31, 2023
Debt Securities
 4,560.88 
 (176.79)
 2.05 
 4,386.14 
Borrowings other than debt securities
 43,761.16 
 27,174.05 
 (208.56)
 70,726.65 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 48,322.04 
 26,997.26 
 (206.51)
 75,112.79 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
April 1, 2021
Cash flows
Other*
As at 
March 31, 2022
Debt Securities
 7,093.03 
 (2,538.42)
 6.27 
 4,560.88 
Borrowings other than debt securities
 31,002.26 
 12,089.40 
 669.49 
 43,761.16 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 38,095.29 
 9,550.98 
 675.76 
 48,322.04 
*includes the effect of amortisation of borrowing cost, interest accrued on borrowings, conversation factor of derivative instruments.
Note 38- Fair value measurements
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal 
(or most advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions, regardless of whether that price is 
directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique.
Ind AS 109, ‘Financial Instrument - Disclosure’ requires classification of the valuation method of financial instruments measured 
at fair value in the balance Sheet, using a three level fair-value-hierarchy (which reflects the significance of inputs used in the 
measurements). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to un-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair-
value-hierarchy under Ind AS 107 are described below:
Note 38 - Fair value measurements
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
FVTOCI
Total
FVTPL
Amortised 
cost
FVTOCI
Total
Financial assets 
Investments 
- Mutual funds 
1,364.73 
 - 
 - 
 1,364.73 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 - 
 2,304.43 
- Equity instruments 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.11 
 - 
 - 
 48.11 
- Debt Instrument 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 247.66 
 - 
 247.66 
- Pass Through Certificates 
 - 
 785.68 
 - 
 785.68 
 - 
 1,174.64 
 - 
 1,174.64 
Trade receivables 
 - 
 322.34 
 - 
 322.34 
 - 
 93.26 
 - 
 93.26 
Loans 
 - 
 94,753.52 
 - 
 94,753.52 
 - 
 62,708.03 
 - 
 62,708.03 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 - 
 14,767.73 
 - 
 14,767.73 
 - 
 3,225.06 
 - 
 3,225.06 
Bank Balances other than 
above 
 - 
 335.07 
 - 
 335.07 
 - 
 306.15 
 - 
 306.15 
Other financial Assets 
 - 
 755.49 
 - 
 755.49 
 - 
 210.52 
 - 
 210.52 
Total financial assets 
1,364.73 1,11,719.84 
 - 1,13,084.56  2,352.54  67,965.32 
 -  70,317.86 
Financial liabilities 
Derivative financial 
instruments 
 - 
 - 
 75.72 
 75.72 
 - 
 - 
 12.42 
 12.42 
Borrowings (including Debt 
Securities) 
 - 
 75,112.79 
 - 
 75,112.79 
 - 
 48,322.04 
 - 
 48,322.04 
Trade and other payables 
 - 
 1,112.45 
 - 
 1,112.45 
 - 
 413.10 
 - 
 413.10 
Other financial liabilities 
 - 
 5,629.85 
 - 
 5,629.85 
 - 
 3,270.64 
 - 
 3,270.64 
Total financial liabilities 
 -  81,855.08 
 75.72  81,930.81 
 -  52,005.78 
 12.42  52,018.20 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
282
38.2 Fair value hierarchy
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are (a) 
recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial 
statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Group has classified 
its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows 
underneath the table.
(` in Millions)
Financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value - recurring fair value 
measurements
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
 As at March 31, 2023 
 Financial assets 
 Financial Investments at FVTPL 
 Listed equity investments 
 7 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Mutual funds 
 1,364.73 
 - 
 1,364.73 
 - 
 1,364.73 
 Total financial assets 
 1,364.73 
 -
 1,364.73
-
 1,364.73
 Financial Liabilities 
 Derivative financial instruments 
 15A 
 75.72 
 - 
 75.72 
 - 
 75.72 
 Total financial liabilities 
 75.72 
 - 
 75.72 
 - 
 75.72 
(` in Millions)
Assets and liabilities which are measured 
at amortised cost for which fair values are 
disclosed
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2023 
Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 3 
 14,767.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,767.73 
Bank Balance other than above 
 4 
 335.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 335.07 
Trade Receivable 
 5 
 322.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 322.34 
Loans 
Loans to employees 
 6 
 3.43 
 - 
 - 
 3.43 
 3.43 
Loans - SME & CF 
 94,750.09 
 - 
 - 
 92,796.32 
 92,796.32 
Investments 
- Pass Through Certificates 
 7 
 785.68 
 - 
 - 
 785.68 
 785.68 
Other financial assets 
 8 
 755.49 
 - 
 - 
 755.49 
 755.49 
Total financial assets 
1,11,719.83 
 - 
 -  94,340.92 1,09,766.06 
Financial Liabilities 
Trade and other payable 
 13 
 1,112.45 
 - 
 - 
 1,112.45 
 1,112.45 
Debt Securities 
 14 
 4,386.14 
 - 
 4,289.37 
 - 
 4,289.37 
Borrowings other than Debt Securities 
 15B 
 70,726.65 
 - 
 - 
 70,726.65 
 70,726.65 
Other Financial Liabilities 
 16 
 5,629.85 
 - 
 - 
 5,629.85 
 5,629.85 
Total financial liabilities 
 81,855.09 
 - 
 4,289.37  77,468.95  81,758.32 
(` in Millions)
Financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value - recurring fair value 
measurements
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2022 
Financial assets 
Financial Investments at FVTPL 
Listed equity investments 
 7 
 48.11 
 48.11 
 - 
 - 
 48.11 
Mutual funds 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,304.43 
Total financial assets 
 2,352.54 
 48.11 
 2,304.43 
 - 
 2,352.54 
Financial liabilities 
 12.42 
 - 
 12.42 
 - 
 12.42 
Total financial liabilities 
 12.42 
 - 
 12.42 
 - 
 12.42 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
283
(` in Millions)
Assets and liabilities which are measured 
at amortised cost for which fair values are 
disclosed
Notes
Carrying 
Amount
Fair Value
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
As at March 31, 2022 
Financial assets 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 3 
 3,225.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,225.06 
Bank Balance other than above 
 4 
 306.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 306.15 
Trade Receivable 
 5 
 93.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 93.26 
Loans 
Loans to employees 
 6 
 1.13 
 - 
 - 
 1.13 
 1.13 
Loans - SME & CF 
 62,706.90 
 - 
 - 
 62,984.63 
 62,984.63 
Investments 
- Debt Instrument 
 7 
 247.66 
 - 
 - 
 247.66 
 247.66 
- Pass Through Certificates 
 1,174.64 
 - 
 - 
 1,174.64 
 1,174.64 
Other financial assets 
 8 
 210.52 
 - 
 - 
 210.52 
 210.52 
Total financial assets 
 67,965.32 
 - 
 - 
 64,618.58 
 68,243.05 
Financial Liabilities 
Trade and other payable 
 13 
 413.10 
 - 
 - 
 413.10 
 413.10 
Debt Securities 
 14 
 4,560.88 
 - 
 4,452.63 
 - 
 4,452.63 
Borrowings other than Debt Securities 
 15B 
 43,761.16 
 - 
 - 
 43,761.16 
 43,761.16 
Other Financial Liabilities 
 16 
 3,270.64 
 - 
 - 
 3,270.64 
 3,270.64 
Total financial liabilities 
 52,005.78 
 - 
 4,452.63 
 47,444.90 
 51,897.53 
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes listed equity instruments, 
traded bonds and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments (including bonds) which are 
traded in the stock exchanges is valued using the closing price as at the reporting period. The mutual funds are valued using the 
closing NAV.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the- 
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little 
as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This 
is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Short-term financial assets and liabilities For financial assets and financial liabilities that have a short-term maturity (less than 
twelve months), the carrying amounts, which are net of impairment, are a reasonable approximation of their fair value. Such 
instruments include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, balances other than cash and cash equivalents and trade 
payables without a specific maturity.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
284
Note 39.1. Risk Disclosures
Group’s risk is managed through an integrated risk management framework, including ongoing identification, measurement 
and monitoring, subject to risk limits and other controls. This process of risk management is critical to the Group’s continuing 
profitability and each individual within the Group is accountable for the risk exposures relating to his or her responsibilities. The 
Group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk. It is the Group’s policy to ensure that a robust risk awareness is 
embedded in its organisational risk culture.
39.2. Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that the Group will incur a loss because its customers or counterparties fail to discharge their contractual 
obligations. The Group manages and controls credit risk by setting limits on the amount of risk it is willing to accept for individual 
counterparties.
39.2.1 Impairment assessment
39.2.1.1 Exposure at Default
The Exposure at Default is an estimate of the exposure at a future default date including the undrawn commitments. EAD is taken 
as the gross exposure under a facility upon default of an obligor. The principal outstanding, overdue principal, accrued interest, 
overdue interest less excess received from the customers is considered as EAD for the purpose of ECL computation.
The advances have been bifurcated into following three stages:
Stage 1 – All exposures where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition or that has low credit 
risk at the reporting date and that are not credit impaired upon origination are classified under this stage. The Group classifies all 
standard advances and advances up to 0-30 days default under this category. Stage 1 loans also include facilities where the credit 
risk has reduced and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 2.
Stage 2 – All exposures where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition but are not credit 
impaired are classified under this stage. Financial assets past due for 31 to 90 days are classified under this stage. Stage 2 loans 
also include facilities where the credit risk has reduced, and the loan has been reclassified from Stage 3.
Stage 3 – All exposures assessed as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated 
future cash flows of that asset have occurred are classified in this stage. For exposures that have become credit impaired, a 
lifetime ECL is recognised and interest revenue is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (net of 
provision) rather than the gross carrying amount. more than 90 days Past Due is considered as default for classifying a financial 
instrument as credit impaired.
39.2.1.2 Significant increase in credit risk
The Group continuously monitors all assets subject to ECLs. In order to determine whether an instrument or a portfolio of 
instruments is subject to 12 months ECL or lifetime ECL, the Group assesses whether there has been a significant increase in 
credit risk since initial recognition. The Group considers an exposure to have significantly increased in credit risk if contractual 
payments are more than 30 days past due.
39.2.1.3 Definition of default and cure
The Group considers a financial instrument defaulted and therefore Stage 3 (credit impaired) for ECL calculations in all cases 
when the borrower becomes more than 90 days past due on its contractual payments.
As a part of a qualitative assessment of whether a customer is in default, the Group also considers a variety of instances that may 
indicate inability to pay. When such events occur, the Group carefully considers whether the event should result in treating the 
customer as defaulted and therefore assessed as Stage 3 for ECL calculations or whether Stage 2 is appropriate. Such events 
include:
a)	
Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
b)	
A breach of contract such as a default or past due event;
c)	
The restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise; or
d)	
It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
It is the Group’s policy to consider a financial instrument as ‘cured’ and therefore re-classified out of Stage 3 when the borrower 
makes necessary payments & the borrower is not 90 days past due after such payments. The decision whether to classify an asset 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
285
as Stage 2 or Stage 1 once cured depends on the updated credit grade, at the time of the cure, and whether this indicates there 
has been a significant increase in credit risk compared to initial recognition.
39.2.1.4 Probability of Default (PD) estimation process
Probability of default (PD) is defined as the likelihood of default over a particular time horizon. The PD of an obligor is a fundamental 
risk parameter in credit risk analysis and depends on obligor specific as well as macroeconomic risk factors.
a)	
The Group has applied 12 months PD to stage 1 advances
b)	
The Lifetime PD is computed using basic exponentiation technique after considering the residual maturity of the respective 
loan.
c) 	
PD of 100% is considered for Stage 3 assets.
Days past due are a primary input for the determination of the PD for exposures. The Group collects performance and default 
information about its credit risk exposures analysed by portfolio. For some portfolios, rating based published information is used.
The Group employs statistical models to analyse the data collected and generate estimates of the remaining lifetime PD of 
exposures and how these are expected to change as a result of the passage of time. Such statistical models are selected considering 
the availability of information related to the probability of default for each product. This analysis includes the identification and 
calibration of relationships between changes in default rates and changes in key macro-economic factors.
For the purpose of determination of impact of forward looking information, the Group applies various macro economic (ME) 
variables as stated above to each portfolio and assess the trend of the historical probability of defaults as compared to the 
forecasted probability of default. Based on the directional trend of output, management applies an overlay if required. Overtime, 
new ME variable may emerge to have a better correlation and may replace ME being used now.
The loans are segmented into homogenous product categories to determine the historical PD/LGD as per similar risk profiles, 
this segmentation is subject to regular review For portfolios in respect of which the Group has limited historical data, external 
benchmark information is used to supplement the internally available data.
The Group does not have any historic data of default in case of Gold Loan portfolio, so it has relied upon the published data of 
competitors
39.2.1.5 Loss Given Default (LGD)
Loss Given Default (LGD) is defined as the loss rate on the exposure, given the borrower has defaulted. LGD is being calculated 
for all financial instruments under risk parameter approach by way of evaluation of historical data on defaults, recovery amounts, 
collateral liquidation, direct expenses, and opportunity cost for each default. LGD has been computed using the volatility-based 
model in case of Gold Loan portfolio.
39.2.1.6 Forward looking information
in its EGL models, the Group relies on a broad range of forward looking information as economic inputs, such as. GDP growth, 
Consumer Price Index, Unemployment rate, Lending Interest Rate etc The inputs and models used for calculating ECLs may not 
always capture all characteristics of the market at the date of the financial statements. To reflect this, qualitative adjustments or 
overlays are occasionally made as temporary adjustments when such differences are significantly material
During the current year, the Group has made refinement in the ECL model and said changes have been updated in the ECL policy 
which is duly approved by the audit committee.
39.2.3 Collateral and other credit enhancements
The Group holds collateral and other credit enhancements against certain of its credit exposures. The loans are collateralized 
against equitable mortgage of property, pledge of shares, hypothecation of assets, physical gold jewellery, undertaking to create 
security.
Management monitors the market value of collateral and will request additional collateral in accordance with the underlying 
agreement. In case of defaults by customers, where the Group is unable to recover the dues, the Group through a legal process 
enforces the security and recovers the dues.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
286
39.3. Liquidity risk and funding management
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities 
that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. Liquidity risk arises because of the possibility that the Group might 
be unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due as a result of mismatches in the timing of the cash flows under both 
normal and stress circumstances. Such scenarios could occur when funding needed for illiquid asset positions is not available to 
the Group on acceptable terms. To limit this risk, management has arranged for diversified funding sources and adopted a policy 
of managing assets by monitoring future cash flows and liquidity on a daily basis.
Liquidity risk is managed in accordance with our Asset Liability Management Policy. This policy is framed as per the current 
regulatory guidelines and is approved by the Board of Directors. The Asset Liability Management Policy is reviewed periodically 
to incorporate changes as required by regulatory stipulation or to realign the policy with changes in the economic landscape. 
The Asset Liability Committee (ALCO) of the Group formulates and reviews strategies and provides guidance for management of 
liquidity risk within the framework laid out in the Asset Liability Management Policy. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the undiscounted cash flow of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Current Year
(` in Millions)
Particulars
upto 
30/31 
days
Over 1 
month 
upto 2 
months
Over 2 
months 
upto 3 
months
Over 3 
months to 
6 months
Over 6 
months to 
1 year
Over 1 
year to 3 
year
Over 3 
year to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Total
Debt Securities
 - 
 2,386.16 
 581.99 
 230.14 
 77.31 
 306.94 
 306.86 
 1,768.27 
 5,657.67 
Borrowings
 1,416.58 
 1,234.73 
 3,043.10 
 6,077.62 
 11,765.11 
 34,635.23 
 20,279.03 
 8,508.87 
 86,960.27 
Trade Payable
 1,112.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,112.45 
Lease liability
 33.98 
 33.92 
 41.24 
 94.36 
 201.31 
 813.06 
 733.79 
 1,128.80 
 3,080.46 
Other Financial 
Liability
 3,663.99 
 - 
 38.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,702.60 
Previous Year
(` in Millions)
Particulars
upto 
30/31 
days
Over 1 
month 
upto 2 
months
Over 2 
months 
upto 3 
months
Over 3 
months to 
6 months
Over 6 
months to 
1 year
Over 1 
year to 3 
year
Over 3 
year to 5 
years
Over 5 
years
Total
Debt Securities
 229.98 
 213.42 
 45.00 
 234.68 
 77.36 
 3,209.23 
 306.90 
 1,882.99 
 6,199.56 
Borrowings
 412.14 
 824.82 
 1,381.84 
 2,916.70 
 6,240.42 
 23,049.92 
 12,871.24 
 5,023.27 
 52,720.35 
Trade Payable
 413.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 413.10 
Lease liability
 6.31 
 6.32 
 6.30 
 19.07 
 37.61 
 132.18 
 87.94 
 16.92 
 312.65 
Other Financial 
Liability
 3,039.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,039.19 
39.4. Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial 
instruments. The core business of the Group is providing loans to MSME Construction Finance, Indirect Lending and Housing 
Finance. The Group borrows through various financial instruments to finance its core lending activity. These activities expose the 
Group to interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is measured through earnings at risk from an earnings perspective and through duration of equity from an 
economic value perspective. Further, exposure to fluctuations in interest rates is also measured by way of gap analysis, providing 
a static view of the maturity and re-pricing characteristic of Balance sheet positions. An interest rate sensitivity gap report is 
prepared by classifying all rate sensitive assets and rate sensitive liabilities into various time period categories according to 
contracted/behavioural maturities or anticipated re-pricing date. The difference in the amount of rate sensitive assets and rate 
sensitive liabilities maturing or being re-priced in any time period category, gives an indication of the extent of exposure to the 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
287
risk of potential changes in the margins on new or re-priced assets and liabilities. The interest rate risk is monitored through above 
measures on a quarterly basis.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (all other variables being 
considered as constant) of the Group’s statement of profit and loss and equity.
(` in Millions)
Currency
Increase / (decrease) in 
basis points
Sensitivity of profit 
or loss
Sensitivity of 
equity
2022-23
Loans (`)
50 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 429.65 
Impact on equity
 321.15 
100 Basis point Up
 859.30 
 642.30 
50 Basis point Down
 (429.65)
 (321.15)
100 Basis point Down
 (859.30)
 (642.30)
Borrowings (`)
50 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 (355.52)
Impact on equity
 (265.74)
100 Basis point Up
 (711.04)
 (531.48)
50 Basis point Down
 355.52 
 265.74 
100 Basis point Down
 711.04 
 531.48 
2021-22
Loans (`)
25 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 159.58 
Impact on equity
 119.42 
50 Basis point Up
 319.15 
 238.83 
25 Basis point Down
 (159.58)
 (119.42)
50 Basis point Down
 (319.15)
 (238.82)
Borrowings (`)
25 Basis point Up
 Impact on Profit before Tax
 (120.73)
Impact on equity
 (90.34)
50 Basis point Up
 (241.46)
 (180.68)
25 Basis point Down
 120.73 
 90.34 
50 Basis point Down
 241.46 
 180.68 
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events. When controls fail to operate 
effectively, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss. The 
Group cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but it endeavours to manage these risks through a control framework and 
by monitoring and responding to potential risks. Controls include maker-checker controls, effective segregation of duties, access, 
authorisation and reconciliation procedures, staff education and assessment processes, such as the use of internal audit.
Capital Management :
Group’s capital management objective is primarily to safeguard business continuity. The Group’s capital raising policy is aligned to 
macro economic situation and incidental risk factors. The Group’s cashflows are regularly monitored in sync with annual operating 
plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The operational funding requirements are met through debt and 
operating cash flows generated. The Group believes this approach would create shareholder value in long run. Also, the Group 
has adopted a conservative approach for ALM management with primacy to adequate liquidity. At present a large portion of the 
Group’s resource base is equity. Therefore the Group enjoys a low gearing.
The Group maintains its capital structure in line with economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities and the board 
reviews the capital position on a regular basis.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
288
Gearing ratio :
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
The gearing ratio at each date were as follows :
Debt (I)
 77,041.66 
 48,570.24 
Cash and bank balances (II) (refer note 3)
 14,767.73 
 3,225.06 
Net debt (I - II)
 62,273.92 
 45,345.18 
Total equity
 35,654.66 
 19,224.71 
Net debt to equity ratio
 1.75 
 2.36 
* Debt includes debt securities, borrowings and lease liabilities.
Note 40A- Defined Contribution Plan
The Group’s state governed provident fund scheme are defined contribution plan for its employees. The Contribution by the 
employer and employee together with interest accumulated there on are payable to the employee at the time of separation from 
Group or retirement whichever is earlier. The benefit vests immediately on rendering of services by the employee.
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Employer's contribution to provident fund
 163.93 
 57.61 
Employer's contribution to National Pension Scheme
 4.17 
 2.98 
Total 
 168.10 
 60.59 
Note 40B- Defined Benefit Plan
The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan in India (funded). The Group’s defined benefit gratuity plan is a final salary plan 
for its employees, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund. The gratuity plan is governed 
by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the act, employee who has completed five years of service is entitled to specific 
benefit. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and salary at separation/retirement. The 
fund has the form of a trust and it is governed by the Board of Trustees, which consists of an equal number of employer and 
employee representatives. The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of 
the investment strategy.
The following table sets out the status of the Defined Benefit Gratuity Plan as per the actuarial valuation by the independent 
Actuary appointed by the Group:
Principal assumptions used for the actuarial valuations are as follows:
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Discount Rate 
7.20%
5.66%
Expected Rate of return on Plan Asset 
7.20%
5.66%
Salary Escalation 
9.00%
5.00%
Attrition Rate
For service 2 years and 
below 50.00% p.a. 
For service 3 years to 4 
years 30.00% p.a. 
For service 5 years and 
above 20.00% p.a.
24.00%
Mortality Table
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality 
 2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured Lives 
Mortality 
 2012-14 (Urban)
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
289
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Present value of benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 54.24 
 42.23 
Current service cost
 15.66 
 12.36 
Interest cost
 3.06 
 2.36 
Past service cost (vested benefit)
 - 
 - 
Liability transferred in/ acquisitions
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement (gains)/losses
 - 
 - 
Benefit paid from the fund
 (7.19)
 (3.80)
Direct payment by the group
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligations - due to change in demographic 
assumptions
 (13.05)
 (2.14)
Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligations - due to change in financial assumptions
 6.40 
 (0.15)
Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligations - due to experience
 19.76 
 3.38 
Present value of benefit obligation at the end of the year
 78.88 
 54.24 
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 41.09 
 35.84 
Interest income
 2.32 
 2.00 
Contributions by employer 
 13.30 
 6.43 
Assets transferred in/acquisitions
 - 
 - 
Expected contributions by the employees
 - 
 - 
Benefit paid from the fund
 (7.19)
 (3.80)
Remeasurement gain (loss)
 - 
 - 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income
 0.62 
 0.62 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 50.14 
 41.09 
Amount recognized in the balance sheet from the Group's obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is as 
follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(Present value of benefit obligation at the end of the year)
 (78.88)
 (54.25)
Fair value of plan assets 
 50.14 
 41.10 
Funded status (surplus/ (deficit))
 (28.74)
 (13.15)
Net (liability)/asset recognized in the balance sheet
 (28.74)
 (13.15)
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
290
Net Interest Cost for current period:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Present value of benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 54.25 
 42.23 
(Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year)
 (41.10)
 (35.84)
Net liability/(asset) at the beginning
 13.15 
 6.39 
Interest cost
 3.06 
 2.35 
(Interest income)
 (2.32)
 (2.00)
Net interest cost for the year
 0.74 
 0.35 
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss in respect of these defined benefit plans are as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Service cost:
Current service cost
 15.66 
 12.36 
Expected Contributions by the employees
 - 
 - 
Past service cost (amortised) recognised
 - 
 - 
Past service cost (vested benefit) recognised
 - 
 - 
Net interest expense
 0.74 
 0.36 
Expense recognized
 16.40 
 12.72 
Amounts recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI) in respect of these defined benefit plans are as 
follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
 6.86 
 (0.62)
Actuarial (gains) / losses on defined benefit obligations
 5.63 
 1.09 
Change in asset ceiling
 - 
 - 
Net (income)/expense for the year recognized in OCI
 12.49 
 0.47 
The fair value of the plan assets for India are as follows:
(` in Millions)
Category of Assets
Gratuity Plans
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Central Govt. Securities
 - 
 - 
State Govt. Securities
 - 
 - 
Debt Securities, Money Market Securities and Bank Deposits
 - 
 - 
Mutual Funds
 - 
 - 
Insurer Managed Funds*
 50.14 
 41.10 
Others
 - 
 - 
Total
 50.14 
 41.10 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
291
Maturity analysis of benefit payments
(` in Millions)
Projected benefits payable in future years from the date of reporting
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
1st following year
 12.40 
 9.20 
2nd following year
 11.72 
 9.18 
3rd following year
 10.19 
 9.05 
4th following year
 10.19 
 7.32 
5th following year
 10.10 
 6.98 
Sum of Years 6 To 10
 32.93 
 18.22 
Sum of Years 11 and above
 26.40 
 7.63 
The estimates of future salary growth, factored in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other 
relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. Such estimates are very long term and are not based on 
limited past experience / immediate future. Empirical evidence also suggests that in very long term, consistent high salary growth 
rates are not possible. The said estimates and assumptions have been relied upon by the auditors.
Sensitivity analysis
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Sensitivity level
1% increase
1% increase
1% increase
1% increase
Impact on defined benefit obligation (in `)
1)	
Discount rate 
 (3.17)
 (1.78)
 3.47 
 1.92 
2)	
Future salary increases 
 3.11 
 1.85 
 (2.94)
 (1.77)
3)	
Employee turnover 
 (0.98)
 (0.51)
 1.03 
 0.52 
Note :
-	
The sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
-	
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the projected benefit obligation 
as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be 
correlated.
-	
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the projected benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same method as applied 
in calculating the projected benefit obligation as recognised in the balance sheet.
-	
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior years.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
292
Note 41:  Related parties disclosure as per Ind AS 24
A.	
List of Related Parties and related party relationship:	
Considering only parties with whom transaction has entered during the FY 2022-23
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Related Party
Relationship
a)	
Enterprises over which Management and/or their 
relatives have control
	
1	
Capri Global Holdings Private Limited
	
2	
Parshwanath Buildcon Private Limited
c)	
Key Management Personnel of the Company
1.	
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
Managing Director
2.	
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
Independent Director 
3.	
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
Independent Director 
4.	
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
Independent Director 
5.	
Mr. Ajay Relan
Independent Director 
6.	
Mr. Ajit Mohan Sharan 
Independent Director
7.	
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
Independent Director
8.	
Mr. T.R. Bajalia
Independent Director
d)	
Trust under common control:
1.	
Capri Foundation.
2.	
CGCL Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme.
3.	
CGHFL Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Scheme.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
293
B. 	 Details of transactions during the year and closing balances as at the year end:
(` in Millions)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Enterprises over which 
management and/or their 
relatives have control
Key management 
personnel
Relative of key 
management personnel
Trust under common 
control
Total
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
a.
Statement of Profit and 
Loss Items:
I
INCOMES :
i
Interest on Loan Given to 
Subsidiaries
Capri Global Resources 
Private Limited
 - 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
ii
Sale of Investment
Capri Global Holding 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
II
EXPENSES :
i
Rent Paid
Parshwanath Buildcon 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.37 
 0.20 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.37 
 0.20 
Capri Global Holding 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.14 
 0.36 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.14 
 0.36 
ii
Salaries, Commission and 
other benefits
Mr. Rajesh Sharma
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.60 
 3.60 
Mr. Pranay Rauka
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.88 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.88 
 - 
Ms. Jinisha Sharma
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.80 
 - 
Mr. Jayesh Doshi
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii
Director Sitting Fees
Mr. Beni Prasad Rauka
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.08 
 1.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.08 
 1.82 
Ms. Bhagyam Ramani
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.91 
 3.30 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.91 
 3.30 
Mr. Mukesh Kacker
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 0.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 0.84 
Mr. Desh Raj Dogra
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.25 
 0.78 
Mr. Ajit Sharan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.04 
 0.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.04 
 0.60 
Mr. Ajay Kumar Relan
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
Mr. T.R. Bajalia
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.60 
 0.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.60 
 0.42 
> 
11 
I 
11 
111 
I 
I 
1111111111111 
11 
I 
11 
111 
1111111 
11 
I 
11 
111 
I 
I 
1111111111111 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
294
(` in Millions)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Enterprises over which 
Management and/or their 
relatives have control
 Key Management 
Personnel 
Relative of key 
management personnel
Trust Under Common 
Control
Total
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
As at March 
31, 2023
As at March 
31, 2022
b
Balance Sheet 
Items (Closing 
Balances):
i
Other Payable
Parshwanath 
Buildcon Private 
Limited
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
(` in Millions)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Enterprises over which 
management and/or their 
relatives have control
Key management 
personnel
Relative of key 
management personnel
Trust under common 
control
Total
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
iv
Employee Benefits
Money Matters Financial 
Services Limited 
Employees Group Gratuity 
Assurance Scheme
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13.30 
 4.50 
 13.30 
 4.50 
Money Matters Securities 
Private Limited Employees 
Group Gratuity Assurance 
Scheme
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.93 
 - 
 1.93 
v
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
Capri Foundation
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.07 
D 
I 
1
1 
I 
1
1 
D 
I 
1
1 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
295
Note - 42 Segment Information (IND-AS 108)
Operating Segment:
The Group operates mainly in the business segment of fund based financing activity. All other activities revolve around the 
main business. Further, all activities are carried out within India. As such, there are no separate reportable segments as per the 
provisions of IND AS 108 on ‘Operating Segments’. 
Note 43 - In Accordance with IND AS - 33  Earnings Per Share
The computation of earning per share is set out below:
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Net Profit after tax as per Statement of Profit and Loss 
( A )
` in Millions
 2,046.54 
 2,050.41 
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Basic EPS
( B )
Nos.
 18,49,90,406 
 18,35,75,044 
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating 
Diluted EPS
( C )
Nos.
 18,70,98,040 
 18,55,53,681 
Basic earnings per equity share (Face value of ` 2/- per share)
(A)/
(B)
`
 11.06 
 11.69 
Diluted earnings per equity share (Face value of ` 2/- per 
share)
(A)/
(C)
`
 10.94 
 11.56 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
Weighted average number of equity shares for calculating EPS 
Nos.
 18,49,90,406 
 18,35,75,044 
Add : Equity shares for no consideration arising on grant of stock 
options under ESOP
Nos.
 21,07,634 
 19,78,637 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculation of diluted 
EPS
Nos.
 18,70,98,040 
 18,55,53,681 
Note - 44 Leases	
The changes in the carrying value of ROU assets are as follows:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Gross carrying value
Balance as at the beginning of the Year 
 352.94 
 296.79 
Additions/Modifications 
 1,885.98 
 93.90 
Terminations 
 64.46 
 37.75 
Balance as at the end of the Year 
 2,174.46 
 352.94 
Accumulated depreciation 
Balance as at the beginning of the Year 
 129.87 
 111.15 
Depreciation 
 200.35 
 42.82 
Terminations/modifications 
 26.98 
 24.10 
Balance as at the end of the Year 
 303.24 
 129.87 
Net Carrying Value at the end of the Year
 1,871.22 
 223.07 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
296
 The following is the movement in lease liabilities during the year: 
(` in Millions)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Lease liabilities 
Balance as at the beginning of the Year 
 248.20 
 211.74 
Additions/Modification 
 1,815.91 
 83.23 
Terminations/modifications 
 37.59 
 16.36 
Finance expense 
 147.62 
 26.12 
Payment of lease liabilities 
 245.27 
 56.53 
Balance as at the end of the Year 
 1,928.87 
 248.20 
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2023, on an undiscounted 
basis:
(` in Millions)
Particulars
 31st March 2023 
 31st March 2022
Less than 1 year 
 404.82 
 20.05 
1-3 years 
 813.06 
 44.51 
3-5 years 
 733.79 
 216.40 
More than 5 years 
 1,128.80 
 31.70 
Total 
 3,080.47 
 312.66 
The Group has adequate liquidity for payment of lease liabilities. The Group regularly monitor and pays lease rentals on timely 
manner as per the terms of respective leave and license agreement.
The Group has right to extend lease term as per mutually agreed terms laid down in respective leave and license agreement. The 
Group takes into account effect of extended lease term while recording the lease assets and lease liabilities accordingly.
Note 45 - Employee Stock Option
The Holding Company has granted Employee Stock Options (ESOP) under the Employee Stock Option Scheme 2009 (ESOP 
2009) to employees of the Holding Company and Subsidiary spread over a period 1 to 4 years.
Employee Stock Option Plans
A Summary of the general terms of grants under stock options plans are as under: -
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number of 
options 
under the Plan
Range of 
Exercise Price
Number of 
options 
under the Plan
Range of 
Exercise Price
Employee Stock Option Plan
 30,60,400 
` 2 to ` 520
 30,40,800 
` 2 to ` 300
The activity of the Stock Plans is summarised below:
Particulars
Year ended
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 5,65,400 
 2.00 
 7,32,950 
 2.00 
 1,99,500 
 70.00 
 2,85,000 
 70.00 
 2,88,400 
 100.00 
 4,42,000 
 100.00 
 22,500 
 130.00 
 50,500 
 130.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 70,000 
 225.00 
 - 
 - 
 8,75,000 
 250.00 
 - 
 - 
 9,50,000 
 300.00 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
297
Particulars
Year ended
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Numbers
Exercise Price/ 
Vesting Price (`)
Granted
 2,00,000 
 300.00 
 10,000 
 232.80 
 75,000 
 425.00 
 3,70,000 
 225.00 
 1,00,000 
 450.00 
 8,75,000 
 250.00 
 25,000 
 500.00 
 9,50,000 
 300.00 
 20,000 
 510.00 
 - 
 - 
 10,000 
 520.00 
 - 
 - 
Exercised
 12,900 
 2.00 
 1,29,600 
 2.00 
 1,57,500 
 70.00 
 85,500 
 70.00 
 6,600 
 100.00 
 1,53,600 
 100.00 
 6,000 
 130.00 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited, expired and cancelled
 27,900 
 2.00 
 37,950 
 2.00 
 22,000 
 100.00 
 28,000 
 130.00 
 2,500 
 130.00 
 10,000 
 232.80 
 25,000 
 250.00 
 3,00,000 
 225.00 
 1,50,000 
 300.00 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 5,24,600 
 2.00 
 5,65,400 
 2.00 
 42,000 
 70.00 
 1,99,500 
 70.00 
 2,59,800 
 100.00 
 2,88,400 
 100.00 
 14,000 
 130.00 
 22,500 
 130.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 50,000 
 174.00 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 20,000 
 194.90 
 70,000 
 225.00 
 70,000 
 225.00 
 8,50,000 
 250.00 
 8,75,000 
 250.00 
 10,00,000 
 300.00 
 9,50,000 
 300.00 
 75,000 
 425.00 
 - 
 - 
 1,00,000 
 450.00 
 - 
 - 
 25,000 
 500.00 
 - 
 - 
 20,000 
 510.00 
 - 
 - 
 10,000 
 520.00 
 - 
 - 
The weigted average fair value of the new ESOPs granted during the year is ` 470.72 per share (previous year ` 335.20 per share)
The following table summarises information about stock option plans
Exercise Price (`)
Year ended
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Numbers
Weighted 
Average 
Remaining Life 
(Months)
Numbers
Weighted 
Average 
Remaining Life 
(Months)
 2.00 
 5,24,600 
 11 
 5,65,400 
 21 
 70.00 
 42,000 
 5 
 1,99,500 
 6 
 100.00 
 2,59,800 
 2 
 2,88,400 
 10 
 130.00 
 14,000 
 13 
 22,500 
 19 
 174.00 
 50,000 
 9 
 50,000 
 19 
 194.90 
 20,000 
 23 
 20,000 
 35 
 225.00 
 70,000 
 31 
 70,000 
 44 
 250.00 
 8,50,000 
 34 
 8,75,000 
 46 
 300.00 
 10,00,000 
 37 
 9,50,000 
 48 
 425.00 
 75,000 
 40 
 450.00 
 1,00,000 
 40 
 500.00 
 25,000 
 40 
 510.00 
 20,000 
 41 
 520.00 
 10,000 
 42 
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
298
Fair value methodology
The fair value of the shares are measured using Black-Scholes-Merton formula. Measurement inputs include share price on 
measurement date, exercise date of the instrument, exercise price, expected life, risk free interest rate, dividend yield, expected 
volatility.
The following table summarizes the assumptions used in calculating the grant date fair value.
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Expected life of the options
2.5 to 5 Years
3 to 5 Years
Expected volatility
40% to 50%
50% to 60%
Dividend yield
0.18% to 0.30%
1%
Risk-free interest rate
7.09% to 7.39%
4.72% to 6.28%
Expected life of the options: Expected life of the options is the period for which the holding company expects the Options 
to be live. The minimum life of a stock option is the minimum period before which the options cannot be exercised, and the 
maximum life is the period after which the options cannot be exercised.
Expected volatility: The measure of volatility used in ESOP pricing model is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return (calculated by log function) on the share over a period prior to the date of grant corresponding to 
the expected life of the option.
Dividend yield: Dividend Yield has been calculated as an average of dividend yields of six financial years preceding the date of 
grant. The dividend yield for the year is derived by dividing the dividend per share by the share price as on dividend effective 
date.
Risk-free interest rate: The rate used to discount employee benefit obligations reflects the estimated timing of benefit payments 
and the currency in which the benefits are to be paid. We have used the Discount Rate which relates to the par-yield rate available 
on ZYC Government Securities (G. Sec.) for the tenure of the expected life of options. (Ref: G Sec. rates available through www.
fbil.org.in with prices/yields published by FBIL).
The Weighted average market price of the ESOPs exercised during the year is ` 722.35 Per share (previous Year ` 530.71 Per share)
ESOP cost recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss for March 31,2023 ` 141.75 Millions (March 31,2022 ` 50.10 Millions)
As at March 31, 2023 amount of ` 1.61 Millions (as at March 31, 2022 ` 16.75 Millions) being the difference between the exercise 
price and fair value of the options is receivable from the subsidiary company with which employees are employed.
Note 46 - Expenditure in Foreign Currency
Software Expenses	 	
	
	
` 5.15 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 1.47 Millions)
Professional Expenses	
	
	
` 9.24 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` Nil Millions)
Note 47 - Contingent Liabilities
Income Tax matters under dispute: March 31, 2023 ` 141.65 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 115.18 Millions)
Note 48 - Capital and Other Commitments
a)	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for March 31, 2023 ` 264.45 
Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 66.55 Millions)
b)	
Amount payable towards acquisition of Property for March 31, 2023 ` 53.15 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 39.82 Millions)
c)	
Other Commitments
Pending disbursements of sanctioned loans for March 31, 2023 ` 15,441.30 Millions (March 31, 2022 ` 13,341.79 Millions)
Note 49 - Fraud Reporting
The group has reported frauds aggregating March 31, 2023 ` 11.18 Millions (March 31, 2022 nil) based on management reporting 
to risk committee and to the RBI through prescribed returns.
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
299
Note 50 - Details of all collateral used as security for liabilities
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Carrying amount of  
financial assets pledged
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Assets type
Loans receivable as collateral under lending agreements
 96,004.97 
 63,627.34 
Loans receivable as collateral under PTC agreements
 1,112.21 
 1,177.71 
Receivables from investment in securities as collateral
 1,038.21 
 2,554.12 
Cash and other bank balance collateral under lending agreements
 14,968.55 
 3,515.09 
Note 51 A- Additional regulatory information under division III to schedule III as per notification dated 
March 24, 2021
(i)	
Revaluation of Property, Plant and Equipment:
	
The Group confirms that, the title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Group
(ii)	 Revaluation of Intangible Assets:
	
The Group has not revalued Intangible assets during the year.
(iii)	 Loans or Advances:
	
During the year, the Group has not provided any loans or advances granted to promoters, directors and KMPs.
(iv)	 Intangible assets under development ageing schedule:
(` in Millions)
Intangible Assets under development
Amount in Intangible Assets  
under development for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
 Projects in progress (Software) 
 136.98 
 11.06 
 - 
 - 
 148.04 
(v)	 Capital work in progress ageing schedule:	
(` in Millions)
Capital work in progress
Amount in Capital work in progress for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Projects in progress (CWIP) 
 25.22 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 25.22 
(vi)	 Details of Benami Property held:
	
No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the Group for holding any benami property under the Prohibition 
of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended from time to time) and the rules made thereunder.
(vii)	 Security of current assets against borrowings:
	
Quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by the Group with banks or financial institutions are in agreement with 
the books of accounts.
(viii)	Wilful Defaulter:
	
The Group has not been declared as wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
(ix)	 Relationship with Struck off Companies: There are no transaction with Struck off companies during the year.
(x)	 Compliance with number of layers of companies:
	
The Group has complied with the requirements of number of layers as per Section 186 of Companies Act, 2013.
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
300
(xi)	 Compliance with approved Scheme(s) of Arrangements:
	
The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement.
(xii)	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium
	
Borrowed funds have been utilised for the purpose they have been sanctioned and share premium has been utilised in 
working capital.
(xiii)
(a)	
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
other kind of funds) to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(b)	
The Group has not received any funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) from any person or entity, 
including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Group shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
Note 51 B - Additional Disclosures
(i)	
Events after reporting date - There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial 
statements.
Note 52 - Additional information pursuant to para 2 of general instructions for the preparations of 
Consolidated Financial Statements :
Name of the 
entity in the 
Group
Net Assets, i.e. total assets 
minus total liability
Share in Profit or Loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive income
Share in total Comprehensive 
income
Particulars
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(` in Millions)
As % of 
Consolidated 
Profit or Loss
Amount 
(` in Millions)
As % of 
Consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` in Millions)
As % of total 
Comprehensive 
income
Amount 
(` in Millions)
Parent
Capri Global 
Capital 
Limited (net off 
elimination)
85.45%
 30,465.92
69.71%
 1,426.74
62.57%
 (19.68)
69.83%
 1,407.06
Subsidiaries
Indian
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited (net off 
elimination)
14.55%
 5,188.74
30.29%
 619.80
37.43%
 (11.77)
30.17%
 608.03
Total
100.00%
 35,654.66
100.00%
 2,046.54
100.00%
 (31.45)
100.00%
 2,015.09
Annual Report 2022-23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statements
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2023
301
Note 53 - Previous year figures
Previous year's figures have been regrouped and reclassified wherever necessary to confirm to current year’s presentation.
In terms of our report attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
(Firm's Registration No. 107122W/W100672)
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Sd/-
Gayatri Sonavane
Yashesh Bhatt
Partner
Company Secretary
Membership No. 114049
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
Date: May 22, 2023
> 
Annual Report 2022-23
Capri Global Capital Limited
302
Form AOC -1
(Pursuant to first proviso to Sub Section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries / associate companies 
/ joint ventures 
Part "A": Subsidiaries
(` in Millions)
Particulars
Capri Global 
Housing Finance 
Limited
Reporting Period of the Subsidiary if Different from the Holding Company's Reporting Period
NA
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the last date of the relevant Financial Year in the case 
of Foreign Subsidiaries
NA
Share Capital
712.04
Reserves & Surplus
4,476.79
Total Assets
28,262.84
Total Liabilities
23,074.01
Investments
1,800.96
Turnover
3,236.72
Profit/(Loss) Before Taxation
773.29
Provision for Taxation
152.82
Profit after Taxation*
620.47
Proposed Dividend
 -  
% of Shareholding
100
*PAT without considering the Other Comprehensive Income.
Notes:
1. Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations:NIL
2. Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year :NIL
Part "B": Associate and Joint Ventures
Statement pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures: Not 
Applicable
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/-
Sd/-
Rajesh Sharma
Beni Prasad Rauka
Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer
Independent Director
DIN 00020037
DIN 00295213
Place: Mumbai
Place: Mumbai
Sd/-
Yashesh Bhatt
Company Secretary
ACS-20491
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 22, 2023
502, Tower – A, Peninsula Business Park,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel,Mumbai – 400013
www.capriloans.in
Concept, content and design by Report Yak (contact@reportyak.com)
