Reg. Office Address: 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED 
Room No, 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
(A Government of India Enterprise) 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi 110001 
CIN: L70101DL2005G01132162 
wv 
‘ 
i. ff 
4 
Website: www.hpil.co.in 
e + 
. 
P 
AR wractor sts aT 
Email: info@hpil.co.in, Tel: 011-23061325 
(HINA ARPT PT SUH) 
HPIL/BS/Stx/2023-24 
Dated:31.08.2023 
To, 
To, 
Manager, 
Manager 
Listing Department 
Listing Department 
BSE Limited, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street 
"Exchange Plaza", Plot No. C/1,G Block, 
Mumbai: 400 001 
Bandra Complex, Bandra (E), 
Mumbai -400 051 
Script Code: 543242 
Symbol: HEMIPROP 
Sub: Annual Report 2022-23 
Dear Sir(s), 
This 
is 
to inform that the 
19th 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
of Hemisphere 
Properties India Limited will be held on Wednesday, September 27, 2023 at 12.00 
noon, Indian Standard Time (IST) through Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual 
Means (VC/ OAVM) in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the applicable General Circular as issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (MCA) and SEBI, from time to time. 
In compliance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with applicable 
circulars issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI, the Notice of 19» AGM 
and Annual Report containing the financial statements for the financial year 2022- 
23, Auditor's Report thereon, Board's Report and other documents required to be 
attached 
thereto 
including 
Business 
Responsibility 
®& 
Sustainability 
Reporting 
(BRSR) is being sent to all the members whose e-mail IDs are registered with the 
Company & Depository Participant (DP). 
A copy of Annual Report and Notice of 19th 
AGM is enclosed herewith and also 
available on website of Company on www.hpil.co.in. 
The above is for information 
and further dissemination. 
Thanking you, 
For Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Lubna 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
LUBNA
Digitally signed by 
LUBNA 
Date: 2023.08.31 
17:26:48 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPORT 
19th 
2022-23
       HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED
(A GOVT. OF  INDIA UNDERTAKING)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Information 
02 
Board of Directors 
03 
Directors’ Profile   
04 
About HPIL 
07 
Chairperson Message 
14 
Notice of AGM 
17 
Directors Report  
34 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
54 
Business Responsibility  & Sustainability Report 
69 
Corporate Governance Report  
108 
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance 
145 
Secretarial Auditor Report 
146 
Particulars of Contracts or Arrangements with Related 
Parties 
152 
Standalone Financial Statements 
153 
Independent Auditors’ Report on Standalone Financial 
Statements 
203 
Comments of C&AG  
217 
Caution regarding forward-looking statements 
In this Annual Report, we have disclosed forward-looking information to enable investors to comprehend our prospects and take investment decisions. This report and other 
statements - written and oral - that we periodically make, contain forward-looking statements that set out anticipated results based on the management’s plans and 
assumptions.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a number of factors could cause assumptions, actual future results and 
events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. The achievements of results are subject to risks, uncertainties and even inaccurate 
assumptions.  
The information/disclosures made in this Annual Report are as on date of respective report and document and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward 
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
 
C  
O  
N  
T  
E  
N  
T 
S 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
2 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
C O R P O R A T E   I N F O R M A T I O N 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 
Ms. D Thara  
 
Chairperson & Managing Director 
Shri Ravi Kumar Arora  
 
Director 
Shri Suvasish Das 
Director 
 
Shri Diwakar Kumar Barnwal 
 
Director 
Shri Rajeev Kumar Das 
 
Director 
Dr. Sunita Chandra 
 
Independent Director 
Shri GR Kanakavidu    
 
Independent Director 
Dr. 
Madhu 
Rani 
Teotia 
upto 
15.12.2022 
 
Director 
 
 
 
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL 
 
Shri Bhavesh Singla 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
Ms. Lubna 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
OTHER INFORMATION 
 
 
Registered Office 
144 C Wing, Nirman Bhawan, Maulana Azad Road, 
New Delhi-110011 
Contact 
Web : www.hpil.co.in , Email: www.hpil.co.in,  
Tel :01123061444, 011-23061325 
Statutory Auditors 
 
M/s Dhruv Aggrawal & Co, LLP, Chartered 
Accountants 
Secretarial Auditors 
 
M/s Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
 
Internal Auditors 
M/s Agiwal & Associates , Chartered Accountants 
Depositories 
 
 National Securities Depository Ltd.(NSDL) 
 Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) 
 
 
 
Stock Exchanges 
 
 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., and 
 BSE Limited. 
 
 
 
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent 
M/s TSR Consultants Private Limited, 
Address: C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, 
Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, Vikhroli (West),Mumbai 
– 400083 
 
Tel no: 91 22 6656 8484  , 
E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION 
CIN 
L70101DL2005GOI132162 
BSE Code  
HEMIPROP 
NSE Symbol 
543242 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
3 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Sunita Chandra 
Independent Director 
Sh. Diwakar Kumar Barnwal , Director 
Sh. Rajiv Kumar Das  
Director 
Sh. Ravi Kumar Arora  
Director  
Sh Suvasish Das 
 Director 
Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia,   Director
(upto 15.12.2022) 
 
Smt. D Thara, 
Chairperson & Managing Director 
Sh. G R Kanakavidu 
Independent Director 
 
 
                   HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
4 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
Directors’ Profile 
Smt. D Thara, CMD (DIN 01911714) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shri Ravi Kumar Arora, Director (DIN 09217881 ) 
 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia, Director (DIN 09352906)  
Smt. D Thara is the Chairperson & Managing Director of the Company 
w.e.f November, 2019 who has been assigned additional charge through 
the order of Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs(MoHUA). She is presently 
acting as Additional Secretary under MoHUA and a 1995 batch Gujarat 
cadre IAS officer. Besides many prominent role in the Government 
service,she also  served as and Managing Director of Gujarat Industrial 
Development Corporation (GIDC). D Thara, Thara has experiences in 
working in various cities of Gujarat such a Ahmedabad, Kheda, Rajkot, 
Vadodara and Surendranagar. She was collector of Kheda and Ahmedabad 
and development officer in Vadodara and Surendranagar.D Thara who had 
also acted as deputy municipal commissioner in Ahmedabad Municipal 
Corporation  and was instrumental in executing a number of projects 
under Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission. 
She was also one the key persons behind Ahmedabad’s flagship 
infrastructure project—BRTS.When she took charge as Ahmedabad 
municipal commissioner in October 2014, she made history as she became 
the first woman civil chief in the history of Ahmedabad Municipal 
Corporation. 
 
Shri Ravi Kumar Arora (IAS), Joint Secretary (Land & Estates) in the Ministry of 
Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), has been appointed as Director on the Board 
of Company w.e.f. 28.06.2021. Shri Arora is an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) 
officer of Gujarat cadre and joined the service in 2006. He had done his Masters’ 
Degree in Public Policy. In the State of Gujarat, he served important positions and 
was District Collector in 4 Districts viz; Mahisagar, Navsari, Bharuch, Valsad. 
During his central deputation tenure, also served as PS to Hon’ble External Affairs 
Minister, Govt. of India. Shri Arora, as Joint Secretary in our Ministry, presently 
overseeing matters pertaining to L&DO, Dte. of Estates. 
Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia is a 2008 batch IAS and a Homeopathic doctor by educational 
qualification and did her BHMS Delhi University. Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia won various accolades 
and awards during her career She has worked as Asst. Collector ( Jabalpur, MP), SDM( Jaora, 
Ratlam, MP), CEO (Rajgarh, MP), Addl. Collector ( Gwalior, MP), Additional Director 
Education (GNCTD), Secretary (Delhi Jal Board), Labour Commissioner (Delhi), DM/DC and 
several other posts. She also acted as PS to Hon’ble Union Minister of State, Women & Child 
Development. She was appointed as Land & Development Officer, Ministry of Housing & Urban 
Affairs, she  has a rich experience of over 14 years as Civil servant where she has served in 
important capacities. She was appointed as Director from October 12, 2021 till December 15, 
2022 
 
                   HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
5 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Dr. Sunita Chandra, Independent Director (DIN 09415680)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shri Suvasish Das is appointed as Director on Board of Hemisphere 
Properties India Ltd w.e.f December 15,2022. Sh. Suvasish Das, IFS is 17" 
rank holder in IFS 2004 Exam by UPSC. He has a Post Graduate Diploma 
in Forest Management from Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy, 
Dehradun, Uttarakhand, M Sc. Agrochemical & Pest Management from 
University of Delhi, B Sc. (Botany Hons.) from Assam University. He 
possesses vast research experience and also a recognized author of book 
namely Rajarishi Banerji and Suvasish Das:W Kaziranga; The Magical 
Wildemess & wrote journals national and international on Climate studies 
and insect pests Implications for the Indian Context, Outlook on 
Agriculture, Plants and Microbes — Potential Sources of Pesticide for future 
Use, Assessment of Air Quality at Lignite Mining Sites in the Kutch Area of 
Gujarat: A Case Study, Prevalence of Phytophagous Nematodes in 
Rhizosphere of Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus L. Moench) and several 
others. During the period of service he has served as Divisional Forrest 
Officer of Barpeta Social Forestry Division, Sonitpur East Division, 
Biswanath Chariali, Kaziranga National Park, Nagaon Division where he 
performed outstandingly. During the posting he established Social Forestry 
Campus, nursery plantation projects, Skill eco-development programmes 
and accomplished many achievements for preservation of wildlife and 
environment. Further, posted as Conservator of Forests, Development. 
Research Education and Working Plan with effect from February 2019, with 
additional charge of State Mission Director, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 
Urban and National Urban Livelihood Mission Assam. Implemented PMAY-
U in the State and livelihood programmes under DAY NULM. He has been 
appointed as Director All (PMAY-U), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, 
Nirman Bhawan, Govt of India from June 2021 and now w.e.f 09.12.2022 
is appointed as Land & Development Officer, MoHUA. 
Sh. Suvasish Das, Director (DIN : 9826037)____________________________ 
Dr. Sunita Chandra has completed PhD in Zoology from Banaras Hindu 
University in 2001 and was working as Joint Registrar in BHU and presenty acting as 
registrar in Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies (Deemed University) (CIHTS) at 
Sarnath, Varanasi . Dr. Sunita Chandra has wide and depth expertise in Finance ,  
Administration and Management. The Director is appointed in Company from 
November, 2021.Dr Chandra is also the Chairperson of Audit Committee of Company. 
 
                   HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
6 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
Shri G R Kanakavidu, Independent Director (DIN 09471091 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
Shri Rajeev Kumar Das, Director (DIN 07730466)  
 
 
 
 
 
\\   
   Shri Diwakar Kumar Barnwal, Director (DIN 08953153)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Smt Priya Mahadevan, Director (DIN 08026476) 
 
Shri G R Kanakavidu was born in 01-06-1966 and he is holding degree in 
B.tech and Masters of Business Administration (MBA). He is having vast 
experience  in social welfare and carried out various activities for the betterment of 
the society.  The Director is appointed in Company From January, 2022. 
Shri Rajeev Kumar Das completed his degree in Bachelor of Science, Chemistry Hons. from 
Ranchi University. He joined Government services from year 1997. He was earlier serving 
under Department of Post, Ministry of Health and currently appointed as Deputy Land & 
Development officer in Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs. He has been appointed as 
Director in HPIL from June 2021 and presently handling day to day affairs of the Company. 
Shri Diwakar Kumar Barnwal has completed BA(Hons) in Sociology from Patna University. 
He entered in Government Services in year 2005. as Section Officer in CSS Grade in Ministry 
of Human Resources Development. Further in 2005 served in Ministry of Defence after being 
promoted in 2013. He has over 16 years of experience working under various Ministries. 
 He assumed charge as Dy L& DO in Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs  in 2019 and also 
been acting as Director in Company from 2020. He is presently acting as Under Secretary in 
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs and diligently handling the matters assigned to him. 
Smt Priya Mahadevan completed her Bachelor of Science Graduation and Post 
Graduation from Kerala University. She joined Government services and served 
on various post. She is having over 21 years of holistic and hands on experience 
in various departments of Government/Ministries. She was appointed as Directo 
in the Company we.f 14.06.2021 upto April 18,2022. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
7 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
 
ABOUT HPIL 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL or the Company) was 
incorporated in year 2005 as Real Estate Company with the intent to 
transfer and hive off the land set aside as Surplus Land at the time of 
disinvestment of Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited (VSNL) which is presently 
known as Tata Communications Limited. 
The Company President of India through Department of Telecommunication 
acquired majority shareholding in HPIL in year 2012 and it became a CPSE. 
A scheme of Arrangement among Tata Communications Limited and HPIL 
was finalized and approved by National Company Law Tribunal in 2018 and 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs in  August,2019. 
After the approval of Competent Authorities The Administrative Ministry of 
HPIL was transferred from Department of Telecommunication to Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs. 
The Company has land of approx. 2.99 million square mtr (739.69 in acre) 
across 4 states located in 5 locations in India. The description of these land 
are as under: 
 
Location 
Area in square meter  
(in million) 
Area in Acre 
DIghi, Pune 
2.12 
524 
Padianallur, Chennai 
0.21 
53.04 
Greater Kailash, Delhi 
0.28 
69.46 
Chattarpur, Delhi 
0.24 
58 
Halishahr, Kolkata 
0.14 
35.19 
 
 
Dighi, Pune 
Padianallur, Chennai 
Chattarpur, Delhi 
Halishahr, Kolkata 
Greater Kailash, Delhi 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
8 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Pune Land parcel 
This parcel is of 524 acres and it is located on Alandi road, Dighi, Pune and falls 
under four Villages: 
    a.Dighi 
    b.Kalas 
    c.Bopkhel 
    d.Bhosari  
The land parcel is sharing boundary with Tata communication Limited, STT 
Global data centres India Pvt Ltd, 
The land parcel is in defined shape and also it includes two buildings Namely 
Opal A2 and Renaissance who were built before the Disinvestment of VSNL and 
vacant open. 
The land is properly fenced and demarcated. As on date there are no 
encroachment on this land parcel. We have deployed TCL security on this land 
parcel to prevent encroachment. There are some litigation pertaining to this 
land which are still going on.  
It has excellent visibility from twenty-four-meter-wide Pune-Alandi road and can 
be easily reachable from Pune International Airport and Pune Railway Station 
by BRT buses and local commutes. 
The estimated value of this land is INR 22,63,99,74,800/- or Indian Rupees Two 
Thousand Two Hundred Sixty-Three Crore Ninety-Nine Lakh Seventy-Four 
Thousand and Eight Hundred Only. 
As per the Draft Development Plan of Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation 
(PCMC), Pune land Parcel is designated for transmission site under PSP use 
(Public and Semi Public) and primarily allotted for construction of Radio 
Transmitting Station. The Company’s Management  has explored the possibility 
of constructions of Data centres, Commercial office spaces, IT Parks and 
residential zone as the end product. Pune land parcel is located in a 
predominantly nearby Defence land and some residential area too and also it is 
nearby Bhosari MIDC industrial area, it was analysed that the Site could be 
developed as data centres hub and mixed use residential development plan 
keeping the existing development and market demand. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
9 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Greater Kailash Land Parcel: 
 
The land parcel measures 69.46 acres and is situated near the outer ring road, New 
Delhi. It is a vacant parcel with good connectivity, just 20 kilometres from the 
airport.  
The site is one of the most expensive land parcels owned by the company and is 
designated as Public & Semi Public in the Masterplan of Delhi 2021.  
Fencing has been done to demarcate the land, and a digital survey of the site has 
already been done. The mutation work, of the land parcel is under process. 
The following Pictures are attached of the HPIL land parcel: 
 
Pune , Maharashtra site view 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
10 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
              
 
 
                              
Padianallur, Chennai 
The land is admeasuring to 53.04 acres and it is located at Padianallur, Chennai, 
Tamil Nadu.   
The Site is located in northern part of the city. It is primarily accessible via 26 m 
wide Kolkata-Chennai National Highway that further connects to Chennai Outer 
Ring Road and nearest railway station is Korattur which is approx.14.5 km away 
and nearest metro station is Thirumangalam metro station which is located at a 
distance of approx. 16.5 km. The prominent areas around the site are Red hills, 
Puzhal, Ambattur, Madhavaram, Perungavur, Gandhi Nagar, Sholavaram, Pothur 
and Kesarwadi etc. The Site region enjoys good connectivity with other parts of the 
city via well laid road and metro network. 
The land parcel is an undeveloped land falling under Mixed Residential zoning as 
per the Master Plan of CMA -2026. 
The land parcel is moderately populated with trees and plant. The site locality is 
easily reachable by road. The locality is predominately a residential zone with 
majorly with limited clustered commercial and mixed used activities. 
The land is properly demarcated with approximately 7 feet high boundary wall. As 
on date there are no encroachment on this land parcel. We have deployed security 
on this land parcel to prevent encroachment. 
The estimated valuation of the land is INR 4,17,16,34,406 /- (Indian Rupees Four 
Hundred and Seventeen Crore Sixteen Lakh Thirty-Four Thousand Four Hundred 
and Six Only).Based on market assessment, the site could be used for Residential 
Group Housing Project with Affordable development grade & Data centre with 
multiple incentives, is another typology recommended. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
11 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
Halisahar, Kolkata 
The land measuring 35.19 acre, located at Halisahar, North 24 Parganas, West 
Bengal. 
The Site is located very near to Bagmore which is situated at northern part of 
Halisahar. The land parcel is positioned in such a way that it has access of 8 – 
meter from Bizpur Workshop Road and connected to Kabuguru Ravindra path via 
narrow local road from northern side. The Site locality is predominantly consisting 
of residential zone, small scale timber industries, dilapidated jute mills with limited 
clustered commercial and mixed used activities. The Site is easily reachable by 
roads and has excellent connectivity via bus, train and other tertiary transportation 
services. 
There are several water bodies present within the site. The land is free from 
Encroachment and proper security is deployed. There is no ongoing litigation on 
this land.  
The land parcel falls under Commercial, water body and bank of water body land 
use categories. 
The estimated value of the land at the Halisahar is INR 90,25,17,059/- (Ninety 
Crore Twenty-Five Lakh Seventeen Thousand and Fifty-Nine Only)  
Considering the upward trend for independent houses.  The land Parcel is feasible 
to develop gated residential plots where target segment will be resident of Halisahar 
& Kalyani and mid segment buyers from Kolkata. The land is free from 
encroachment and proper security is deployed.  
Padianullar, Chennai site view 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
12 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
Chattarpur 
The HPIL land parcel measuring 58 acres situated near the C-DOT and TCL on 
mandi road, Chattarpur, New Delhi. 
The  site is around 1 km from Chattarpur metro station and 600m away from MG 
road which provide excellent connectivity to all the prominent location to NCR, 
primarily to central Delhi, south Delhi and Gurgaon. The IGI airport is about 15km 
from the site. 
The neighbourhood of land parcel comprises of buildings of low-rise format and 
farmhouses. 
The land is under Public & Semi Public use in the Masterplan of Delhi 2021.  
The land is completely secure from encroachment by means of boundary wall from 
three side at its periphery. Land partition between TCL and HPIL is done by fixing 
poles at every 10m in fourth side. 
The Mutation of site is in name HPIL & Property tax document and UPIC ID of land 
is also on the name of HPIL.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
13 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
Stakeholders’ Meet, 2023 “Exploring Potential Development For Development 
of Land Resources under HPIL at Pune”  
Stakeholders’ Meet, 2023 was held on July 05, 2023 at DoubleTree By 
Hilton in Chinchwad Pune for creating awareness of land among the market, 
the Competent Authorities and ascertaining demand of Pune Land of the 
Company. 
 The chief guest were the Commissioner of PCMC, PMC and PMRDA and 
more than 60 officials from prominent organization attended the meeting 
The officials from Education Institutions, Industrial Sector and Real Estate 
Sector and Data Centres Companies such as DY Patil University, Symbiosis, 
COEP Technology University, STT Global, C & W India, City Corporation Ltd, 
CREDAI, Pune, Confederation Of Indian Industry, JLL, NBCC (India )Ltd  
etc. attended the meeting and shared their inputs. 
 
 
Glance of Stakeholders’ Meet, 2023 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 14 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
 
CHAIRPERSON MESSAGE  
Dear Shareholders, 
It gives me pleasure to share the 19th Annual Report of your company, for 
the year 2022-23.   The Annual Report for financial year ended March 31, 
2023 along with the Board Report, Audited Annual Accounts, Auditor's 
Report and Comments of Comptroller & Auditors General of India (C&AG) 
are with you and, with your permission, I take them as read. Let me now 
share with you the performance of the Company during the year, present 
status and the Company's future prospects. 
 
Economic & Future Outlook 
In financial year 2022-23, the Company recorded net loss of₹647.31 lakhs 
as against the loss of ₹1486.05lakhs during the previous financial year. 
There is major decline in the amount of loss in comparison to loss incurred 
in the previous financial year, The Company from this financial year has 
start generating revenue from rentals which is amounting to ₹ 200.20 lakhs 
and we are positive towards increasing the revenue from operations in 
current and upcoming financial years. 
 
The land parcel of Company are located in Five (5) locations  which 
are Dighi (Pune), Chattarpur (Delhi), Greater Kailash (Delhi), Padianallur 
(Chennai) and Halisahar (Kolkata). All the land parcel are located in major 
cities of India and  the total land is of  739.69 acres demerged through the 
order of Demerger passed by Ministry of Corporate Affairs issued order of 
Demerger 
between 
Tata 
Communications 
Limited 
and 
Hemisphere 
Properties India Limited. 
The major actions performed by Company during this financial year are: 
 Mutation for Pune land parcel. 
 Mutation of Chattarpur Land parcel 
 Payment of stamp duty in for registration of land in Chennai. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 15 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
 Filed application of change in land use of Chattarpur  
 Generating income from leasing of Pune land. 
 In-discussion for renting/leasing out the pre-constructed building on 
Pune land. 
 Engaging Transaction Advisor for Pune Land parcel .’ 
 Initiated the Activity to Access the demand as per current land use of 
Pune. 
 Conducted exercise regarding Demand Discovery/Expression of 
Interest for Chattarpur (farmhouses). 
 Conducted as Stakeholders’ Meet,2023 in Pune for creating awareness 
and accessing demand.  
 Application of mutation of Kolkata is in final phase. 
 Regular meeting with Pune Competent Authorities regarding present 
land uses. 
 
The Company is planning into initiating operation in phased manner. We 
are kick-starting operations with Pune land parcel and simultaneously 
initiate the activities for other land parcel which depends on the viability 
and subject to several approvals. The Transaction Advisor for Pune shall 
assist in feasibility studies, masterplanning, development opportunities, 
approval (s) , marketing  and selecting the bidder/developer  in fair & 
transparent manner.  
 The Company has also requested the Administrative Ministry to release 
funds for completing the Mutation and for payment of stamp duty on 
transfer of title of land in name of Company and other expenditure. 
 
 We are aware that the all the Stakeholders are eagerly waiting to 
witness the performance of Company but it is assured that we are 
consistent and adamant towards making this Company successful and 
generating economic activity in the area where the land parcel exist.The 
Board of Directors of Company are dedicatedly ensuring the action in such 
directions that it will uphold the trust of shareholders 
 Acknowledgement 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 16 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 
On behalf of your Company's Board of Directors, I wish to convey my deep 
gratitude to each one of you, our valued shareholders, for your continued 
support and trust. I want to thank fellow Board for their strong and 
unequivocal support. 
I would also like to deeply thank and acknowledge the continued co-
operation, trust and support of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, 
Ministry of Finance, Securities Exchange Board of India, other Regulatory 
authorities, shareholders, employees and consultants and wish for their 
continued support in future as well. 
Your Faithfully, 
Sd/ 
D Thara 
Chairperson & Managing Director 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
17 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
 
 
NOTICE 
Notice is hereby given that the 19th  Annual General Meeting of the members of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited will be held on  Wednesday, September 
27, 2023  at 12.00 noon (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio 
Visual Means (“OAVM”) to transact the following businesses: 
 
ORDINARY BUSINESS  
Item No 1. To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023 and the 
Reports of the Board of Directors, the Statutory Auditors and the Comments of the 
Comptroller Auditor General of India thereon. 
Item No 2. To appoint a Director in place of Shri Ravi Kumar Arora Director (Non-
Executive) DIN: 09217881, who retires by rotation at this Annual General Meeting 
and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
Item No 3. To authorize the Board of Directors of the Company to fix the 
remuneration of the Statutory Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2023-
24. 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
               Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
Sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
 
                          Lubna 
(Company Secretary & Compliance officer) 
 
 
Registered Office: 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan Maulana 
Azad Road New Delhi,110001  
Website: www.hpil.co.in 
Email: info@hpil.co.in  
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
18 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
NOTES 
1. An explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act read with the rules 
made thereunder, setting out material facts relating to the resolutions in respect of 
all Special business specified in the notice of annual general meeting, if any and 
information of the Director proposed to be appointed/ reappointed at the Meeting as 
required under Regulation 36 (3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing 
Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard-2 (“the SS-2”) and other applicable provisions 
is annexed hereto and forms part of the Notice. 
2. In view of the MCA Circular dated December 28, 2022, read with circulars dated 
May 5, 2020, April 13, 2020, and April 8, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (“MCA Circulars”) and SEBI Circular dated January 5, 2023, May 13, 2022, 
January 15, 2021, and May, 12, 2020 and other relevant circulars issued in this 
regard and in compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), 
the 19th  AGM of the Company is being conducted through VC/OAVM facility, 
without physical presence of members at a common venue. The deemed venue for the 
19th  AGM shall be the Registered Office of the Company. 
3. In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), the SEBI 
Circulars and the MCA Circulars, the 19th  Annual General Meeting (“AGM/ Meeting”) 
of the Company is being held through VC / OAVM on Wednesday, September 27, 
2023, at 12:00 noon. 
4. Pursuant to Section 108 of the Act and Rule 20 of Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations, the SS-2, 
the Company has provided remote e-voting facility to all the members of the 
Company in respect of the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM/Meeting”). The Company has availed services of  National Securities 
Depository Limited (“the NSDL”) for providing remote e-voting facility to its members. 
The instructions for remote e-voting are provided as part of this Notice which the 
members are requested to read carefully before casting their vote. 
5. In terms of the MCA and SEBI Circular(s) as mentioned above, physical attendance 
of Members at the AGM and appointment of proxies has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the Attendance Slip, Proxy Form and Route Map are not annexed to this 
Notice. However, in pursuance of Section 112 and Section 113 of the Act, 
representatives of the Members may be appointed for the purpose of casting vote 
through remote e-voting prior to the AGM, participation in the 19th AGM through 
VC/OAVM facility and for electronic voting during the AGM. 
6. Attendance of the Members participating in the  AGM through VC/OAVM facility 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the 
Act. 
7. In case of joint holders attending the AGM, only such joint holder who is higher in 
the order of names in the Register of Members of the Company/ list of Beneficial 
Owners as provided by National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’)/Central 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
19 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
Depository Services (India) Limited (‘CDSL’) (collectively referred to as ‘Depositories’) 
in respect of such joint holding, will be entitled to vote. 
8. In line with the above Circulars of MCA & SEBI, the Notice of the 19th AGM along 
with Annual Report is being sent by e-mail to all those members, whose e-mail IDs 
were registered with the Company/depository. Annual Report along with notice are 
also available on the website of the Company at www.hpil.co.in and on the website of 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.nseindia.com and BSE Limited at 
www.bseindia.com and also on the website of National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) at www.evoting.nsdl.com. The Company had also published advertisements 
in newspapers to encourage shareholders, holding shares in physical and electronic 
form, to register/update their email IDs for receiving the Annual Report for the 
financial year 2022-23 and other updates of Company. 
 
9. All Members of the Company including Institutional Investors are encouraged to 
attend the AGM and vote on item(s) to be transacted at the AGM. Corporate 
Members/Institutional 
Investors 
intending 
to 
appoint 
their 
authorized 
representatives pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies Act, to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM are requested to send a certified copy of the Board resolution/ 
authorization letter to the Scrutinizer through e-mail at gr2advisory@gmail.com with 
a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. 
 
10. To support the ‘Green Initiatives’, the Members who have not registered their 
email addresses or there is any change in their email address(es), are requested to 
immediately notify/update their email address with their DP, in case the shares are 
held in dematerialized form and to the RTA, in case the shares are held in physical 
form by providing necessary details, for receiving all communication including 
Audited Financial Statements, Notices, Circulars, etc., from the Company 
electronically; 
 
11.   The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the Company will 
be closed from Thursday, September 21, 2023 to Wednesday, September 27, 2023 
(both days inclusive) for the purpose of 19th  Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
 
12. The Company has fixed Wednesday, September 20, 2023 as the Cut-off date for 
determining the eligibility to vote on item(s) of business to be transacted at the 19th  
AGM as detailed in notice.  
 
Any person who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a member of the 
Company after sending of the Notice and is holding shares as on the cut-off date, 
may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in. 
However, if he / she is already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, then he / 
she can use his / her existing user ID and password for casting the vote. Any 
shareholder who disposes off his shareholding such that he/she is not a member as 
on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purposes only. 
 
13.  NSDL will be providing facility for remote e-voting, participation in the 19th  AGM 
through VC/OAVM and voting during the 19th  AGM through electronic voting 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
20 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
system. The remote e-voting period begins on Sunday, September 24, 2023 (0900 
hours) and ends on Tuesday, September 26, 2023 (1700 hours). The remote e-
Voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. 
 
Members may join the 19th  AGM through VC/OAVM, which shall be kept open for 
the members on September 27, 2023 from 11:45 A.M. IST i.e. 15 minutes before the 
scheduled start time and the Company may close the window for joining the VC/ 
OAVM facility 30 minutes after the scheduled start time, i.e. by 12.00 noon on date 
of AGM.  
 
Please refer to detailed instructions for remote e-voting, attending the AGM through 
VC/OAVM and electronic voting during the AGM, annexed to this Notice. 
 
 
14. Mr. Rahul Chaudhary, Practicing Company Secretary of M/s Rahul Chaudhary & 
Associates (Membership no 54713)  has been appointed as the Scrutinizer to 
scrutinize the votes cast by the shareholders in respect of items of business to be 
transacted at the 19th  AGM, in a fair and transparent manner. 
 
15. Brief Resume of the Directors seeking appointment/reappointment as required 
under Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 {SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015} is annexed hereto and forms 
part of Notice. 
 
16. Pursuant to Section 139(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Auditors of a 
Government Company are appointed/reappointed by the Comptroller and Auditor 
General (C&AG) of India and in terms of Section 142 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
their remuneration shall be fixed by the Company in a General Meeting or in such 
manner as the Company may determine in a General Meeting. 
The appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2023-
24 is yet to be made by the C&AG of India. Further, members are requested to 
authorize the Board of Directors of the Company to fix an appropriate remuneration 
of the Statutory Auditors of the Company, as may be deemed fit, for the financial 
year 2023-24. 
 
 
17. Members desirous of getting any information on any item(s) of business of this 
meeting are requested to send an e-mail mentioning their name, demat account 
number/folio number, email id, mobile number to agm@hpil.co.in, at least ten(10) 
days prior to the date of the AGM and the same will be replied by the Company 
suitably. 
 
18.  Members who would like to express their views or ask questions during the AGM 
may register themselves as a ‘Speaker’ and may send their request mentioning their 
name, demat account number / folio number, email id, mobile number at 
agm@hpil.co.in  not later than 6:00 p.m., 20th  September, 2023. 
 
 The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of questions and number of 
speakers, depending on the availability of time for the AGM. Those shareholders who 
have registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to express their 
views/ask questions during the meeting. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
21 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
19. In terms of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, Shri Ravi Kumar Arora 
(DIN: 09217881),Director (Non-Executive) retires by rotation at this AGM and being 
eligible, offers themselves for re-appointment. Detail of Director(s) seeking re-
appointment as required to be provided pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2), issued by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, is given in this Notice and  Brief profile 
of Directors  in this Annual Report; 
 
20. SEBI vide its circular dated 3rd  November, 2021, has reiterated that it is 
mandatory for all holders of physical securities to furnish their PAN as well as KYC 
to the RTA (Registrar and Share transfer Agent) of the Company in respect of all 
concerned folios and the folios wherein even any one of the PAN, Address with PIN 
Code, Email address, Mobile Number, Bank Account details, Specimen Signature 
and Nomination by holders of physical securities are not available on or after 1st 
April, 2023, shall be frozen by the RTA. SEBI has introduced Form ISR-1 along with 
other relevant forms to lodge any request for registering PAN, KYC details or any 
change/updation thereof. In terms of the aforesaid SEBI circular, effective from  
1st January 2022, any service requests or complaints received from the member 
shall not processed by RTA till the aforesaid details/ documents are provided to RTA. 
Members may also note that SEBI vide its circular dated 25th January, 2022 has 
mandated listed companies to issue securities in dematerialized form only while 
processing service requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim from 
unclaimed 
suspense 
account; 
renewal/exchange 
of 
securities 
certificate; 
endorsement; sub-division/splitting of securities certificate; consolidation of 
securities certificates/folios; transmission and transposition. In view of the same and 
to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and avail various benefits of 
dematerialisation, members are advised to dematerialize the shares held by them in 
physical form. Accordingly, members are requested to make service requests by 
submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR-4. 
 
Relevant details and forms prescribed by SEBI in this regard are available on the 
website of Company at www.hpil.co.in  for information and use by the Shareholders. 
You are requested to update your particulars timely. 
 
21. In case a holder of physical securities fails to furnish PAN, KYC details and 
Nomination by October 01, 2023, our RTA is obligated to freeze such folios. The 
securities in the frozen folios shall be eligible to receive payments (including 
dividend) and lodge grievances only after furnishing the complete documents. If the 
securities continue to remain frozen as on December 31, 2025, the RTA/the 
Company shall refer such securities to the administering authority under the 
Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988, and/or the Prevention of Money 
Laundering Act, 2002. 
 
22. Members are requested to note: 
 
a) Non-Resident Indian shareholder(s) are requested to inform their DP/RTA, 
immediately in respect  of change in their residential status on return to India 
for permanent settlement and particulars of  their bank account maintained 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
22 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
in India with complete name, branch, account type & number and  address of 
the Bank with PIN Code, if not furnished earlier; 
 
b) As per Section 72 of the Companies Act, 2013, Members, holding shares in 
physical form, may  avail the facility of nomination by making nomination in 
Form No. SH-13 as prescribed in the  
Companies 
(Central 
Government’s) 
General Rules and Forms, 2013. For cancellation or variation of  
Nomination 
Form SH-14 can be used. The Form SH-13/ SH- 14 duly filled in and 
completed in all  
respect is required to be submitted to the RTA. Blank 
nomination 
form(s) 
are 
available 
on 
the 
company’s 
website, 
i.e., 
https://www.hpil.co.in. In case of shares held in dematerialized form, the  
nomination/change of address has to be lodged with the respective DP’s; and 
 
c) To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised to exercise due 
diligence and notify the Company of any change in address or demise of any 
Member as soon as possible. Members are also  advised to not leave their 
demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statement of holdings should be 
obtained from the concerned DP and holdings should be verified from time to 
time. 
 
23. M/s TSR Consultants Private Limited are acting as the Registrar and  Transfer 
Agents (RTA) for carrying out the Company's entire share related  activities, i.e., 
Transmission/transposition/ dematerialization/  
Rematerialization/  split/ 
consolidation of shares, change of address, bank mandate, filing of nomination, and 
allied activities, etc.  Members are requested to make all future correspondence 
related to share and allied  activities, etc., with RTA at the following address: 
 
 
M/s TSR Consultants Private Limited, 
 
C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, 
 
Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
 
Mumbai – 400083  
 
Tel no: 91 22 6656 8484    
 
E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
Website: www.tcplindia.co.in 
 
24. The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding 
maintained under Section 170 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Register of Contracts 
or Arrangements in which the directors are interested maintained under Section 189 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the relevant documents referred to in the Notice will 
be available electronically for inspection by the Members during the AGM. 
 
25.The Scrutinizer shall, after the conclusion of the electronic voting during the 
AGM, assess the votes cast at the meeting through electronic voting system, 
thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting and make a consolidated 
Scrutinizer’s Report and submit the same to the Chairperson or a person authorized 
by him in writing and declare the result of the voting forthwith; 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
23 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
26 . The results of the voting indicating the number of votes cast in favour or against 
each of the Resolution(s), invalid votes and whether the Resolution(s) have been 
carried out or not, together with the Scrutinizer’s Report, will be uploaded on the 
website 
of 
the 
Company 
(www.hpil.co.in) 
and 
on 
NSDL 
website 
(www.evoting.nsdl.com) and will also be submitted to BSE Limited and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited within the prescribed time. Further, the 
resolution(s), if passed by shareholders, shall be deemed to be passed on the date of 
19th  AGM of Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
******* 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
24 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
 
Explanatory Statement Pursuant to Section 102 Of The Companies Act, 2013 : 
Nil 
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company is in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution. The Board 
recommends the resolution as set out in the notice for approval by the members 
through Ordinary  Resolution. 
  
BRIEF 
RESUME 
OF 
THE 
DIRECTORS 
SEEKING 
APPOINTMENT/RE-
APPOINTMENT AS REQUIRED BY REGULATION 36(3) OF THE SEBI (LISTING 
OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015  
 
 
Name 
Shri Ravi Kumar Arora  (DIN 09217881) 
Date of Birth 
24.09.1973 
Qualification 
Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of Gujarat cadre 
and joined the service in 2006, Masters Degree 
Date of Appointment 
28.06.2021 
Experience 
Shri Ravi Kumar Arora (IAS), Joint Secretary (Land & 
Estates) in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs 
(MoHUA), has been appointed as Director on the Board of 
Company w.e.f. 28.06.2021. Shri Arora is an Indian 
Administrative Service (IAS) officer of Gujarat cadre and 
joined the service in 2006. He had done his Masters’ 
Degree in Public Policy. In the State of Gujarat, he served 
important positions and was District Collector in 4 
Districts viz; Mahisagar, Navsari, Bharuch, Valsad. During 
his central deputation tenure, also served as PS to Hon’ble 
External Affairs Minister, Govt. of India. Shri Arora, as 
Joint Secretary in our Ministry, presently overseeing 
matters pertaining to L&DO, Dte. of Estates 
Expertise in Specific 
functional area· 
Land Matters, Administrations, Management 
Terms & Conditions 
As per the terms & Condition 
Determined by the President of India from time to time 
Remuneration 
sought to be paid 
 Nil 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
25 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
and last drawn 
No. of shares held in 
HPIL 
Nil 
Relationship 
with 
other 
Directors 
& 
KMP 
No inter se related to any Director of the Company 
Number of meetings 
of 
the 
Board 
attended during the 
FY 2022-23 
3 (Three)  
Directorship in other 
Companies 
 
NBCC (INDIA) Limited 
 
Noida Metro Rail Corporation Limited 
 
The Delhi Golf Club 
Membership/ 
Chairpersonship of 
Committee(s) of the 
other Companies. 
 
 
NBCC (INDIA) Limited 
     Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (Member)   
 
 
 
        For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
               Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
                                      Sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
 
                          Lubna 
(Company Secretary & Compliance officer) 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
26 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
Annexure to Notice 
Instructions for members for remote e-voting, attending the AGM through VC/OAVM 
and electronic voting during the AGM 
A. Instructions for remote e-voting system prior to the AGM 
The remote e-voting period begins on Sunday, September 24, 2023 (0900 hours) and 
ends on Tuesday, September 26, 2023 (1700 hours). The remote e-voting module 
shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. The members, whose names appear 
in the Register of Members/Beneficial Owners as on the record date (cut-off) date i.e. 
September 20, 2023, may cast their vote electronically. The voting right of 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their shareholding as on the said cut-off date. 
In order to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system, a two-step process needs to 
be followed as detailed under: 
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system 
A) Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for individuals holding 
shares in demat mode:- 
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-voting facility provided by 
listed entities, individual shareholders holding shares in demat mode are allowed to 
vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories / Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email 
address correctly in their demat accounts in order to access the e-voting facility. 
(i) Login method for individuals holding shares in demat mode is given below: 
Type 
of 
shareholders 
Login Method 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat 
mode 
with 
NSDL. 
1. Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of 
NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services 
home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under 
“Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section , this 
will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and 
Password. After successful authentication, you will be 
able to see e-Voting services under Value added 
services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting 
services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click 
on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the 
meeting. 
2. If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to 
register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.  
Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
27 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg
.jsp  
3. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser 
by 
typing 
the 
following 
URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-
Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” 
which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number 
hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL 
Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. 
Click on company name or e-Voting service provider 
i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.  
4. Shareholders/Members 
can 
also 
download 
NSDL 
Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR 
code mentioned below for seamless voting experience. 
 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat 
mode 
with 
CDSL 
1. Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, 
can login through their existing user id and password. 
Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page 
without any further authentication. The users to login 
Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New 
System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing my easi 
username & password. 
2. After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be 
able to see the e-Voting option for eligible companies 
where the evoting is in progress as per the information 
provided by company. On clicking the evoting option, 
the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-
Voting service provider for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also 
links provided to access the system of all e-Voting 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
28 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-
Voting service providers’ website directly. 
3. If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to 
register 
is 
available 
at 
CDSL 
website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System 
Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option. 
 
4. Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page 
by providing Demat Account Number and PAN No. from 
a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home 
page. The system will authenticate the user by sending 
OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the 
Demat Account. After successful authentication, user 
will be able to see the e-Voting option where the evoting 
is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers. 
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through 
their 
depository 
participants 
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat 
account through your Depository Participant registered with 
NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, you will be 
able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will 
be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you 
will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting. 
Note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use 
Forget User ID and Forget Password option available at abovementioned website 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for 
any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL. 
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can 
contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at  
evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 022 - 4886 7000 and 
022 - 2499 7000 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can 
contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll 
free no. 1800 22 55 33 
 
 
ii. Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other 
than 
Individual 
shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode 
and 
shareholders holding securities in physical mode. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
29 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
1. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
2. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” 
which is available under ‘Shareholders/ Member’ section.  
3. 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your 
Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. 
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to 
NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically. 
4. 
Your User ID details are given below : 
Manner 
of 
holding 
shares 
i.e. 
Demat 
(NSDL 
or 
CDSL) 
or 
Physical 
User ID  
a) For Members who 
hold shares in demat 
account with NSDL. 
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID 
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******. 
b) For Members who 
hold shares in demat 
account with CDSL. 
16 Digit Beneficiary ID 
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then 
your user ID is 12************** 
c) For Members holding 
shares 
in 
Physical 
Form. 
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with 
the company 
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 
then user ID is 101456001*** 
 
5. Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are 
given below: 
a) If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can use your existing password 
to login and cast your vote. 
b) If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve 
the ‘initial password’ which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial 
password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system will force you to 
change your password. 
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’? 
(i) If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your 
‘initial password’ is communicated to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to 
you from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and open the PDF file. The 
password to open the PDF file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits 
of client ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares held in physical form. The 
PDF file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
30 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
(ii) If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps as mentioned below in 
process  for those shareholders whose email ids are not registered. 
6) If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have 
forgotten your password: 
a) If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or CDSL, click on 
“Forgot User Details/Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
b) If you are holding shares in physical mode, click on “Physical User Reset Password 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
c) If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a 
request at evoting@nsdl. co.in mentioning your demat account number/folio 
number, PAN, Name and registered address. 
d) Members can also use OTP (One-Time Password) based login for casting the votes 
on the e-Voting system of NSDL. 
7) After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting 
on the check box. 
8) Now, you will have to click on “Login” button. 
9) After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open. 
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-
Voting system. 
1. 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies 
“EVEN” in which you are holding shares and whose voting cycle and General Meeting 
is in active status. 
2. 
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period and casting your vote during the General Meeting. For joining 
virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”. 
3. 
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens. 
4. 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, 
verify/modify the number of shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click on 
“Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted. 
5. 
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.  
6. 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print 
option on the confirmation page. 
7. 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to 
modify your vote. 
 
B. Instructions for members for attending the  AGM through VC/OAVM are as 
under: 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
31 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
 
1. Member will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM 
through the NSDL e-Voting system. Members may access the same at 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ under shareholders/members login by using the 
remote e-voting credentials. After successful login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM” 
placed under “Join meeting” menu against company name. The link for VC/OAVM 
will be available in shareholder/member login where the EVEN of Company will be 
displayed. Please note that the members who do not have the User ID and Password 
for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same by 
following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the Notice to avoid last 
minute rush. 
 
2. Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through laptops for better experience. 
 
3. Members will be required to allow camera and use Internet with a good speed to 
avoid any disturbance during the meeting. 
 
4. Please note that participants connecting from mobile devices or tablets or laptop 
connecting via mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to fluctuation in 
their respective network. It is therefore recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN 
Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches of such kind.  
 
5. Shareholders who would like to express their views/ask questions during the 
meeting may register themselves as a ‘Speaker’ and may send their request 
mentioning their name, demat account number/folio number, email id, mobile 
number at agm@hpil.co.in or info@hpil.co.in not later than 6 p.m, September 
20,2023. Those shareholders who have registered themselves as a Speaker, will only 
be allowed to express their views/ask questions during the meeting and the 
Company may limit the number of speaker shareholders. 
 
 
C. Instructions for members for voting through electronic voting system during 
the AGM 
 
1. Once discussion on all the items of Notice is completed in the Meeting, every 
Resolution will be put to vote through electronic voting system during the AGM. 
Corporate Members are requested to send a certified copy of the Board 
resolution/authorization 
letter 
to 
the 
Scrutinizer 
through 
e-mail 
at 
gr2advisory@gmail.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. 
 
2. The procedure for e-voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions 
mentioned above for remote e-voting. 
 
3. Only those members/shareholders, who will be present in the AGM through 
VC/OAVM facility and have not cast their vote on the resolutions through remote e-
voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through 
electronic voting system during the AGM. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
32 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
4. Members who have voted through Remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the 
AGM. However, they will not be eligible to vote during the AGM. 
 
5. The details of the person who may be contacted for any grievances connected with 
the facility for e-voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same persons, as 
mentioned above for Remote e-voting. 
 
D. Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not registered with the 
depositories for procuring user id and password and registration of e mail ids 
for e-voting for the resolutions set out in this notice: 
 
1. In case shares are held in physical mode please provide Folio No., Name of 
shareholder, scanned copy of the share certificate (front and back), PAN (self- 
attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar 
Card) by email to info@hpil.co.in.   
 
2. In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPIDCLID (16 digit DPID + 
CLID or 16 digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement,  PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested 
scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to info@hpil.co.in.  . If you are an Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to refer to the 
login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode. 
 
3. Alternatively, shareholder/members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.co.in for 
procuring user id and password for e-voting by providing above mentioned 
documents. 
 
4. In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by 
Listed Companies, Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are 
allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are required to update their mobile number 
and email ID correctly in their demat account in order to access e-Voting facility. 
 
General Guidelines for shareholders 
 
1. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required 
to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) who 
are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to gr2advisory@gmail.com with a 
copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than 
individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of 
Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority 
Letter” displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login. 
 
2. It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and 
take utmost care to keep your password confidential. Login to the e-voting website 
will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. In 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
33 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
NOTICE
such an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password” or 
“Physical User Reset Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset 
the password. 
 
3.In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for 
shareholders and e-Voting user manual for shareholders available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 
or send a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or contact Shri Amit Vishal, Senior Manager 
or Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Manager, National Securities Depository Limited, Trade World, 
‘A’ Wing, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai 
– 
400013, 
at 
the 
designated 
email 
IDs: 
evoting@nsdl.co.in 
or 
amitv@nsdl.co.in or pallavid@nsdl.co.in. Members may also write to the Company 
Secretary at the Company’s email address at info@hpil.co.in.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
****** 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 34 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOARD’S REPORT 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 35 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
 
Dear Members, 
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the 19th   Annual Report together with 
the Audited Financial Statements of your Company for the financial year ended on 
March 31, 2023. 
1. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 
1.1 Summary of performance 
The highlights of performance of your Company for the financial year 2022-23, with 
comparative position of previous year’s performance, were as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
₹ in lakhs 
Financial Results 
 Financial Year 2022-23 
( ₹) 
 Financial Year 2021-22 
( ₹) 
Revenue from operations 
200.20 
- 
Other income 
652.64 
315.98 
Total Income  
852.84 
315.98 
Expenses 
1653.85 
2179.84 
Net Profit/Loss (before tax)
 
 
(801.01) 
(1863.86) 
Current Tax 
- 
- 
Deferred Tax 
(153.70) 
(377.81) 
Net Profit/(Loss) after tax 
(647.31) 
-(1486.05) 
 
 
1.2 Financial performance & State of Affairs of the Company 
 
This year your Company recorded net loss of ₹647.31 lakhs as against the loss of ₹ 
1486.05 lakhs during the previous financial year. The Company is in loss due to 
steady  revenue generation in the Company. The detailed expenditures incurred 
during the year can be seen on the Financial statements annexed to this report. 
 
The Company  has initiated generation of activities for generation of income from 
available  resources. The Company has generated income from rentals in financial 
year 2022-23 is  ₹ 200.20 lakhs. 
 
 
The Company has initiated the activities for Pune Land parcel and approval with 
several Competent Authorities is pending for Chattarpur land. The Company is 
working to utilise the land parcel of  total 739.69 acres located in 4 states and 5 
locations in India.  
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 36 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3 Business Performance  
The objective of is to construct, acquire, hold, manage, develop, administer, protect, 
reserve and to deal in any other manner with properties, including sale and 
purchase thereof, whether such properties are in the nature of land or building 
(semi-constructed or fully constructed) or partially land and partially buildings, 
anywhere in India. The intent of incorporation of your Company is to transfer the 
surplus land of erstwhile Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited into your Company and 
develop these land under the objectives set out Memorandum of Association.  
 
Objects of our Company covers follows: 
1. 
To construct, acquire, hold, manage, develop, administer, protect, reserve and 
to deal in any other manner with properties, including sale and purchase 
thereof, whether such properties are in the nature of land or building (semi-
constructed or fully constructed) or partially land and partially buildings, any 
where in India and if permitted by applicable legislations, outside India as 
well. 
 
2. 
To collect and settle revenue, rental, lease charges and such other charges as 
may be payable by any entity against legitimate use of such properties by 
persons, companies, agencies and administrations for the services provided 
and to utilise the same for furtherance of activities of the Company. 
Site Visits
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 37 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
3. 
To carry out business of developing, holding, owing, leading or licensing real 
estate, consultancy in real estate and property of all kinds and for this 
purpose acquiring by purchase or through lease, license, barter, exchange, 
hire purchase or otherwise, land or other immovable property of any 
description or tenure or interest in immovable property.  
 
4. 
To carry out the business of building construction and development of 
commercial building, industrial shed, offices, houses, buildings, apartment, 
structures, hotels or other allied works of every description on any land 
acquired howsoever by the company, whether on ownership basis or as a 
lessee or licensee and to deal with such construction or developed or built 
premises by letting out, hiring or selling the same by way of outright sale, 
lease, license, usufructuary mortgage or other disposal of whole or part of 
such construction or development or built premises.  
 
The Company in pursuant to the order passed by National Company Law Tribunal 
and Ministry of Corporate Affairs in August, 2019 transferred with the 739.69 acres 
of land located in Delhi, Pune, Chennai and Kolkata. The Company  on the 
recommendations in Due Diligence report further advertised to ascertain the 
market demand of farmhouses in Chattarpur land parcel of 58 acres the 
application for approval of change in permissible land use pending with the 
Competent Authority. During the period under review, the company has updated 
its land records for Chattarpur land parcel with Municipal Corporation of Delhi.  
 
Further to generate revenue, the Company empanelled Real Estate Companies for 
providing Transaction Advisory Services to Company. The Company is floating 
Request for Proposal for engaging Transaction advisor in Pune Land parcel.  
 
HPIL during the year is receiving rental income from Tata Communications Limited, 
STT Global, Data Centre for using land in Pune for access. 
 
Further, there are two Building located in Pune, which are under renovation for 
realising  immediate rental incomes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company during the period under review completed the mutation for Pune 
Land Records and Chennai Land parcel. The stamp duty of ₹ 7.73 crores has been 
paid for Chennai land parcel and the updation in Land records is pending with 
Competent Authority of Padianullur, Chennai. 
 
 
         Infrastructure on Pune Land                       
Office Building on Pune land 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 38 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
The application for Kolkata mutation has been filed and is with concerned Block 
Land Records Office.  
 
The Company in May, 2022  conducted the valuation of land parcels of Company 
through Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, Registered Valuers. It is 
informed that the rate is as per the fair market value  based on various approved 
valuation approaches. The valuation is as under: 
S.No. 
Land 
Fair Value(₹ in crores) 
1 
Padianullar, Chennai 
417.16 
2 
Halisahar, Kolkata 
90.25 
3 
Dighi, Pune 
2,263.99 
4 
Greater Kailash, New Delhi 
7,101.94 
5 
Chattarpur, New Delhi 
728.63 
 
Total 
10,601.97 
 
2. TRANSFER TO RESERVES 
 
During the year under review, no amount has been transferred to General Reserve.  
 
3.  DIVIDEND 
 
Due to losses incurred by the company, the directors do not recommend any 
dividend payable to the shareholders for the year ended March 31, 2023. 
 
 
4. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
Capital Expenditure of ₹ 68.51 lakhs approx. was incurred during the year mainly 
on maintain the land. 
 
5. SHARE CAPITAL  
 
The authorized share capital of the Company was ₹ 100,000,000,000 (Rupees Ten 
Thousand Crores only) of ₹ 10/- (Rupees 10)each under which  9,000,000,000 
(Nine Hundred Crore) are Equity shares and 1,000,000,000 (One Hundred Crore) 
Preference shares as on March 31, 2023. 
 
During the year, there is no change in paid up Share Capital of Company which is 
₹ 415,00,00,000 (Rupees Four Hundred and Fifteen Crores only)  
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 39 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
The Company has  13 crore 0.01% Non-Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares 
of  ₹ 10 each to the  Promoter i.e President of India acting through Ministry of 
Housing & Urban affairs in Board meeting held on 17.05.2021 and 12.11.2021. 
 
The Listed Equity Paid up share capital of Company is ₹ 285,00,00,000 (Rupees 
Two Eighty Five Crores only) of 28,50,00,000 (Twenty Crore Fifty Lakhs only) 
equity shares of ₹ 10/- (Rupees 10) 
 
There is no other change in the authorized, issued, subscribed and paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company during the year.  Further, the Company has not 
issued any shares with differential voting right/ Sweat Equity Shares during the 
year underreport. 
 
6. LISTING OF SHARES AND PAYMENT OF LISTING FEE 
 
The Company has paid annual listing fee for the financial year 2023-24 in respect 
of its equity shares listed at BSE Limited(BSE) and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (NSE). 
 
7. TRANSFER OF UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND AND SHARES TO INVESTOR 
EDUCATION & PROTECTION FUND 
 
As equity shares of the Company were got listed in October 2020, in compliance of 
the provisions of Section 124 and125 of the Companies Act, 2013, Company is not 
required to transfer any amount of dividend remained unpaid or unclaimed to 
Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF), as a period of 7 years has not elapsed 
from the date it became due for payment. Accordingly, no shares were required to 
be transferred to IEPF account. 
 
However, the Company allotted shares to IEPF account as per the Scheme of 
Arrangement and Reconstruction. 
 
8. CONTRIBUTION TO NATIONAL EXCHEQUER 
 
 During the financial year 2022-23, the Company contributed an amount of ₹ 25.99 
lakhs to the National Exchequer, which included ₹ 17.60 lakhs towards direct taxes 
and ₹8.39 lakhs towards GST. In the previous financial year, the total contribution 
to the National Exchequer was ₹ 39.27 lakhs. 
 
9. DEPOSITS 
During the year under review, your Company has not accepted any deposit within 
the meaning of Sections 73 and 74 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the 
Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014. 
 
10.CHANGE IN NAME OF THE COMPANY 
 
During the year under review, there was no change in the name of the Company. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 40 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
11.CHANGE IN THE NATURE OF BUSINESS 
 
During the year under review, there was no change in the nature of business of 
the Company. 
 
 
12.  MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT IF ANY AFFECTING THE 
FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY OCCURRED BETWEEN THE END OF 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO WHICH THIS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATE 
AND THE DATE OF THE REPORT 
 
There have been no material changes and commitments, which affects the financial 
position of the Company, that have occurred between the end of the financial year 
to which the financial statements relates and the date of the report. 
 
The Company received loan of ₹ 10 crore (Rupees Ten crore only)  in Financial Year 
2021-22 from the Government of India (GoI) at the suggested rate of interest by the 
GoI and  other terms & conditions.  
 Besides abovementioned points, there is no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company occurred between the end of the 
financial year to which the financial statements relate and as on the date of this 
report. 
 
13. SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR 
COURTS OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE GOING CONCERN STATUS AND 
COMPANY’S OPERATIONS IN FUTURE 
During period under review, there was not any significant and material orders 
passed by the regulators/courts/ Tribunal. 
 
 
14. DISINVESTMENT BY GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
 
There was not any disinvestment by the Government of India (GOI) in the company 
during the financial year 2022-23.The President of India through Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs is  holding as on March 31, 2023 was 14,56,96,885 equity 
shares i.e. 51.12% of total paid up equity share capital of the Company. 
 
15. PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVE(S) 
 
No Presidential Directives issued by Govt. were received by HPIL during the last 
three years. 
 
 
16.MANAGEMENT EXPLANATION ON STATUTORY AUDITOR’S REPORT 
The Statutory Auditors have audited the standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year 2022-23 and have given their report without any 
qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer. However, they have drawn 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 41 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
attention to certain matters under "Emphasis of Matters" which is reported in 
Auditors’ Report and forming part of this report. 
17.  ANNUAL RETURN 
 
In term of provision of Companies Act, 2013 as amended, the return is available on 
website of Company on https://www.hpil.co.in/annual-report/. 
 
18. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT 
 
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report (MDAR) as required under 
Regulation 34 read with Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘LODR’) for 
the year under review, is presented in a separate section, forming part of the 
Annual Report as Annexure I. 
 
19. DETAILS OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATE 
COMPANIES 
 
The Company does not have any Subsidiary/ Joint Venture/Associate Company 
hence details of financial performance of Subsidiary/ Joint Venture/Associate 
Company is not required to be attached to this report. 
20. DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL 
 
i. During period under review, the Company as on March 31, 2023, has 7 Directors 
and following is the detail of the Board of Directors: 
 
The Strength of Board of Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2023 was 7 
(Seven) Directors comprising of 5 (Executive & Non-Executive Director) and 2 Non-
Executive Independent Directors. 
In terms of provisions under SEBI Regulations and DPE guidelines, HPIL being a 
listed Company and having an executive Chairman, 50% of its Board of Directors 
should comprise of independent directors, however, the Company was not having 
S. 
No 
Name 
DIN 
Appointments 
Cessation 
1. Smt D Thara 
01911714 
18.11.2019 
 
2. Smt.Priya Mahadevn 
08026476 
14.06.2021 
18.04.2022 
3. Shri Rajeev Kumar Das 
07730466 
14.06.2021 
- 
4. Shri Ravi Kumar Arora 
09217881 
28.06.2021 
- 
5. Shri Suvasish Das 
09826037 
15.12.2022 
 
6. Dr.Madhu Rani Teotia 
09352906 
12.10.2021 
15.12.2022 
7. Dr.Sunita Chandra 
09415680 
29.11.2021 
- 
8. Shri G R Kanakavidu 
09471091 
20.01.2022 
- 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 42 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
requisite number of these directors during the year. The Secretarial Auditor has 
also given observations in this respect in their report. In this respect, as Directors 
on the Board are appointed by Government, HPIL had regularly requested Ministry 
of Housing & Urban Affairs for appointment of requisite number of independent 
directors/independent woman director to comply with the applicable requirements 
under SEBI (LODR) Regulations, DPE Guidelines and Companies Act and the same 
was also informed to Stock Exchanges. 
The Company conducts  session for the Directors to keep them abreast of the latest 
insights into the industry and also share the future strategy. The session was very 
insightful and the Board reciprocated with key insights of future goals. 
None of the Company’s directors are disqualified from being appointed as a director 
as specified in Section 164 of the Act. For details about the directors, please refer to 
the Corporate Governance Report. 
 
ii. Details of Key Managerial Personnel 
The following are the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company for the financial 
year 2022-23 are: 
 
 
Ms. D Thara , 
 
 
Chairperson & Managing Director 
 
Sh. Bhavesh Singla    
 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
Ms Lubna                   
 
Company Secretary 
 
iii  Independent Directors 
The Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs vide its order dated 29.11.2021 & 
20.01.2022 appointed Dr.Sunita Chandra (DIN 09415680 ) & Shri G R Kanakavidu 
(DIN : 09471091) as Independent Director on the Board of Company. 
 
iv. Retirement of Directors by Rotation: 
 
As per the Companies Act, 2013 the provisions in respect of retirement of Directors 
by rotation will not be applicable to Independent Directors and as per Articles of 
Association of Company, the Chairman also not liable to retire by rotation, in view 
of this, Independent Director & CMD is not  considered to be retiring by rotation 
but all other directors will be retiring by rotation. Accordingly, one third among all 
other directors  are liable to retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves 
for reappointment . Shri Ravi Kumar Arora shall be eligible to retire by rotation and 
offers to re-appoint. 
 
 
21. DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS AND MEETING OF 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act and Regulation 25(8) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI 
Listing Regulations’), the Independent Directors have submitted declarations that 
each of them fulfill the criteria of independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the  
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 43 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
Act along with the rules framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. There has been no change in the circumstances affecting their 
status as Independent Directors of the Company. In the opinion of the Board, the 
Independent Directors are competent, experienced, proficient and possess 
necessary expertise and integrity to discharge their duties and functions as 
Independent Directors. 
 
All Independent Directors of your Company have confirmed that they meet the 
criteria of Independence as prescribed under both the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Independent Directors have also confirmed that 
they have complied with the “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board 
Members and Senior Management” of the Company. A Separate Meeting of 
Independent Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 was held on 10 February, 2023 and all the Independent Directors were 
present. 
 
22. RETIRING DIRECTOR(S) AND SEEKING APPOINTMENT REAPPOINTMENT 
AT THE AGM 
 
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of 
Association of the Company, Shri Ravi Kumar Arora, Director  shall retire by 
rotation at the ensuing 19th  AGM of the Company and being eligible, offers himself 
for re-appointment. Brief resume and other particulars of Shri Ravi Kumar Arora, 
Director  is  annexed to the Notice of AGM forming part of this Annual Report. 
 
 
23. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. 
 
The Listing Regulations mandates the inclusion of the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report part of the Annual Report for the top 1000 listed entities 
based on market capitalization. A detailed report of BRSL is annexed forming part of 
this Annual Report as Annexure II. 
 
24. NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
 
Meetings of the Board were held 6 (Six) times during the financial year 2022-23 For 
further details of the number and dates of meetings of the Board thereof held 
during the financial year 2022-23 indicating the number of meetings attended by  
each Director, please refer to the Report on Corporate Governance  as which forms 
part of this Report. 
 
25. EVALUATION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS/INDEPENDENTDIRECTORS 
 
As per the statutory provisions, a listed company is required to disclose in its 
Board’s Report, a statement indicating the manner in which formal annual 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 44 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual 
Directors has been made and the criteria for performance evaluation of its 
Independent Directors, as laid down by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee. 
 
However, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide its notification dated June 5, 2015 
has, inter alia, exempted Government companies from the above requirement, in 
case the Directors are evaluated by the Ministry or Department of the Central 
Government which is administratively in charge of the company, as per its own 
evaluation methodology. Further, MCA vide notification dated July 5, 2017, also 
prescribed that the provisions relating to review of performance of Independent 
Directors and evaluation mechanism prescribed in Schedule IV of the Companies 
Act, 2013, is not applicable to Government companies. 
 
Accordingly, Further, in line with above exemptions, Sub-Sections (2), (3) & (4) of 
Sec. 178 regarding appointment, performance evaluation and remuneration shall 
not apply to Directors of Government Companies, the Company is inter-alia 
exempted in terms of the above notifications, as the evaluation of performance of all 
members of the Board of the Company is being done by the Administrative 
Ministry. 
 
26. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 
 
During the period under review, the Company has following Committee(s) of the 
Board of Directors, which were reconstituted from time to time to comply with the 
applicable provisions : 
i. 
Audit Committee 
ii. 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee. 
iii. 
Stakeholder & Relationship Committee. 
iv. 
Risk Management Committee 
 
The Details of Committee, the Constitution and composition of Committees 
applicable as per Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (LODR) 2015.Please refer to the 
Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of this Report. 
 
27.     VIGIL MECHANISM/WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY 
 
The Company has in place a “Whistle Blower Policy”, in compliance of the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI LODR Regulations and DPE 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance. The Whistle Blower Policy enables and 
ensures transparency in functioning of Company and it enables the employee to 
bring notice of such incidents and activities those are the violation of any policies of 
Company. It also provides safety for the protection to the complainant from 
victimization for whistling any violations and malpractices in the Company. This 
vigil mechanism enables the employees and Directors of Company to raise the 
concern where there is reason to believe that there has been serious malpractice, 
fraud, impropriety, abuse or wrong doing within the Company. The policy on 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 45 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
Whistle Blower Policy can be accessed at website of the Company on 
www.hpil.co.in.  
 
28.    CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) & SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
The provisions of Companies Act, 2013 for Corporate Social Responsibility are not 
applicable on the Company and accordingly policies and initiatives are not 
applicable. 
 
29.  INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS AND THEIR ADEQUACY WITH 
REFERENCE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
Your Company has adequate Internal Financial Controls (IFC) system for ensuring, 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, adherence with the laid down 
policies ,procedures, safeguard of assets of the Company, prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records and 
the timely preparation of reliable financial information commensurate with the 
operations of the Company.  
 
Your Company is committed to ensure that its operations are carried out within a 
well-defined internal control framework, good governance, robust systems and 
processes, a vigilant finance function and an independent Internal Audit function 
are the foundations of the internal control systems.  
 
The Company has in place adequate internal financial control with reference to 
financial statements. 
The Internal Financial Controls of the Company were reviewed by Internal Auditors 
appointed. According to them, the Company has, in all material respects, laid down 
internal financial controls (including operational controls) and that such controls 
are adequate and operating effectively during the year ended 31st   March, 2023. 
 
 
30.  CONSERVATION OF ENERGY,TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO 
During period under review, there are no significant particulars, relating to 
conservation of energy and technology absorption as your Company does not own 
any manufacturing unit/ facility, however energy  conscious organization, has 
taken various initiatives in the direction of energy conservation on a continuous 
basis. Further, the Company has neither absorbed any technology indigenous/ 
imported, during the year, nor imported any technology during the last three years.  
The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of The Companies (Accounts)Rules, 2014, is given in 
Annexure -IV to this report. 
31.  
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 46 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
The Company has not made any investment, given guarantee and securities during 
the year under review. Therefore, the relevant section 186 of Companies Act, 2013 
is not applicable during period under review.  
 
 
32. 
CONTRACTS AND ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES 
During the year under review, the Company have entered with the related party on 
arm length basis and in ordinary course of business. The details of which are 
mentioned in the financial statement of the Company forming part of this report. 
The policy on materiality of related party transactions is available on the 
Company’s website, at the www.hpil.co.in. 
All related party transactions that were entered into during the financial year ended 
31st March, 2023 were on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of 
business. The Company obtained approval of shareholders on all the material 
related party transactions in accordance to SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 , 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder to the extent applicable. The 
disclosure of transactions with related party for the year, as per IND Accounting 
Standard-24 Related Party Disclosures is mentioned in notes of Financial 
Statements  as on 31st  March, 2023. The particulars of Related Party Transactions 
required to be disclosed in Form AOC-2 for the financial year 2022-23 is annexed 
to this Report. 
 
33. RISK MANAGEMENT 
 
The Company identified that it is exposed to various unseen risks and 
uncertainties which are built-in for Realty estate Companies. The Company has 
risk management committee to identify the external and internal risks which may 
impact the day to day and future objectives of Company. 
 
Risk management forms an integral part of the business planning and review cycle. 
The Company’s risk management initiatives are designed to overview the main 
risks known to your Company, which could hinder it in achieving its strategic and 
financial business objectives. The objectives are met by integrating management 
control into the daily operations, by ensuring compliance with legal requirements 
and by safeguarding the integrity of the Company’s financial reporting and its 
related disclosures like businesses, objectives, revenues, income, assets, liquidity 
or capital resources. The risk factors are specified   in Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report annexed with the Annual report. 
34. DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
 
As required under Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, your Directors, to 
the best of their knowledge confirm that:- 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 47 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
(i) 
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting 
standards have  
been followed along with proper explanation relating to 
material departures; 
(ii) 
The directors have selected such accounting policies and applied them 
consistently  and made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent so as to give a  
true  and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
company at the end of the financial year  and  of the  profit and loss of the 
company for that period; 
(iii) The directors have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of    
adequate  
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act for safeguarding the  
assets of the company and for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities; 
(iv) 
The directors have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis;  
(v) 
The directors have laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the 
 
company and that such internal financial controls are adequate and were                 
operating  effectively. 
(vi) 
The directors have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the 
provisions  
of all applicable laws and that such systems were adequate and 
operating effectively. 
 
35.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
The Company has taken several initiatives towards Corporate Governance & its 
practices are appreciated by various stakeholders and believes in the principle that 
Corporate Governance establishes a positive organizational culture and it is evident 
by responsibility, accountability, consistency, fairness and transparency towards 
its stakeholders. As required under SEBI Listing Regulations and DPE guidelines 
on Corporate Governance, a separate report on Corporate Governance practices 
followed by the Company forms part of this Report at Annexure-III. 
A Practicing Company Secretary has examined and certified your Company's 
compliance with respect to conditions enumerated in SEBI (LODR) Regulations and 
DPE guidelines on Corporate Governance. The certificate required in DPE 
guidelines and SEBI (LODR) Regulations forms part of this Report. 
 
As a responsible corporate citizen and to reduce carbon foot print, your Company 
has actively supported the implementation of ‘Green Initiative’. Electronic delivery 
of notice of Postal Ballot, notice of Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Annual 
Report along with other communications is being done to those shareholders whose 
email ids are already registered with the respective. 
Unless otherwise desired by the shareholders, the Company sends all documents to 
the shareholders viz. Notice, Audited Financial Statements, Directors’ and Auditors’ 
Report, etc. in electronic form to their registered e-mail addresses. In respect of 
financial year 2022-23, in terms of exemption granted by MCA vide General 
Circular No. 02/2022, dated 05.05.2022 read with General Circular No. 02/2021 
dated 13th January, 2021, General Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020; 
General Circular No. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020 and General Circular No. 
17/2020 
dated13th 
April, 
2020 
and 
by 
SEBI 
Circular 
no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated 
12th 
May, 
2020, 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 48 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 
dated 
15th 
January, 
2021 
and 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th May, 2022, Annual Reports are 
being circulated among the members whose email IDs are available with the 
Company through electronic mode. Accordingly, no physical copies of the Annual 
Reports are being circulated among the members of the Company. 
 
36. AUDITORS 
 
Statutory Auditors 
 
The Comptroller and Auditor General of India under Companies Act 2013, 
appointed 2022-23, M/s Dhruv Aggarwal& Co LLP (FRN N500365/ 005469N) 
,Statutory Auditors of your Company for the financial year 2022-23 by the 
Comptroller & Auditor General (C&AG) of India. The Statutory Auditors have 
audited the Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023. 
Further, the Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2022-23, M/s Dhruv 
Aggarwal & Co LLP is appointed by the Comptroller & Auditor General (C&AG) of 
India. Approval of the Members of the Company will be obtained in ensuing Annual 
General Meeting, to authorize the Board of Directors of the Company, to fix the 
remuneration of Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2022-23, as may be 
appointed by C&AG. 
The notes on the financial statements referred to in the Auditors’ Report are self-
explanatory and do not call for any further comments.  
 
Reporting of frauds by Auditors 
 
During the year under review, no fraud has been reported by the Auditors under 
section 143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 13 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Amendment Rules, 2015   
 
 
Cost Auditors 
 
The Cost audit of the Company has not been conducted for the financial year 2021 
-22 as provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable on 
the Company. 
 
Secretarial Auditors 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and The 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
the Company has appointed M/s Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates, a firm of 
Company Secretaries in Practice to undertake the Secretarial Audit of the 
Company. The Secretarial Audit Report from the auditor is annexed as to this 
report. 
The Secretarial Auditor as well as the Auditor who has given Corporate Governance 
Compliance certificate had given observations in their report regarding matters 
during the year related to board composition, not having adequate number of 
independent directors and non compliance with Regulation 25 (10) SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015. 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 49 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
 
37. MANAGEMENT’S COMMENTS ON THE AUDITORS’ REPORT 
 
The management’s reply to the observations of the Secretarial Auditors is as under: 
 
Observation of Secretarial Auditors 
Management’s Reply 
1. Half of the board of directors of 
the 
company 
was 
not 
independent 
including 
one 
women independent director as 
required under Regulation 17(1) 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015 and para 3.1.4 of DPE 
Guidelines 
on 
Corporate 
Governance 
with 
regard 
to 
Composition of the Board of 
Directors. 
2. The company has not taken 
D&O 
insurance 
for 
the 
Independent Directors appointed 
on the Board of the Company as 
required 
under 
Regulation 
25(10) 
of 
SEBI 
(LODR) 
Regulations, 2015. 
 
HPIL is a Government Company 
and the power to appoint Directors on 
the Board of the Company vests with 
the President of India, acting through 
the Administrative Ministry, i.e., the 
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, 
Government 
of 
India 
and 
the 
Company 
has 
no 
role 
in 
the 
appointment 
of 
Directors 
on 
its 
Board. 
The 
Company 
has 
been 
requesting & following up with the 
Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, 
Government of India, for appointment 
of requisite number of Independent 
Director on its Board. 
Accordingly as on March 31, 
2023, 
the 
composition 
of 
Board  
which require presence of at least half 
of 
the 
strength 
of 
Independent 
Directors, was not in conformity with 
the applicable statutory provisions. 
The 
Company 
will 
be 
in 
due 
compliance 
with 
the 
applicable 
provisions of SEBI (LODR) 2015, on 
appointment 
of 
3 
Independent 
Directors on the Board of  Company. 
 
The Company is considering to 
comply  with the Regulation 25 (10) of 
SEBI Listing  Regulations, 2015 and 
it is assured that the same shall be 
adhered. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 50 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
38. COMMENTS OF COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA (CAG) 
 
The Comptroller & Auditor General (C&AG) of India, vide letter(s) dated August 03, 
2023 have given ‘NIL’ comments on the Audited Financial Statements of the 
Company for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2023 under Section 143(6)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013. 
The comments of C&AG for the financial year 2022-23 have been placed along with 
the report of Statutory Auditors of the Company in this Annual Report 
 
 
39. CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT & DECLARATION BY THE CHAIRPERSON & 
MANAGING DIRECTOR (CMD) 
To comply with the requirements of Regulation 17(5) of the Listing Regulation, the 
Company has adopted Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel (“the Code”). All Board members and senior management 
personnel have confirmed compliance with the Code for the year 2022-23.  
The code requires directors and employees to act honestly, fairly, ethically and with 
integrity, conduct themselves in professional, courteous and respectful manner. 
The code is displayed on the Company’s website www.hpil.co.in. A declaration by 
CMD on compliance of the “Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics for Board 
Members and Senior Management” for the year 2022-23 is placed as Annexure to 
Corporate Governance Report. 
 
40. CEO/CFO CERTIFICATION 
 
As required by Regulation 17 (8) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the 
Compliance Certificate as specified in Part B of Schedule II of the said Regulation 
duly signed by  Sh. Bhavesh Singla, CFO was placed before the Board of Directors. 
The same is enclosed as Annexure of Corporate Governance Report. 
 
41. GREEN INITIATIVE  
 
The Companies Act, 2013 permits companies to send documents like Notice of 
Annual General Meeting, Annual Report etc. through electronic means to its 
members at their registered email addresses. As a responsible corporate citizen, the 
Company has actively supported the implementation of ‘Green Initiative’ of the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) and effected electronic delivery of Notices and 
Annual Reports to shareholders, whose email ids are registered. 
Further, pursuant to Section 108 of the Companies Act,2013 read with Rule 20 of 
the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, the Company is providing e-voting facility to all 
members to enable them to cast their votes electronically in respect of resolutions 
set forth in the Notice of Annual General Meeting (AGM). The Company will also be 
conducting the AGM this year through videoconferencing / other audio-visual 
means. Members can refer to the detailed instructions for e-voting and electronic 
participation in the AGM, as provided in the Notice of AGM. Members, who have 
not registered their e-mail addresses so far, are requested to register their e-mail 
addresses with the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (R&TA) of the Company or 
their respective Depository Participant (DP) and take part in the green initiative of 
Company. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 51 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
 
41. PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL AGAINST HARASSMENT OF 
WOMEN EMPLOYMENT 
 
As per the requirement of The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition &Redressal) Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and rules made there under. 
The Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) do not applicable on your company. 
However, the Company would take every complaint seriously and there are no 
complaints on sexual harassment at workplace received during the period under 
review. 
42. RIGHT TO INFORMATION  
Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005 has empowered the Indian citizen to access 
information from public authorities, resulting in transparency and accountability to 
the working of the authorities. Your Company has appropriate mechanism to 
provide information to citizens under the provisions of Right to Information (RTI) 
Act, 2005. 
The status of RTI received during the year is as follows: 
RTI Application 
Received 
Rejected 
Information 
provided 
Returned 
to 
Applicant 
Pending 
Pending 
Applications 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
 
43. HUMAN RESOURCE 
 
 As on date the Company has 5 (five) full time employee engaged on contractual 
basis. 
Further the Company being a Central Government Public Sector Undertaking 
needs to observe/ have Reservation policy for engagement or appointment of 
employees in the Company. However, the Company as on date does not have any 
permanent employees and in future the reservation policy for various categories 
such as SC/ST/OBC/ PwDs/ Ex-servicemen shall be duly followed. 
 
44. OTHER DISCLOSURES 
i. 
There was no change in the nature of business of the Company during the 
financial year 2022-23. 
 
ii. 
The Company has not accepted any public deposits during the financial year 
2022-23 
 
iii. 
Information on composition, terms of reference and number of meetings of 
the Board and its Committees held during the year, establishment of Vigil 
Mechanism/Whistle 
Blower Policy and 
web-links 
for 
familiarization 
programmes of Directors, Policy on Materiality ofRelated Party Transactions 
and Dealing with Related Party Transactions, Policy for determining Material 
Subsidiaries, compensation to Key Managerial Personnel, sitting fees to 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 52 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
Directors etc. have been provided in the ‘Report on Corporate Governance’, 
prepared in compliance with the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations & 
Disclosure Requirements)Regulations, 2015 and DPE Guidelines on 
Corporate Governance, 2010, as amended from time to time, which forms 
part of this Annual Report. 
 
iv. 
The Company has not bought back any of its securities during the year 
under review. 
v. 
The Company has not issued any sweat equity shares during the year under 
review. 
vi. 
No bonus shares were issued during the year under review. 
vii. 
The Company has not provided any stock option scheme to the employees. 
viii. 
Insolvency And Bankruptcy Code, 2016 : No application has been made 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code; hence the requirement to 
disclose the details of application made or any proceeding pending under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during the year along with their 
status as at the end of the financial year is not applicable 
ix. 
Compliance with Secretarial Standards: The Company adhered to the 
provisions of applicable Secretarial Standards I & II during the financial year 
2022-23 
x. 
The provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act,2013 and Rules made 
thereunder relating to managerial remuneration are not applicable to 
Government companies, therefore no disclosure is required to be made. 
xi. 
During the year under review, the statutory auditors/secretarial auditors 
have not reported to the Audit Committee, any instances of fraud committed 
against the Company by its officers or employees. 
xii. 
The Independent Directors of the Company are nominated/appointed by the 
President of India acting through the Administrative Ministry. Accordingly, 
the appointing authority considers the integrity, expertise and experience of 
the individual to be nominated/appointed. In the opinion of the Board, the 
Independent Directors appointed during the year, are persons of integrity 
and possess the relevant  expertise, proficiency and experience to contribute 
effectively to the Company. Further, during the year,  all 
the 
Independent 
Directors have met the requirements specified under Section 149(6) of the 
 
Companies 
Act, 
2013 
and 
necessary 
declaration 
from 
each 
Independent Director was also received as required. 
 
xiii.  
Statutory and Other Information Requirements 
Information required to be furnished as per the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI 
(Listing  
Obligations & 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 and other applicable statutory  
provisions is annexed to this report. 
 
45. ANNEXURES TO BOARD’S REPORT 
 
In terms of the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and other applicable statutory provisions, separate sections 
containing Management Discussion & Analysis Report, Report on Corporate 
Governance, Business Responsibility &Sustainability Report, are enclosed to this 
Board’s Report. Various statutory reports, information, certificates etc., in terms of 
the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (Listing Obligations &Disclosure Requirements)  
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 53 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
BOARD REPORT 
 
Regulations, 2015, DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance for CPSEs, 2010 and 
other applicable statutory provisions, are enclosed to the Board’s Report 
  
46 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Your Directors also acknowledges gratefully the shareholders for their support and 
confidence reposed on your Company. The Directors hereby wish to place on record 
their appreciation of the efficient and loyal services rendered by each and every 
employee, 
without 
whose 
whole-hearted 
efforts, 
the 
overall 
satisfactory 
performance would not have been possible. We thank the Government of India, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and 
Customs, GST authorities, the Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI), our banker & advisors etc. and look forward to their 
continued support. Your Directors look forward to the long term future with 
confidence. 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Chairman, Managing Director 
(DIN: 01911714) 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
54 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Annexure-I to the Board’s Report 
 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 
1.Economy & Industry Outlook 
i. Global Economy  
The world is becoming normal after 2 year of COVID outbreak, the global economy is 
gaining momentum but yet uncertain due to rising inflation, aggressive monetary 
policy by the Central bank.Global real GDP is forecasted to grow by 2.7 percent in 
2023, down from 3.3 percent in 2022. We expect further slowing to 2.4 percent in 
2024. Economic growth is moderating under the weight of still high inflation and 
monetary policy tightening. Rather than a global recession, we expect a relatively 
subdued economic outlook. Growth is generally strongest in emerging Asian 
economies, and weakest in Europe and the US.Rapid monetary policy tightening over 
the last year or so led to weakening in global housing, bank lending, and the 
industrial sector. However, this weakness has been more than offset by strength in 
other sectors, most notably service-sector activities, which is visible in labor 
markets. Strong consumer spending and the fading impact of shocks of recent years 
have been difficult to assess, leading to ongoing forecast revisions. Nonetheless, 
recent data  point to moderation of these positive trends, leading to slower global 
growth in the second half of 2023 and early 2024. 
 The rise in central bank rates to fight inflation and Russia’s war in Ukraine continue 
to weigh on economic activity. The estimates of International Monetary Fund(IMF), 
the global growth should bottom out at 2.8percent this year and expected to rise to 3 
percent in2024. Further, slowdown is concentrated in advanced economies especially 
United Kingdom and the Euro area, whereas Emerging and Developing countries are 
already showing signs of recovery and are expected to grow faster. 
 
ii. Indian Economy 
During 2022-23, India was one of the fastest growing economies amidst a slowing 
global economy. Inflationary trends, both globally and in India, caused central banks 
to raise policy rates which had some impact on businesses during the period.The 
Indian economy’s growth slowed to 7.2% in the financial year 2022-23, as compared 
to a 9.1% rise in the previous fiscal year, official data. The gross domestic product 
(GDP) grew 6.1% in the fourth quarter of 2022-23 and that led to a rise in the annual 
GDP growth rate, data showed 
Rising borrowing costs and slower income growth are weighing on private 
consumption growth, and government consumption is projected to grow at a slower 
pace due to the withdrawal of pandemic-related fiscal support measures. Despite 
this, India will remain one of the fastest growing economies in a challenging global 
environment. 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
55 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
After two years affected by COVID, Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities have arisen as fresh major 
real estate trends in 2022, and the real estate market has set unprecedented 
benchmarks which continued its growth momentum from 2021 amid the global 
slowdown. The real estate market in India had impressive progress in 2022, setting 
new sales records of 68% YoY (approx.), further demonstrating the industry's 
prominence as one of India's fastest-growing industries.Further, the rising star, the 
co-working industry, has successfully adapted to changing work requirements and 
will continue to service the needs of young growing India. The co-working sector in 
India is expected to cross 50 million sqft by the end of the year 2023 which would be 
a YOY 15% increase. Managed Office spaces shall continue growing at 10% in 2023. 
According to a recent JLL report, the net absorption of office space in 2022 across 
the top seven cities (Mumbai, Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata 
and Pune) has been 38.25 million sqft,) 
In FY 2022-23,the real estate sector has welcomed the Reserve Bank of India’s 
(RBI’s) decision to keep the key policy rate unchanged. The home loan rates have 
been hovering around 9%, following the central bank’s six consecutive rate hikes 
totalling 
250 
basis 
points 
since 
May 
last 
year. 
The RBI MPC (Monetary Policy Committee) decision to keep a pause on rate hike is 
positive for the housing market as it reduces the uncertainty and volatility associated 
with interest rate fluctuations. The home loan interest rates have gone up from 6.5% 
to around 8.75% with a series of rate hikes in the past and the move to pause will 
give a temporary reprieve and support the existing growth momentum in the real 
estate sector. Loans which form about 70% of asset book of banks in India are 
largely floating in nature. Also, the base interest rates in India are higher than global 
peers, making the sensitivity of investments to mark-to-market losses relatively 
lower.The union budget presented this year wasvery supportive of the long-term 
growth of the real estate sector in India through its focus on urban infrastructure 
andthe digital economy. 
The demand and supply dynamics would evolve and change. On the brighter side, 
the real estate sector has been quick to respond to changes and adapt to new 
technologies; this is apparent that due to digitalization there is and will be major 
shift in investment preferences that will continue to outlive the pandemic. 
iii. Real Estate Trend in India 
The Real estate market is resilient which is evident in the past years, the residential 
segment witnessed strong performance, commercial office sector continues to remain 
sluggish with demand not yet reaching the pre-pandemic levels. Real estate is 
expected to act as an investment vehicle, and assets will thus be created for 
investment and money-making. Traditionally touted as an investment, both buying a 
home for personal use and securing one solely for investment are two different asset 
classes in the real estate industry. As the industry matures, certain assets like 
commercial real estate, which drives income for investors, have taken over 
residential real estate as the primary destination for investors. In contrast, the latter 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
56 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
is now being reserved for private use only.India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) 
predicts that India's housing market will continue to grow in the current financial 
year 2023-24, with sales expected to increase by 9 per cent compared to the previous 
year. The growth is supported by a steady and healthy demand, although factors 
such as a potential global recession and inflation may slightly dampen the demand 
soon. However, the market is expected to withstand any pressure due to supply 
consolidation and improved affordability compared to historical standards.  
The demand growth in the housing market will be uneven, with top-tier players likely 
to see sales growth of about 15 per cent-18 per cent in 2023-24 and enjoy better 
liquidity than lower-tier players. Homebuyers are becoming more cautious of under-
construction projects, leading to a formalisation of the sector, with top-tier and 
strong local players gaining market share and customer preference.  
According to data from LiasesForas, residential sales in the top eight cities in India, 
including Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, NCR, Pune, Ahmedabad, and 
Kolkata, increased by 18 per cent in 2022-23, reaching 392 million square feet. This 
growth was driven by consistent and healthy demand, as well as renewed interest 
and improved perceptions from homebuyers following the pandemic. 
  
Residential Real Estate  
 
India’s residential property market witnessed a record-breaking year in FY23, 
with the value of home sales reaching an all-time high of ₹3.47 lakh crore , 
marking a robust 48% year-on-year increase, Anarock Property Consultants. 
Year 2023 was a milestone year for the Indian Real estate sector with all-time 
high sales. The sector showed healthy growth on the back of a high base 
achieved in fiscal 2022. 
 
The demand pick-up seen in the second half of fiscal 2021 has continued into 
fiscal 2023 and is expected to continue in fiscal 2024.Preference for larger 
sized apartments, inclination towards reputed developers and a rising demand 
for townships projects are just some of the emerging trends. 
 
As per Knight & Frank Report, Development activity has risen in tandem with 
the improved demand despite the increasing costs of input material and 
labour across markets. As many as 160,806 units were launched during H1 
2021, a 56% increase YoY. Even in sequential terms, launch volumes were a 
substantial 25% higher than the relatively unaffected H2 2021 period. 
 
 Demand momentum was strong across markets in YoY terms in H1 2022 and 
Kolkata was the only market which saw sales volumes drop in sequential 
terms. With the second largest share of sales, NCR was the biggest mover 
among all the markets with sales volumes vaulting by 154% YoY during the 
period. Mumbai accounted for 28% of the total sales, highest among all 
markets. Among other large markets, Bengaluru had a similar strong showing 
with sales growing 80% YoY in H1 2022 to 26,667 units. Increased hiring and 
steady income growth in the Information Technology (IT) sector dominated 
markets such as Bengaluru, also buoyed homebuyer demand. 
 
 Consistent with the upward trend seen in the past three periods, the share of 
sales in the INR 10 mn and above ticket-size grew significantly to 25% in H1 
2022 compared to 20% a year ago. This can be attributed to the homebuyers’ 
need to upgrade to larger living spaces with better amenities, and to the fact 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
57 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
that pandemic-induced income disruptions did not impact higher income 
categories as they did for the others.  
 
 The growth in sales volumes during H1 2022 is more significant considering 
that it has occurred along with very encouraging price growth across all 
markets. Prices have grown in YoY termsacross all markets for the first time 
since H22015. Prices increased in the range of 3- 9% YoYacross markets with 
prices in the larger markets of Mumbai, NCR and Bengaluru moving at the top 
of this growth band at 6%, 7% and 9% YoY respectively. Albeit, increasing 
instances of developers offering greater value adds such as better 
finished/furnished apartments were also observed especially towards the end 
of H1 2022. 
 
Bengaluru, Mumbai & Delhi NCR contributed more than 60% of sales in 
2022.Bengaluru and Mumbai jointly led the annual sales in 2022 as they 
clocked more than 46,000 units (22% share each) followed by Delhi NCR at 
38,000 units (18% share). It is interesting to note that Kolkata, along with the 
two bigger markets of Mumbai, and Bengaluru witnessed the highest yearly 
growth in sales. In the second half of the year (H2 2022), sales accounted for 
51% share of the overall sales in 2022. The high sales volumes in H2 2022 
show that sales were still robust despite the recent challenges underlining the 
strength of the residential market in India and the increasing importance of 
home ownership post-pandemic. 
 
Further, Despite the steep rise in the mortgage rates, demand trends exhibited 
sustained momentum as they were well supported by multiple factors 
including Improving affordability, Desire to own homes, Aspirational lifestyle 
and need to upgrade to larger homes with better amenities,  Rising 
urbanisation,  Limited supply of quality products, Increasing consolidation in 
favour of larger & credible developers etc. 
 
Commercial market Segment 
 
According to research reports, office leasing activity exhibited nearly equal 
demand levels as compared to the pre-pandemic period. As per Savills 
research, the gross absorption for CY 2022 was recorded at ~5.09 million 
square meters (msm) [~54.8 million square feet (msf)] reflecting a Y-o-Y growth 
of 48.5% while the new supply added during the same period was ~4.96 msm 
(~53.4 msf), a Y-o-Y change of 45%. One notable trend observed in this 
segment was the lower than anticipated growth in the second half owing to 
global economic uncertainties. Year 2022 was a volatile year for the Indian 
Commercial market which was dented by fears of global economic slowdown. 
These global headwinds not just weighed down growth projections for the 
Indian economy, it also weighed on some leasing transactions. Nevertheless, 
the Corporate space  space market concluded with a significant 36% YoY 
growth in transaction  
 
India holds potential for huge growth in data centres, driven by policy 
initiatives, widening customer base and expanding corporate requirements for 
data storage. The ‘Digital India’ campaign by the government, has also given a 
fillip to this segment. There is synergy between rising demand for data centres 
and demand for commercial real estate. 
 
According to a report by Cushman and Wakefield, the amount of data stored 
in India is expected to skyrocket from 40,000 petabytes in 2010 to 2.3 million 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
58 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
petabytes in 2020. This has led to a flurry of investment across the nation. 
The demand for hyper-scale data centres is on the rise, as a result of the 
government’s push, in terms of the national E-commerce Policy and proposed 
policy on DC parks 
Retail Segment 
 
The retail segment outperformed with sustained growth momentum 
continuing across the country. As per CBRE research, the retail segment 
recorded a 21% Y-o-Y growth in leasing activity with ~0.44 msm (~4.7 msf) of 
absorption in the calendar year. 
 
Industry research expects a robust demand and supply for organized malls in 
the coming years with an expected supply of ~0.93 msm (~10 msf) in the next 
year. 
 
Market growth approaches have undisputedly indicated Grade-A office 
properties yielding some of the highest returns across the commercial real estate 
segment. The stereotypical processing of this fact was best exemplified by an 
impressive rise in the demand for office space, which witnessed an 
unprecedented 50% growth in 2022. . Commercial real estate funds are making 
their presence felt in the market as the idea of earning passive income from safe 
real estate investment has found a lot of excitement among small-time investors. 
The coming year may bring a lot more options for such investors who do not 
have portfolios in crores.  
 
Government Initiates 
i. Budget 2023 
The real estate sector had several expectations from the Union Budget 2023 given 
that the past year had witnessed a significant recovery from the pandemic period 
and expectation was that long standing demands from a tax perspective would be 
addressed in the Budget so as to sustain the recovery in the sector.The Budget 2023 
has highlighted several measures that will impact real estate development in India. 
Experts have given mixed opinions on the budget’s impact, but the favorable 
measures announced have drawn attention to India’s real estate services industry. 
The followings are the key takeaways from the budget and their impact on real 
estate: 
 
Economic Boosters 
The budget has announced Rs. 5.54 lakh crore allocation for the infrastructure 
sector, which is expected to support economic growth and create more business 
opportunities. These measures are expected to witness real estate growth in 
India, as it relies heavily on economic growth. 
 
Emphasis on Urban Planning 
The budget has emphasized urban planning in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities, boosting 
real estate development in these areas. The government’s focus on developing 
these cities will lead to better infrastructure, attracting more investments in the 
real estate sector. 
The 
government 
has 
allocated 
funds 
for 
the 
development 
of 
smart 
cities, affordable housing schemes, and infrastructural development in these 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
59 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
regions. Moreover, the government has increased the allocation for the PMAY-U 
scheme by almost 66% to Rs 79,000 crores in the Union Budget 2023.  
 
 
Emphasis on Affordable Housing 
 
The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) has been extended, and additional 
funding has been allocated. This affordable housing scheme will provide 
reasonable housing to millions of Indians. PMAY houses are a crucial aspect of 
this scheme, and the government has made efforts to ensure the completion of 
the remaining 1.5 crores of PMAY houses 
 
Infrastructural Development 
The Budget 2023 has allocated additional funds for infrastructure development in 
India, which is expected to boost the real estate industry. Better roads, airports, 
and railways will improve connectivity and attract investment in the Indian real 
estate sector 
OUTLOOK AND STRATEGY 
In 2002, the Government of India conducted a disinvestment exercise in respect of 
25% of its shareholding in the equity share capital of VSNL (currently known as Tata 
Communications Limited), wherein in terms of the bid for the disinvestment required 
a separate value to be ascribed to lands to be retained with VSNL and to exclude the 
value of certain Land parcels, held by VSNL. Panatone was the successful bidder in 
the disinvestment process and subsequently, entered into the VSNL SPA and the 
VSNL SHA. In terms of the disinvestment bid, the VSNL SHA and VSNL SPA, the 
Land parcels identified were required to be hived off or demerged into a separate 
entity.  
As a result, Hemisphere Properties India Limited was incorporated in 2005 as a real 
estate company. During FY 2012-13, Government of India acquired 51.12% equity 
stake in HPIL after the decision of Cabinet. Earlier, the Company was in 
administration of Department of Telecommunications and further after the Cabinet 
decision dated April 06th, 2018 the administration of HPIL was transferred from 
Department of Telecommunication to Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs. The 
Mumbai Bench of National Company Law Tribunal and Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
approved Scheme of Arrangement & Reconstruction between Tata Communications 
Limited & Hemisphere Properties India Limited on 12.07.2018 and 05.08.2018 
respectively. 
The Land located in 4 major cities i.e. Delhi, Pune, Chennai and Kolkata were 
transferred under the Scheme.  The Promoter of the company i.e. President of India 
holds 51.12% shares. 
In terms of the Scheme of Arrangement, following transferred: 
1. 
All rights, title and interest in the Land parcels were transferred to our 
Company; 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
60 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
2. 
All assets and liabilities pertaining to the Land parcels were transferred to our 
Company at their book value; 
3. 
All debts, liabilities, taxes, duties and obligations pertaining to the Land parcels 
were transferred to our Company, except for any property taxes arising prior to 
the effective date, which would continue to be the liability of TCL; 
 
The main objects of our Company are as follows: 
i. 
To construct, acquire, hold, manage, develop, administer, protect, reserve and 
to deal in any other manner with properties, including sale and purchase 
thereof, whether such properties are in the nature of land or building (semi-
constructed or fully constructed) or partially land and partially buildings, any 
where in India and if permitted by applicable legislations, outside India as 
well. 
 
ii. 
To collect and settle revenue, rental, lease charges and such other charges as 
may be payable by any entity against legitimate use of such properties by 
persons, companies, agencies and administrations for the services provided 
and to utilise the same for furtherance of activities of the Company. 
 
iii. 
To carry out business of developing, holding, owing, leading or licensing real 
estate, consultancy in real estate and property of all kinds and for this 
purpose acquiring by purchase or through lease, license, barter, exchange, 
hire purchase or otherwise, land or other immovable property of any 
description or tenure or interest in immovable property.  
 
iv. 
To carry out the business of building construction and development of 
commercial building, industrial shed, offices, houses, buildings, apartment, 
structures, hotels or other allied works of every description on any land 
acquired howsoever by the company, whether on ownership basis or as a 
lessee or licensee and to deal with such construction or developed or built 
premises by letting out, hiring or selling the same by way of outright sale, 
lease, license, usufructuary mortgage or other disposal of whole or part of 
such construction or development or built premises. 
 
Business Development 
The Company has taken over the possession of land parcel and appointed CPWD for 
land maintenance &security for preventing any kind of encroachments. The 
Company has registered its name for Pune, Chattarpur & registration charges are 
paid for Chennai & Kolkata. The applications are pending before the Competent 
Authorities. 
HPIL has conducted the due diligence for all the land parcel in FY 2021-22 and its 
was decided to move forward with Chattarpur land parcel. The demand discovery 
through expression of Interest was conducted for ascertaining demand of 
Farmhouses. The Company has obtained sufficient response to go ahead. Application 
for change in land use was filed with the Competent Authority and same is pending. 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
61 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The Management with the concurrence of  Ministry of Housing and Urban Affair will 
evaluate each land parcel and examine all available options available for further 
development of the Land. We will consider the proposals for growth in order to 
generate maximum revenue. 
The Company received in-principle approval from Ministry of Finance for ₹ 751.00 
crores for the payment towards stamp duty to give effect transfer of Title in the name 
of our Company and meet the need of other working capital requirements in due 
course of business. The Company till date has received ₹180 crore in form of equity 
and loan, the remaining money shall be received in tranches or in lumpsum as per 
the decision of Ministry of Finance.  
Further, the Company has  initiated the  process of engagement of Transaction 
advisor for Pune land parcel .The Company during financial year 2022-23 generated 
revenue from rental income of Rs 200.20 lakhs from Pune land parcel. 
SEGMENT-WISE PERFORMANCE 
The Company does not have any other segment. 
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES  
Opportunities 
Over the past few years, the government has supported in the development of India 
and promoted business opportunities within the country, including various policies 
made and initiatives, such as relaxation in Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) limits, 
improving ease of doing business, Housing for All, Make in India, Smart City and 
Start-up India. The major opportunities for our land parcel are: 
1. Housing Demand 
2 Sector Consolidation 
3. Demand of vacant land in metro cities 
4. Minimum Litigation 
5. Direct Administration of MoHUA 
 
The Company is in under the administrative control of MoHUA and board of 
directors has been appointed by MoHUA, who are excelled in handling the work 
related to estate and property. The Company will thrive on formulation of plans 
which are in pipe line. 
Following are the sectors which are high in Demand: 
Retail Space 
i. 
Rise in demand due to foray of FDI in multi brand retail. 
ii. 
Organized retail sector is growing by 25-30% annually. 
iii. 
The retail segment is expected to remain steady in the medium to long term 
backed by  
strong supply pipeline and growth in absorption rate. 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
62 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Housing Space 
i. 
GOI aiming “Housing for All by 2022”- robust housing demand and has 
 
increased its  focus 
on 
PradhanMantriAwaasYojana,especially 
in 
rural 
 
areas 
ii. 
Rise in transition of kuccha housing to puccka housing in rural areas. 
iii. 
Public-Private Partnership policy contributing to address the rise in 
 
housing shortage  in cities at affordable rates. 
iv. 
Growth in population and rapid urbanization. 
v. 
Rise in disposable income. 
vi. 
Easy availability of finance. 
vii. 
Developers are focusing more on affordable and mid range categories  
to 
 
meet the  
huge demand. 
Hospitality Space 
i. 
Indian and International hotel chains are expanding. Expansion is 
 
expected to boost  the sector. 
ii. 
Service apartments along with hotel rooms, business parks and even 
 
retail arcade are  
rising under make in India programme. 
iii. 
Tax incentives for hotels and higher Floor Space Index (FSI) are  
helping 
in 
the  
growth of the hospitality space. 
iv. 
Government’s efforts to promote tourism especially in Tier2 and Tier3 
 
cities are  
generating a strong demand for hotels, especially budget 
 
hotels. 
 
Commercial Space 
i. 
India’s commercial space is one of the most well-organized markets in  
the 
 
Asia- Pacific region, with the introduction of Real Estate  
Investment 
 
Trust (REITs)  
structure it will become more efficient. 
ii. 
Few large players with pan India presence dominate the market. 
iii. 
Change in operating model – shift from sales to lease and  maintenance 
iv. 
Rapid growth in service sector driving demand. 
v. 
Increase in demand for commercial space due to robust business  growth 
 
and optimism  
in Indian economy, especially in tier-II cities. 
vi. 
It is the most preferred asset classes in real estate by the investors  
over 
the last few  years and has attracted about 80% of the total  
investment made 
in the sector. 
 
Digital Real Estate Space 
Digital marketing has emerged as an important tool for real estate developers for 
their sales and customer outreach. Post-pandemic, the marketing activities are not 
just limited to tap new customers or brand recognition, but establishing a personal 
touch through digital means. 
With the tech-enabled tools to close real estate purchases online, developers have 
been able to record healthy sales even during the lockdown. Digital collaboration 
tools can be leveraged by the developers to interact with potential customers, 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
63 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
showcase project brochures, facilitate virtual site tours, and focus on NRIs to propel 
the sales. Going ahead, it will be imperative for the developers to adapt to a tech-
savvy future and the proportion of real estate business generated online is expected 
to only rise further. 
 
RISKS AND CONCERNS 
The Company is exposed to a number of risks such as economic, regulatory, taxation 
and environmental risks as well as sectorial investment outlook. 
Some risks that may arise in the normal course of business and could impact their 
ability to address future developments, comprise credit risk, liquidity risk, 
counterparty risk, regulatory risk, commodity inflation risk and market risk. The 
Company’s strategy of focusing on key products and geographical segments is 
exposed to economic and market conditions. 
The Company continues to implement robust risk management policies that set-out 
the tolerance for risk management and the requisite mitigation, plans. The major 
risk and concerns are as under: 
i. Statutory Approval 
Registration of Titles in Name Of Company  
The land is demerged into HPIL through order of Demerger and in land records 
maintained by various Revenue Authorities, the Land parcels continue to be 
registered in the name of the erstwhile VSNL or its successor entity, TCL, including 
in the registers of various registrars, sub-registrars and other land records at the 
respective locations.  
 
The Scheme of Arrangement has directed the transfer of all Land parcels recorded in 
the Scheme of Arrangement to our Company, including all title to such Land parcels, 
we may be required to undertake additional compliances in order to transfer the 
Land parcels to the name of our Company and to perfect our title to the Land 
parcels. 
 
 Approval from Changing the Land Use 
 
The real estate sector in India is heavily regulated by the central, state and local 
governments. Real estate developers are required to comply with a number of laws 
and regulations, including policies and procedures established and implemented by 
local authorities in relation 
to land acquisition, transfer of property, registration and use of land. These laws 
often vary from state to state. Several of your Company’s projects are in preliminary 
stages of planning and any delay in obtaining approvals could warrant revised 
scheduling of project timelines 
 
 Exposure due to on-going Litigations 
The land parcel of HPIL are subjected to certain disputes with regard to title and 
other claims. If any of these claims are determined adversely against our Company or 
our interests, we may be required to relinquish claims to all or part of the Land 
parcels or may be required to pay compensation to such claimants. Any such 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
64 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
adverse determination would impact our ability to develop or transfer the Land and 
any amounts to be paid out may require additional infusion of funds from our 
Promoter or from other sources, which may not be available to us on commercially 
viable terms or at all. 
 
We may not be able to assess or identify all the risks and liabilities associated with 
such land, such as faulty or disputed title, unregistered encumbrances or adverse 
possession rights. In addition, title insurance is not available in India to guarantee 
title or development rights in respect of land. The absence of title insurance, together 
with the challenges involved in verifying title to land, may increase our exposure to 
third party claims to such land. As a result, the uncertainty of title to land makes 
acquisition and real estate development projects more complex and may impede the 
transfer of title, expose us to legal disputes and adversely affect the valuation of the 
land involved. In addition, we may also face the risk of illegal encroachments on the 
land parcels owned by us. We may be required to incur additional costs and face 
delays in our project development schedule in order to clear such encroachments. 
Disputes relating to land title can take several years and considerable expense to 
resolve if they become the subject of legal proceedings and their outcome can be 
uncertain. If we, are unable to resolve such disputes, the title to and/ or interest 
in,such land may be affected. An inability to obtain good title to any plot of land may 
adversely affect the development of a project for which such plot of land is critical 
and this may result in the write-off of expenses incurred in relation to such 
development. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations 
could be materially and adversely affected. 
 
Further, in the event of any loss of contiguity of the land parcels constituting the 
Land on account of any adverse determination, we may not be able to maximise the 
value of the Land, or seek any premium that may be available for a single large 
parcel of land as compared to multiple smaller parcels. Failure to retain or acquire 
and provide such parcels of land may cause a delay or force us to abandon or modify 
our development of Land parcels. Additionally, we may be asked to pay premium 
amounts for acquiring certain large parcels of land. If we experience delay in or are 
unable to acquire the remaining undivided rights from other co-owners, we may not 
be able to develop such land. Accordingly, our inability to acquire or maintain and 
offer continuguous parcels of land may adversely affect our business prospects, 
financial condition and results of operations.  
 
Financial Risk 
 
There has been a contrasting trend in real estate lending over the past few years 
wherein reputed, low leveraged developers continued to enjoy easy access to liquidity 
as lenders remained selective and weaker developers struggled with limited sources 
of capital. Real estate sector performance is closely linked to economic recovery and 
its monetary policies. The Reserve Bank of India has so far maintained 
accommodative stance as it tries to support 
economic recovery. However, going ahead we expect to see monetary tightening as 
the central bank tries to control inflation in the country. A nascent economic 
recovery along with rising interest rates could impact the real estate sector in the 
near term as cost of housing loans shoots up with rise in the cost of funding for the 
developers, who are already facing margin pressure due to commodity cost inflation. 
 
 
Market Demand for largest Pune land parcel 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
65 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Our largest parcel of Land parcels, aggregating to 524 acres is currently located in 
the PMR. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations will 
be heavily dependent on the performance of, and the prevailing conditions affecting, 
the real estate markets in the PMR. The real estate markets in these regions may be 
affected by various factors outside our control, including prevailing local and 
economic conditions, changes in the supply and demand for properties comparable 
to those we develop, changes in the applicable governmental regulations, 
demographic trends, employment and income levels and interest rates, among other 
facto₹ These factors may contribute to fluctuations in real estate prices and the 
availability of land in the PMR and may adversely affect our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. These factors can also negatively affect the 
demand for and valuation of our Land. 
 
Collaborator/Partner  
 
Our ability to identify suitable partners or customers for development of the Land is 
a vital element of our business and involves certain risks, including appropriate 
financial resources and creditworthiness. We will be required to carry out 
independent assessment processes for identification of potential partners or 
customers for the Land which may include a due diligence exercise to assess the 
creditworthiness of any potential partner or customer, prior experience in developing 
such projects, suitability for development, development potential and ability to 
market. Our assessment processes will be required to be based on information that 
is available or accessible to us either through publicly available means or our 
diligence and assessment exercises. There can be no assurance that such 
information is accurate, complete or updated. Any decision based on inaccurate, 
incomplete or outdated information may result in certain risks and liabilities, which 
could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
 
Fall  in the Prices of Land and Development rights 
 
The availability of developable land, has been increasing across real estate markets 
in India and therefore, alternative or cheaper land as compared to the Land in each 
of the markets where we own Land poses substantial challenges.  
In addition, the use and development of land is subject to regulations by various 
local authorities. For example, if a specific parcel of land has been deemed as 
agricultural land, no commercial or residential development is permitted without the 
prior approval of the local authorities. Such restrictions could lead to further 
limitation of development of the Land parcels. 
 
Joint development agreements and similar agreements with third parties. 
 
We may enter into joint development agreements, joint venture arrangements, 
development management agreements, and similar arrangements with third parties 
for the development of some of the Land parcels and we by virtue of such 
agreements, may cede development rights to a portion or all of the Land parcels.  
 
We may have limited ability to impose conditions on the developing agencies or joint 
venture partners, including for timely payment of consideration. In the event that we 
are unable to agree to commercially suitable terms or find joint venture or joint 
development partners who are unwilling to meet our commercial and other terms, we 
may be unable to develop or transfer the Land parcels or portions thereof. Moreover, 
development agreements that we enter into or the leases in respect of leasehold 
lands may impose certain liabilities and obligations on us or may be subject to 
fulfilment of certain conditions. For instance, in some cases, we may be required to 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
66 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
obtain the necessary legal and regulatory approvals for the execution of a project.We 
may enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements with third parties for 
the joint development of the Land parcels in the future. The terms of some of these 
agreements may require us and our partner to take the responsibility for different 
aspects of the project. For instance, we may be required to incur certain costs related 
to development of the project while our joint venture partner may be responsible for 
obtaining the regulatory approvals for the project. In the event that any of the 
conditions to which we are subject pursuant to the joint development agreements are 
not satisfied, the land may not be developed in a timely manner or at all. 
The success of the development of the Land parcels will be significantly dependent 
on the satisfactory performance by our joint development and joint venture partners. 
If these entities fail to perform their obligations satisfactorily, we may be required to 
make additional investments, become liable or responsible for the obligations of 
these entities in the project or be subject to litigation by such partners, which could 
result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses and a diversion of our 
management’s attention and time.  
 
The inability of a joint development or joint venture partner to continue with a 
project due to financial or legal difficulties could mean that we would bear increased, 
or possibly sole, responsibility for the development of the relevant project. This may 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of 
operations. 
 
 
We are subject to extensive government regulation and if we fail to obtain, maintain 
or renew our statutory and regulatory licenses, permits and approvals required to 
operate our business, our business and results of operations may be adversely 
affected 
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 
Our Company as on date only has Five employees and on boarded few consultants  
for handling work. However, with we are planning to engage more human resource 
for smooth functioning of operations. 
 
DISCLOSURE OF ACCOUNTING TREATMENT 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting 
Standards specified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 7 
of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014. Our Company  has not taken any 
treatment which is different from the applicable Ind AS. The fact has been disclosed 
in Standalone Financial statements 
 
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY 
HPIL has in place adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial 
reporting in compliance with the provisions of Section 134(5) (e) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and such internal financial controls over financial controls were operating 
effectively. Internal Financial Controls over 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
67 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our results of 
operations as per our Financial Statements for the periods indicated: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(₹ in Lakhs) 
 
 
KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS 
The details of Financial Performance with respect to Operational Performance has 
been fully explained in the Directors’ Report 
Information pursuance to schedule-V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015 - (i) There is 
no significant changes (change of 25% or more as compared to the immediately 
previous financial year) in key financial ratios viz. Debtors Turnover Ratio , Inventory 
Turnover Ratio), Interest Coverage Ratio, Current Ratio (Debt-Equity Ratio, 
Particulars 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
FY 2020-21 
Amt 
% of 
Total 
Revenue 
Amt 
% of 
Total 
Revenue 
Amt 
% of 
Total 
Revenue 
REVENUE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from 
operations 
200.20 
23.47 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other income 
652.64 
76.53 
315.98 
100 
36.5 
100 
Total Revenue 
852.84 
100 
315.98 
100 
36.5 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXPENDITURE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee 
benefits 
expenses 
34.48 
4.04 
26.00 
8.23 
10.80 
29.58 
Finance cost 
668.50 
78.39 
581.97 
184.18 
131.68 
360.76 
Depreciation, 
amortization 
expenses and 
Other expenses 
 950.87 
111.49 
1571.88 
497.47 
902.39 
2472.30 
Total Expenses 
1653.85 
193.92 
2179.84 
689.87 
1044.88 
2862.68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Profit before 
exceptional and 
extraordinary 
items and tax 
(801.01) 
- 
(1863.86) 
- 
(1008.38) 
- 
Exceptional 
items 
- 
 
- 
 
 
 
Tax Expenses 
- 
 
- 
 
 
 
Current tax 
- 
 
- 
 
 
 
Deferred tax 
(153.70) 
 
(377.81) 
 
(263.04) 
 
Total 
Tax 
expenses 
(153.70) 
 
(377.81) 
 
(263.04) 
 
Profit 
for 
the 
Period 
(647.31) 
 
(1486.05) 
 
(745.34) 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
68 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Operating profit margin and Net profit margin during the year 2022-23 as compared 
to the previous year 2021-22.  
 
ii. The Key ratios are as under: 
 
Particulars 
Financial Ratios 
Explanation 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Debtors Turnover 
-2247.71 
- 
- 
Inventory Turnover 
- 
- 
- 
Interest 
Coverage 
Ratio 
(0.19) 
(2.20) 
The 
company 
has 
generated  
revenue from operations during 
the FY 2022-23. Interest Coverage 
Ratio 
has 
decreased 
due 
to 
decrease in loss before tax. The 
loss before tax is reduced . 
Current Ratio 
0.19:1 
0.23:1 
The current ratio has changed due 
to utilising the funds to meet 
working capital requirements. 
Debt Equity Ratio 
1.942:1 
1.959:1 
 
The debt equity ratio is declining 
due to discharge of liabilities of the 
Company.. 
Operating 
Profit 
Margin(%) 
- 
- 
- 
Net Profit Margin (%) (323.33) 
- 
The Company has generated the 
revenue in FY 2022-23. There was 
no revenue in FY 2021-22. 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
The above Management Discussion and Analysis contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
applicable security laws and regulations. These pertain to the Company’s future business prospects and business 
profitability, which are subject to several risks and uncertainties and the actual results could materially differ from 
those in such forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties relating to these statements include, but are 
not limited to, risks and uncertainties, regarding fluctuations in earnings, our ability to manage growth, competition, 
economic growth in India, ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost over-runs on 
contracts, Government policies and actions with respect to investments, fiscal deficits, regulations etc. In accordance 
with the Regulations on Corporate Governance as approved by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
shareholders and readers are cautioned that in the case of data and information external to the Company, no 
representation is made on its accuracy or comprehensiveness, though the same are based on sources thought to be 
reliable. The Company does not undertake to make any announcement in case any of these forward-looking 
statements become materially incorrect in future or update on any forward-looking statements made from time to 
time on behalf of the Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 69 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Annexure-II to the Board’s Report 
 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
 
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 
I. 
Details of the listed entity 
 
1. 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the 
Listed Entity 
L70101DL2005GOI132162 
2. 
Name of the Company 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
3. 
Year of incorporation 
2005 
4. 
Registered office address 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman 
Bhawan Maulana Azad Road, New 
Delhi Central Delhi -110001  
5. 
Corporate address 
Same as above 
6. 
E-mail 
info@hpil.co.in 
7. 
Telephone 
011-23061444 
8. 
Website 
www.hpil.co.in  
9. 
Financial year for which reporting is being 
done 
2022-23 
10 
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where 
shares are listed 
BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) 
11 
Paid-up Capital 
Rs. 4150000000 (As on March 31, 2023) 
12. 
Name and contact details (telephone, 
email address) of the person who may 
be contacted in case of any queries on 
the BRSR report 
Lubna,  
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
011-23061444,  
info@hpil.co.in 
13 
Reporting 
boundary 
- 
Are 
the 
disclosures under this report made on 
a standalone basis (i.e. only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. 
for the entity and all the entities which 
form a part of its consolidated financial 
statements, taken together)? 
Standalone  Basis  
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 70 
 
 
II. Products/services 
14. Details of business activities  
 
Si. 
No. 
Description 
of
main activity 
Description of business activity 
Turnover of the entity 
(%) 
1. 
Reality  
 
Real Estate Activities (MOA content) 
100 
 
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s   
Turnover)  
 
S. 
No 
Product/ Service 
NIC Code 
% 
of 
turnover 
of 
Entity 
1 
Rental Income 
7010 
100 
 
 
III. Operations 
 
16. Number of locations where operations/offices of the entity are 
situated: 
 
Location 
Number 
of 
plants 
Number 
of 
offices 
Total 
National 
0 
1 
1 
International 
0 
0 
0 
 
Note 
 
The Company has 5 land parcel located in Dighi (Pune),  Padianallur (Chennai), Halishar  (Kolkata),  
 
Greater Kailash (Delhi) &   Chattarpur (Delhi). The office of Company is situated in  New Delhi. 
 
17. Markets served by the entity: 
a. 
Number of locations 
 
Locations 
Number 
National (No. of States) 
4 
International (No. of Countries) 
0 
 
b. 
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total 
turnover of the entity? 
 
    The contribution of exports to the turnover of the Company was Nil for 
 
the financial year 2022-23. 
c. 
A brief on types of customers:The Company is in the business of Real Estate 
activities and in business with private & Public owned entities etc. 
                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 71 
 
IV. Employees 
 
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year: 
a. 
Employees and workers (including differently abled): 
 
Sr. Particulars 
No. 
(A) 
Total 
  
Male 
Female 
No. (B) 
% (B/A) No. (C) 
% (C/A) 
EMPLOYEES 
1. 
Permanent (D) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2. 
Other than permanent (E) 
5 
4 
80 
1 
20 
3. 
Total employees (D + E) 
5 
4 
80 
1 
20 
WORKERS 
4. 
Permanent (F) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5. 
Other than permanent (G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6. 
Total workers (F + G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Note: The Company has engaged Central Public Works Department (CPWD) as 
nodal agency for maintenance and security services.  
 
b. 
Differently abled employees and workers: 
 
Sr. Particulars 
No 
(A) 
Total 
Male 
Female 
No. (B) 
% 
(B/A) 
No. (C) 
% 
(C/A) 
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES 
1. 
Permanent (D) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2. 
Other than permanent (E) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
3. 
Total differently abled employees
(D + E) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS 
4. 
Permanent (F) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5. 
Other than permanent (G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
6. 
Total differently abled workers (F
+ G) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women 
 
 
  Total (A) 
No. 
and 
percentage 
of 
Females 
No.   (B) 
% (B/A) 
Board of Directors 
7 
2 
28.5 
Key Management Personnel 
3 
2 
66.67 
Notes: Key Management Personnel are Managing Director & CEO and CFO & Company 
Secretary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 72 
 
20. Turnover rate (in %) for permanent employees and workers (Disclose 
trends for the past 3 years) 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
FY 2020-21 
Male 
Female Total Male 
Female 
Total Male Female Total 
Permanent Employees* - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Permanent Workers* 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Note:      All the employees of Company are engaged on contractual basis in FY 2022-23 , 2021-
22 &  2020-21. 
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures): 
 
21. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures: 
 
S.no 
Name of the 
holding / 
subsidiary / 
associate 
companies / 
joint ventures 
(A) 
Indicate 
whether 
holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ 
Joint 
Venture 
% of shares 
held by 
listed 
entity 
Does 
the 
entity 
indicated at 
column 
A, 
participate in 
the 
Business 
Responsibility 
initiatives 
of 
the 
listed 
entity? 
(Yes/No) 
NIL 
 
VI. CSR Details 
22. (i)Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013:  
As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, provisions of CSR is not applicable during FY 
2022-23. 
(ii). Turnover of the Company for the year ended 31st March, 2023:  
  Rs.200.20 lakh  
(ii) 
Net worth of the Company as at 31st March, 2023:  
  Rs. 36587.15 lakh 
 
vii. Transparency and disclosures compliances 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 73 
 
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9)  under the 
National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC): 
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint 
is received 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism 
in place (Yes/No) 
(If Yes, then provide web-link for 
grievance redress policy) 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2022-23 
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the 
year 
Remarks 
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the 
year 
Remarks 
Communities 
Yes 
http://www.hpil.co.in/investor-
contact/  
0 
0 
- 
1 
0 
The 
Complaint 
was 
received 
from 
ex 
VSNL 
Employee 
association 
for 
allotment 
of land 
Investors 
other 
than 
Shareholders 
NIL 
Shareholders 
Yes as per Listing Regulations 
is 
http://www.hpil.co.in/investor-
contact/ 
12 
11 
The 
pending 
complaint 
is resolved 
on 
the 
dated 
of 
report 
17 
0 
- 
Employees 
and workers 
Yes 
Internal System 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Customers 
Yes 
Internal System 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Value Chain 
Partners 
NA 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Other (please 
specify) 
NA 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 74 
 
 
24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability 
issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or 
an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach 
to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications: 
S. 
No 
Material 
issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale 
for 
identifying the 
risk 
/ 
opportunity 
In case of 
risk, 
approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate 
Financial 
implications of 
the 
risk 
or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive 
or 
negative 
implications) 
1 
Corporate 
Governance 
and business 
ethics 
R 
Values/ 
Ethical 
behavior is acting 
in ways that are 
consistent with 
how the company 
views moral 
principles 
and 
values. 
Not 
adhering 
can 
lead 
to 
reputational risks 
arising 
due to integrity, 
inter-personnel 
relationships 
at 
workplace, conflict 
of 
interest 
and 
inverse impact on 
business. 
However, we has 
strong 
Corporate 
Governance 
framework 
and exhibits the 
same by strictly 
adhering 
to 
statutory 
norms 
and 
following 
the 
best practices. 
The Company 
is conducting 
its business in 
compliance 
with Corporate 
Governance 
procedures 
and code of 
conduct, 
exemplifies 
each of the 
core 
values, 
favourable 
outcomes 
to stakeholders 
. 
BHEL codes/ 
procedure are 
in 
place such as 
whistleblower 
policy etc. 
 
Negative 
implications 
2 
Approval of 
Competent 
Authority 
R 
The Company has 
land 
bank 
as 
assets 
and 
the 
major issue is for 
any opportunity is 
getting 
approval 
from 
the 
competent 
authorities 
The Company 
is being 
cautious in 
selection of 
operations and 
to adhere with 
the policies of 
Govt is the 
best way to 
mitigate the 
risk 
Negative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Equal 
 
Company is an 
 
Positive 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 75 
 
opportunity 
and inclusion 
equal opportunity 
employer and does 
not discriminate 
on the basis of 
gender, race, 
caste, 
religion, linguistic, 
region etc. in 
recruitment and 
employment 
relationship 
guided by GoI 
policies 
leading to a 
diverse culture 
and 
talent 
Implications 
4 
Social 
Development 
O 
The land of 
Company is in the 
major cities of 
India and by 
utilizing these 
land with 
development may 
impact the whole 
surrounding of the 
specific place 
- 
Positive Implication 
 
 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 
 
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies 
and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core 
Elements. 
Disclosure questions 
P1 
P2 
P3 
P4 
P5 
P6 
P7 
P8 
P9 
Policy and management processes 
1. 
a. 
Whether the 
entity’spolicy/policies cover  
each principle and  
its core elements of  
the NGRBCs.  
(Yes/No) 
Y 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
 
 
 
b.Has the policy  been approved by
the Board? 
(Yes/No) 
The policies are approved by Board/Competent Authorities as per the 
delegated powers. 
                                                                                                   
 
c. 
Web Link of the  
Policies, if available 
www.hpil.co.in  
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 76 
 
2
. 
 
 
Whether the entity  has 
translated the  policy into  
procedures (Yes/No) 
Y 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
* 
* 
3
. 
 
 
Do the enlisted  policies extend 
to  your value chain  partners? 
(Yes/No) 
Not Applicable 
4
.
  
Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international 
codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, 
Rainforest 
Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. 
SA 
8000, 
OHSAS, 
ISO, 
BIS) 
adopted 
by 
your 
entity 
and 
mapped to each principle. 
Not Applicable 
5
. 
 
 
 
 
Specific 
 
commitments, 
goals  
and targets set by  
the entity with  
defined timelines, if any 
The commitment to sustainable operations is ensured by our 
Company in its operations. We are obligated to water conservation, 
enhanced energy efficiency and 
waste management. Additionally, we are committed to be transparent 
about the environmental and social impacts. 
6
.
  
Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals 
and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met. 
The Company is under the administrative control of Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs and the steadily performing towards the goal, 
However the Company has not entered into any MoU as on date. 
Governance, leadership and oversight 
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)                                 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of the highest  
authority responsible 
for  
implementation and  
oversight of the  
Business  
Responsibility policy  
(ies). 
Smt. D Thara 
DIN 01911714 
Chairman & Managing Director 
011-23061325 
info@hpil.co.in 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 77 
 
9
.
   
Does the entity have a 
specified 
Committee 
of the Board/ Director 
responsible 
for 
decision making on 
sustainability related 
issues? (Yes / No). If 
yes, provide details. 
 No, the same is under process. 
                                                                                 
 
 
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a 
policy, reasons to be stated: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Questions 
P1 
P2 
P3 
P4 
P5 
P6 
P7 
P8 
P9 
The entity does not consider the 
Principles material to its business 
(Yes/No) 
NA 
Yes* 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Yes* 
Yes* 
The entity is not at a stage where it 
is in a position to formulate and 
implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No) 
NA 
Yes* 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Yes* 
Yes* 
The entity does not have the 
financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task 
(Yes/No) 
NA 
No 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
No 
No 
It is planned to be done in the next 
financial year (Yes/No) 
NA 
No 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
No 
Yes* 
10. Details of review of NGRBCs by the Company: 
 
P
1 
P
2 
P
3 
P
4 
P
5 
P
6 
P
7 
P
8 
P
9 
P
1 
P
2 
P
3 
P
4 
P
5 
P
6 
P
7 
P
8 
P
9 
Performan
ce against 
above 
policies 
and follow 
up action 
Yes, Reviews and frequency are provided in of BRSR wherever applicable, due to limited operations 
the policies are under framing. 
Complianc
e 
with 
statutory 
requireme
nts 
of 
relevance 
to 
the 
principles, 
and, 
rectificatio
n of any 
non-
compliance
s 
Yes,  complies with existing laws as necessary. The company’s secretarial team informs the board of 
any deviations from compliance status.. 
Has 
the 
entity 
carried 
out 
independent 
assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency 
P
1 
P
2 
P
3 
P
4 
P
5 
P
6 
P
7 
P
8 
P
9 
Policies and procedures of the organization are 
subject 
to 
audits/ 
reviews 
by 
senior 
management, Administrative Ministry etc. 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 78 
 
Any other reason (please specify) 
The policy on Corporate Social Responsibility is not applicable and the 
Company is not manufacturing/ trading any product therefore a few 
policy(ies) have limited applicability on the Company.                                 77 
 
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE  
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the 
Principles and Core Elements with key processes and decisions. The information sought is 
categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators are expected to be 
disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be 
voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be 
socially, environmentally and ethically responsible  
PRINCIPLE 1 
Essential Indicators 
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles 
during the financial year: 
Segment 
Total 
number 
of 
training 
and 
awareness 
programmes held 
Topics / principles covered under 
the training and its impact 
%age of persons in respective 
category 
covered 
by 
the 
awareness programmes 
Board 
of 
Directors 
1 
Specific Roles and Responsibilities 
of 
an 
Independent 
Director, 
Effectiveness in Board Meetings, 
Role of Board Level 
Committees and Decision Making, 
Business Familiarization 
100 
Key Managerial 
Personnel 
1 
Specific Roles, training programme 
and learning programme 
100 
 
 
Employees 
other than BoD 
and KMPs 
1 
Company Code of Conduct and 
applicable rules 
100 
 
Workers 
NA 
NA 
NA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Details of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement 
amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law 
enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year. 
Monetary 
 
NGRBC 
Principle 
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions 
Amount (In INR) 
Brief 
of 
the 
Case 
Has an appeal 
been 
preferred? 
Yes/No 
Penalty/ Fine 
Principle 1 
 
 
 
SEBI (LODR) 
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited 
₹43,07,000/- 
including GST 
(₹21,53,500/- 
each 
including 
For the financial 
year 
ended 
on 
March 31, 2023, 
the 
Company 
has 
Yes 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 1 
 
 
Limited 
 
Legal 
Metrologic Act, 
2009 
 
GST). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
₹12,000/- 
 
complied with all 
requirements of 
SEBI 
LODR 
Regulations, the 
Companies 
Act, 
2013 
and rules made 
thereunder, 
applicable 
Secretarial 
Standards issued 
by ICSI and DPE 
Guidelines on 
Corporate 
Governance, 
as 
amended 
from 
time to 
time, 
except 
compliance 
related 
to 
composition of 
Board 
of 
the 
Company. 
Due to such non-
compliances, 
NSE 
and 
BSE 
have 
imposed a total 
fine 
of 
₹43,07,000/- 
including GST 
(₹21,53,500/- 
each 
including 
GST) 
by 
each 
stock 
exchanges, for all 
the four quarters 
of FY 2022-23. 
 
 
 
During 
period 
under review, the 
Company 
in 
June, 
2022 
published 
an 
advertisement for 
Expression 
of 
Interest 
to 
discover 
the 
demand 
of 
Chattarpur land 
parcel 
of 
Company. 
The 
Company 
vide 
letter 
dated 
29.08.2022 
received a notice 
from 
Legal 
Metrology 
Department, 
Gautambudh 
Nagar, UP stating 
that 
the 
Company 
contravened with 
the  Section 11 of 
Legal 
metrology 
Act, 
2009. 
The 
Company replied 
 
 
 
 
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No, fine is paid in 
the 
court 
and 
matter 
was 
disposed of. 
 
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 80 
 
with 
the 
justification 
for 
the same. 
Further, 
the 
matter was listed 
on District Court 
and the Company 
deposited 
amount 
of 
Rs 
12,000/- with the 
court. The matter 
was disposed off 
by the Court in 
July 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
                     
Settlement 
NIL 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Compounding 
fee 
 
 
 
 
 
Non Monetary 
 
NGRBC 
Principle 
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions 
Brief of the Case 
Has an appeal 
been 
preferred? 
Yes/No 
Imprisonment 
NIL 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Punishment 
NIL 
NA 
NA 
NA 
3. 
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision 
preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed:  
 
Case Details 
Name 
of 
the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ 
judicial 
institutions 
In connection with fine levied by NSE and BSE for non-
appointment of Independent Director, as stated in the 
previous question, since the power to appoint Directors 
on the Board of the Company vests with the President of 
India, acting through the Administrative Ministry i.e. 
Ministry 
of 
Housing 
& 
Urban 
Affairs 
(MoHUA), 
Government of India, therefore the Company has been 
requesting the appointing authority, i.e. MoHUA, for 
appointment of requisite number of Independent 
Director. Accordingly, the Company has no control in the 
appointment of Directors. In view of the same, the 
Company had requested / is requesting the stock 
exchanges to waive off the said fines. It is pertinent to 
mention, that BSE has already waived off the fine 
imposed on the Company for earlier quarters  ended on 
December, 2020. The Company is following up with the 
Stock Exchanges for waiving off the balance fine(s) as 
well. 
1.National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) 
2. BSE Limited (BSE) 
 
 
                                                       
                                                                
 
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details    
in brief and if available, provide a web-link to the policy. 
No, HPIL  policy for anti-corruption and anti-bribery is under process of 
 implementation. As a part of HPIL persisting endeavor to set a high standard of 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 81 
 
 conduct for its staff and Directors. This is augmented by Whistle Blower Policy which 
not only arm the company against unacceptable practices but also act as a deterrent. 
The Company is subject to RTI Act 2005, audit by Statutory Auditors and CAG audit 
under  section 
139 
of 
the 
Companies 
Act, 
2013.https://www.hpil.co.in/wp-
content/uploads/2022/07/Whistle-Blower Policy.pdf                                     
 
 
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action 
was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption: 
Particulars 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 
2021-
22 
Directors 
NIL 
NIL 
KMPs 
Employees 
Workers 
 
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest 
 
Particulars 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 
2021-
22 
Numb
er 
Brief 
details 
of 
the 
complaint 
Numb
er 
Brief details of the complaint 
Number 
of 
complaints received 
in relation 
to 
issues 
of 
conflict 
of 
interest of the 
Directors 
0 
NA 
0 
NA 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 82 
 
Number 
of 
complaints received 
in relation to issues 
of 
Conflict 
of 
Interest of the KMPs 
0 
NA 
0 
NIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues 
related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/law enforcement 
agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest: 
Not Applicable 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS 
 
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles 
during the financial year: Not Applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
number 
of 
awareness programmes 
held 
Topics/principles 
covered 
under 
the 
training 
%age of value chain partners covered (by 
value of business done with such partners) 
under the awareness programmes 
NA 
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests 
involving members of the Board? If Yes, provide details of the same. 
 Yes. The company has code of conduct for directors which clearly states that 
every director representing the company shall endeavour to avoid conflict of 
interest and is expected to act in the best interest of the company. 
 
PRINCIPLE 2:Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe 
Essential Indicators 
1. 
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in 
specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts 
of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by 
the entity, respectively. 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 83 
 
 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Details: improvements in environmental and 
social impacts 
R&D 
 NA 
NA 
NA 
Capex 
NA 
NA 
NA 
 
 
2 a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) 
    Response: No 
 
     b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? :     
Response: NA 
 
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for 
reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including 
packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Response: The Company deals in Real Estate business and the reusing, 
recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) 
E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste etc are not applicable to 
Company. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the 
entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in 
line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to 
Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. 
Response: Not applicable to Company 
 
Leadership Indicator 
 
1. 
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for 
any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for 
service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format? 
 
NIC 
Code 
Name 
of 
the
product/services 
% 
of 
total 
Turnove
r 
contribut
ed 
Boundary 
for 
which the life 
cycle 
perspective/ 
Assessment 
was conducted 
Whether 
conducted by an 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No) 
Results 
communication
in 
the public 
domain
(Yes/No) 
If yes, provided the web-
link 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 84 
 
Not Applicable 
 
2. 
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or 
risks arising from production or disposal of your products/services, 
as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or 
through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with 
action taken to mitigate the same. 
 
3. 
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material 
(by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or 
providing services (for service industry): 
 
 
 
Details of materials recycled or re-used are as under: 
Indicate input material 
Recycled 
or 
re-used 
input 
material to total material 
FY 22-23 
FY 21-22 
Not Applicable 
 
4. 
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, 
amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as 
per the following format: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HPIL is engaged in the business of real estate, Hence, reclamation of products and packaging material is not applicable to its 
business 
 
 
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products 
sold) for each product category. 
 
Name 
of 
products/services 
Description 
of 
the
risk/concerns 
Action taken 
Not Applicable 
Values in metric tonnes 
FY 2022-
23 
FY 2021-
22 
Re-used 
Recycled 
Safely Disposed 
Re-used 
Recycled 
Safely Disposed 
Plastics (Including Packaging) 
Not Applicable 
 
Not Applicable 
E-Waste 
Hazardous Waste 
Other Waste 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 85 
 
Indicate Product category 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of
total products sold in respective category. 
NA 
 
PRINCIPLE 3 
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains 
Essential Indicators 
1. a. 
Details of measures for the well-being of employees: 
Category 
% 
of 
employees 
covered by 
Total (A) 
Health 
insurance 
Accident 
insurance 
Maternity 
benefits 
Paternity 
Benefits 
Day 
Care
facilities 
Number 
(B) 
% 
(B/A) 
Number 
(C) 
% 
(C/A) 
Number 
(D) 
% 
(D/A) 
Number 
(E) 
% 
(E/A) 
Number 
(F) 
% 
(F/A) 
Permanent employees 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other than Permanent employees 
Male 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:  
Category 
% of workers covered 
by 
Total (A) 
Health 
insurance 
Accident 
insurance 
Maternity 
benefits 
Paternity 
Benefits 
Day 
Care
facilities 
Number 
(B) 
% 
(B/A) 
Number 
(C) 
% 
(C/A) 
Number 
(D) 
% 
(D/A) 
Number 
(E) 
% 
(E/A) 
Number 
(F) 
% 
(F/A) 
Permanent employees 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other than Permanent employees 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 86 
 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
*HPIL does not have any ‘Workers’. Hence in all the sections,  
details sought for  the ‘Workers’ category  
are 
not   
 
applicable to HPIL. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Details of retirement benefits, for current and previous financial year: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 
2021-22 
No. 
of 
employees 
covered as a 
% of total 
employees* 
No. 
of 
workers 
covered as a 
% of total 
workers 
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with 
the 
authority^ 
No. 
of 
employees 
covered as a 
% of total 
employees* 
No. 
of 
workers 
covered as a 
% 
of total 
workers 
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with 
the 
authority^ 
PF 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Gratuity - 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
ESI 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
3.Accessibility of workplaces 
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled 
employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard: 
Response : The Company does not have any differently abled employee, 
however the office premises allow easy movement for differently abled 
persons. 
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy 
Response : The Company does not have any differently abled employee, 
however it is ensured that the Company will provide equal rights and 
opportunities to Person with Disability as per Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016. We promote a positive business environment that 
provides equal employment opportunities to all individuals, irrespective of 
their caste, creed, gender, nationality, color, race, religion, disability, or 
sexual orientation. 
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers 
that took parental leave. 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 87 
 
Response : No permanent employees  are appointed in Company. 
Gender 
Permanent employees 
Permanent workers 
Return to work 
rate 
Retention 
rate 
Return to work 
rate 
Retention 
rate 
Male (%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female (%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total (%) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the 
following categories of employees and workers? If yes, give details of the 
mechanism in brief: 
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief) 
Permanent Workers 
Not Applicable 
No workers  are engaged in Company 
 
Other 
than 
Permanent
Workers 
Permanent Employees 
No permanent employees  are appointed in Company 
We strongly encourage employees and workers to utilize channels 
such as email, letterbox, and registered post to express their problems 
and concerns to their business leaders, human resources, or senior 
management members. 
Other 
than 
Permanent
Employees 
7. Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions 
recognized by the listed entity: 
Category 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
 Total 
employees/ 
workers 
in 
respective 
category 
No. 
of 
employees/ 
workers 
in 
respective 
category, 
who 
are 
part 
of 
association(s) 
or Union 
%
 
(B/
A) 
Tot
al 
employ
ees/ 
workers 
in 
respecti
ve 
categor
y 
No. 
of
employees/ 
workers 
in
respective 
category, who
are 
part 
of
association(s) 
or Union 
%
 
(D/
C) 
(A) 
(B) 
(C) 
(D) 
Total 
Permanent 
Employees 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Male 
The company does not have any union representing its employees and workers 
Female 
Total 
Permanent 
Workers 
Male 
Female 
 
8. Details of training given to employees and workers: 
 
 
 Category 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total 
(A) 
On 
Health
and 
safety
measures 
On 
Skill 
upgradation 
Total 
(D) 
On 
Health 
and 
safety 
measures 
On 
Skill 
upgradation 
No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) 
No. 
(E) 
% 
(E/D) 
No. (F) % 
(F/D) 
Employees* 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 88 
 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Workers* 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-- 
- 
- 
-       
Female 
- 
- 
- 
-- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
-- 
- 
- 
-  
*During the financial year 2022-23, the Company has not conducted any training programme for 
employees and as on date of Report, the Company has not engaged any workers and permanent employee.  
 
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees 
and workers. 
Category 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 
2021-
22 
Total (A) 
No. (B) 
% (B/A) 
Total (A) 
No. (B) 
%(B/A) 
Employees 
Male 
4 
 4 
100 
4 
 4 
100 
Female 
1 
1 
100 
1 
1 
100 
Total 
5 
5 
100 
5 
5 
100 
Workers : Not applicable as no workers are engaged 
Male 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Female 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
10. Health and safety management system: 
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system 
has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No). If yes, the coverage of 
such system? 
Yes, Safety is considered as the foremost value of Company and no business 
8objective can take precedence over it. The company has made it compulsory 
to implement occupational health and safety policies in the office and sites of 
Company .  
 
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and 
assess risks on a routine and non- routine basis by the entity? 
The Company has limited operations as on date and work-related hazards 
are not identified in routine and non- routine basis by the entity.  
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 89 
 
 
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related 
hazards and to remove themselves from such risks (Yes/No): 
Not applicable. 
 
 
d. Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-
 
occupational  medical and healthcare services? (Yes/No) 
 
    Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format: 
 
Safety Incident/Number 
Category 
FY 22-23* FY 21-22* 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked) 
Employees 
- 
- 
Workers 
- 
- 
Total recordable work-related injuries^ 
Employees 
- 
- 
Workers 
- 
- 
No. of fatalities 
Employees 
- 
- 
Workers 
- 
- 
No. of high consequence work-related injury or ill-health
(excluding fatalities) 
Employees 
- 
- 
Workers 
- 
- 
 
 
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy 
work place. 
In Company various measures taken to ensure access to a safe and healthy 
work-place to all employees.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
13 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
 
 
 
- 
 
 
14. Assessments for the year: 
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory
authorities or third parties) 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Filed during 
the year 
Pending resolution at 
the end of year 
Remarks 
Filed during 
the year 
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks 
Working Conditions 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Health & Safety 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 90 
 
Health 
and 
safety 
practices 
0 
Working Conditions 
0 
 
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address 
safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks/concerns arising 
from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions: 
The Company continuously monitors and assesses its health and safety 
practices and working conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leadership Indicators: 
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory 
package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Yes/No) (B) Workers 
(Yes/No)? 
(A) Employees : No 
(B) Workers :No 
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that 
statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value chain 
partners. 
Not applicable 
 
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high 
consequence work related injury / ill-health /  fatalities (as reported in Q11 
of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable 
employment: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total no. of affected employees/ 
workers 
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have 
been 
placed 
in 
suitable 
employment 
 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Employees 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Workers 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
Workers 
NIL 
 
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to 
facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 91 
 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? 
(Yes/No) 
         No, further The Company is a CPSE, which follows employment norms of DPE 
 
in cases of retirement or termination of employment 
 
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done 
with such partners) that were assessed 
Health and safety practice 
- 
Working Conditions - 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to 
address significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health 
and safety practices and working condition of value chain partners: 
 
Not Applicable 
 
PRINCIPLE 4 
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its 
stakeholders 
        Essential Indicators 
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
 
Yes. The Company has mapped its internal and external stakeholders.  
 
 Internal stakeholders include employees and staff of the Company; and 
 
external stakeholders include equity shareholders,  Governmental bodies and 
 
regulatory authorities including State Government(s), Reserve Bank of  India, 
 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Stock 
 
Exchanges etc.     
 
2.List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the 
frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group: 
Stakeholder 
Group  
 
Whether 
identified 
as 
Vulnerable 
& 
Marginalized 
Grou
p 
(Yes/
No) 
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, 
Website), Other 
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly / 
others – 
please 
specify) 
Purpose and 
scope of 
engagement 
including key 
topics and 
concerns raised 
during such 
engagement 
Shareholder
s 
No 
Email/SMS/Website/ 
Letters/Telephone
, Newspaper etc. 
On quarterly 
basis, 
through AGM, 
Communication of 
financial 
results, adoption of 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 92 
 
Postal 
Ballot and as 
and when 
require
d. 
financial 
statement and 
transaction of 
ordinary and 
special business 
from time to time. 
Addressing 
requests/ 
grievances of 
shareholders 
from 
time 
to time 
Employees 
No 
E-mail and other written 
communication 
• Performance review 
meetings 
• Various functional 
meetings 
 
Ongoing 
Keep employees 
updated on 
organizational     
goals, vision, 
mission and 
objectives and also 
align with the 
business plans; 
,Learning and 
development; 
,Career 
advancement 
opportunities; 
,Transparent 
communication 
and grievance 
redressal;    
, Performance 
evaluation; and 
 
Regulatory 
Bodies 
 
Electronic and physical 
correspondence with 
regulatory 
bodies 
• Face to face meetings 
• Through industry 
chambers 
 
Ongoing  
Regulatory 
compliance 
& 
approvals. 
Investor/ 
Collaborator 
No 
Electronic and physical 
correspondence with 
regulatory 
bodies, Face to face 
meetings 
 
Whenever 
required 
To 
discuss 
the 
interest, demand, 
feasibility. 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the 
Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if consultation is 
delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 93 
 
     HPIL  periodically undertakes consultation with key internal and external 
stakeholders as part of the materiality assessment exercise. This is aimed at 
identifying and re-evaluating material economic, environmental and social 
topics relevant for its business. The process has been delegated by the Board to 
the management. As part of this exercise, consultation is carried out with key 
stakeholders to seek their feedback. Feedback received through stakeholder 
consultation is analysed to prioritise the ESG issues significant for the business 
This feedback is regularly shared with the top management for informed 
decision making. 
 
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification 
and management of environmental, and social topics (Yes/No). If so,          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from 
stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities 
of the entity. 
Yes, HPIL periodically undertakes consultation with key stakeholder groups 
as part of the materiality assessment exercise. As part of this exercise, 
consultation is carried out with key stakeholders to seek their feedback for 
identifying and prioritizing material ESG issues and incorporate their 
concerns and expectations in the materiality assessment. Therefore, feedback           
94 
 received through stakeholder consultation is analysed to prioritise the ESG 
issues significant for business. Further the Company has limited operations 
and as on date no such inputs and feedbacks are incorporated. 
 
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, 
address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder groups 
 
 There are no vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder groups identified by 
Company 
however, 
company 
addresses 
the 
concern 
of 
each 
stakeholdersPRINCIPLE 5 
Businesses should respect and promote human rights 
Essential Indicators 
1. 
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human 
rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format: 
Category 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total (A) 
No. 
of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B) 
% 
(B/A) 
Total 
C 
No. 
of 
employees/ 
workers covered (D) 
% 
D/C) 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 94 
 
Employees 
Permanent 
    0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
0 
Otherthan permanent 
5 
0 
- 
5 
0 
- 
Total Employees 
5 
0 
0 
5 
0 
0 
Workers 
Permanent 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Other 
than 
permanent 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Total Workers 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
2. 
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following 
format: 
Category 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total 
(A) 
Equal 
to
Minimum 
Wage 
More 
than 
Minimum 
Wage 
Total (D) 
Minimu
m 
Equal 
to 
Minim
um 
Wage 
More 
than
Minimum Wage 
No. (B) 
% 
B/A) 
No. C 
% (C/A) 
No. (E) 
% 
(E/D) 
No. 
(F) 
% 
(F/D) 
Employee 
Permanent 
Male 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Female 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Other than Permanent 
Male 
4 
0 
0 
4 
100 
4 
0 
0 
4 
100 
Female 
1 
0 
0 
1 
100 
1 
0 
0 
1 
100 
Worker 
Permanent 
Male 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Female 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Other than Permanent 
Male 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Female 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
3. 
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format: 
Male 
Female 
Number 
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of 
respective 
category (₹ in lakhs 
per annum) 
Number 
Median 
remuneration/ 
salary/wages 
of 
respective 
category (₹ in lakhs 
per annum) 
Board of Directors (BOD)* 
4 
 NIL 
3 
NIL 
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)*^ 
1 
 8.4 
2 
8.40 
Employees other than BOD and
KMP 
3 
17.47 
0 
- 
Workers 
- 
- 
-- 
- 
4. 
Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for 
addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by 
the business? (Yes/No) 
No. 
5. 
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to 
human rights issues: 
The Company is committed to providing a safe and conducive work environment 
to all of its employees and workers. Transparency and openness are organisational 
values and are practised across all levels. Employees are encouraged to share their 
concerns with their reporting manager or the members of the Senior 
Management. 
Employees can reach out independently if they so choose to. The Company has an 
open-door approach, wherein any employee irrespective of hierarchy has access to 
the senior management. In addition, the Code of Conduct for Employees and the 
Whistle Blower Policy allows all our employees to report any kind of suspected or 
actual misconduct in the organisation in an anonymous manner including 
grievances related to human rights issues. 
 
6. 
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 
2021-
22 
Filed 
during 
the year 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year 
Remark Filed 
during 
the year 
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year 
Remar
k 
Sexual Harassment 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Discrimination at workplace 0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Child Labour 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Forced 
Labour/Involuntary
Labour 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Wages 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Other human rights related
issues 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in 
discrimination and harassment cases: 
The Company believes in the principle of natural justice and ensures full confidentiality 
of complainant is maintained during and after resolution of complaint. Such complaints 
are usually handled by senior members in the organisation. 
 
The members handling such complaints maintain full confidentiality to protect the 
complainant during as well as after closure of complaints. The complainant is protected 
against any adverse action not limited to harassment, unfair termination of employment, 
demotion, suspension and biased behavior. 
 
8. 
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? 
(Yes/No) 
Yes, all critical human rights requirements are part of business agreements, and 
contracts. 
 
9. 
Assessments for the year: 
 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties) 
Child labour 
Not Applicable 
Forced/involuntary 
labour 
Sexual harassment 
Discrimination 
at 
workplace 
Wages 
 
10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant 
risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9 above 
Not Applicable 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. 
Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of   
2. 
addressing human rights grievances/ complaints: 
Not Applicable 
 
3. 
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted: 
Not Applicable 
 
4. 
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as 
per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? 
The Company does not have any differently abled employees located at Head 
Office have access to required facilities. However, The Company is taking 
appropriate measures to build systems and processes to ensure: 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
1. That appropriate infrastructural facilities and amenities are provided to 
employees and workers with disabilities to enable them to discharge 
their 
duties 
safely 
and 
effectively 
in 
the 
establishment.                       
97 
2. The facilities are in compliance with the Harmonised Guidelines and Space 
Standards for Barrier Free Built Environment for Persons with Disability and 
Elderly Persons (as amended from time to time), issued by the Ministry of 
Urban Development, Government of India. 
3. That provision is made for an accessible environment and assistive devices as 
required are made available. 
 
 
  4. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 
 
 
 
 
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with 
such partners) that were assessed 
Sexual Harassment 
 
Discrimination at workplace 
Child Labour 
Forced Labour/Involuntary 
Labour 
Wages 
Others- Please specify 
 
 
 
4. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address 
significant risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 4 
above  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not Applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 6 
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Essential Indicators 
1. 
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy 
intensity, in the following format: 
(In Giga Joules) 
 
Parameter 
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-
22 
Total electricity consumption (A)* 
0 
0 
Total fuel consumption (B)* 
0 
0 
Energy consumption through other sources (C)* 
0 
0 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)* 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy
consumption/turnover in ` Crores) 
0 
0 
*The Company does not have any operations and have office in Ministry of Housing   & 
Urban Affairs, hence there is no record of electric or fuel consumption. 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers 
(DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the 
Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide 
the remedial action taken, if any. 
Not Applicable. 
 
3. 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following 
format: 
       Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres) 
Parameter 
FY  
2022-23 
FY 2021-
22 
(i) Surface water* 
- 
- 
(ii) Groundwater* 
- 
- 
(iii)   Third party water* 
- 
- 
(iv)     Seawater/desalinated water* 
- 
- 
(v) Others* 
- 
- 
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv +
v)* 
- 
- 
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)* 
- 
- 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/turnover
in Crores) 
-  
- 
No assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by any external  
agency. 
4. 
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, 
provide details of its coverage and implementation. 
Not applicable. 
 
5. 
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in 
the following format: 
 
Parameter 
Please specify unit 
FY 2022-
23 
FY 2021-
22 
NOx 
NA 
- 
- 
SOx 
NA 
- 
- 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Particulate matter (PM) 
NA 
- 
- 
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 
NA 
- 
- 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 
NA 
- 
- 
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 
NA 
- 
- 
Note: The Company does not have any manufacturing unit and any such 
operation contributing to air emission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions) & its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter 
Unit 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22 
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N O, HFCs, PFCs, SF , NF , if 
available)* 
2 
6 
3 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 
equivalent 
(tCO2e) 
- 
- 
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH , N O, HFCs, PFCs, SF , NF , if 
available)* 
4       2 
6 
3 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 
equivalent 
(tCO2e) 
- 
- 
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per 
rupee of turnover in Crores 
tCO2e/turnover 
in
Crore 
- 
- 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas 
(GHG) emission? If Yes, then provide details. 
      Not applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the 
following format: 
     Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes) 
Parameter* 
FY 2022-
23 
FY 
2021-
22 
Plastic waste (A) 
- 
- 
E-waste (B) 
- 
- 
Bio-medical waste (C) 
- 
- 
Construction and demolition waste (D) 
- 
- 
Battery waste (E) 
- 
- 
Radioactive waste (F) 
- 
- 
Other Hazardous waste (G) (such as process waste, waste residue,
chemical sludge etc.) 
- 
- 
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H) (such as metal waste, wooden
waste, paper waste etc.) 
- 
- 
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H) 
- 
- 
Note: The Company does not have any operation contributing to waste 
                                                                                                                                    
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 
         (in metric tonnes) 
Parameter 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 2021-22 
Category of waste 
- 
- 
(i) 
Recycled 
- 
- 
(ii) Re-used 
- 
- 
(iii)     Other recovery operations (co-processing) 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed of by nature 
of disposal method 
(in metric tonnes) 
Parameter 
FY 
2022-
23 
FY 2021-22 
Category of waste 
- 
- 
(i) 
Incineration 
- 
- 
(ii) Landfilling 
- 
- 
(iii)     Other disposal operations 
- 
- 
Total 
- 
- 
 
9. 
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your 
establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by the Company to 
reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and 
processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes. 
Not applicable 
10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive 
areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, 
wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify 
details in the following format: 
 
Sr. 
no
. 
Location 
of 
operations/o
ffices 
Type of
operati
ons 
Whether 
the 
conditions 
of 
environmental 
approval/clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, 
the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any. 
Not Applicable 
The registered office is in New Delhi. The Company has land across India, 
which are located in 4 states and are not located in ecologically sensitive 
areas. 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken 
by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year: 
Not applicable 
12. Is 
the 
entity 
compliant 
with 
the 
applicable 
environmental 
law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention and 
Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide 
details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: 
Yes, HPIL is compliant with all applicable environmental laws, regulations 
and guidelines in India to the extent possible 
 
S. N0 
Specify the law/ 
regulation/ 
guidelines which was not 
complied with  
Provide details 
of 
the 
noncompliance 
Any fines/ 
penalties/ action 
taken by 
regulatory 
agencies 
such as pollution 
control boards 
or by courts 
Corrective action 
taken if any 
Not Applicable 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. 
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) 
from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the following format: 
 
Parameter 
FY 2022-
23 
FY 
2021-
22 
From Renewable Sources 
Total electricity consumption (A) 
- 
- 
Total fuel consumption (B) 
- 
- 
Energy consumption through other sources (C) 
- 
- 
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 
- 
- 
From Non Renewable Sources 
- 
- 
Total electricity consumption (D) 
- 
- 
Total fuel consumption (E) 
- 
- 
Energy consumption through other sources (F) 
- 
- 
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 
- 
- 
Note:  The Company does not have any operation due to which no consumption of renewable & Non- Renewal 
energy were recorded. 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
2. 
Provide the following details related to water discharged:                             
Not applicable 
 
3. 
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in 
kilolitres): 
Not applicable 
 
 
4. 
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following 
: 
Not applicable. 
 
5. 
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of 
Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant direct & indirect 
impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities. 
Not applicable. 
 
6. 
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative 
technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due 
to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of 
the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format: 
Since your Company does not own any manufacturing facility, there are less 
significance of this question. 
 
7. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give 
details in 100 words/ web link. 
No, the Company due to limited operations doesnot have any business continuity 
and disaster management plan. However, to support the further operations the 
Company shall consider the same.  
 
8. 
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from 
the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures 
have been taken by the entity in this regard: 
Not applicable due to limited operations. 
 
 
9. 
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts: 
 Not applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
PRINCIPLE 7 
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do 
so in a manner that is responsible and transparent 
 
Essential Indicators 
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations. 
The 
Company 
has 
not 
associated 
with 
any 
trade 
and 
industry 
chambers/associations. 
 
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based 
on the total members of such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to: 
 
Si. No 
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations 
Reach of trade and 
industry chambers/ 
associations 
(State/National) 
 
NIL 
 
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to 
anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory 
authorities:  
No adverse orders were passed from regulatory authorities 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
 
S. 
No. 
Public policy advocated 
Method 
resorted 
for 
such 
advocacy 
Whether 
informati
on 
available 
in public 
domain? 
(Yes/No) 
Frequency 
of Review by
Board 
(Annually/H
alf 
yearly/Quar
terly 
/Others 
–
please 
specify) 
Web 
Link, 
if
available 
9. 
The Company is advocating 
the policy laid down by 
Statutory bodies such as 
SEBI, MCA, RBI policy etc 
Through 
interaction 
NO 
These 
policies will be 
reviewed every 
3 years 
NIL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 8 
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Essential Indicators 
 
1. 
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity 
based on applicable laws, in the current financial year:  
Not Applicable. 
 
2. 
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and 
Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the following 
format: 
Not applicable 
 
3. 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community: 
The Company has a Public Grievance Redressal system for dealing with the 
grievances of the public at large.  
 
4. 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from 
suppliers: 
 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-
22 
Directly sourced from MSMEs (%) 
- 
- 
Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring 
districts (%)* 
- 
- 
* The Company has limited operations due to which no input material was 
utilized. 
 
Leadership Indicators 
1. 
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts 
identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of 
Essential Indicators above): 
Not Applicable 
 
 
2. 
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your 
entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by government 
bodies: 
The provision of CSR are not Applicable on Company.  
 
S
r 
n
o. 
State 
Aspirational 
District 
Amount 
spent (in `) 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Nil 
 
3. 
a. Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference 
to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalised/vulnerable groups? 
(Yes/No): 
 
No, the company does not have any preferential procurement policy where 
preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalised/vulnerable 
groups. 
 
b. 
From which marginalised/vulnerable groups do you procure? 
Not applicable 
 
c. 
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? 
          No such procurement made by Company 
 
4. 
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties 
owned or acquired by your entity (in the current financial year), based on 
traditional knowledge: The Company owns various Intellectual Property 
based on traditional knowledge. However, no benefit is derived or shared 
with any party 
      Not applicable 
 
5. 
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in 
intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge 
is involved: 
Not Applicable 
 
 
PRINCIPLE 9 
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Essential Indicators 
1. 
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer 
complaints and feedback. 
The Company due to limited operation doesnot have any consumer and 
as on date of report no such mechanism has been devised.  
2. 
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all 
products/service that carry information about: 
As a Percentage to total turnover 
Environmental and Social Parameters relevant to the product Not applicable 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Safe and Responsible Usage 
Recycling and/or safe disposal 
 
3. 
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the data privacy, advertising, 
cyber security, restrictive trade practices. 
 
 
FY 2022 -23  
Remarks 
FY 2021-22 
Remarks 
Received 
during 
the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at 
end 
of 
year 
Received 
during 
the 
year 
Pending 
resolution 
at 
end 
of 
year 
Data privacy 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Advertising 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Cyber 
Security 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Delivery of 
essential 
services18 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Restrictive 
Trade 
Practices 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Unfair Trade 
Practices 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
Other 
0 
0 
- 
0 
0 
- 
 
4. 
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues: 
 
Number 
Reasons for recall 
Voluntary recalls 
Not applicable 
Forced Recall 
 
Due to nature of business of HPIL, product recalls on account of safety 
issues is not applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
5. 
Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related 
to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy: 
No, Due to limited operation and nature of Business the company has not framed 
policy/framework on cyber security and risks related to data privacy. 
 
6. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating 
to advertising, and delivery of essential services; cyber security and data 
privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty/action 
taken 
by 
regulatory 
authorities 
on 
safety 
of 
products/services: Not applicable. 
 
Leadership Indicators 
 
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
1. 
Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity 
can be accessed (provide web link, if available). 
Details 
of all 
the products and 
services are 
provided 
on 
www.hpil.co.in. 
 
2. 
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage 
of products and/ or services. 
The Company due to limited operation and does not have many consumer  as on date 
of report. Accordingly, the Company has not taken steps to inform and educate the 
consumers. 
3. 
Mechanisms 
in 
place 
to 
inform 
consumers 
of 
any 
risk 
of 
disruption/discontinuation of essential services: 
The Company due to limited operations has not framed any mechanism to inform risk 
of disruption/discontinuation of essential services. The risk factor associated with 
operations of company are given in Management Discussion & Analysis Report. 
 
4. 
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what 
is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in 
brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of 
operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) 
The Company is in Real Estate Business and as on date of report has limited 
operations. The Company assures to follow the regulatory framework applicable on 
Company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to limited operations, no such survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation 
of the entity. 
5. Provide the following information relating to data breaches: 
a. Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact 
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of   
customers: Such instances were Nil for the financial year 2022-23 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Chairman, Managing Director 
(DIN: 01911714) 
 
  
                                                                                                                 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     107 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
108 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Annexure-III to the Board’s Report 
 
Report on Corporate Governance 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited complies with all mandatory requirements for 
corporate governance as outlined by the Companies Act, 2013, (“the Act”), SEBI’s 
Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR 
Regulations”), the Department of Public Enterprises’ Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises (“DPE Guidelines”) and the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India’s Secretarial Standards (“SS”). 
A report regarding compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is provided 
below, followed by a Certificate on Corporate Governance issued for the  Company. 
In accordance with the Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing 
Regulations”) the report on compliance with the conditions of corporate governance 
and the disclosure requirements for the financial year 2022-23 is given as under:
 
 
PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Corporate Governance is managing the business in an ethical and responsible 
manner geared to sustainable value creation for stakeholders within the prevalent 
regulatory framework. The Company believes in adopting the best practices 
Governance means is the process of making and enforcing decisions within an 
organization or society. It is the process of interactions through the laws & social 
norms and Corporate governance is defined as “the system by which organisations 
are directed and controlled”. In essence, it is the “management of an organisation’s 
management. 
The  Company philosophy on Corporate governance aims to provide and enhance 
transparency, fairness and satisfaction to stakeholder to develop their faith in 
Company.  It is based on following factors: 
 Compliance of Legal Framework 
 Transparency for Stakeholders’ trust 
 Protecting the interest  and value of shareholders 
 Recognition of obligations towards all stakeholders, shareholders, customers, 
employees, suppliers and the society 
The Company is fully committed to follow and implement the best Corporate 
Governance practices by adherence to the applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the 
Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) and other authorities from time to time. 
The practices and policies of Company helps to maintain the cohesiveness of 
organization. It implies fairness, transparency and accountability in the business 
activities of an organization, The Company is fully committed to ensure the 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
109 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
compliance with the SEBI (Listing and Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and guidelines issued by DPE on Corporate Governance. 
1.Board of Directors 
1.1 Composition of the Board 
The Board of Directors of HPIL as on March 31, 2023, Board of the Company had 
seven (7) Directors. Board is headed by an Executive Chairman and Managing 
Director and there are total 5 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Non-Official 
Independent Director on the Board of Company. 
The Board is at the core of our corporate governance practice. The Board oversees 
the function and protects the long-term interests of the stakeholders. Being a 
Government Company, HPIL, the power to appoint the Board of Directors is vested 
with the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs  
The composition of the Board is not as per the statutory provisions including 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 read with Section 149 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 Act.  
Being a Government company within the meaning of Section 2(45) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the power to appoint Directors on the Board of Company vests with the 
President of India acting through the Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry of Housing 
& Urban Affairs, The Company Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors 
shall be appointed by Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA). 
S.No 
Name 
DIN 
Designation 
Category  
Appointment 
1. Smt. D Thara 
01911714 
CMD 
Executive 
18.11.2019 
2. Shri 
Diwakar 
Kumar Barnwal 
08953153 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
12.11.2020 
3. Smt. 
Priya 
Mahadevan 
08026476 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
14.06.2021  
4. Shri Rajeev Kumar 
Das 
07730466 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
14.06.2021 
5. Shri 
Ravi 
Kumar 
Arora 
09217881 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
28.06.2021 
6. Dr. 
Madhu 
Rani 
Teotia 
09352906 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
12.10.2021 
7. Shri Suvasish Das 
09826037 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
15.12.2022 
8. Dr. Sunita Chandra 
09415680 
Independent 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
29.11.2021 
9. Shri 
G 
R 
Kanakavidu 
09471091 
Independent 
Director 
Non-
Executive 
20.01.2022 
 
1.2 Changes in Composition of Board of Directors in FY 2022-2023 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
110 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
1. The President of India, through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs 
(MoHUA), Government of India, being the Administrative Ministry and Appointing 
Authority: 
 
vide its order dated April 18, 2022, Smt. Priya Mahadevan ceased to be   
Director on the Board of the Company. 
 
vide its order dated December 15, 2022, Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia ceased to be 
Director on the Board of the   Company and Sh. Suvasish Das appointed as 
Director in HPIL. 
 
2. As on March 31, 2023, there exists 3 vacancies of Part time Non-official 
(Independent) Director and The Competent Authority to appoint Directors in the 
Company  is with Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) and the  
Composition of Board is not in accordance with SEBI Regulations and DPE 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance. The Company has made request to the 
MoHUA, being the Administrative Ministry/ appointing authority to appoint more 
Independent Director to make composition of the Board in conformity with the 
SEBI(LODR) Regulations, 2015, DPE guidelines and all other applicable rules/ 
regulations. 
 
 
1.3. Profile of Board  
 
The Directors of HPIL are equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to 
efficiently and effectively run the Company’s operations. They work together to offer 
the strategic direction an support needed to achieve the Company’s goals and 
objectives. 
The Board of Directors of your Company comprises of professionals, having 
skills/expertise and competence in diverse fields like administration, finance, 
management, law, etc., who provide strategic direction and guidance to the 
organization. All the Directors  except Independent Directors of the Company are 
officials of the Administrative Ministry, i.e., Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, 
Government of India  
 
Their wide range of skills, expertise and competency enhances the quality of the 
Board’s decision-making process. All the Board members, had effectively participated 
in the Board/ Committee meetings and contributed substantially towards the growth 
of the organization. The brief profile of the Board is given in the beginning of the 
report. 
 
 
1.4 Matrix setting out the skills/ expertise/ competence of Board of Directors  
List of core skills/ expertise/ competence HPIL is a Government Company, all 
Directors on its Board viz., Functional Directors, Government Nominee Directors and 
Independent Directors are selected and appointed by the Government as per a well 
laid down process for each category 
of directors. The requirements of core skills, expertise and competence for the Board 
to function effectively, in context of business segment HPIL operates in, forms an 
integral part of the government’s process of selection of these directors. Therefore, 
the Board of HPIL by itself does not identify any such core skills or competence 
required for the job as well as identification of directors for particular skill/ 
expertise/ competence. . The Board of Directors of the 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
111 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Company comprises of highly professional and competent persons with vast 
experience in different fields of management. The credentials of the Board of 
Directors have been given in the annual report of the Company and same have also 
been placed on the website of the Company. 
 
 
1.5 Board’s Responsibilities 
The Board’s mandate is to oversee the Company’s strategic direction, review and 
monitor corporate performance, ensure regulatory compliance and safeguard the 
interests of the stakeholders 
 
2. Details of Board meetings, Attendance of Board held during the   financial 
year 2022-23 
 
2.1. Details of Board meetings held during the year:  
 
The members of the Board have access to all information of the Company and are 
free to recommend inclusion of any matter for discussion in agenda which is 
usually sent in advance. The Board meets at least once in a quarter to review the 
quarterly results and other items on the agenda. Additional meetings are held, 
whenever necessary. 
 
The Company during FY 2022-23 convened 6 meeting of Board of Directors which 
are as under: on the following dates: 
 
1st quarter 
2nd quarter 
3rd quarter 
4th quarter 
06.05.2022 
03.08.2022 
10.11.2022 
10.02.2023 
26.05.2022 
- 
- 
29.03.2023 
The Board minutes are prepared promptly after every Board meeting and 
circulated to all Directors for their comments, if any, and approved by the 
Chairman thereafter. The approved minutes are then circulated to the 
departments/ 
groups concerned for initiating appropriate action and implementation 
The minimum and maximum gap between any two Board meetings held during 
the financial year was 18 (Eighteen ) days and 99 (Ninety Nine) days, respectively. 
Further, gap between the first Board meeting of financial year 2022-23 from the 
last Board meeting of financial year 2021-22, was 84 (Eighty four) days. 
 
2.2 Attendance of each Director at the Board Meetings held during 2022-23 and 
the last AGM.  
 
2.3. Details of Directorships, Committee Memberships and Committee 
Chairmanship in other companies as on March 31, 2023 
 
Attendance of Directors during FY 2022-2023 at Board meetings, last Annual 
General Meetings and number of other directorships and Memberships on 
Boards/Committees of various other Committees are given thereunder: 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
112 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
* The President of India, through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), Government of India, being 
the Administrative Ministry and Appointing Authority: 
  - vide its order dated April 18, 2022, Ms. Priya Mahadevan ceased to be Director on the Board of the     Company. 
  - vide its order dated December 15, 2022, Dr Madhu Rani Teotia ceased to be Director on the Board of the     
Company and Sh. Suvasish Das appointed as Director in HPIL. 
 
 
2.4. Details of Directorships, Committee Memberships and Committee 
Chairmanship in other companies as on March 31, 2023  
 
Director’s name 
Details of  Directorships in 
other Companies 
Details 
of 
Committee 
Memberships 
and 
Committee 
Chairmanship in other 
Companies* 
D Thara 
i. HSCC (India) Limited 
ii. Madhya Pradesh Metro 
Rail Corporation Limited 
iii. The Delhi Golf club 
iv. Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited 
Audit Committee 
1. HSCC (India) Limited 
 
Ravi Kumar Arora 
i. NBCC (India) Limited 
ii. Noida 
Metro 
Rail 
Corporation Limited 
iii. The Delhi Golf Club 
iv. Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
NIL 
Suvasish Das 
 
i. Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
NIL 
Diwakar Kumar Barnwal 
i. Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
NIL 
Name of 
Director 
Position 
in 
Company 
No. of   Board 
meetings 
held 
during 
his/her 
duration 
No. 
of 
Board 
Meetings 
Attended 
Last AGM 
(held 
on 
28.12.20
22 
Smt D Thara 
CMD 
6 
6 
Yes 
Shri Ravi Kumar 
Arora 
Director 
6 
3 
No 
Shri Suvasish Das 
 
Director 
2 
2 
Yes 
Shri Diwakar Kumar 
Barnwal 
Director 
6 
4 
Yes 
Shri Priya Mahadevan 
Director 
- 
- 
NA 
Shri Rajeev Kumar 
Das 
Director 
6 
4 
Yes 
Dr. Madhu Rani 
Teotia 
Director 
4 
2 
NA 
Shri Dr. Sunita 
Chandra 
Independent 
Director 
6 
6 
Yes 
Shri GR Kanakavidu 
Independent 
Director 
6 
6 
Yes 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
113 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Priya Mahadevan 
NA 
NA 
Rajeev Kumar Das 
i. Ranchi 
Smart 
City 
Corporation Limited 
ii. Agra Smart City Limited
 
 
iii. Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
NIL 
Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia 
i. Silvassa 
Smart 
City 
Limited 
ii. Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
 
 
NA 
Dr. Sunita Chandra 
i. 
Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
NIL 
GR Kanakavidu 
i. 
Hemisphere 
Properties 
India Limited 
NIL 
 
 
Notes: 
 
No. of Directorships in listed entities including Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
as on March 31, 2021 are taken into account. 
 
 
No. of Chairmanship/Membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee of public companies including this listed entity are taken into 
account. 
 
 
 Directors are not per se related to each other Directors do not have any pecuniary 
relationship or transaction with the Company . 
 
 
 None of the Director is a member of more than 10 Committees or Chairman of more 
than 5 Committees across all the Companies in which she/he is a Director. 
 
 
2.5 Other Disclosure & Provisions as to Board and its Committees  
i. Procedure of Board 
 
i. 
The Company follows a methodized process of holding Board and 
Committees meetings. The meeting dates are usually finalized in 
consultation with CMD and other Directors well in advance, to ensure their 
full presence and maximum participation of all concerned. The agenda 
notes are circulated within statutory timelines through electronic or 
physical mode, as preferred by the respective Director.  
 
ii. 
The Company sends agenda notes for Board & Committee meetings to the 
Directors electronically and physically. 
 
iii. 
As per business requirements, at times resolutions are also passed by 
circulation, which are noted in the next Board meeting. In the event of 
urgent business needs, meetings are sometimes called at a shorter notice, 
following the prescribed procedure. 
 
iv. 
. Agenda notes contain  summary in a standard format, alongwith detailed 
information about the proposal, including draft resolution(s) to be 
approved. The Company complies with the Secretarial Standards issued by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI). 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
114 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
ii. 
Selection of Agenda items for Board Meeting 
 
The Board has complete access to all the information available within the Company. 
The quantum and quality of information supplied to the Board goes well beyond the 
minimum requirements stipulated under Schedule II of SEBI LODR Regulations. The 
information provided to the Board includes, inter-alia, the following: 
 
Planning and budgets and any updates. 
 
Capital budgets and any updates. 
 
Proposals relating to raising of funds. 
 
Proposals for sanction of financial assistance. 
 
Quarterly, half yearly and annual financial results and Board’s Report. 
 
All related party transactions. 
 
Minutes of meetings of Audit Committee and other Committees of the Board. 
 
Minutes of Board meetings of subsidiary companies. 
 
The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below 
the Board level, including appointment 
 
or removal of Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. 
 
Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices which are 
materially important, if any. 
 
Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or 
pollution problems, if any. 
 
Any material default in financial obligations to and by the Company or 
substantial non-payment for goods sold by the 
 
Company, if any. 
 
Issue which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial 
nature, including any judgment or order, 
 
which may have passed strictures on the conduct of the Company or taken an 
adverse view regarding another 
 
enterprise that can have negative implications on the Company, if any. 
 
Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
 
Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity 
or intellectual property, if any. 
 
Significant labour problems, if any and their proposed solutions. Any 
significant development in human resources / 
 
industrial relations front like signing of wage agreement, implementation of 
voluntary retirement scheme etc., if any. 
 
Investments, formation of subsidiaries and joint ventures, strategic alliances 
etc. 
 
Sale of investments, subsidiaries, assets which are material in nature and not 
in normal course of business. 
 
Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by 
management to limit the risks of adverse 
 
exchange rate movement, if material. 
 
Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing requirements and 
shareholders service such as non-payment 
 
of dividend, delay in share transfer etc., if applicable. 
 
Quarterly report on loans sanctioned. 
 
Quarterly report on deployment of short-term surplus funds. 
 
Quarterly report on borrowings and redemption. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
115 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Quarterly report on compliance of various applicable laws. 
 
Quarterly report on Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit, Corporate 
Governance Report and status of Investor 
 
Grievances. 
 
Half yearly report on long term investments. 
 
Half yearly report on compliance of Whistle Blower Policy of the Company. 
 
Half yearly report on compliance of Fair Practices Code. 
 
Periodic reports under Delegation of Powers of the Company. 
 
Action Taken Report on earlier deliberations/decisions/suggestions of the 
Board. 
 
Any other information required to be presented to the Board for information or 
approval. 
iii. Recording of minutes of the Board and Committee meetings and follow-up 
mechanism 
 
The minutes of the each Board and Committee meeting are recorded by the Company 
Secretary. Draft minutes are circulated to members for their comments and finalized 
minutes are entered into the minute book within 30 days of the conclusion of the 
meeting. Decisions taken in the Board /Committee meetings are communicated to 
respective departments for necessary action and action taken report on decisions of 
the previous meeting(s) is placed at the succeeding meeting of the Board/ Committee 
for information of the members. 
Further, the minutes of all the committee meetings are placed before the Board of 
Director of the Company. 
 
iv. Compliance 
 
While preparing the agenda notes and minutes of the meeting(s), adherence to 
applicable laws, rules and regulations including Companies Act, 2013 read with 
rules issued thereunder, SEBI Laws and Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India is ensured 
 
v. Independent Directors 
The Independent Directors play an important role in deliberations at the Board and 
Committee meetings and bring to the Company their expertise in the fields of 
engineering, finance, management, law, public policy etc.  
 
The Independent Directors are part of important Committees constituted by the 
Board such as the Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee & Risk Management Committee. 
 In terms of Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, the Audit Committee and 
the Nomination & Remuneration Committee are chaired by an Independent Director 
and function within their respective defined terms of references. Further, in line with 
DPE OM dated December 28, 2012 on Model Role & Responsibilities of Non-Official 
Directors for CPSEs, the Board had constituted a Committee of Independent 
Directors.  
 
The said Committee is in compliance with the requirements of Listing Regulations 
and the Code of Independent Directors under Companies Act, 2013. Details 
regarding familiarization programme of Independent Directors are available on the 
website of the Company www.hpil.co.in under the heading ‘Familiarization 
Programme for Directors’. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
116 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified 
in the Listing Regulations and are independent of the Management. 
 
 
 
vi. Retirement by rotation at the ensuing 19th   AGM 
 
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Shri Ravi  Kumar 
Arora, Director (DIN 09217881), shall retire by rotation at the ensuing 19th   Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) of the Company. Being eligible, he offers himself for re-
appointment.  
 
vii. Resume of Director 
The brief resume of Shri Ravi  Kumar Arora, including his expertise in various 
functional areas and other relevant information, is appearing in the Notice of AGM 
forming part of this Annual Report. 
 
viii. Inter-se relationship between Directors 
 
There is no inter-se relationship between the Directors of the Company. 
 
ix. Shares and convertible instruments held by Non-Executive Directors 
None of the Directors hold any shares or convertible instruments in the Company. 
 
x. Separate meeting of Independent Directors 
 
During the period under review, one meeting of Independent  Directors on the Board 
was held on February 10,2023 for the financial year 2022-23. 
 
xi. Selection of New Directors 
 
The President of India through the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs appoints the 
Chairman & Managing Director and Directors on the Board of HPIL.  
 
The Independent Directors are selected by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs in 
consultation with the Search Committee of the Department of Public Enterprises 
which maintains a panel of eminent personalities having wide experience in the field 
of Management, Finance, Engineering, Administration, Industry etc. 
 
xii Certificate by Company Secretary in Practice 
The Company has received a certificate from a company secretary in practice that 
none of the Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director of the Company by 
SEBI/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory 
authority. The same is enclosed. 
 
xiii. Board Policies 
 Following policies/codes are uploaded on the Company’s website at www.hpil.co.in 
in in line with the Companies Act, SEBI (LODR) Regulations and DPE guidelines: 
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior Management 
• Corporate Policy on Materiality for Disclosure of events to the Stock Exchanges 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
117 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
• 
Familiarization 
Program 
for 
Directors 
(weblink: 
https://hpil.co.in/wp-
content/uploads/2022/07/FAMILIARISATION-PROGRAMME-OF-INDEPENDENT-
DIRECTORS.pdf ) 
• Materiality Policy 
 
• Preservation of Documents and Archival Policy 
• Policy on Related Party Transactions 
• Terms and conditions of Appointment of Part-time Non Official Directors 
• Procedures and Conduct for Prohibition of Insider Trading in Dealing with 
Securities 
• Whistle Blower Policy 
• Dividend Distribution Policy. 
xiv. Necessary disclosures regarding Committee positions in other public companies 
as on March 31, 2023  have been made by the Directors. 
 
 
3. Constitution and Composition of Committee  
The Board of Directors functions either as full Board, or through various Committees  
each Committee is guided by its terms of reference approved by the Board, which 
define its composition, scope and powers. The Committees meet regularly and as 
required; and focus on their assigned areas to make informed decisions within the 
authority delegated to them. 
As on March 31, 2023, the Board had the following Committees: - 
 
1. Audit Committee 
2. Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
3. Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
4. Risk Management Committee 
 
The minutes of meetings of all Committees are placed before the Board, for 
information  
 
3.1 Audit Committee 
 
 
The Company has constituted Audit Committee in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 18 of SEBI LODR Regulations 
and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance. The Audit Committee carries out the 
role as per its terms of reference and reviews the information prescribed under the 
applicable statutory provisions. 
 
i. Terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as under: 
 
a) To comply with the requirements in accordance with Section 177 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time; 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
118 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
b) To comply with the requirements relating to Audit Committee as envisaged in 
SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended 
from time to time; 
 
c) To comply with the Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector 
Enterprises, 2010, as notified by the DPE, as amended from time to time; and 
 
d) To comply with any other applicable provisions, as amended from time to time, 
relating to the Audit Committee. 
 
It inter alia, includes as under: 
1. Oversight of the listed entity’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its 
financial information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and 
credible; 
 
2. Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of 
auditors of the listed entity; 
 
3 Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the 
statutory auditors; 
 
4. Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements and auditor’s 
report thereon before submission to the board for approval, with particular reference 
to: 
 
(a) Matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be 
included in the board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 
of the Companies Act, 2013; 
 
(b) Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same; 
 
(c) Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by 
management; 
 
(d) Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit 
findings; 
 
(e) Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial 
statements; 
 
(f) Disclosure of any related party transactions; 
 
(g) Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report. 
 
5. Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before 
submission to the board for approval; 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
119 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
6. Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds 
raised through an issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the 
statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document / prospectus / notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a public issue or rights issue or preferential 
issue or qualified institutions placement and making appropriate recommendations 
to the board to take up steps in this matter; 
7. Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, wherever it is necessary; 
8. Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems; 
9. Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, 
adequacy of the internal control systems; 
10. Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure 
of the internal audit department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit; 
11. Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there 
on; 
12. Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control 
systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board; 
13. Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the 
nature and scope of audit as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of  
concern; 
14. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower/ Vigil mechanism; 
 
15. To review the Audit paras referred by the Internal Audit/ Board and/ or Govt. of 
India and to provide its suggestions/ guidance/ comments on the issues referred to 
it; 
 
16. Discussion with Statutory Auditors/ Internal Auditors periodically about internal 
control systems; 
17. To seek professional advice from external sources in appropriate cases, wherever 
required; 
18. The Audit Committee shall also review the following information: 
a) Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of 
operations; 
b) Statement of significant related party transactions; 
c) Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the 
statutory auditors; and 
d) Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses; 
 
 
ii. Composition of Committee, name of Members & Chairperson 
 
The composition of the Audit Committee is in compliance with Listing Regulations 
and Companies Act, 2013. The Audit Committee is chaired by an Independent 
Director. 
The member Directors comprise of professionals of repute and standing with 
background in commerce, finance, administration and governance. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
120 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The Audit Committee was last reconstituted w.e.f. February 10, 2023. 
 
The composition, meeting & attendance of the Audit Committee during the year 
comprised of the following Directors: 
 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position 
in 
the 
Committee 
Date of meeting and attendance 
26.05.2022 03.08.2022 10.11.2022 10.02.2023 29.03.2023 
Dr 
Sunita 
Chandra 
Chairperson 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Sh. 
G 
R 
Kanakavidu 
Member 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Sh. 
Suvasish 
Das 
Member 
(w.e.f 
10.02.23) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Yes 
Yes 
Sh.Ravi 
K 
Arora 
Member 
 upto 
10.02.23) 
Yes 
Yes 
NA 
NA 
NA 
 
The Audit Committee met Five times on May 26, 2022, August 03, 2022, November 
10, 2022, February 10, 2023 and March 29, 2023 during the year under review. The 
details of attendance of each member is given in the above table 
The quorum for meetings of Audit Committee is two members or one third of the 
total number of members, whichever is  greater, with at least two Independent 
Directors present. Further, CFO is permanent invitee in Audit Committee and 
representatives of Statutory Auditors of the Company are also invited to the meetings 
of the Audit Committee. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The maximum gap between any two meetings of the Audit Committee was not more 
than one hundred and twenty days. 
The Chairperson of the Audit Committee possesses accounting and financial 
management expertise and all other members of the Audit Committee are financially 
literate. Further, the then Chairperson of the Audit Committee was present at the 
last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on December 28, 2022, to answer 
shareholders’ queries. 
 
3.2 Nomination & Remuneration Committee  
 
HPIL being a Central Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE),the appointment, tenure and 
remuneration of CMD, Directors and other Directors are decided by the 
administrative ministry i.e., MoHUA. Any of the Directors are not drawing any 
remuneration from the Company. 
 
The Company had constituted a Nomination & Remuneration Committee in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
Regulation 19 of SEBI LODR Regulations and DPE Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance.  
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
121 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
i. Terms of reference of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee, to the 
extent applicable to Company, are as under: 
a. To comply with the requirements in accordance with Section 178 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time; 
b. To comply with the requirements relating to Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee as envisaged in SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time;  
 
Being a CPSE, the remuneration of functional directors, key managerial personnel 
and other employees of the Company including senior management personnel, is 
determined as per the extant guidelines on pay, perquisites, allowances etc. issued 
by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) and/or Government of India from 
time to time.   
MCA vide Notification dated June 5, 2015 provided that Section 178 (2), (3) & (4) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 with regard to performance evaluation of Directors shall 
not apply to Government Company The appointment, tenure and remuneration of 
Chairperson and Managing Director and other Directors are decided by the President 
of India and communicated by the administrative ministry i.e., the Ministry of 
Housing & Urban Affairs, Government of India. 
The  Non-official Directors including Independent Directors shall be paid sitting fees 
for attending the meetings of Board and Committees thereof, as decided by the Board 
from time to time. The amount of sitting fees paid is well within the limits prescribed 
under the Companies Act, 2013.  
The quorum for meetings of Nomination & Remuneration Committee is two 
members, including the Chairperson of the Committee. The Company Secretary acts 
as the Secretary to the Committee.  
ii. Composition of Committee, name of Members & Chairperson, Attendance: 
During the financial year 2022-23, following meetings were held as under 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position in the 
Committee 
Date 
of 
meeting 
and 
attendance  
10.11.2022 
Shri GR Kanankavidu 
Chairperson  
 
Yes 
Dr. Sunita Chandra 
Member 
Yes 
Madhu Rani Teotia 
Member 
(uptp  15.12.2022) 
No 
Shri Suvasish Das 
Member (w.e.f 10.02.2023) 
NA 
The Board reconstituted the Committee on February 10 ,2023  and Shri Suvasish 
Das appointed as Member in the Committee due to cessation of Dr. Madhu Rani 
Teotia as Director vide Administrative Ministry dated 15.12.2022. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
122 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) vide notification dated June 5, 2015, had 
exempted Government companies from the requirement related to formulation of 
criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes, independence and annual 
evaluation of Directors and policy relating to remuneration of Directors. 
Further, MCA vide notification dated July 5, 2017, had prescribed that the 
provisions relating to review of performance of Independent Directors and evaluation 
mechanism, as prescribed in Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013, are also not 
applicable to Government companies.  
Details regarding remuneration paid to Directors of the Company of the Company 
during the financial year 2022-23 are given below: 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
123 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
iii. Remuneration of Non-Executive Independent Directors  
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fee of ₹15,000/- for attending each 
meeting of the Board of Directors and ₹10,000/- for attending each meeting of the 
Committee(s) thereof, which is well within the limits prescribed under the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder. 
During the financial year 2022-23, the details of remuneration paid to Non-Executive 
Directors towards sitting fee (excluding GST), were as under: - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(In Rs.) 
S. 
No 
Name of Non-Executive 
Independent Directors 
Sitting fee 
 
Board 
Meeting 
Committee 
Meeting 
Total 
1. Dr. 
Sunita 
Chandra 
(w.e.f 29.11.2021) 
90,000 
80000 
170,000 
2. Shri 
GR 
Kanakavidu 
(w.e.f 20.01.2022) 
90000 
70000 
160,000 
 
Apart from the above, the Non-Executive Directors do not have any material 
pecuniary relationship or transaction with the Company, except to the extent of 
payment / reimbursement towards air tickets, hotel accommodation, hiring of 
vehicle, out-of-pocket expenses, local conveyance etc., if applicable, in respect of 
attending the meetings of the Board or Committees thereof. 
iv. Equity Shares held by Directors 
None of the Directors hold any equity shares in HPIL as on March 31, 2023. 
 
4.3 Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
 
Name 
Designation 
/nature of Duty 
Rémunération 
received (₹)/Salary & 
Allowances 
Perquisites 
Other 
Benefits 
Pensio
n  
Any 
other 
Tot
al 
 D Thara 
CMD 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ravi 
Kumar 
Arora 
Director 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Suvasish Das 
Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Madhu Rani 
Teotia 
Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diwakar 
Kumar 
Barnwal 
Director 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Rajeev 
Kumar 
Das 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Priya Mahadevan 
Director 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
124 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The Company has constituted a Stakeholders Relationship Committee, in terms of 
the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 20 of SEBI 
LODR Regulations and other applicable laws. The Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee specifically looks into the redressal of requests, complaints or grievances 
from various security holders including shareholders, debenture-holders etc., such 
as non-receipt of dividend credit / warrants, non-receipt of interest on debentures, 
matters connected with transfer, transmission, re-materialization, dematerialization, 
splitting and consolidation of securities issued by the Company.  
i. Terms of Reference of Stakeholders Relationship Committee are as under: 
The Board of Directors on  constituted the Shareholders’/ Investors’ Grievance 
Committee as the Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC), in line with the 
requirements of Companies Act, 2013 and erstwhile Listing Agreement (now Listing 
Regulations). The terms of reference of the Committee are in line with the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 as well as the Listing 
Regulations and are as under: 
a. Resolution of the grievances of the security holders of the Company including 
complaints related to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual 
report,non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/ duplicate certificates, 
general meetings etc.; 
b. Reviewing measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders; 
c. 
Reviewing adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in 
respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer 
Agent; 
d. Reviewing the various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for 
reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/ annual reports/ statutory notices by the shareholders of the 
company; 
e. 
To look into various aspects of interest of shareholders, debenture holders and 
other security holders; 
f. 
Carrying out any other function related to the terms of reference of the 
Committee as prescribed under the Companies Act, SEBI Regulations and other 
statutory regulations. 
 
ii. Composition of Committee, name of Members & Chairperson and 
Attendance: 
During the financial year 2022-23, the Stakeholders Relationship Committee met 
1(one) times The composition of Stakeholders Relationship Committee as on March 
31, 2023 and details of attendance at its meetings were as under: 
 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position in the 
Committee 
Date 
of 
meeting 
and 
attendance  
10.11.2022 
Ravi Kumar Arora 
Chairperson (upto 
10.02.2023) 
Yes 
Suvasish Das 
Chairperson (w.e.f 
NA 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
125 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
10.02.2023) 
G R Kanakavidu 
Member 
Yes 
Rajiv Kumar Das 
Member (w.e.f 10.02.2023) 
NA 
Dr. 
Madhu 
rani 
Teotia 
Member (upto 15.12.2022) 
No 
 
The Company Secretary Act as Secretary in the meeting. 
 
iii. The Name & Designation of Compliance Officer as under: 
Ms. Lubna 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Email: Lubna@hpil.co.in  
 
iv. The quorum for meetings of Stakeholders Relationship Committee is two members 
including the Chairperson of the Committee. The Chairperson of the Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee were not present at the last Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on December 23, 2021. 
 
v. Requests & grievances of shareholders 
 
The Company attends to all investor requests & grievances promptly and on an 
expeditious basis, to the satisfaction of the  investors. A quarterly update on the 
status of investor requests & grievances is filed with the Stock Exchanges and also 
placed before the Board.  
 
Investors can lodge their complaints or grievances on SCORES (SEBI Complaints 
Redressal System), which is a web-based complaints redressal system. The status of 
every complaint and Action Taken Report (ATR) thereon can be viewed online, and if 
required, the investor can send reminder for the complaints. Through this system, 
the investors are also able to check the status of the complaints, such as with whom 
the complaint is pending, upon whom the responsibility has been fixed and for how 
much time the complaint is pending. 
 
The details of complaints are as: 
Quarter 
ended on 
Complaint 
pending 
at 
the 
beginning of 
quarter 
Complaint 
resolved 
during 
the 
quarter 
Resolved 
during 
quarter 
Pending at 
the end of 
quarter 
30.06.2022 
1 
3 
4 
0 
30.09.2022 
0 
3 
3 
3 
31.12.2022 
0 
1 
1 
0 
31.03.2023 
0 
4 
3 
1 
 
3.4 Risk Management Committee 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
126 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The Risk Management Committee (RMC) has been constituted in line with the 
provisions of Regulation 21 of SEBI LODR Regulations, to manage the integrated risk 
of the organization.  
 
i Terms of reference of RMC are as under: 
 
a. To manage the integrated risk; 
 
b. To identify various risks likely to arise, evaluate overall risks faced by the 
Company including liquidity risk, monitor and review the risk management plan, 
policies and practices followed by the Company from time to time; 
 
c. To oversee the mitigation of various risks and to perform all other risk 
management functions, which shall also cover cyber security; and 
 
d. To perform any other function, as may be required for compliance of applicable 
statutory provisions issued by RBI, SEBI, MCA and/or any other agencies, from time 
to time. 
 
e. Carrying out any other function related to the terms of reference of the Committee 
as prescribed under the  Companies Act, SEBI Regulations and other statutory 
regulations 
Other functions of RMC are as : 
 To examine and determine the sufficiency of the Company’s internal 
processes for reporting on and managing key risk areas. 
 
 To assess and recommend the Board acceptable levels of risk. 
 
 To develop and implement a risk management framework and internal 
control system. 
 
 To review the nature and level of insurance coverage, if any.. 
 
 To have special investigations into areas of corporate risk and break-downs 
in internal control. 
 
 To set appropriate risk management measures to cope with different 
situations 
 
 To review the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policy and 
system as well as the compliance with the established policy. 
 
 To report regularly to the Board of Directors about the management, 
operation, risk status, changes and areas of improvement to ensure the 
compliance with the Company’s policy and strategy. 
 
 To appoint a risk management working group as necessary. 
 
 To provide the risk management working group with necessary factors, 
such as personnel, budget and other resources as per the scope of their 
responsibilities. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
127 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 To exercise oversight of management’s responsibilities, and review the risk 
profile of the organization to ensure that risk is not higher than the risk 
appetite determined by the board. 
 
ii. Composition of Committee, name of Members, Chairperson & Attendance: 
 
 
The quorum for meetings of Risk Management Committee is three members, 
including the Chairperson of the Committee. 
 
4. General Meetings 
 
a. Annual General Meetings (AGMs) 
The details of last three Annual General Meetings (AGMs) of the Company are given 
below:- 
 
AGM 
Financial 
year 
TIME 
Date 
Venue 
SR PASSED 
18th AGM 
2021-22 
10.00 AM 28.12.2022 through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ 
Other 
Audio- 
Visual Means 
No 
17th AGM 
2020-21 
4.30 pm 
23.12.2021 through 
Video 
Conferencing 
/ 
Other 
Audio- 
Visual Means  
No 
16th AGM 
2019-20 
11.15 am 29.12.2020 through 
Video 
Conferencing 
No 
Name 
of 
the 
Director 
Position in the 
Committee 
Date of meeting and attendance  
10.11.2022 
10.02.2023 
Dr. 
Madhu 
Rani 
Teotia 
Chairperson  
(upto 15.12.2022) 
 
No 
NA 
Suvasish Das 
Chairperson (w.e.f 
10.02.2023) 
NA 
Yes  
Dr.Sunita Chandra,  
Member  
Yes 
Yes 
Rajeev Kumar Das 
Member 
NA 
yes 
Diwakar 
Kumar 
Barnwal,  
Member 
 (upto 10.02.2023) 
Yes 
NA 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
128 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
/ 
Other 
Audio- 
Visual Means 
 
Further, no special resolution is proposed to be passed through postal ballot process 
upto the ensuing AGM.  
 
b. Extraordinary General Meeting: 
 
No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2022-23. 
 
c. Postal Ballot 
 
Postal Ballot process conducted in March - April, 2023, During the financial year 
2022-23 the Company sought the approval of shareholders (Special Resolution) 
through Postal Ballot Notice dated August 03, 2022, for approval for material related 
party transaction with Central Public Work Department (CPWD). 
 
The Postal Ballot Notice was sent by email to only those shareholders, whose email 
addresses were registered and whose names appeared in the register of members / 
list of beneficial owners of the Company as Friday, 19th  August, 2022 (i.e., the “Cut-
off Date”), in line with applicable MCA Circulars issued in this regard. The electronic 
dispatch of the Postal Ballot 
 
Notice was completed on August  26, 2022. An advertisement regarding completion 
of dispatch was published in Business Standard (English) newspaper & 
Jansatta(Hindi) on August  27, 2022. 
 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited was the remote e-voting agency appointed 
for the said postal ballot. The remote e-voting period was open during 9.00 AM 
Monday, 29th August, 2022 and ends at 5:00 p.m. (IST) on Sunday, the 17th April, 
2022. CS Rahul Chaudhary,  from M/s Rahul Chaudhary & Associates, Company 
Secretaries, was appointed as the Scrutinizer for conducting the said postal ballot 
process in a fair and transparent manner. 
 
After completion of the remote e-voting period and receipt of Scrunitizer’s Report, the 
results of e-voting were announced on Tuesday, 27th September, 2022. The 
resolutions were passed. 
 
Details of e-Voting results are as under: 
S. 
No 
Resolution 
% of votes 
polled in 
favour 
% of Votes against 
Type 
of 
Resolution 
1 
Approval 
For 
Material 
Related Party Transaction 
with 
Central 
Public 
Work 
Department (CPWD) 
 
99.90 
0.10 
SPECIAL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
129 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The results were displayed on the website and communicated to Stock Exchanges, 
within the stipulated timelines. More details with respect to this postal ballot process 
are appearing at www.hpil.co.in  
 
 
5.Service of Documents through Electronic Means 
 
The Company  has been effecting electronic delivery of documents such as Notice of 
AGM, Annual Report etc. post listing of its shares, to those shareholders whose email 
ids are registered with the respective Depository Participants (DPs) or Registrar & 
Share Transfer Agent (R&TA).  
 
In line with the circulars issued by MCA and SEBI, Notice of the 19th    AGM of the 
Company along with Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23, would be sent by 
e-mail to all those shareholders whose e-mail IDs are registered with the Company. 
 
Further, the Company has also sent SMS to the shareholders whose mobile numbers 
were registered with the concerned Depository, for updation of e-mail IDs. Despite 
the above efforts, those shareholders who have still not registered or updated their e-
mail IDs, may follow the process mentioned in the Notice of 19th AGM, for 
registration of e-mail ID and procuring the User ID and Password for e-voting at the 
ensuing AGM. 
 
 
 
6. Means of Communication 
Timely disclosure of consistent, relevant and reliable information on corporate 
financial performance is ensured  and the major steps taken are as under: 
 
i) Quarterly/Annual Results: 
The Company regularly uploads its audited financial results with the Stock 
Exchanges, in compliance with the listing regulations. These financial results are 
published in one English newspaper (Financial Express) having wide circulation 
across the Country and one in Hindi newspaper (Jansatta ) having wide circulation 
across the region. The results are also made available on the Company website. 
 
ii) News Release/Advertisement  
The official news release/ advertisement are displayed on the Company’s website. 
 
iii) Website: 
The Company’s website www.hpil.co.in  contains separate dedicated section for 
investors where information for shareholders is made available. The Annual Report 
and Shareholding Pattern, Corporate Governance Report other communication of the 
Company are also available on the website in a user friendly manner. 
 
 
iv) Green Initiative: 
 
Annual Report containing Financial Statements, Auditors’ Report, Board Report, 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report(MDAR), Corporate  Governance Report 
and Business Responsibility Report including information for the Shareholders and 
other important information is circulated through electronic mode to the members 
and others entitled thereto, as per MCA circular dated May 2020. 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
130 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
7. Secretarial Audit 
 
CS Naresh Kumar Sinha of M/s Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates, Company 
Secretaries, have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the Company for the financial 
year 2022-23 and have submitted their report to the Company. A copy of the 
Secretarial Audit Report is annexed in this Annual Report for information of the 
stakeholders. Further, observations of the Secretarial Auditor and Management’s 
Reply thereto, are appearing in the Board’s Report forming part of this Annual 
Report. 
 
8. Related Party Transactions 
The Company has formulated a Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions 
and Dealing with Related Party Transactions, as per provisions of SEBI LODR 
Regulations, which is available at website of Company. 
 
The transactions with related parties are included in the Notes to Accounts as per 
the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. A status report on Related 
Party Transactions is put up for information of the Audit Committee and the Board 
of Directors on a quarterly basis. For the financial year 2022-23, the particulars of 
Related Party Transactions required to be disclosed in Form AOC-2, is attached. 
 
9. Disclosures 
 
i. Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions that may have 
potential conflict with the interests of Company  
 
The Company has  appointed  CPWD as Nodal Agency for care and maintenance of 
Land parcels of Company.  
As per Indian Accounting Standards, CPWD is related party to Company as it is 
under administration of  Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs.  Accordingly, the 
expenditures incurred in land maintenances are exceeding the limit of materiality as 
mentioned in  Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing Regulation.  The rationale for this as the 
Company turnover is lessor than the expenditure incurred in maintenance and 
security of land parcels. All the transactions are entered in ordinary course of 
Business and at arm length basis. 
None the less, transactions with related parties have been disclosed in Notes to the 
financial statements 2022-23 in the Annual Report. 
 
 
ii Risk Management 
In compliance of SEBI Regulations, 2015 & amendments thereof and DPE guidelines 
on Corporate Governance for CPSEs, HPIL has in place a Board approved Risk 
Management 
Policy, laying down procedures to inform Board members about the risk assessment, 
minimization and mitigation. An important purpose of the policy is to  implement a 
structured and comprehensive risk management system across the Company which 
ensures that the risks are being properly identified and effectively managed. The risk 
management process includes risk identification, risk assessment, risk evaluation, 
risk mitigation and regular review & monitoring.  
 
iii. Utilization of funds raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32 (7A) : NA 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
131 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
iv. Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a 
consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/ 
network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part 
 
Total fees for all services paid to the statutory auditors and branch auditors are 
disclosed in Notes to the financial statements.  
 
v. Loans and advances to firms/companies in which directors are interested :NIL 
 
vi. Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity & statutory auditors thereof:  
Not Applicable 
 
vii. Compliance Certificate on Corporate Governance  
Compliance Certificate on Corporate Governance is enclosed. 
 
viii. Non-compliances, penalties & strictures imposed on the Company related to 
capital markets during the last three years 
 
There were no instances of non-compliance related to the Capital Markets during the 
last three years. For the financial year ended on March 31, 2023, the Company has 
complied with all requirements of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, the Companies Act, 
2013 and rules made 
thereunder, applicable Secretarial Standards issued by ICSI and DPE Guidelines on 
Corporate Governance, as amended from time to time, except with respect to 
Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations related to requirement of at least 50% 
Independent Directors in composition of Board, as the composition of the Board of 
Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2023, was falling short by one 
Independent Director. 
 
Due to such non-compliances, NSE and BSE have imposed a total fine of 
₹43,07,000/- including GST (₹21,53,500/- each), for all the four quarters of FY 
2022-23. As on date, NSE and BSE has imposed total fine of ₹1,62,41,520/- 
including GST (₹81,20,760/- each including GST) from the quarter ended on March 
31, 2020 to quarter ended on March 31, 2023. 
 
It is pertinent to mention that the power to appoint Directors on the Board of the 
Company vests with the President of India, acting through the administrative 
ministry i.e., Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Government of India. The 
Company has been requesting the appointing authority, i.e., MoHUA, for 
appointment of requisite number of Independent Directors and the Company has no 
control in the appointment of Directors or maintaining the Composition of its Board 
& Committees thereof. In view of the same, the Company had requested / is 
requesting the stock exchanges to waive off the said fines. It is pertinent to mention, 
that BSE has already waived off the fine imposed on the Company for the quarters 
ended on December 2020. The Company is following up with the Stock Exchanges 
for waiving off the balance fine(s) as well. 
 
ix. Details of fines /penalty under any other Act 
During period under review, the Company in June, 2022 published an advertisement 
for Expression of Interest to discover the demand of Chattarpur land parcel of 
Company. The Company vide letter dated 29.08.2022 received a notice from Legal 
Metrology Department, Gautambudh Nagar, UP stating that the Company 
contravened with the  Section 11 of Legal metrology Act, 2009. The Company replied 
with the justification for the same. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
132 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Further, the matter was listed on District Court and the Company deposited amount 
of Rs 12,000/- with the court. The matter was disposed off by the Court in July 
2023. 
 
x. As required under statutory provisions, all returns, reports and disclosures were 
filed with the stock exchanges and other authorities within the stipulated time. 
 
xi The Company has complied with the requirements of Regulation 17 to 27 of SEBI 
LODR Regulations relating to Board, Committees and Corporate Governance, as 
amended from time to time; and maintaining and updating the website of the 
Company as required under Regulation 46 of SEBI LODR Regulations, except where 
the Company did not have requisite number of Independent Directors including and 
composition of some Committees of the Board, as detailed in point above. 
 
xii The Company has also complied with the disclosure requirements under 
Corporate Governance Report as per Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI LODR 
Regulations. 
 
xiii Further, in compliance of Regulation 46 of SEBI LODR Regulations, the Company 
has inter-alia, disclosed the relevant information on its website (www.hpil.co.in.)The 
detailed policies are also mentioned on the website of the company such as Whistle 
Blower Mechanism, Code of Conduct etc. 
 
xiv The Company has not entered into any material, financial or commercial 
transactions with the Director(s) or the Management or their relatives or the 
companies and firms etc., in which they are either directly or through their relatives 
interested as Directors and/or Partners. 
 
xv. The Company has not entered into any material, financial or commercial 
transactions with the  Director(s) or the Management or their relatives or the 
companies and firms, etc., in which they are either directly or through their relatives 
interested as Directors and/or Partners. 
 
xvi. All members of senior management have made disclosures in accordance with 
the code of conduct  for financial year 2022-23. 
 
xvii. There were no materially significant transactions with related parties i.e., 
Promoters, Directors or Management, conflicting with the Company’s interest. 
Further, there were no Independent Directors of the Company during financial year 
2022-23 ,hence details of their shareholding was not applicable. 
 
xvii. Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy 
The Company affirms that a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy is in place and 
no person has been denied access to the Competent Authority. A copy of the Whistle 
Blower Policy has also been placed on the website of the Company www.hpil.co.in for 
wide publicity. Address, contact number(s) and email address of the Competent 
Authority and Chairman, Audit Committee are being notified from time to time. The 
complaints received under the Policy are being processed as per the guidelines in 
this regard and no employee has been denied access to the Audit Committee. 
 
xviii. The Company has not incurred any expenditure  which is not for the purpose of 
the business. Further, no expense was incurred which was personal in nature and 
was incurred for the Board of Directors and Senior Management. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
133 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
xix. The Balance Sheet, Statement of Profit & Loss, Statement of Changes in Equity 
and Cash Flow Statement for the financial year 2022-23 have been prepared as per 
the Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (“Ind AS”), as 
amended, and other accounting principles generally accepted in India. 
 
xx. There are no audit qualifications by the Statutory Auditors in their report 
pertaining to financial year 2022-23. Further, the Company has informed the Stock 
Exchanges that the Statutory Auditors have furnished Audit Report on Standalone  
Financial Results with unmodified opinion, in line with the provision of the SEBI 
LODR Regulations. 
 
xxi. The Company has not issued any Stock Options / ESOPs during the financial 
year 2022-23 
 
xxii. Ongoing Litigations 
As on the date of report, the legal case pertaining to Pune, Chennai & Grater Kailash 
land parcel of Company is reduced to 30 from 32.  
 
 
xxiii. The Company has adopted all mandatory items (except for having requisite 
number of Independent Directors on the Board)  which is as under: 
 
a) The Board: The Company is headed by an Executive Chairperson & Managing 
Director 
 
b) Shareholder Rights: The Company is making all relevant information available to 
the shareholders / investors in a timely manner, to enable them to be sufficiently 
informed of the major decisions of the Company; 
 
c) Audit Qualifications: There are no audit qualifications pertaining to financial year 
2022-23. 
 
d) Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal Auditor provides quarterly report on 
the functioning of the Company. 
 
 
10. Disqualification of Directors 
 
Further Rahul Chaudhary & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, have 
provided a certificate confirming that none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company is debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director 
of the Company by SEBI, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any other statutory 
authority. Copy of the said certificate is placed at Annexure to this report. 
 
 
11. Compliance with Applicable Laws 
The Company has a robust system in place for monitoring the compliance with 
applicable laws and related statutory and procedural compliances. The Board of 
Directors of the Company periodically reviews the status of statutory, policy and 
related procedural compliances in order to ensure proper compliances of all laws 
applicable to the Company. 
 
12. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior 
Management 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
134 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The Company has a “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and 
Senior Management”, which is applicable to all Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Senior Management Personnel of the Company. The said Code is  aligned with 
the Company’s mission / vision and objectives and aims at enhancing ethical and 
transparent process in managing the affairs of the Company. The Code 
encompasses: 
• General Moral Imperatives; 
• Specific Professional Responsibilities; and 
• Specific Additional Provisions for Board Members and 
Senior Management Personnel. 
A copy of the Code has been placed on the Company’s website www.hpil.co.in.  
 Based on the affirmations received from all Board members and Senior Management 
Personnel, a declaration by the Chairman and Managing Director of the Company 
regarding compliance of said Code is as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Code of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting Trading by 
Designated Persons and their Immediate Relatives and for Fair Disclosure 
The Company has a “Code of Conduct for Regulating, Monitoring and Reporting 
Trading by Designated Persons and their Immediate Relatives and for Fair 
Disclosure”, framed with an aim that the Designated Persons and their immediate 
relatives, as defined in the said Code, do not derive any benefit or assist others to 
derive any benefit from the access to and possession of Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information (UPSI) about the Company which is not in the public domain and thus 
constitutes insider information. The Company Secretary has been appointed as the 
Compliance Officer of the Company; and is responsible for adherence of the said 
Code. The said Code is posted on the Company’s website www.hpil.co.in  
 
Code sets  policies and procedures to prevent leakage of UPSI and to institute 
adequate mechanism of Internal Controls to preserve confidentiality of the sensitive 
information. Further, it also prescribes the practices, procedures and norms to be 
followed for fair disclosure of UPSI and to prescribe legitimate purposes, subject to 
which the UPSI can be shared with any stakeholders. The Code lays down the 
procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made while dealing in the equity 
shares/securities of the Company and the consequences of non-compliance. 
In line with the requirement of the said Code, whenever some UPSI is submitted to 
the Board for consideration and approval including consideration of quarterly 
results, the trading window is closed and notice of such closure of trading window is 
issued to the designated employees and concerned persons well in advance. Further, 
Declaration under SEBI LODR Regulations and DPE Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance 
 
All Board Members and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with 
the ‘Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Board Members and Senior 
Management’ of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2023. 
 
 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Chairperson and Managing Director 
DIN: 01911714 
Place: New Delhi  
Date: August 11, 2023  
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
135 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
proper announcements are also made on the website of the Company as well as to 
Stock Exchanges where the shares of the Company are listed, restraining them and 
their dependent family members from dealing in listed securities of the Company, 
when the trading window is closed. 
 
14. Whistle Blower Policy 
The Company has a Whistle Blower Policy in place, in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules made thereunder, SEBI LODR 
Regulations and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance. The same is available on 
website of Company. 
 
 
15. Dissemination 
 
All important information pertaining to the Company is also mentioned in the 
Annual Report of the Company, which is circulated to the members and also 
uploaded 
on 
the 
Company’s 
website. 
Shareholder 
related 
information, 
announcements and latest updates about the Company can be accessed on 
Company’s website at www.hpil.co.in, which, inter-alia, include the following: 
• Corporate disclosures made from time to time to the Stock Exchanges 
• Quarterly / Half-yearly / Annual Financial Results 
• Corporate Governance Report 
• Quarterly Shareholding Pattern etc. 
 
16. CEO/CFO Certification 
 
In terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, a Certificate on financial 
reporting and internal controls to the Board, duly signed by the Chairman and 
Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company for the financial year 
ended on March 31, 2023. A copy of the said certificate is enclosed at Annexure  to 
this report. 
 
17. General Shareholders’ Information 
 
a. Annual General Meeting for the financial year 2022-23  
The ensuing 19th  Annual General Meeting (AGM) of shareholders of the Company 
will be held through video conferencing / other audio visual means on the following 
day, date and time:- 
 
Day & Date 
Wednesday September 27, 2023 
Time 
12.00 Noon 
 
 
Details regarding participation in the said meeting and other relevant information are 
appearing in the Notice of the 19th  Annual General Meeting of the Company forming 
part of this Annual Report. 
 
(b) Dividend Distribution Policy 
The Company has formulated a Dividend Distribution Policy in compliance of 
Regulation 
43A of the SEBI LODR Regulations, which, inter-alia, specifies the external and 
internal factors including financial parameters, that shall be considered while 
declaring dividend and the circumstances under which the shareholders of the 
Company may or may not expect dividend. The policy is available at www.hpil.co.in.  
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
136 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
(c) Share Transfer System 
 
SEBI, through its Press Release dated December 3, 2018, has prescribed that with 
effect from April 1, 2019, requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be 
processed unless the securities are held in dematerialized form with a depository. 
Further, transmission or transposition of securities, whether in physical or 
dematerialized form, is also required to be done in dematerialized form only. 
Accordingly, all shareholders are requested to convert their shareholdings from 
physical form to demat form at the earliest, to reap the benefits of dematerialization 
and considering that transfer/ transmission of physical shares has been stopped as 
per SEBI’s instructions. 
SEBI vide Circular dated November 3, 2021, has inter-alia made it mandatory for 
holders of physical securities tofurnish/update PAN, email address, mobile number, 
bank account and nomination details, besides linking their PAN with Aadhar. 
Further, SEBI vide Circular dated March 16, 2023 prescribed that those folios 
wherein any one or more of the aforesaid details are not available on or after October 
1, 2023 shall be frozen and the investor will not be eligible to lodge grievance or avail 
service request from R&TA and will not be eligible for receipt of dividend in physical 
mode. In view of the same, members holding shares in physical mode are requested 
to furnish PAN, KYC details and nomination forms immediately to the Company / 
R&TA in the prescribed forms (as under), to ensure that their folios are not frozen on 
or after October 1, 2023 and if the frozen folio remain frozen as on December 31, 
2025 it would be reported to Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988: 
Form 
Particular 
Form ISR-1  
Request for registering PAN, KYC details or 
changes/ 
Form ISR-2  
Confirmation of signature of securities holder by 
the Banker (in case of major mismatch in 
signatures) 
Form ISR-3 
Declaration form for opting-out of nomination 
byholders of physical securities 
Form SH-13 
Nomination form 
Form SH-14 
Cancellation or variation of nomination 
 
The duly filled forms along with the signed documents/details (self-attested with 
date) may be furnished to the R&TA through Verification by R&TA, through hard 
copies or through electronic mode with e-sign. The signed documents are required to 
be sent from your registered e-mail ID, to csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) & (10) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, Certificate from 
Practicing Company Secretary confirming due compliance of share transfer 
formalities by the Company, has been submitted to the Stock Exchanges on half-
yearly basis within the stipulated time. Further, it is also confirmed that all transfer 
of shares were completed within the prescribed time period. 
 
d) Shareholding pattern: 
 
Category 
As on March 31, 2023 
No of Shares 
% of Shares 
President of India 
14,56,96,885 
51.12 
Individual  
6,68,65,596 
23.47 
Non-Resident Indian (NRI) 
23,25,030 
0.81 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
137 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Foreign National (other than NRI) 
0 
0 
Government 
0 
0 
Central Government 
0 
0 
State Government 
0 
0 
Government Companies 
0 
0 
Insurance Companies 
9,11,420 
0.31 
Banks 
264 
0 
Financial Institutions 
0 
0 
Foreign Institutional Investors 
37,40,283 
1.31 
Mutual Funds 
300 
 
Venture Capital 
0 
0 
Body Corporate  
5,92,01,359 
20.78 
Clearing Members 
1,22,336 
0.04 
Foreign Companies 
53,726 
0.02 
Others :- 
60,82,801 
2.14 
Total 
28,50,00,000 
 
100 
 
 
 
e. Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2023 
 
 
S. 
No 
SHARES 
RANGE 
NUMBER 
OF 
SHAREHOLDERS 
% 
OF 
TOTAL 
SHAREHOLDERS 
TOTAL 
SHARES 
FOR 
THE 
RANGE 
% 
OF 
ISSUED 
CAPITAL 
51%
24%
1%
1%
21%
2%
Shareholding Pattern
President of India
Individual
Non-Resident Indian (NRI)
Foreign Institutional Investors
Body Corporate
Others
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
138 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
1 
1 to 500 
110372 
85.1544 
12890186 
4.5229 
2 
501 to 1000 
9171 
7.0756 
7471576 
2.6216 
3 
1001 to 2000 
4895 
3.7766 
7510193 
2.6352 
4 
2001 to 3000 
1764 
1.3610 
4529183 
1.5892 
5 
3001 to 4000 
788 
0.6080 
2852257 
1.0008 
6 
4001 to 5000 
692 
0.5339 
3280719 
1.1511 
7 
5001 to10000 
1044 
0.8055 
7776414 
2.7286 
8 
10001& above 
888 
0.6851 
238689472 
83.7507 
Total 
139082 
100.0000 
285000000 
100.00 
 
f. Market price data- high, low during each month in last financial year 
2022-23 
 
Month 
BSE 
NSE 
Market Index (Close) 
High 
Low 
Month 
Closes 
 
High 
Low 
Closes 
 
 
 
Apr-22 
132.30 115.00 
 
115.20 
132.35 
114.85 
115.35 
57060.87  17102.55 
May-22 
117.00 95.10 
102.85  
117.50 
95.00 
102.80 
 
55566.41  16584.55 
Jun-22 
125.95 98.00 
105.10 
125.80 
98.05 
105.30 
53018.94 15780.25 
July-22 
107.00 102.25  
105.60  
107.05 
102.20 
105.55 
57570.25 17158.25 
Aug-22 
109.80
 
 
100.00 
104.70 
109.85 
 
100.00 
104.80 
59537.07 17759.30 
Sept-22 
109.50 92.15  
94.40 
109.55 
92.10 
94.45 
 
57426.92 17094.35 
Oct-22 
104.20 
 
91.70  
95.30 
 
104.25 
92.05 
95.25 
60746.59 18012.20 
Nov-22 
102.90
 
 
94.50  
97.00 
103.20 
94.75 
97.00 
63099.65 18758.35 
Dec-22 
119.90 96.45 
108.05 
119.90 
96.10 
107.95 
60840.74 18105.30 
Jan-23 
114.90 
 
98.00 
 
100.50 
 
114.90 
98.05 
101.15 
59549.90 17662.15 
Feb-23 
105.35 
 
92.95 
 
93.50 
 
105.65 
 
92.80 
93.45 
 
58962.12 17303.95 
Mar-23 
96.80 
 
79.96 
 
82.43 
 
96.85 
79.90 
82.35 
58991.52 
17359.75 
 
g) Liquidity 
 
The shares of the Company are in compulsory dematerialized segment and available 
for trading under systems of both Depositories i.e., National Securities Depository 
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The 
correspondence details of the depositories are as follows: 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
139 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Particulars 
CDSL 
NSDL 
Address 
Trade World, A Wing, 4th Floor, 
Kamala Mills Compound, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai - 400 013 
Marathon Futurex, A-Wing, 25th 
Floor, NM Joshi 
Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013 
Website  
https://nsdl.co.in/  
www.cdslindia.com 
 
h) Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report and Dematerialization of shares 
and liquidity 
For every quarter of the financial year 2022-23, Practicing Company Secretaries,  
had issued Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report, after carrying out audits to 
reconcile the total admitted, issued and listed share capital of the Company with 
NSDL and CDSL, which were submitted by the Company to the Stock Exchanges 
within the stipulated time.  
The details of number of shares held in dematerialized & physical form and email 
registered/not registered as on March 31, 2023 were as under: 
 
Particulars  
 No. of Equity Shares 
capital 
% 
to 
Share 
Capital 
Demat in CDSL | 
126470206  
44.375%  
Demat in NSDL 
Demat form in NSDL 
 ( Unlisted Preference Share) 
158384058  
130000000 
55.573%  
31.33% 
Physical 
145736 
0.051% 
Total 
415000000 
100 
 
 
i) Name & Annual Listing Fee to Stock Exchanges 
The Company has paid the Annual Listing Fee for the financial year 2022-23 to the 
both stock exchanges where the equity shares are listed i.e National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited and BSE Limited having address as under: 
 
BSE Limited,  
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street  
Mumbai: 400 001 
Script Code: 543242              
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
"Exchange Plaza", Plot No. C/1,G Block, 
Bandra Complex, Bandra (E),Mumbai -
40005 
Symbol: HEMIPROP 
 
j. Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any convertible instruments, 
conversion date and likely impact on equity: NIL 
  
 
k) Annual Custodial Fee to Depositories 
The Company has paid the Annual Custodial Fee for the financial year 2022-23 to 
National Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited 
 
l) Corporate Identification Number (CIN) 
The CIN of the Company is L70101DL2005GOI132162 . 
 
m) Address for Correspondence 
The addresses and contact details for correspondence with the Company are: 
 
*Registered Office 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
140 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan , 
Maulana Azad Road New Delhi 110001, India 
Tel: +91-11-23061325 
 
*Registrar & Share Transfer Agent 
M/s TSR Consultant Private Limited, 
Address: C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park,Lal 
Bahadur 
Shastri 
Marg, 
Vikhroli 
\(West),Mumbai – 400083  
Tel no: 91 22 6656 8484  , 
E-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in 
 
 
 
 
n) Corporate Website 
The corporate website of the Company is www.hpil.co.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   D Thara 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Chairperson & Managing Director) 
 
Place : New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
141 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE A 
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE 
(Under Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II of SEBI( Listing 
Obligation & Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 ) 
A. We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the 
year ended March 31, 2023 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:  
(1) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit 
any material fact or contain statements that might be misleading;  
(2) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s 
affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable 
laws and regulations.  
B. There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered 
into by the Company during the year which are fraudulent, illegal or violative 
of the Company’s code of conduct.  
C. We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls 
for financial reporting and that we have evaluated the effectiveness of internal 
control systems of the company pertaining to financial reporting and we have 
disclosed to the Auditors, deficiencies in the design or operation of such 
internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken 
or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.  
D. We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee  
(1) Significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the 
year;  
(2) Significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the 
same have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and  
(3) Instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the 
involvement therein, if any, of the management or an employee having a 
significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial 
reporting. 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Sd/- 
sd/- 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
 
D Thara 
Chairman, 
Managing 
Director 
 
Bhavesh Singla  
Chief 
Financial 
Officer 
 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
142 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 
 
 
To, 
The Members of   
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road New Delhi 110001. 
 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and 
disclosures received from the Directors of Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited having CIN L70101DL2005GOI132162 and having registered office at 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan Maulana Azad Road New Delhi 
110001 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me/us by 
the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with 
Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
In my/our opinion and to the best of my/our information and according to 
the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status at the 
portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished 
to me / us by the Company & its officers, I/We hereby certify that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year 
ending on 31st March, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other 
Statutory Authority 
S. 
No 
Name of the 
Directors 
DIN 
Date of 
Appointment in 
the Company 
Director of Active 
non-compliant 
Company  
1. 
Smt. D Thara 
01911714 
18-11-2019 
No 
 
2. 
Shri. Rajeev Kumar 
Das 
07730466 
14-06-2021 
No 
 
3. 
Shri. Diwakar 
Kumar Barnwal 
08953153 
12-11-2020 
No 
 
4. 
Shri. Ravi Kumar 
Arora 
09217881 
28-06-2021 
No 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
143 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity of every Director 
on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company 
nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company. 
 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: August 09, 2023 
For  Rahul Chaudhary & Associates 
 
 
 
Rahul Chaudhary 
ACS: 54713, CP: 20341 
UDIN: A054713E000771209 
Peer Review No.:2059/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Smt. Sunita 
Chandra 
09415680 
29-11-2021 
No 
6. 
Shri. Girish 
Raghavendrarao 
Kanakavidu 
09471091 
20-01-2022 
No 
7. 
Mr. Suvasish Das  
09826037
 
 
15-12-2022 
No 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
144 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
Information in accordance with Section 134(3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 
of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and forming part of the Board’s Report for the year 
ended 31st March 2023. 
 
(A) 
Conservation of energy 
(i)   The steps taken or impact on conservation of energy; - NIL 
(ii)  The steps taken by the company for utilizing alternate sources of energy; -NIL 
(iii) The capital investment on energy conservation equipment’s; -NIL 
 
(B)  Technology absorption- 
(i)    
The efforts made towards technology absorption : NIL 
(ii)  
The benefits derived like product improvement, cost reduction, product development  
or 
import substitution: NIL 
(iii)  
In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from  
the 
beginning of the financial year) - N.A. 
(iv)  
the expenditure incurred on Research and Development : NIL 
 
(C) Foreign exchange earnings and Outgo 
 (Amount in INR) 
Particulars 
As on 31.03.2023 
As on 31.03.2022 
Income 
Nil 
Nil 
Expenditure 
Nil 
Nil 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   D Thara 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Chairperson & Managing Director) 
 
Place : New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
145 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Certificate on Corporate Governance Compliance 
 
To, 
The Members of   
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
1. We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited for the year ended 31st March, 2023, as 
prescribed in Regulations 17 to 27, 46 (2) (b) to (i) and para C and D of Schedule V of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(hereinafter called as “SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015”) and Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises issued by Department of Public 
Enterprises (DPE), Government of India.  
 
2.The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our examination has been limited to review of 
procedures and implementations thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the 
compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the said 
clause and guidelines. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company. 
 
3. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us and based on representations made by the Management, we 
certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, 46 (2) (b) to (i) and para C and D of Schedule V 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance 
except: 
 
i. 
Half of the board of directors of the company was not independent including 
one-woman independent director as required under Regulation 17(1) of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 and para 3.1.4 of DPE Guidelines on Corporate 
Governance with regard to Composition of the Board of Directors. 
 
ii. 
Regulation 25(10) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 the Company has not 
taken D&O insurance for the Independent Directors appointed on the Board of 
the Company. 
 
4. We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future 
viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which the 
Management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: August 09, 2023 
For  Rahul Chaudhary & Associates 
 
 
 
Rahul Chaudhary 
ACS: 54713, CP: 20341 
UDIN: A054713E000771297 
Peer Review No.:2059/2022 
 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
146 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM NO. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON MARCH 31, 2023 
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014] 
 
To, 
 
The Members, 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL) 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi, 
Delhi - 110001 
 
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory 
provisions and the adherence to good corporate practices by Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited (HPIL) (hereinafter called “the Company”), having its Registered Office 
at Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi, 
Delhi - 110001. Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a 
reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon. 
 
Based on our verification of the Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL) 
books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the Financial Year ended on, March 31, 2023, complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes 
and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter:  
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 
2023, according to the provisions of: 
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder;  
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
147 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
(ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made 
thereunder;  
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed 
thereunder;  
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made 
thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;  
(v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): -  
a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;  
c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  
d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the audit period) 
e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-
Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; (Not Applicable as the listed 
entity has not issued any non-convertible securities during the Review 
Period); 
f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share 
Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing 
with client; 
g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit 
period); and 
h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) 
Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit 
period);  
(vi) The other laws, as informed and certiﬁed by the management of the Company 
which, are speciﬁcally applicable to the Company based on their sector/ industry. 
The compliance by the Company of applicable ﬁnancial laws, like direct and indirect 
tax laws, has not been reviewed in this audit since the same have been subject to 
review by the statutory auditor(s) and other designated professionals. 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
148 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:  
i. 
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(ICSI).  
ii. 
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited read with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.  
iii. 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises 
(CPSEs) issued by the Department of Public Enterprises vide their OM No. 
18(8)/2005-GM dated 14th May, 2010. 
iv. 
Guidelines on Capital Restructuring of Central Public Sector Enterprises 
(CPSEs) as stipulated in the O.M.F No. 5/2/2016-Policy dated 27th May, 2016 
issued by Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India. 
During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of 
the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards etc. mentioned above subject to 
the following observations: 
1. Half of the board of directors of the company was not independent 
including 
one 
women 
independent 
director 
as 
required 
under 
Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and para 3.1.4 of 
DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance with regard to Composition of 
the Board of Directors. 
2. The company has not taken D&O insurance for the Independent 
Directors appointed on the Board of the Company as required under 
Regulation 25(10) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. 
We further report that: 
1. During the period under review, half of the board of directors of the company was 
not independent including one-woman independent director as required under 
Regulation 17(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and para 3.1.4 of DPE 
Guidelines on Corporate Governance with regard to Composition of the Board of 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took 
place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act. 
 
2. The Company has received notices from BSE and NSE imposing penalties for non-
compliance with the requirements pertaining to the Regulation 17(1) of SEBI 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
149 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 for the quarters  ended June, September, December 
2022, and March 2023. 
 
3. The Company has replied to the stock exchanges that, Hemisphere Properties 
India Limited (HPIL) is a government company in terms of the provisions of 
Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013. The power to appoint Directors 
(including Independent Director) on the Board of the company vests with the 
President of India. Accordingly, all Directors in HPIL are appointed by the 
Government of India through its Administrative Ministry, i.e., Ministry of Housing 
& Urban Affairs (MoHUA) and HPIL has no role to play regarding appointment of 
Directors including Independent Directors/ Woman Director. The Company has, 
number of times, requested the MoHUA for appointment of requisite number of 
Independent Directors on the Board of HPIL to ensure compliance. The Company 
is regularly following up on the matter for an early appointment of the vacant 
position of the Directors. The matter regarding levying of fine by the Stock 
Exchanges for non-compliance of composition of Board has been discussed 
regularly in the Board Meetings and the Board is also of the view that the 
Company has no role to play for appointment of Independent Directors, it is done 
by the Administrative Ministry. 
 
4. Further, the company is exploring the possibilities to undertake Directors and 
Officers insurance (‘D and O insurance’) for all their independent directors. 
Adequate notice(s) was given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings. Agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda were generally sent at least seven days, other than 
those held at shorter notice, in advance to all directors, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
Decisions are taken with requisite majority and the dissenting members’ views, if 
any, are captured and recorded as part of the minutes.  
We further report that based on the review of the compliance mechanism 
established by the company and on the basis of Compliance certificate(s) issued by 
various departments and taken on record by the Board of Directors at their 
meetings, there are adequate systems and processes in the company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the company to monitor and ensure compliance with 
applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
150 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Place: Noida  
 
                       For, Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates 
Date: July 21, 2023                                                                                                         
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
Company Secretaries 
 
                 
 CS Naresh Kumar Sinha                   
(Proprietor) 
                                     FCS: 1807; CP No.: 14984 
PR: 610/2019 
FRN: S2015UP440500 
UDIN: F001807E000659200 
 
 
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as 
“Annexure-A” and forms an integral part of this report. 
Annexure A 
To, 
The Members 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (HPIL) 
CIN: L70101DL2005GOI132162 
Room No. 144, C-Wing, Nirman Bhawan, 
Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi, 
Delhi - 110001 
 
Auditor’s responsibility 
 
Based on audit, our responsibility is to express an opinion on the compliance with 
the applicable laws and maintenance of records by the Company. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the auditing standards CSAS 1 to CSAS 4 (“CSAS”) 
prescribed by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”). These standards 
require that the auditor complies with statutory and regulatory requirements and 
plans and performs the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about compliance with 
applicable laws and maintenance of records. 
 
Due to the inherent limitations of an audit including internal, financial and 
operating controls, there is an unavoidable risk that some misstatements or material 
non-compliances may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned 
and performed in accordance with the CSAS. Our report of even date is to be read 
along with this letter. 
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial 
records based on our audit. 
2. We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to 
obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the 
secretarial records. The verification was done on the random test basis to ensure 
that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the 
processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and 
Books of Accounts of the company and for which we relied on the report of 
statutory auditor. 
4. Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
151 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc. 
5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. Our examination 
was limited to the verification of procedures on random test basis. 
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of 
the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company. 
 
Place: Noida  
                                  For, Kumar Naresh Sinha & Associates 
Date: July 21, 2023                                                            Company Secretaries 
 
 
CS Naresh Kumar Sinha                  
 
       (Proprietor) 
                                     FCS: 1807; CP No.: 14984 
PR: 610/2019 
FRN: S2015UP440500 
UDIN: F001807E000659200 
 
 
  
 
HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
152 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
AOC-2 
Particulars of contracts / arrangements made with related party 
Disclosure of particulars of contracts/ arrangements entered into by the company with related 
parties referred to in sub 
section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act,2013 
  
1. Details of contracts / arrangements or transactions entered in the ordinary course of business but not 
at arm’s length basis for the Financial year 2022-23 : Nil 
  
2. Details of contracts / arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis for the FY 2022-23 
Name of Related 
Party and Nature 
of Contract 
Relationship 
Duration 
of 
Contract 
Salient Features 
Amount 
( ` in lakh) 
CPWD 
Government 
owned entity 
Not Applicable 
Services 262.29 
NBCC 
Government 
Company 
Not Applicable 
Services 14.00 
  
  
 
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
 
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 11.08.2023 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Chairman, Managing Director 
(DIN: 01911714) 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
153 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
                                                              BALANCE SHEET AS AT MARCH 31, 2023 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
(₹ in Lakh) 
Particulars 
  
Note 
No. 
  
As at  
31st March 
2023 
  
As at  
31st March 2022 
I. 
ASSETS 
  
  
  
      
1 Non-current assets 
  
  
  
      
  
(a)  
Property, plant and equipment 
  
4 
  
3.12   
3.52 
  
(b)  Investment Property 
  
5 
  
66228.52   
66161.54 
  
(c) 
Goodwill 
  
6 
  
28194.15   
28194.15 
  
(d) 
Deferred Tax Assets (Net) 
  
7 
  
822.73   
669.02 
  
  
  
  
  
  
95248.52   
95028.23 
2 Current assets 
  
  
  
      
  
(a)  
 Financial Assets 
  
  
  
      
  
  
(i) Trade Receivable 
  
8 
  
17.81                                        -    
  
  
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents 
  
9 
  
4.99   
2.04 
  
  
(iii) Bank Balances other than (ii) 
above 
  
10 
  
11935.30   
14829.99 
  
  
(iv) Other financial assets 
  
11 
  
119.92   
72.94 
  
(b)  Current Tax Assets (Net) 
  
12 
  
83.66   
31.58 
  
(c)  
Other Current Assets 
  
13 
  
233.05   
214.04 
  
  
  
  
  
  
12394.74   
15150.59 
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  
  
Total Assets   
  
  
107643.26   
110178.82 
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
II. 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
  
  
  
      
1 
Equity 
  
  
  
      
  
(a)  
Equity Share Capital 
  
14 
  
28500.00   
28500.00 
  
(b)  Other Equity 
  
15 
  
8087.15   
8733.27 
  
  
  
  
  
  
36587.15   
37233.27 
2 
Liabilities 
  
  
  
      
(i) 
Non-current liabilities 
  
  
  
      
  
(a) 
Financial Liabilities 
  
  
  
      
  
  
     (i) Borrowings 
  
16 
  
5899.02   
6191.29 
  
  
  
  
  
  
5899.02   
6191.29 
(ii) Current liabilities 
  
  
  
      
  
(a)  
Financial Liabilities 
  
  
  
      
  
  
     (i) Borrowings 
  
17 
  
600.00   
611.49 
     (ii) Trade Payables 
18 
53.30 
96.14 
  
  
     (iii) Provisions 
  
19 
  
6.30   
4.08 
  
  
     (iv) Other financial liabilities 
  
20 
  
64489.40   
66035.12 
  
(b)  Other current liabilities  
  
21 
  
8.09   
7.42 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
154 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
65157.10   
66754.26 
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  
  
Total Equity and Liabilities   
  
  
107643.26   
110178.82 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
III. See accompanying notes to the financial statements 
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
As per our Report of even date attached 
  
  
  
    
  
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
  
  
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
  
  
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
    
    
  
Sd/-   
  
  
  Sd/-  
Sd/-  
Tilak Raj Chawla 
  
  
D Thara 
  Suvasish Das 
Partner 
  
  
Chairperson & 
Managing Director 
  Director 
M.No. 095619 
  
  
DIN: 01911714 
  DIN: 09826037 
UDIN: 23095619BHAEAL4927 
  
  
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
  Sd/-  
  Sd/- 
  
  
  
  
  
Bhavesh Singla 
  Lubna 
Place : New Delhi 
  
  
Chief Financial 
Officer 
  Company Secretary 
Date : May 29, 2023 
  
  
M.No. 551844 
  M.No. A53597 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
155 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
(₹ in Lakh) 
  
Particulars 
  
  
Not
e 
No.   
As at  
31st March 2023 
  
As at  
31st March 2022 
I 
Revenue from Operations 
  
22 
  
200.20   
0.00 
II 
Other Income 
  
  
23 
  
652.64   
315.98 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
III 
Total Income (I+II) 
  
  
  
  
852.84   
315.98 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
IV 
Expenses 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Employee Benefits Expenses  
  
24 
  
34.48   
26.00 
  
Finance costs 
  
  
25 
  
668.50   
581.97 
  
Depreciation and Amortization 
Expenses 
26 
  
1.92   
0.79 
  
Other Expenses 
  
  
27 
  
948.95   
1571.09 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
Total Expenses (IV).  
    
  
1653.85   
2179.84 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
V 
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax (III - IV) 
  
-801.01   
-1863.86 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
VI 
Tax Expense: 
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
(1) Current tax 
  
    
  
                           
-    
  
                               
-    
(2) Deferred Tax (Net) 
-153.70 
-377.81 
Total Tax Expense (VIII) 
-153.70 
-377.81 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
VII 
Profit/(Loss) for the period from 
continuing operations (VII - VIII) 
  
-647.31   
-1486.05 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
VIII 
Other Comprehensive Income 
  
  
  
  
  
  
A. (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 
  
  
  
  
Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans 
                           
-    
  
                               
-    
  
Income tax effect on above 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
B. (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit 
and loss 
  
  
  
  
  
    (ii) Income Tax relating to Items that will be 
         reclassified to profit and loss 
  
                           
-    
  
                               
-    
  
  
  
  
    
  
                           
-    
  
                               
-    
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
156 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
IX 
Total Comprehensive Income for the 
period (VII +VIII) comprising 
Profit/(Loss) and other comprehensive 
income for the period) 
  
-647.31   
-1486.05 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
X 
Earnings Per Equity Share 
    
  
  
  
  
  
(1) Basic 
  
  
    
  
                      
(0.23) 
  
                          
(0.52) 
  
(2) Diluted 
  
    
  
                      
(0.23) 
  
                          
(0.52) 
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
See accompanying notes to the financial 
statements 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
As per our Report of even date attached   
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
  
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
  
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
  
Chartered Accountants 
    
  
  
  
  
  
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
 Sd/- 
  
  
    
Sd/ 
  
  
Sd/- 
  
Tilak Raj Chawla 
  
    
D Thara 
  
  
Suvasish Das 
  
Partner 
  
  
    
Chairperson & Managing Director 
Director 
  
M.No. 095619 
  
    
DIN: 01911714 
  
DIN: 09826037 
  
UDIN: 23095619BHAEAL4927 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
 Sd/- 
  
  
Sd/- 
  
  
  
  
    
Bhavesh Singla 
  
Lubna 
  
Place : New Delhi 
  
    
Chief Financial Officer 
  
Company Secretary 
  
Date : May 29, 2023 
  
    
M.No. 551844 
  
M.No. A53597 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
157 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023 
  
  
  
  
    
(₹ in Lakh) 
Particulars 
  
As at  
31st March 
2023 
    
As at  
31st March 2022 
A. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES   
  
      
  
Net Profit/ (Loss) before tax as per Profit & Loss 
Account 
  
-801.01     
-1863.86 
  
Adjusted for:- 
  
  
      
  
Add: Non Cash Debits 
  
  
      
  
Interest Expenses on Compound financial instruments 
  
208.91     
147.86 
  
Other Expenses written off 
  
0.00     
240.22 
  
Miscellaneous Expenses written off 
  
0.00     
20.52 
  
Depreciation 
  
1.92     
0.79 
  
Interest Income 
  
-652.64     
-315.98 
  
Interest and Finance Charges 
  
668.50     
581.97 
  
  
  
-574.31     
-1188.48 
  
Movement in working capital 
  
  
      
  
(Increase) /Decrease in Trade Receviables 
  
-17.81     
0.00 
  
(Increase) /Decrease in other financial assets 
  
-46.98     
-46.38 
  
(Increase) /Decrease in other current assets 
  
-19.01     
-158.26 
  
(Increase)/ Decrease in other financial liabilities 
  
-1545.72     
413.30 
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in other current liabilities 
  
0.68     
-32.60 
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Trade Payables 
  
-42.84     
-330.43 
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Provisions 
  
2.22     
-2.07 
  
  
  
-1669.48     
-156.44 
  
  
  
  
      
  
Cash generated from/(used) in operations 
  
-2243.80     
-1344.92 
  
Taxes Paid/ (Refund) 
  
-52.08     
-28.85 
  
Net Cash from/(used) in operating activities 
  
-2295.87     
-1373.77 
  
  
  
  
      
B. CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
  
  
      
  
(Increase)/Decrease in Property Plant and Equipment 
  
-1.53     
-3.04 
  
(Increase)/Decrease in Investment Property 
  
-66.98     
-1045.20 
  
Interest Income 
  
652.64     
315.98 
  
Net Cash Flow from/ (used in) Investing Activities   
584.13     
-732.27 
  
  
  
  
      
C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
  
  
      
  
Issue of Preference Shares 
  
0.00     
3000.00 
  
Other Changes in Miscellaneous Asets 
  
0.00     
-0.50 
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Non-Current Borrowings 
  
-500.00     
400.00 
  
Increase/ (Decrease) in Current Borrowings 
  
-11.49     
211.49 
  
Interest and Finance Charge 
  
-668.50     
-581.97 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
158 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
  
Net Cash from/ (used in) Financing Activities 
  
-1179.99     
3029.02 
  
  
  
  
      
  
Net Increase / (Decrease) in Cash and Cash 
Equivalents 
  
-2891.73     
922.98 
  
Opening Balance of Cash & Cash Equivalents 
  
14832.02     
13909.04 
  
  
  
  
      
  
Closing Balance of Cash & Cash Equivalents 
  
11940.29     
14832.02 
  
  
  
  
      
See accompanying notes to the financial statements 
  
  
      
  
  
  
  
      
As per our Report of even date attached 
  
  
      
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
  
  
      
  
  
 Sd/- 
  
     Sd/- 
  
 Sd/- 
D Thara 
  
    Suvasish Das 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
Chairperson & Managing 
Director 
  Director 
Partner 
DIN: 01911714 
    DIN: 09826037 
M.No. 095619 
  
  
      
UDIN: 23095619BHAEAL4927 
  
  
      
  
  
 Sd/- 
  
     Sd/- 
  
  
Bhavesh Singla 
    Lubna 
Place : New Delhi 
Chief Financial Officer 
    Company Secretary 
Date : May 29, 2023 
M.No. 551844 
    M.No. A53597 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
159 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
STATEMENT FOR CHANGE IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31,2023 
Particulars 
Equity Share 
Capital 
Other Equity 
Total 
Equity component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments 
Reserves and Surplus 
Other Reserves 
Security 
Premium 
Retained 
Earnings 
Balance as on April 1, 2022 
28500.00 
11056.57 
-2323.29 
37233.27 
Loss for the year 
-647.31 
-647.31 
Transactions with owners with their 
capacity as owners: 
  
Equity Component of Compound 
Financial Statements 
1.18 
1.18 
Balance as on March 31, 2023 
28500.00 
11057.75                            -   
-2970.60                            -   
36587.15 
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED MARCH 31, 2022 
(₹ in Lakh) 
Particulars 
Equity Share 
Capital 
Other Equity 
Total 
Equity component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments 
Reserves and Surplus 
Other Reserves 
Security 
Premium 
Retained 
Earnings 
Balance as on April 1, 2021 
28500.00 
                                      
-    
                           -   
-837.25                            -   
36587.15 
Loss for the year 
-1486.05 
-1486.05 
Transactions with owners with their 
capacity as owners: 
  
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
160 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Equity Component of Compound 
Financial Statements 
11056.57 
11056.57 
Balance as on March 31, 2022 
28500.00 
11056.57                            -   
-2323.29                            -   
46157.66 
See accompanying notes to the financial 
statements 
  
  
As per our Report of even date attached 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited 
FRN No. N500365/ 005469N 
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
Suvasish Das 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
Chairperson & 
Managing 
Director 
Director 
Partner 
DIN: 01911714 
DIN: 09826037 
M.No. 095619 
Sd/- 
Sd/- 
UDIN: 23095619BHAEAL4927 
Bhavesh Singla 
Lubna 
Place : New Delhi 
Chief Financial Officer 
Company 
Secretary 
Date : May 29, 2023 
M.No. 551844 
M.No. A53597 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
161 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes forming part of Balance Sheet 
1. Corporate Information 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (the Company) is a public Limited Company 
incorporated on January 17, 2005 and has become Government Company from March 
18, 2014. The incorporation of the company was pursuant to clause 7.10 of SPA 
executed on February 06, 2002 and 4.7 of SHA executed on February 13, 2002 between 
Government of India and PanatoneFinvest Limited & other Tata Group of Companies 
wherein the surplus land identified at the time of disinvestment of Videsh Sanchar 
Nigam Limited (VSNL) was to be demerged in to the company pursuant to a scheme of 
amalgamation in terms of the provisions of Sec 391 to 394 of the companies act. On 5 
March 2018, the Tata Communications Limited (TCL) filed with the National Company 
Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench (‘NCLT’), a scheme of arrangement and reconstruction 
among the TCL and the company and their respective shareholders and creditors for 
demerger of surplus land (“Scheme”). By order of the NCLT, a meeting of the 
shareholders of the TCL was held on 10 May 2018, at which the shareholders approved 
the Scheme. On 12 July 2018, the NCLT approved the Scheme. HPIL, being a 
‘government company’, as defined under Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013, had 
filed its petition seeking sanction to the Scheme, before the Central Government through 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, New Delhi (“MCA”). The MCA has approved the 
Scheme through its order dated 5 August 2019 and HPIL has filed the order with the 
Registrar of Companies, New Delhi. Consequent to the receipt of the approvals of the 
NCLT and the MCA, to the Scheme, the Board of Directors of the TCL fixed 18 
September 2019 as the “Record Date” for the Scheme, for determining the shareholders 
of the TCL who shall be eligible to receive the equity shares of HPIL. The Board of 
Directors of HPIL, at its meeting held on 18 February 2020, approved the allotment of 
HPIL’s shares to the shareholders of TCL on the Record Date in the ratio of 1 share of 
HPIL for every share of the TCL. 
 
2. Basis of Preparation 
 
2.1 
Statement of Compliance 
The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as per the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 notified under Section 133 of Companies Act, 2013, (the 
‘Act’) and other relevant provisions of the Act. 
 
The financial statements up to and for the year ended 31 March 2019 were 
prepared in accordance with the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006, 
notified under Section 133 of the Act and other relevant provisions of the Act. 
From FY 2019-20 onwards, the financial statements are prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS). 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
162 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 
Functional and Presentation Currency 
These financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) , which is also 
the Company’s functional as well as presentation currency. Unless otherwise 
specified, all monetary values are in Lakhs of INR 
 
 
2.3 
Basis of Measurement 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. 
 
2.4 
Use of Estimates and Judgements 
In preparing these financial statements, management has made judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and 
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results 
may differ from these estimates. 
 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. 
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised prospectively. 
 
3. Significant accounting policies 
3.1 
Property, plant and equipment 
3.1.1 
Recognition and measurement 
Items of property, plant and equipment, are measured at cost (which includes 
capitalised borrowing costs, if any) less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Cost of an item of property, plant and equipment includes its purchase price, 
duties, taxes, after deducting trade discounts and rebates, any directly 
attributable cost of bringing the item to its working condition for its intended 
use and estimated costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring 
the site on which it is located 
The cost of a self-constructed item of property, plant and equipment 
comprises the cost of materials, direct labour and any other costs directly 
attributable to bringing the item to its intended working condition and 
estimated costs of dismantling, removing and restoring the site on which it is 
located, wherever applicable. 
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have 
different useful lives, then they are accounted for as separate items (major 
components) of property, plant and equipment. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
163 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The title deed of the surplus land has not been transferred in the name of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited as on March 31, 2023 and the value of 
land has been shown at the value shown in the books of Tata 
Communications Limited as per order of demerger passed by Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs 
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is 
recognised in profit or loss. 
3.1.2 
Subsequent expenditure 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future 
economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company 
 
3.1.3 
Depreciation 
Depreciation is calculated on cost of items of property, plant and equipment 
less their estimated residual value using straight line method over the useful 
lives of assets estimated by the Company based on an internal technical 
evaluation performed by the management and is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss. Assets acquired under finance lease are depreciated over 
the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably 
certain that the Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. 
Depreciation for assets purchased / sold during the period is proportionately 
charged. 
 
3.1.4 
Reclassification to investment property 
When the use of a property changes from owner-occupied to investment 
property, the property is reclassified as investment property at its carrying 
amount on the date of classification. 
 
3.1.5 
Capital work in progress 
Projects under which assets are not ready for their intended use and other 
capital work-in-progress are carried at cost, comprising direct cost, related 
incidental expenses and attributable interest. 
 
3.2 
Income Tax 
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in profit or loss 
except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or to an item 
recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. 
 
3.2.1 
Current tax 
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable 
income or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or 
receivable in respect of previous years. The amount of current tax reflects the 
best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received after 
considering the uncertainty, if any related to income taxes. It is measured 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
164 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
using tax rates (and tax laws) enacted or substantively enacted by the 
reporting date. 
 
3.2.2 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and 
the corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is also 
recognised in respect of carried forward tax losses and tax credits. 
 
3.3 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits with banks, 
other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less. 
 
3.4 
Cash flow statement 
Cash flows are reported using indirect method, whereby net profits before tax is 
adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash nature and any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments and items of income or 
expenses associated with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from 
regular revenue generating (operating activities), investing and financing activities 
of the Company are segregated. 
 
3.5 
Earnings per share 
Basic Earnings per Share (‘EPS’) is computed by dividing the net profit 
attributable to the equity shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share is computed by 
dividing the net profit by the weighted average number of equity shares 
considered for deriving basic earnings per share and also the weighted average 
number of equity shares that could have been issued upon conversion of all 
dilutive potential equity shares. Dilutive potential equity shares are deemed 
converted as of the beginning of the year, unless issued at a later date. In 
computing diluted earnings per share, only potential equity shares that are 
dilutive and that either reduces earnings per share or increases loss per share are 
included. The number of shares and potentially dilutive equity shares are adjusted 
retrospectively for all periods presented for the share splits. 
 
3.6 
Provisions and contingent liabilities 
3.6.1 
General 
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the 
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. When the Company expects some or all of a provision to be 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
165 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
reimbursed, the expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement 
of profit and loss net of any reimbursement. 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted 
using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific 
to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to 
the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
 
3.6.2 
Contingent liabilities 
A disclosure for contingent liabilities is made where there is a possible 
obligation or a present obligation that may probably not require an outflow 
of resources. When there is a possible or a present obligation where the 
likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is 
made. 
 
3.6.3 
Onerous Contracts 
Provision for onerous contracts i.e. contracts where the expected unavoidable 
cost of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic 
benefits expected to be received under it, are recognised when it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required 
to settle a present obligation as a result of an obligating event based on a 
reliable estimate of such obligation. 
 
3.7 
Borrowing Costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of those 
property, plant and equipment which necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for their intended use are capitalised. All other borrowing costs 
are expensed in the period in which they incur in the statement of profit and loss. 
 
3.8 
Revenue Recognition 
Revenue from sale of goods and sale of scrap is recognised, when the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, recovery of the 
consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods can 
be estimated reliably, there is no continuing effective control over, or managerial 
involvement with, the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured 
reliably. Revenue from the sale of goods and sale of scrap is measured at the fair 
value of the consideration received or receivable, exclusive of GST and net of 
sales return, trade discounts and volume rebates. 
 
3.9 
Financial instruments – initial recognition, subsequent measurement and 
impairment 
 
3.9.1 
Financial Assets 
Financial Assets are measured at amortised cost or fair value through Other 
Comprehensive Income or fair value through Profit or Loss, depending on 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
166 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
its business model for managing those financial assets and liabilities and the 
assets and liabilities contractual cash flow characteristics. 
Subsequent measurements of financial assets are dependent on initial 
categorisation. For impairment purposes significant financial assets are tested 
on an individual basis, other financial assets are assessed collectively in 
groups that share similar credit risk characteristics. 
 
3.9.1.1 Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. 
 
Impairment is made on the expected credit losses, which are the present 
value of the cash shortfalls over the expected life of financial assets. The 
estimated impairment losses are recognised in a separate provision for 
impairment and the impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss within other expenses. 
 
Subsequent changes in assessment of impairment are recognised in 
provision for impairment and the change in impairment losses are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other expenses. 
For foreign currency trade receivable, impairment is assessed after 
reinstatement at closing rates. 
 
Individual receivables which are known to be uncollectible are written off 
by reducing the carrying amount of trade receivable and the amount of 
the loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other 
expenses. 
 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to 
other Income 
 
 
3.9.1.2 Investment in equity shares 
Investment in equity securities are initially measured at fair value and are 
recognised through Profit and Loss account. 
 
3.9.2 
Financial Liabilities 
At initial recognition, all financial liabilities other than fair valued through 
profit and loss are recognised initially at fair value less transaction costs that 
are attributable to the issue of financial liability. Transaction costs of financial 
liability carried at fair value through profit or loss is expensed in profit or 
loss. However, borrowings, which is likely to be assigned or negotiated are 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
167 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
initially measured at fair value through profit and loss account. Other 
borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fee or costs that are an integral part of the 
Effective rate of interest (EIR). The EIR amortisation is included in finance 
costs in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
 
3.9.2.1 Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting period. They are 
recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
3.9.2.2 Redeemable preference shares 
The redeemable preference shares issued by the Company is a compound 
financial instrument and is classified separately as financial liability and 
equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement 
and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. At the 
date of issue, fair value of the liability component is estimated using the 
prevailing market interest rate of a similar non-compound instrument. 
This amount is recognised as liability on an amortised cost basis using the 
effective interest rate method until extinguished at the instrument’s 
maturity date. The difference between the fair value of the liability 
component at the date of issue and the issue price is recognised as the 
other equity. 
 
3.10 
Impairment 
 
3.10.1 Financial Assets 
The Company recognises loss allowances using the expected credit loss 
(ECL) model for the financial assets which are not fair valued through 
Statement of Profit and Loss. Loss allowance for trade receivables with no 
significant financing component is measured at an amount equal to lifetime 
ECL. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an 
amount equal to the 12-month ECL, unless there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk from initial recognition in which case those are 
measured at lifetime ECL. The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) 
that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the 
amount that is required to be recognised is recognised as an impairment gain 
or loss in the Statement of Profit and Loss. 
 
3.10.2 Non-Financial Assets 
An asset is considered as impaired when at the date of Balance Sheet there 
are indications of impairment and the carrying amount of the asset, or where 
applicable the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs exceeds its 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
168 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the net asset selling price and value in 
use).The carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and the 
reduction is recognized as an impairment loss in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss. The impairment loss recognized in the prior accounting period is 
reversed if there has been a change in the estimate of recoverable amount. 
Post impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying value of 
the impaired asset over its remaining useful life. 
 
3.11 
In accordance with Ind AS 36, an entity is required to test intangible assets with 
indefinite useful life for impairment. Goodwill arises from business combinations 
and is generally determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration 
transferred, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquire, 
over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the 
acquisition date. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in purchase business 
combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, 
but tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events and 
circumstances exists that indicate that a goodwill impairment test should be 
performed. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized over their 
estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values. Goodwill is the only 
intangible assets with an indefinite life on our balance sheet. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
169 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Notes forming part of financial statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2023 
 
 Note:4 Property, Plant and Equipment 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
(₹ in Lakh) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
  
Gross carrying amount 
Accumulated Depreciation 
Carrying amount 
(net) 
  
Estimatd 
Useful Life 
As at  
April 01,  
2022 
Additions 
Disposals 
As at  
March 
31, 2023 
As at  
April 01, 
2022 
Additions 
Disposals 
As at  
March 
31,  2023 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
As at  
March 
31, 2022 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Computers 
3 years 
4.62 
1.53 
0.00 
6.15 
1.11 
1.92 
0.00 
3.03 
3.12 
3.52 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Total 
  
4.62 
1.53 
0.00 
6.15 
1.11 
1.92 
0.00 
3.03 
3.12 
3.52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
170 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Note 5 : Investment Property 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023 
 
As at  
March 31, 
2022 
Land 
66228.52 
66161.54 
66228.52 
66161.54 
Note 6 : Intangible Assets 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023 
 
As at  
March 31, 
2022 
Goodwill on Demerger 
28194.15 
28194.15 
 
 
 
 
28194.15 
28194.15 
Note 7 : Deferred Tax Assets 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023 
 
As at  
March 31, 
2022 
Deferred tax assets on carry forward losses and 
Depreciation 
822.73 
669.02 
822.73 
669.02 
Note 8 : Trade Recivables 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023 
 
As at  
March 31, 
2022 
a) Trade receivables outstanding for a period exceeding six 
months from the date they were due for payment 
Unsecured, considered good 
17.81 
0.00 
 
 
 
 
b) Other Trade receivables 
 
 
 
Unsecured, considered good 
 
 
 
Total Trade Receivables 
 
 
 
17.81 
0.00 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
171 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Note 8a :Trade Receivables ageing schedule 
 
 
As at 31st March 23 
Particulars 
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
Less 
than 6 
months 
6 
months 
-1 year 
1-2 
years 
2-3 years 
More than 3 
years 
 
Total  
(i) Undisputed Trade 
receivables – considered 
good 
17.81 
         -            -                           -   
                      -   17.81 
(ii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – considered 
doubtful 
       -             -            -                           -   
                      -         -   
(iii) Disputed Trade 
Receivables considered good 
       -             -            -                           -   
                      -         -   
(iv) Disputed Trade 
Receivables considered 
doubtful 
       -             -            -                           -     
                      -         -   
Total 
17.81 
         -            -                                -                         -   17.81 
As at 31st March 22 
Particulars 
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
Less 
than 6 
months 
6 
months 
-1 year 
1-2 
years 
2-3 years 
More than 3 
years 
 
Total  
(i) Undisputed Trade 
receivables – considered 
good 
       -             -            -                            -    
                      -          -    
(ii) Undisputed Trade 
Receivables – considered 
doubtful 
       -             -            -                            -    
                      -          -    
(iii) Disputed Trade 
Receivables considered good 
       -             -            -                            -    
                      -          -    
(iv) Disputed Trade 
Receivables considered 
doubtful 
       -             -            -                            -                            -          -    
Total 
       -             -            -                                -                         -         -   
Note 9 : Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023  
As at  
March 31, 
2022 
Cash-in-hand 
0.00 
0.00 
Balances with banks 
4.99 
2.04 
4.99 
2.04 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
172 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Note 10 : Other Bank Balances 
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Fixed Deposits with remaining maturity of less than twelve 
months and other than considered in cash and cash 
equivalents 
11935.30   
14829.99 
  
  
  
  
  
11935.30   
14829.99 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Note 11 : Other Financial Assets 
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Accrued interest on Short term deposits 
119.92   
72.94 
  
  
  
  
  
119.92   
72.94 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Note 12 : Current Asset (Tax) 
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Tax Deducted at Source 
  
  
83.66   
31.58 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
83.66   
31.58 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Note 13 : Other Current Assets 
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Advance to Vendors 
  
  
33.27   
68.02 
Balance with Statutory Authorities 
  
  
  
  
-GST Recoverable 
  
  
149.21   
145.62 
Other Receivables 
  
  
50.58   
0.40 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
233.05   
214.04 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
173 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Note 14 : Equity Share Capital 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at March 31, 2023 
  
As at March 31, 2022 
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
  
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
a) Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up share capital 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Authorised 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Equity shares of Rs.10 each 
  
  
          9,000,000,000  
900000.00   
          9,000,000,000  
900000.00 
Preference shares of Rs.10 each 
  
          1,000,000,000  
100000.00             1,000,000,000  
100000.00 
  
  
  
  
  
        10,000,000,000  
1000000.00           10,000,000,000  
1000000.00 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Issued, Subscribed and Paid up 
  
  
  
    
  
Equity shares of Rs.10 each 
  
  
             285,000,000  
28500.00                285,000,000  
28500.00 
  
  
  
  
  
             285,000,000  
28500.00                285,000,000  
28500.00 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
b) Reconciliation of the number of equity shares outstanding 
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Shares outstanding as at the beginning of the year 
             285,000,000  
28500.00                285,000,000  
28500.00 
Issued during the year 
  
  
                              -                               -                                    -                                 -    
Decrease during the year 
  
  
                              -                               -                                    -                                 -    
Shares outstanding as at the end of the year 
             285,000,000  
28500.00                285,000,000  
28500.00 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
174 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
c) Details of equity shares held in the Company by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares 
  
  
  
  
    
  
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2023 
  
As at March 31, 2022 
No of Shares Held 
% of Holding 
  
No of Shares Held 
% of Holding 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
GOI through The President of India  
  
             145,696,885  
51.12%                145,696,885  
51.12% 
Panatone Finvest Limited 
  
  
               27,927,340  
9.80%                  22,696,979  
8.42% 
TATA Sons Private Limited 
  
  
               23,773,800  
8.34%                  40,087,639  
14.06% 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
               51,701,140  
69.26%                  62,784,618  
73.60% 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
d) Details of equity shares held  by Promoters in the Company  
  
    
  
  
  
  
    
  
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2023 
  
As at March 31, 2022 
No of Shares Held 
% of Holding 
  
No of Shares Held 
% of Holding 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
GOI through The President of India  
  
             145,696,885  
51.12%                145,696,885  
51.12% 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
             145,696,885  
51.12%   
             145,696,885  
51.12% 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
e) Reconciliation of the number of 0.1% non-cumulative redeemable preference shares outstanding (Compound Financial 
Instrument): 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
As at March 31, 2022 
  
As at March 31, 2021 
  
  
  
  
  
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
  
Numbers 
(₹ in Lakh) 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
175 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Shares outstanding as at the beginning of the year 
             130,000,000  
13000.00                                 -                                 -  
Issued during the year 
  
  
                              -                               -                   130,000,000  
13000.00 
Decrease during the year 
  
  
                              -                               -                                    -                                 -    
Shares outstanding as at the end of the year 
             130,000,000  
13000.00                130,000,000  
13000.00 
On May 17, 2021, the Company has issued non-cumulative redeemable preference shares 1,000 lakhs preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 10,000.00 
lakhs  for a tenure of 20 years to Government of India (i.e. Promoter) maintained with Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on private 
placement with dividend of 0.01% per annum. Further, on November 12, 2021, the Company issued issued non-cumulative redeemable 
preference shares 300 lakhs preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 3,000.00 lakhs  to Government of India (i.e Promoter) on private placement with 
dividend of 0.01% per annum. In the event of liquidation, the Preference Shareholders will carry a preferential right over the holder of equity 
shares for payment of dividend and for payment of capital, in proportion to their shareholding. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
f) Details of Preference shares held in the Company by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares 
  
  
  
  
    
  
Name of the Shareholder 
As at March 31, 2023 
  
As at March 31, 2022 
No of Shares Held 
% of Holding 
  
No of Shares Held 
% of Holding 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
GOI through The President of India  
  
             130,000,000  
100.00%                130,000,000  
100.00% 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
             130,000,000  
100.00%   
             130,000,000  
100.00% 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
176 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Note 15 : Other Equity 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
 (i) Retained Earnings  
-2970.60 
-2323.29 
 (ii) Equity component of compound financial 
instruments  
11057.75  
11056.57 
8087.15 
8733.27 
(i) Retained Earnings 
Balance at beginning of the year 
-2323.29 
-837.25 
Add: Loss for the year 
-647.31 
-1486.05 
Balance at end of the year 
-2970.60   
-2323.29 
 (ii) Equity component of compound financial instruments  
Balance at beginning of the year 
11056.57 
0.00 
Equity Component of compound financial 
instruments 
1.18 
11056.57 
Balance at end of the year 
11057.75 
11056.57 
Note 16 : Financial Liabilities - Non - Current 
borrowings: 
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Unsecured-Loan from Government Of India 
  
  
3600.00   
4100.00 
Liability component of compound financial instruments 
2299.02 
  
2091.29 
  
  
  
  
  
5899.02   
6191.29 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
A. Terms of Repayment of Unsecured Loan - Government of 
India 
    
  
S. No. 
  
Amount of Loan 
Availed 
Total Term 
Repayment 
  
Remaining Period 
I 
  
4000.00   
10 Years 
  
8 Years 
II 
  
1000.00   
10 Years 
  
9 Years 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
B. Liability Component of Compound Financial 
Instruments 
  
    
  
On May 17, 2021, the Company has issued non cumulative redeemable preference shares 1,000 lakhs 
preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 10,000.00 lakhs  for a tenure of 20 years to Government of India (i.e. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
177 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Promoter) maintained with Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on private placement with dividend of 
0.01% 
per 
annum. 
Further, on November 12, 2021, the Company issued issued non cumulative redeemable preference shares 
300 lakhs preference shares @10/- i.e. ₹ 3,000.00 lakhs  to Government of India (i.e Promoter) on private 
placement 
with 
dividend 
of 
0.01% 
per 
annum.  
The equity portion of these redeemable preference shares, on account of dividend percentage being lower 
than effective market rate, is recorded in Other equity 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 17 : Financial Liabilities - Current Borrowings: 
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Current Maturities of Unsecured-Loan from Government Of 
India 
600.00   
600.00 
Book Overdraft 
  
  
  
  
0.00   
11.49 
  
  
  
  
  
600.00   
611.49 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 18 : Trade 
Payables 
  
  
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
(A) total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises; and 
0.55   
0.52 
(B) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises. 
52.75   
95.62 
  
  
  
  
  
53.30   
96.14 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
As at 31st March 23 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
  
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
  
Less than 1 
year 
1-2 
years 
2-3 
years 
More than 3 
years 
 Total  
(i)MSME 
  
0.55 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
0.55 
(ii)Others 
  
52.75 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
52.75 
(iii) Disputed dues – 
MSME 
  
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
0.00 
(iv) Disputed dues - 
Others 
  
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
0.00 
Total 
  
53.30 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
53.30 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
As at 31st March 22 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Particulars 
  
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
178 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
  
Less than 1 
year 
1-2 
years 
2-3 
years 
More than 3 
years 
 Total  
(i)MSME 
  
0.52 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
0.52 
(ii)Others 
  
95.62 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
95.62 
(iii) Disputed dues – 
MSME 
  
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
0.00 
(iv) Disputed dues - 
Others 
  
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
0.00 
Total 
  
96.14 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00   
96.14 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 19 : Provisions 
  
  
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Provision for Expenses Payable 
6.30   
4.08 
  
  
  
  
  
6.30   
4.08 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 20 : Other Financial 
Liabilities 
  
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Accrued Interest on loan from GOI but not yet due 
  
163.70   
164.11 
Earnest Money Deposit 
  
  
  
  
0.00   
0.25 
Property Tax Payable 
  
  
  
  
0.00   
770.76 
Stamp Duty Expenses Payable 
  
  
  
64325.70   
65100.00 
  
  
  
  
  
64489.40   
66035.12 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 21 : Other current 
liabilities 
  
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 
2023 
  
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Statutory Dues 
  
  
  
  
    
  
-GST 
  
  
  
  
4.13   
1.57 
-TDS under GST 
Payable 
  
  
  
  
0.13   
0.83 
-TDS under Income Tax 
Payable 
  
  
  
3.83   
5.01 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
8.09   
7.42 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
179 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 22 : Revenue from Operations 
  
    
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Rental Income from Investment Property 
  
200.20   
                                 -  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
200.20   
                                 -  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 23 : Other Income: 
  
  
    
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Interest on refund of Income-tax  
  
  
1.26   
0.16 
Interest Income on Fixed 
Deposit 
  
  
651.38   
315.81 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
652.64   
315.98 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 24 : Employee Benefit Expenses: 
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Salaries and Wages 
  
  
  
34.28   
26.00 
Staff Welfare Expenses   
  
  
0.20   
0.00 
  
  
  
  
  
34.48   
26.00 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 25 : Finance Cost: 
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Interest on Loan from GOI 
  
  
459.59   
434.11 
Interest Expenses - Financial Instruments 
  
208.91   
147.86 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
668.50   
581.97 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
Note 26 :  Depreciation and Amortization Expenses: 
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Depreciation   
  
  
  
1.92   
0.79 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
1.92   
0.79 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
180 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Note 27 : Other Expenses: 
  
  
    
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2023   
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Property 
Tax 
  
  
  
  
640.72   
1008.98 
Security Charges 
  
  
  
147.29   
232.11 
Legal & Professional Charges 
  
  
76.85   
15.45 
Registrar and Transfer Agent 
Fees 
  
  
18.04   
18.16 
Advertisement Expenses 
  
  
14.97   
1.41 
Depository Fees 
  
  
  
13.57   
7.78 
Stock Exchange Fee 
  
  
  
8.53   
7.68 
Travelling Expenses 
  
  
  
8.35   
2.82 
Auditor's Remuneration 
  
  
    
  
- Statutory Audit fees 
  
  
  
1.25   
1.25 
- Other services 
  
  
  
0.95   
0.78 
- Secretarial Audit Fees   
  
  
0.35   
0.45 
- Internal Audit Fees 
  
  
  
2.00   
0.95 
AGM Expenses 
  
  
  
3.69   
0.00 
Survey Expenses 
  
  
  
4.66   
5.33 
Director Siting Fees 
  
  
  
3.30   
0.30 
Rates & Taxes 
  
  
  
1.32   
0.80 
Interest/Late Fees on delayed payment of Taxes 
  
0.77   
2.36 
Priniting & Stationery 
  
  
  
0.75   
0.73 
Prior Period Expenses    
  
  
0.00   
260.27 
Miscellaneous Expenses 
  
  
1.58   
3.50 
  
  
  
  
  
948.95   
1571.09 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
181 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
28. 
The balances shown in financial statements against Trade Receivables, Trade Payables Non- 
current borrowings, current borrowings, other financial liabilities, other current liabilities and 
other financial assets are subject to confirmation, and reconciliation (if any) arising on such 
confirmation. 
29.  
The Company during the year, has procured Land Security and Maintenance Services from 
various CPWD across Delhi, Kolkata, Pune and Chennai.  
 
 
 
The expenses in connection with Land Security and Maintenance, are booked on provision basis 
by the company on the basis of Utilization certificates issued by the CPWD’s.  
 
The CPWD has informed the Company that, there is no mechanism under CPWD (a GOI 
undertaking) to raise invoice and the Company shall book expense on the basis of Utilization 
certificates issued by the CPWD’s/MOU signed between the Company and CPWD.  
 
Moreover, as confirmed by CPWD, the statutory compliance with respect to above said expenses 
are done by CPWD and there is nothing related to client regarding GST.  
 
30. 
Auditor's Remuneration 
 
(₹ in Lakhs) 
Particulars 
March 31,2023 
March 31,2022 
Statutory Audit fees  
1.25 
1.25 
Other Services 
0.95 
0.60 
 
31. 
Contingent Liabilities not provided for: 
a) Claim or suit filed by any person/ department against Company not acknowledged as 
debts:Nil 
b) Differential Liability towards Stamp Duty to be paid for the Conveyance of Title 
Deeds 
The Stamp duty of ₹ 65100.00 lakhs on transfer of title deed was calculated on the circle 
rates prevailing during financial year 2016-17. However, the Circles rates/stamp duty 
rates may vary at the time of actual payment of stamp duty from circle rates prevailing in 
financial year 2016-17 and amount of stamp duty/registration charges payable might 
differ from Rs 65100.00 lakhs. During FY 2020-21, the stamp duty amounting of ₹ 
65100.00 lakhs was treated as liability on the basis of budget approved by the Ministry of 
Housing and Affairs. Out of the above provision of Rs. 65,100 lacs, Stamp Duty of Rs. 
774.30 lacs has been paid during the current financial year 2022-23, for the Conveyance 
Deed registration of the Chennai land Parcel. 
c) There are 32 cases of litigation, claims and disputes pertaining to the land parcels known 
as on 31.03.2023 which are pending under various forums. These litigations, claims and 
disputes, where earlier Tata Communications Limited was a party, subsequent to 
approval of the Scheme and transfer of land, have now been transferred and belong to 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited. The Company is in the process of contesting all 
such litigations, claims and disputesThe financial implications associated with all such 
litigations, if any, is undeterminable as of March 31, 2023.(Details as per Annexure I 
attached) 
 
d) Non Determination of Property tax/Urban Land Tax Liability for the Chennai 
Land Parcel 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
182 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The demand for Property tax has not been raised by the Revenue Authorities of 
Chennai, for the Land parcels of 53.04 acres in Chennai. 
 
e) Difference Property Tax Liability for the Greater Kailash, New Delhi Land Parcel 
due to payment of Property tax on Self-Assessment Basis   
The Company is paying property tax on self-assessment basis, for the land parcels at 
Greater Kailash, New Delhi. In FY 2021-22 and 2019-20, the Company has calculated 
property tax by using multiplication factor @0.5 and rate of tax @ 15% where as in FY 
2020-21, multiplication factor @0.3 and rate of tax @15% was used to calculate the 
property tax. But, the additional property tax demand may be raised by Revenue 
Authority by using multiplication factor @0.3 for FY 2019-20 and 0.5 for FY 2020-21 
and rate of tax may be used @ 20% for FY 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22.In addition, 
there may be certain additional liabilities, which may arise for previous financial years as 
well, for the said Land Parcel. 
 
f) Penalty Imposed by NSE and BSE 
During the year NSE and BSE has imposed penalty for Rs. 90.71 Lakhs on non-
compliance of number of Independent Directors. The Company has made application to 
NSE and BSE for waiver of such penalties. Thus, the provision for penalties not made 
during the year 
 
32. 
As per Ind AS 40, land parcels were reclassified as Investment Property and valuation has been 
done on cost model. As per clause 3.2 of  Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction, upon 
the scheme becoming effective, all the assets and liabilities pertaining to the surplus land stand 
transferred to and vested in the Transferee Company at their respective book values as appearing 
in the books of Transferor Company. Therefore, the value of the land has been taken as the 
book value of the land in the audited balance sheet of Tata Communications Limited for the FY 
2019-20 and onwards. The Company holds land parcels comprises of 739.69 acres at different 
locations i.e Pune-524 acres, Halisahar (Kolkata)-35.19 acres, Chennai-53.04 acres, Chattarpur 
(Delhi)-58 acres, Greater Kailash (Delhi)-69.46 acres. 
 
As per Ind-AS 113, the fair value of Investment property has been conducted by the IBBI 
registered valuer, during the current financial year 2022-23. 
 
The fair value of all the land parcels has been assessed at ₹1060197.53lakhs. 
 
Accordingly, the fair value disclosures of each investment property as per Ind-AS 113 are as 
follows: - 
S.No. 
Investment Properties 
Valuation Technique 
Fair Value (₹ in Rs 
Lakhs) 
1 
Padianullar, Chennai 
Residual Approach 
41,716.34 
2 
Halisahar, Kolkata 
Residual Approach 
9,025.17 
3 
Pune 
Belting Approach for 
Land 
Depreciated 
Replacement Cost 
2,26,399.75 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
183 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Method for Civil 
Structures 
4 
Greater Kailash, New Delhi 
Residual Approach 
7,10,193.77 
5 
Chattarpur, New Delhi 
Residual Approach 
72,862.50 
 
Grand Total 
 
10,60,197.53 
 
 
33. 
The Company has received funds of Rs. 130,00,00,000/- (Rupees One Hundred and Thirty 
Crores) from Government of India against which the Company allotted shares of 10 crore Non-
Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares of 0.01% @ Rs. 10 each to the promoter i.e President 
of India, acting through Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on 12.11.2021 after taking due 
approvals from Competent Authorities. 
 
The said financial instruments have been accounted for by the Company in accordance with IND 
AS 109.However, the terms of  issue of  the said Preference Shares makes no mention regarding the redemption 
value at the end of  20 years, whether at par of  at any value other than par.In the absence of any mention 
regarding the redemption value of the said instruments, the said financial instruments have been 
accounted for by the Company, in the accompanying financial statements on the assumption of 
the Redemption at Par Value, which is uncertain and indefinite in nature. 
 
The above Emphasis of Matter was put across the Board of Directors in their meeting dated 29th 
March 2023 
 
The Board took note of the observations of the Statutory Auditors and by way of Board Note 10 
dated 29th March 2023 have stated that the Preference share Capital of Company shall be 
Redeemable at Par. 
 
 
34. 
As per IndAS 32 and 109, The 0.1% Non – Convertible preference shares, shall be divided 
between Equity and Debt components based on appropriate discounting factors and future cash 
flows, accordingly, Equity and Debt components is presented in financial statement for the 
Financial Year Ended 31st March 2023,based on estimates.  
 
During the FY 2021-22 and FY 2022-23, since the Company is under Loss, it has not declared/ 
paid any dividend to the preference shareholders.Thus, the estimated future cashflows to 
preference shareholder have changedconsequentially.Accordingly,there are changes in Equity and 
Debt Component to financial instrument in Financial Statements which are incorporated while 
preparing Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2023. 
 
 
35. 
Disclosures for Goodwill accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 38 
Particulars 
As at  
31st March, 2023 
 
(Rs. In lacs) 
As at  
31st March, 
2022 
(Rs. In lacs) 
Goodwill on demerger ** 
28,194.15 
28,194.15 
(Share Capital - Value of land - FDR covered in 
the definition of surplus land) 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
184 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Total 
28,194.15 
28,194.15 
As per clause 5.7 of the Scheme, 
“Upon the Scheme becoming effective, the Transferee Company shall account for the 
Scheme and its effects in its books of account with effect from the Appointed date as 
under: 
i. 
The Transferee Company shall record the assets and liabilities of the splitting up 
and reconstruction by way of transfer of Surplus land vested in it in accordance 
with this Scheme, as per the book values attributable to such assets and liabilities 
ii. 
The shortfall, if any, on the difference of the aggregate value of the liabilities of 
the splitting up and reconstruction by way of transfer of Surplus land taken over 
pursuant to this Scheme as detailed in clause 3 shall be recorded as ‘goodwill’ in 
the books of Transferee Company.” 
Thus, in accordance with above extracts of Scheme of Demerger, Goodwill of Rs. 
28194.15 lacs were recorded in financial statements from FY 2019-20 and onwards till 
March 31, 2023. 
Accordingly, the said accounting in not in violation of Ind AS 103, since the transfer of 
Surplus Land doesn’t constitute a Business (as defined in Ind AS 103), and the 
applicability of Ind AS 103 is overridden by virtue of accounting of Goodwill in 
accordance with the Order of Demerger. 
36. 
Related Party Transactions/Disclosures, in line with Ind AS - 24: 
 
Subsidiary Company 
Joint Ventures 
Others 
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable 
Central 
Government 
controlled 
entities 
a. NBCC and  
b. CPWD 
 
S.No 
Chairman 
Cum 
Managing 
Director 
Director(s) 
Independent 
Director(s) 
Chief  
Financial 
Officer 
Company 
Secretary 
1 
Mrs. D Thara 
Dr. Madhu Rani Teotia 
 (Till 15th December 
2022) 
Mrs. Sunita 
Chandra 
Mr. 
Bhavesh 
Singla 
Ms. Lubna 
2 
  
Mr. Suvashis Das (w.e.f. 
15th December 2022) 
Mr. G R 
Kanakavidu 
  
  
3 
  
Mr. Rajeev Kumar Das 
  
  
  
4 
  
Ms. Priya Mahadevan 
(Till 15th April 2022) 
  
  
  
5 
  
Mr. Ravi Kumar Arora 
  
  
  
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
185 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
6 
  
Mr. Diwakar Kumar 
Barnwal 
  
  
  
 
The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of 
business.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.Managerial Remuneration 
  
₹ in lakhs 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
Employee benefits 
16.80 
13.20 
Total 
16.80 
13.20 
 
B.  Independent Director(s) 
 
  
Particulars 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
Mrs. Sunita Chandra (Sitting fees) 
1.70 
0.15 
Dr. G.R. Kanakavidu (Sitting fees) 
1.60 
0.15 
Total 
3.30 
0.30 
 
C. Details of Transactions with Govt. Controlled Entities 
Particulars 
                     For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
 Services from 
 
 
CPWD 
NBCC 
115.91 
50.00 
262.29 
0.00 
 
 
D. Balances with Related Parties 
Particulars 
                     For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2022 
Advance to CPWD 
33.26 
54.02 
Payable to CPWD 
12.84 
29.10 
NBCC 
- 
14.00 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
186 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
37. 
Ratio Analysis as per Revised Schedule III of  the Companies Act, 2013 :- 
Sr. 
No. 
Ratio 
Analysis 
Numerator 
Denominator 
Ratios 
Variance 
Reasons for variance over 25% 
  
  
2022-23 
2021-22 
2022-23 
2021-22 
2022-23 
2021-22 
1 
Current 
Ratio 
12394.74 
15150.59 
65157.10 66754.26 
19.02% 
22.70% 
-16.18% 
The Company has generated revenue from 
operations for the first-time during FY 2022-23 for 
Rs. 200.20 Lacs. In addition, there is a significant 
increase in interest Income of Rs 336.66 Lacs in 
comparison to last year. Further, there is reduction in 
Other Expenses since during the last year, the 
Company had paid one time arrears of property 
taxes and written off Miscellaneous assets, in 
comparison to current year, amounting to Rs. 628.53 
lacs. 
2 
Debt 
Equity 
Ratio 
71056.12 
72945.55 
36587.15 37233.27 
194.21% 
195.91% 
-0.87% 
3 
Debt 
Service 
Coverage 
Ratio 
-130.59 
-1281.10 
1268.50 
1181.97 
-10.29% 
-
108.39% 
-90.50% 
4 
Return on 
Equity 
Ratio 
-647.31 
-1486.05 
36910.21 37448.01 
-1.75% 
-3.97% 
-55.81% 
5 
Inventory 
Turnover 
Ratio 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
6 
Trade 
Receivables 
Turnover 
Ratio 
200.20 
0.00 
8.91 
0.00 
2247.71% 
0.00% 
100.00% 
7 
Trade 
Payables 
948.95 
1571.09 
74.72 
261.36 
1269.99% 
601.13% 
111.27% 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
187 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Turnover 
Ratio 
8 
Net Capital 
Turnover 
Ratio 
200.20 
0.00 
-
52762.36 
0.00 
-0.38% 
0.00% 
100.00% 
9 
Net Profit 
Ratio 
-647.31 
0.00 
200.20 
0.00 
-323.33% 
0.00% 
100.00% 
10 
Return on 
Capital 
employed 
-132.51 
-1281.90 
42486.17 43424.56 
-0.31% 
-2.95% 
-89.43% 
11 
Return on 
Investment 
852.84 
315.98 
78163.83 80991.53 
1.09% 
0.39% 
179.67% 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
188 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
38. 
Previous year figures are regrouped and rearranged wherever necessary. 
39.  
The Company has updated presentation of Note 18 of FY 21-22 in accordance with 
Note No 18 and Note 19 of 2022-23, in order to enhance the presentation of financial 
statements in accordance with Ind As 1. 
The Changes in presentation are as under :-  
 
A. Nature of Reclassification - Regrouping of Other Financial Liabilities as Trade 
Payables and Provisions. 
B. Amount of Class of Items Reclassified as under :- 
PRESENTATION IN FINANCIAL YEAR  21-22 
 
Note 18 : Other financial liabilities 
  
(Rs. In Lacs) 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Security Charges Payable 
  
  
               16.78  
Tata Communication Limited 
  
  
  
-Security Charges 
  
  
  
               31.45  
Other Expenes Payable 
  
  
               50.69  
Audit Fee Payable 
  
  
  
                 1.31  
  
  
  
  
  
             100.23  
      PRESENTATION IN FINANCIAL YEAR  22-23 
 
Note 18 : Trade Payables 
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2022 
(A) total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises; and 
0.52 
(B) total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises. 
95.62 
  
  
  
  
  
96.14 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Note 19 : Provisions 
  
  
  
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2022 
Provision for Expenses Payable 
4.08 
  
  
  
  
  
4.08 
 
C. Reasons for Such Reclassification :-  Fairer Presentation of Other Financial Liabilities 
into Tarde Payable and Provisions 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
189 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
40. 
Notes 1 to 40 form an integral part of the accounts and have been authenticated. 
 
As per our Report of even date attached 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
 
For and on behalf of Board of Directors of 
Chartered Accountants 
 
 
 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited
 
 
FRN No. N500365/005469N 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
D Thara 
 
 
Suvasish Das 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
Chairperson & Managing  
Director 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
 
 
Director 
Partner  
 
 
 
DIN: 01911714 
 
DIN:09826037 
M.No.095619 
UDIN: 23095619BHAEAL4927 
 
 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
Sd/- 
 
 
 
 
 
Bhavesh Singla  
 
Lubna 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer 
Place : New Delhi 
 
 
M.No. 551844  
 
M.No. A53597 
Date : 29th May 2023 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
190 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF PENDING CASES AS ON 31.03.2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure-I 
S NO. 
LIST OF CASES IN ORDER 
OF DEMERGER 
NAME OF COURT WHERE 
THE CASE IS PENDING 
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE MATTER 
STATUS AS ON 31.03.2023 
DELHI 
1. 
TCL VS GOVT. OF NCT OF 
DELHI – WP NO. 2546/2014 
 
DELHI HIGH COURT 
These 
two 
petitions 
before 
Hon’ble Delhi High Court pertain 
to ownership of two Khasras i.e. 
Khasra 
Nos 
444/203 
and 
446/204 GK-I.  
As per DLF, these two khasras 
belong to DLF.  
Private Respondents claim it to be 
their land.  
As per TCL, after acquisition of 
land for TCL no land is left in the 
vicinity 
and 
therefore 
TCL 
suspects encroachment of land by 
private Respondent and therefore 
TCL has filed this petition i.e. WP 
No. 
25456/2014 
challenging 
order of demarcation of only two 
khasras i.e. Khasra Nos 444/203 
and 446/204.  
DLF has also filed the writ 
petition i.e. WP No. 654/2015 
stating that as per records, it is 
Vide order dated 21.12.2021, the 
Hon’ble High Court has permitted 
intervention of HPIL in the matter. 
 
The matter was last listed on 
05.12.2022 and thereafter has been 
adjourned 
to 
13.04.2023 
for 
Arguments. 
 
 
2. 
DLF LIMITED VS GOVT. OF 
NCT OF DELHI – WP NO. 
654/2015 
 
DELHI HIGH COURT 
 
Vide order dated 21.12.2021, the 
Hon’ble High Court has permitted 
intervention of HPIL in the matter. 
 
The matter was last listed on 
05.12.2022 and thereafter has been 
adjourned 
to 
13.04.2023 
for 
Arguments. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
191 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
their land. 
 
3. 
SLP(C) No.-013010 – 2020 - 
TCL Vs. UNION OF INDIA & 
ORS. 
 
SUPREME COURT 
TCL filed a writ petition before 
Delhi High Court challenging the 
acquisition of 10489.18 sq. mtrs 
of land situated at G.K-1 along 
Outer Ring Road, near Savitri 
Cinema, New Delhi belonging to 
TCL including the award dated 30 
December 2013 for Rs. 188, 
80,168/- as compensation for 
acquisition. This writ petition got 
dismissed vide judgment dated 
25.11.2019. 
The present SLP has been filed 
challenging the judgment dated 
25.11.2019. 
Note 
:- 
As 
per 
scheme 
or 
arrangement out of the acquired 
land of 2.59 acres for DMRC, 0.54 
acres of land are the surplus land 
belonging to HPIL. 
Application seeking impleadment on 
behalf of HPIL has been filed in this 
matter. 
 
SLP(C) No.-013010 – 2020 filed by 
TCL on 02.03.2020 is pending 
adjudication and was last listed on 
22.09.2022.  
 
 
The matter is likely to be listed on 
14.04.2023. 
4. 
TCL VS UOI – LAC NO. 
14/2014 
 
New Numbers: - 
 
Tata Communications Ltd. v. 
Union of India, LAC 24 / 2016 
SAKET DISTRICT COURT 
Reference Petition filed by TCL for 
enhancement of compensation vide 
award dated 30 December 2013 for 
Rs. 188, 80,168/-.  
Vide 
order 
dated 
12.01.2022, 
notice has been issued in the 
Application filed by the HPIL 
seeking Impleadment.The matter 
was listed on 29.03.2023 on which 
date our new lawyers entered 
appearance and sought time to 
inspect the Court file and argue 
the application on the next date 
i.e. 17.05.2023.  
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
192 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
5. 
UOI VS TCL – LAC NO. 
04/2014 
New Numbers: - 
Union of India &Ors. v. Tata 
Communications Ltd., LAC 19 
/ 2016 
SAKET DISTRICT COURT 
LAC also filed a Ref Petition being 
LAC Ref No. 4 of 2014 alleging that 
TCL did not collect the sum 
awarded as compensation for the 
said acquired land.  
 
Vide 
order 
dated 
12.01.2022, 
notice has been issued in the 
Application filed by the HPIL 
seeking Impleadment. 
The 
matter 
was 
listed 
on 
29.03.2023 on which date our new 
lawyers entered appearance and 
sought time to inspect the Court file 
and argue the application on the 
next date i.e. 17.05.2023.  
6. 
SLP (C) 13478 of 2019 now 
converted to Civil Appeal 5090 
of 2019 - TCL Vs.  GNCTD & 
ORS. 
 
SUPREME COURT 
By way of various letters, Public 
Works Department, Delhi (PWD) has 
been claiming that it has carried out 
the demarcation exercise with the 
help of the revenue authorities for 
widening the road and alleged that 
Tata Communications Limited (TCL) 
and some other agencies/private 
agencies have encroached upon some 
land on 
Ring 
Road 
at 
Greater 
Kailash-I.  
On 
10 
June 
2017, 
the 
representatives of TCL became aware 
that PWD, along with the officers of 
Sub-divisional Magistrate, 
KalkaJi 
(SDM, KalkaJi) and some police 
officials, forcibly entered into and 
trespassed upon a part of the Land 
and 
started 
demolishing 
the 
boundary wall and other structures 
situated on the said Land.  
The matter was last listed on 
17.09.2019.  
The next date has not been notified 
by the registry of the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court. 
HPIL 
has 
filed 
its 
application 
seeking impleadment in the matter 
on 13.11.2021. 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
193 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
The 
TCL 
immediately 
filed 
an 
application before the vacation bench 
of the High Court in W.P. (C) 
2434/11 (this is an old writ petition 
filed in the year 2011 for similar 
cause of action which was disposed 
of on 1 September 2014) (“Previous 
Writ”) and got the interim order 
against the demolition by PWD.   
TCL separately filed a fresh Writ 
Petition 
claiming 
that 
the 
demarcation exercise done by PWD 
and SDM, KalkaJi to widen the road 
is incorrect and that the TCL is the 
owner of the land which the PWD is 
claiming ownership. 
The WP was filed by TCL which was 
disposed 
off 
vide 
order 
dated 
21.05.2019 directing the respondents 
to 
appoint 
another 
agency 
for 
conducting the demarcation exercise 
and conduct the survey by the Total 
Station 
Method 
(TSM). 
However, 
while directing as above, it was 
clarified by the Ld. Single Judge that 
the pendency of the said demarcation 
would not preclude the respondent 
PWD from taking over the land for 
carrying out the road widening works 
as are required. 
Aggrieved by the Ld. Single Judge’s 
Order, TCL preferred an Appeal 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
194 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
bearing LPA No. 371 of 2019 against 
the Order dated 21.05.2019. 
Vide its Order dated 27.05.2019, the 
Division Bench of the Delhi High 
Court upheld the Order of the Ld. 
Single Judge while holding that 
“merely because there is a deviation 
from the due process of law, in our 
considered view, interference into the 
matter is not called for when public 
convenience and public importance is 
to be given due consideration and 
weightage”. 
Therefore, aggrieved by the Order 
dated 27.05.2019 passed by the 
Division Bench of the Delhi High 
Court in LPA No. 371 of 2019, TCL 
then approached the Supreme Court 
India by filing this Special Leave 
Petition bearing SLP (C) NO. 13478 of 
2019. The Hon’ble Supreme Court 
vide its order dated 11.06.2019 
observed as under: - 
“Prima facie, it appears that 
recourse has not been taken to 
the acquisition proceedings in 
accordance with law in respect of 
the land of the petitioner in 
question.  
Status quo with regard to the 
land in question be maintained by 
the parties for a period of eight 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
195 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
weeks from date or until further 
orders whichever is earlier.  
The status quo granted by this 
Court will not stand in the way of 
demarcation in accordance with 
law upon notice to the appellant.  
Liberty is also granted to apply for 
extension of status quo, upon 
notice to the respondents, if 
necessary.” 
7. 
SURRENDER 
SINGH 
GAKKHAR VS HEMISPHERE 
PRPOERTIES INDIA LIMITED 
– 
CP- 55/ND/ 2022 
NATIONAL COMPANY LAW 
TRIBUNAL AT NEW DELHI 
This petition has been filed by the 
Petitioner under Section 58 & 59 of 
the Companies Act before National 
Company Law Tribunal at New Delhi 
inter-alia seeking transfer of 3600 
shares 
to 
the 
Petitioner. 
The 
Petitioner was an employee of VSNL 
who took voluntary retirement on 
2003 has stake his claim in the 
petition upon 3600 shares of HPIL. 
The Petition was listed for final 
arguments on 02.03.2023 and has 
now 
been 
re-notified 
for 
28.04.2023. 
 
Counter Affidavit has been filed in 
the matter by HPIL. 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
196 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
CHENNAI 
8.  P VENKATA RAO VS TCL – 
AS NO. 70/2011 
ADDITIONAL SUB 
JUDGE PONNERI 
Venkata Rao fled OS 35 of 1998 
claiming to be descendants of 
Zamindar 
and 
seeking 
injunction against TCL from 
building structures in the land 
at 
Padiyanallur. 
This 
was 
dismissed. 
Venkata Rao has preferred an 
appeal against the order. 
 
Notice in the Impleadment Application 
filed by the HPIL has been issued on 
24.11.2021.  
The matter was posted on 10.03.2023 for 
clarifications. However, the Judge does 
not seem to have any further clarifications 
and the matter has been getting reposted 
since the orders are not ready.  
Subsequently, the matter was posted on 
17.03.2023 and thereafter on 23.03.2023. 
We attended the matter on both the days, 
however the orders were not ready and the 
matter had been reposted on 05.04.2023.  
9.  A. (i) State of Tamil Nadu Vs. 
TCL - CMP NO. 878 of 2019 
in WASR 107562 of 2018  
(ii) State of Tamil Nadu Vs. 
TCL - CMP NO. 879 of 2019 
in WASR 107563 of 2018 
B. (i) P. Gopal, S/o P. Venkta 
Rao Vs.  Secretary &Ors. - 
Writ Appeal No. 1903/2018 
 
MADRAS HIGH 
COURT 
A. By way of an order bearing 
Rc.17099/2010/B3 
dated 
06.06.2011, the patta in the name 
of Tata Communication Limited 
(TCL) was cancelled. Aggrieved by 
the said order dated 06.06.2011, 
TCL filed two writ petitions.  
(i) WP 23739 of 2014 was filed to 
stay and quash the impugned 
order 
in 
Rc.17099/2010/B3 
dated 06.06.2011 and direct the 
Tahsildar to restore the entry in 
revenue records including patta in 
the 
name 
of 
Tata 
Communications for property in 
A. In CMP No. 878/2019 & CMP No. 
879/2019, the Hon’ble Madras High Court 
vide order dated 22.02.2022 in CMP 878 
of 2019 and CMP No. 879 of 2019 in 
WASR 107562 of 2018 and WASR 107563 
of 2018 directed the State of Tamil Nadu 
to implead HPIL. Accordingly, the State of 
Tamil Nadu vide its implead petition dated 
04.03.2022 
and 
impleaded 
HPIL 
as 
Respondent No. 2 in these two appeals. 
Thereafter, vide order dated 08.03.2022, 
the Hon’ble Madras High Court has 
directed 
the 
State 
of 
Tamil 
Nadu 
represented by Ld. Advocate General to file 
better affidavits in support of their 
application seeking condonation of delay 
in 
filing 
the 
appeal 
and 
granted 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
197 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
survey no. 155/2 and 156.  
(ii) WP 23740 of 2014 was filed to 
stay and quash the impugned 
order 
in 
Rc.17099/2010/B3 
dated 06.06.2011 and direct the 
Tahsildar to issue patta in favour 
of the members of the Tata 
Communication's 
society 
in 
respect of 32.5 acres of land in 
survey no. 155/2 and 156. 
The aforesaid Writ petitions were 
allowed vide a common order 
dated 2.3.2017 and patta stand 
restored in favour of TCL. A 
direction was also made that the 
name of the members of the 
society be also included in the 
patta. 
Thereafter, WASR 107562 of 2018 
and WASR 107563 of 2018 were 
filed by the State Govt. of Tamil 
Nadu 
against 
order 
dated 
02.03.2017 in WP 23739 of 2014 
and 
WP 
23740 
of 
2014, 
respectively. 
Since, there is a delay in filing the 
aforesaid writ appeals by the 
State Govt. of Tamil Nadu, State 
of Tamil Nadu filed CMP 878 of 
2019 and CMP No. 879 of 2019 
opportunity to HPIL to file a response to 
the same. The HPIL has also filed its 
counter affidavit in response to the 
affidavit filed by the State of Tamil Nadu 
opposing the application filed by the State 
of Tamil Nadu seeking condonation of 
delay. 
The matter came up on 22.08.2022 and 
the AG appearing for the State of Tamil 
Nadu filed an affidavit on the valuation of 
the land. Subsequently, the matter was 
posted on 08.09.22. However, since the 
Chief Justice had changed then, the 
matter did not come up thereafter. 
 
 
 
 
B. WA No. 1903/2018 last came up on 
06.09.2022 and the implead application 
was argued on behalf of HPIL and the 
same was allowed. 
 
However, since the Chief Court matter 
being CMP 878 and 879 of 2019 has not 
come up after September, WA 1903 has 
also not been listed. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
198 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
seeking condonation of delay of 
550 days in filing the aforesaid 
two writ appeals. 
Once the delay is condoned, 
then 
their 
writ 
appeals 
bearings 
SR 
Nos. 
will 
be 
converted into Writ Appeals 
(WA Nos.). 
B. P. Gopal son of P. Venkata Rao 
has also filed Writ Appeal No. 
1903/2018 seeking to challenge 
the 
aforesaid 
order 
dated 
2.3.2017 
passed 
in 
WP 
No. 
23739/2014. 
10.  P. Gopal, S/o P. Venkta Rao 
Vs.  TCL &Ors 
  
WA No. 1918/2018 
 
MADRAS HIGH 
COURT 
TCL had filed a Review Petition 
197 of 2015 seeking review of the 
order dated 24.05.2014 passed in 
W.P. No. 11859/2014. The said 
review petition was allowed vide 
order dated 19.01.2016. Now the 
son namely P Gopal of the 
petitioner P. Venkata Rao, has 
filed 
writ 
appeal 
WA 
No. 
1918/2018 
against 
the 
order 
passed 
in 
Review 
petition 
197/2015. 
Impleadment application on behalf of HPIL 
has been filed in this matter. 
Next date is yet to be announced on the 
Madras High Court Website. 
11.  KOMALAVALLI VS 
INSPECTOR OF POLICE & 
ANR. – CRL OP NO. 
8183/2015 
MADRAS HIGH COURT 
Petition filed regarding transfer of 
investigation from State Police to 
CBI on the Padiyanallur Land. 
TCL is not a party. 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
199 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
PUNE 
12.  KAUSHALYA 
MAHADEV 
CHOUDHARY & ORS. VS. 
TCL 
WRIT 
PETITION 
NO.  
9163/2009 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
The present batch of 21 petitions 
have 
been 
filed 
inter-alia 
challenging 
the 
acquisition 
proceedings of different khasras 
pursuant 
to 
Government 
Notification No. 3722/24 dated 
20.08.1925. These petitions have 
been directed to be listed alongwith 
PIL No. 109/2008. 
In the PIL 109/2008 an interim 
order was granted restraining the 
authorities from carrying on any 
construction over the portions of 
land to which no compensation has 
been given to the land owners / 
tenants.  
TCL filed an SLP against the said 
order. The Hon’ble Supreme Court 
vide its order dated 15.11.2010 has 
limited the reliefs to compensation 
and therefore challenge to the 
acquisition cannot survive. This is 
also the stand of TCL in its affidavit 
filed before the Bombay High Court 
in these matters. The matters are 
pending before Bombay High Court. 
 
These matters were being listed for final 
arguments and last date in the matter was 
15.02.2023.  
It was informed by DSK vide email dated 
23.12.2022 
that 
20 
impleadment 
applications have been filed, however, 
there 
are 
certain 
objections 
in 
the 
applications which are to be cured. 
The newly appointed counsels have taken 
over these matters and they have assured 
that the applications will be listed soon 
before the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
200 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
13.  SANTOSH WALKE VS. TCL 
PIL 109/2008 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
14.  MADHAV MHASKE VS. UOI 
&ORS. WRIT PETITION NO. 
612/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
15.  SANTOSH KESHAV WAJE 
VS. 
UOI 
& 
ORS. 
WRIT 
PETITION NO. 132/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
16.  DATTATRAYA SADASHIV 
GAVHANE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
 
WRIT PETITION NO. 4332 
OF 2016 
 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
17.  SOMNATH SHINDE VS. UOI 
& ORS. 
WRIT 
PETITION 
NO. 
602/2016 
 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
18.  HARIHAR JAYWANT WALKE 
VS. UNION OF INDIA & 
OTHERS  
 
WRIT PETITION NO. 4334 
OF 2016  
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
201 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
19.  SHANTI PARANDE VS. UOI 
& ORS. WRIT PETITION NO. 
11464/2015 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
20.  KRISHNA 
DNYANOBA 
WALKE 
VS. 
UNION 
OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 614 OF 
2016  
BOMBAY  HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
21.  MANGALA GHULE VS. UOI 
& ORS.  WRIT PETITION NO. 
4747/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do- 
--do-- 
22.  MARUTI TAPKIR VS. UOI & 
ORS. WRIT PETITION NO. 
4744/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
23.  RAMDAS WALKE VS. UOI & 
ORS. WRIT PETITION NO. 
4863/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
24.  PARSHURAM MHASKE VS. 
UOI & ORS. WP/4333/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
25.  PANDIT 
LAXMAN 
WALKE 
VS. UNION OF INDIA & 
OTHERS 
WRIT 
PETITION 
NO. 4342 OF 2016  
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
26.  POPAT DATTATRAYA KATE 
VS. UNION OF INDIA & 
OTHERS  WRIT PETITION 
NO. 4341 OF 2016  
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
202 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
27.  SURESH BHIKAJI WALKE 
VS. UNION OF INDIA & 
OTHERS  WRIT PETITION 
NO. 11346 OF 2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
28.  ASHOK 
DHONDIBA 
SAKURE VS. UNION OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  WRIT 
PETITION NO. 11339 OF 
2016  
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
29.  DATTATRAYA 
HARIBHAU 
WALKE 
VS. 
UNION 
OF 
INDIA & OTHERS  WRIT 
PETITION NO. 11340 OF 
2016  
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
30.  SHRI 
EKNATH 
BHIKU 
WALKE V. UNION OF INDIA 
& ORS. WRIT PETITION NO.  
11348/2014 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
31.  SHRI VITTHAL DHONDIBA 
WALKE V. UNION OF INDIA 
& ORS. WRIT PETITION NO.  
11347/2016 
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
32.  MARUTI DAMU KATE VS. 
UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS  
WRIT PETITION NO. 6647 
OF 2017   
BOMBAY HIGH 
COURT 
--do-- 
--do-- 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
203 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
 
To the Members of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited 
 
Report on the Audit of  the Financial Statements 
 
Opinion 
 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Hemisphere Properties India 
Limited(“herein after called as The Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31 2023, 
the Statement of Profit and Loss, the statement of cash flows and the statement of changes in equity for 
the year then ended and notes to the financial statement including the summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information. 
 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act") in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards 
prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended, (“IND AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of 
affairs of the Company as at 31 March,2023, and its profit/(Loss), total comprehensive income, its cash 
flows and changes in equity for the year ended on that date. 
 
Basis for Opinion 
 
We conducted our audit of the financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
specified under section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. (Our responsibilities under those Standards 
are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of  the Financial Statements section of 
our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made 
thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. 
 
Emphasis of  Matter 
 
1. Note No. 13, regarding Other Receivables of Rs. 49.65 lakhs from Tata Communication Limited 
(TCL) for their proportionate share of Property tax arrears paid for the period 2016 till the date of 
Demerger. The Company has paid Property Tax Arrears (under MCD Samriddhi Scheme) for 
Chattarpur Land Parcel, New Delhi, on the mutation of property under MCD records for Rs. 141.61 
Lakhs for the period 2016 to 2023, out of which, the Company has recognized receivable of Rs. 49.65 
Lakhs from TCL, being their proportionate share, as per the demerger order from 2016 till date of 
Demerger, being 05th August 2019. However, till the date of conclusion of the Statutory Audit, TCL 
has not acknowledged the dues towards the arrears. 
 
Accordingly, the recoveries of such receivable is not ascertainable, and no expense or provision has 
been created in respect of such uncertainty. 
 
2. Note No. 20 read with Note No. 31(b) regarding Provision for Stamp Duty Payable towards 
registration/mutation of the complete land parcels in all states, amounting to Rs. 65,100lacs, which 
has been computed based on the circle rates prevailing in Financial Year 2016-17. The actual liability 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
204 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
in this regard may vary, being dependent upon the Circles rates/stamp duty rates prevailing at the 
time of transfer of titles of land in future. The Company has paid an amount of Rs. 774.30 lacs (out 
of the above provision of Rs. 65,100 lacs) during the financial year 2022-23 for the Chennai Land and 
the Conveyance Deed has been executed for the same. 
 
3. Note No. 29, regarding Land Security and Maintenance Services received from CPWD during the 
financial year 2022-23. The Company has booked an expense of Rs. 115.91 lacs, on such payments, 
on provisional basis, on the basis of Utilization certificates issued by the CPWD’s.  
 
The CPWD has informed the Company that, there is no mechanism under CPWD (a GOI 
undertaking) to raise invoice and they only issue Utilization certificates for application of released 
funds. The liability of Goods and Service Tax (GST) are being considered by CPWD while initiating 
and making payments to their agencies/vendors. 
 
However, in our understanding, the manner of recording the expenses on the basis of Utilization 
Certificates, in the absence of Tax Invoices is not specified under Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017, 
and Income Tax Act, 1961. Furthermore, the compliances with regard to the incidence of GST on 
such payments, may also be impacted. 
 
4. Note No. 31(d) of the financial statements, regarding Non-Recognition/Accounting of Property 
Tax/Urban Land Tax Liability by the Company in relation to the Land Parcel of 53.04 acres in 
Chennai. The management is of the view that the Liability for the said cost is not presently 
determinable, and shall be accounted for only when the demand is ascertained from the said local 
revenue authority. 
 
5. Note No. 32 regarding treatment of complete land parcels in all states as Investment Property. The 
purported land use for the land parcels, has not yet been decided by the Management during the year 
ended on March 31, 2023. As per IND AS 40, any land held for a currently undetermined future use 
as on the date of reporting, the said land is regarded as held for capital appreciation. In addition, the 
titles of the land parcels are yet to be transferred/mutated in the name of the Company as on March 
31, 2023, except the land in Chennai for which the Conveyance Deed has been executed during the 
financial year 2022-23. 
 
6. Note No. 33 of the financial statements, regarding the accounting of Equity Components of 
Compound Financial Statements in accordance with IND AS 109. The Company has received an 
amount of Rs. 130 crores during the current financial year 2021-22, by way if issue of 0.01% Non-
Cumulative Non-Convertible Preference Shares of Rs. 10 each, redeemable after 20 years. However, the 
terms of issue of the said Preference Shares makes no mention regarding the redemption value at the end of 20 years, 
whether at par of at any value other than par. The said financial instruments have been accounted for in the 
accompanying financial statements on the assumption of the Redemption at Par Value, which is 
uncertain and indefinite in nature. 
 
The above Emphasis of Matter was put across the Board of Directors in their meeting dated 29th 
March 2023 
 
The Board took note of the observations of the Statutory Auditors and by way of Board Note 10 
dated 29th March 2023 have stated that the Preference share Capital of Company shall be Redeemable 
at Par. 
 
However, the approval of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on terms of redemption of 
Preference Shares at par still is pending. 
 
 
7. During the financial year 2022-23, the Company has raised invoices and received certain rentals from 
the land parcels occupied and commercially used by Tata Communications Limited (TCL), from the 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
205 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
date of Demerger till March 31, 2023, on mutually agreed terms. However, no Lease/Rental 
agreement has been executed between TCL and HPIL for such invoices/future Rent recoveries. 
 
8. During the Financial Year, the Company has not complied, with the provisions contained in Section 
149 of the Companies Act read with Rule – 4 of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 17(1)(b) & 2(A) , Regulation 18(1)(b)(d) & 2(b), Regulation 
19(1)(c),(2) & 2(A), Regulation 20(2A), Regulation 25(3)of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulation, 2015 in respect of the Appointment of the Independent Directors  
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matter(s). 
 
 
Key Audit Matters 
 
a. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most 
significance inour audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters. We have determined the matters prescribed below to be the key audit matters to 
be communicated in our report. 
 
Sr. 
No. 
Key Audit Matter 
Auditor’s Response 
1 
Assessment of fair value of the land parcel 
(as described in Note No. 32 of the 
financial statements)  
 
The management has initiated the process 
of calculation of fair value of land parcels 
located in Chennai, Pune, Kolkata, 
Chattarpur and Greater Kailash. The 
Market Valuation of all the land parcels 
as on date of consideration and 
declaration of the financial results by 
the Board of Directors, has been 
assessed and valued at ₹ 10,60,197/- 
lakhs. However, the report being received 
from a single Valuation Agency is not a 
complete reliable measure of the fair value 
of the Investment Property. 
 
As per IND AS 40, Investment Property, 
when the fair value of the property (not 
under 
construction) 
is 
not 
reliably 
measurable, the entity shall disclose: 
Description of  the 
Investment property 
Refer Note 
No.32 of the 
financial 
Statements. 
Explanation of why 
fair value cannot be 
measured reliably 
If possible, the range of 
estimates within which 
fair value is likely to fall. 
 
 
Our audit procedures related to the key audit 
matters included the following: 
 
 
We evaluated the details of the land parcels as 
available in the Schedule I of the order of MCA 
dated 05.08.2019 pursuant to which the Scheme 
of Arrangement and Reconstruction was 
approved.  
 
In addition, we have considered the Valuation 
Reports dated 25.05.2022.  
 
However, the report being received from a 
single Valuation Agency is not a complete 
reliable measure of the fair value of the 
Investment Property, which needs to be further 
corroborated with a twin report(s).  
 
Secondly, the Valuation for the land parcels has 
been arrived by the Valuation Agency on the 
basis of certain assumptions of the purported 
use of the land, which has not yet been finalized 
by the management of the Company. 
 
We assessed the disclosures made in the 
financial statements. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
206 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
2 
Litigation, claims and disputes pertaining 
to the surplus land (as described in Note 
No. 31(c) of the financial statements)  
 
There are total 32 cases of litigation, 
claims and disputes pertaining to the 
surplus land and Company, known as on 
31.03.2023 which are pending under 
various forums. These litigations claim 
and disputes, where earlier TCL was a 
party, subsequent to approval of Scheme 
and transfer of land, have now been 
transferred and belong to the Company.  
The Company is in the process of 
contesting all such litigations, claims and 
disputes. 
 
The financial implications associated with 
all 
such 
litigations, 
if 
any, 
is 
undeterminable as of March 31, 2023. 
Our audit procedures related to the key 
auditmatters included the following: 
 
 
 
We obtained the list of total cases of litigation, 
claims and disputes, and analysed the progress 
in all the said cases, including evaluation of any 
financial impact, due to any order of the court 
during the financial year 2022-23.  
 
We assessed and have made the relevant 
disclosures in the financial statements. 
 
 
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon 
 
9. The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information. The 
other information comprises the information included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, 
Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, Business Responsibility Report, Corporate 
Governance and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. 
 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
 
10. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially in consistent with 
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. 
 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 
 
 
Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements 
 
11. The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 with respect to the preparation of these financial statements that give a true and 
fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total comprehensive income, Cash flows of 
the Company, changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the IND AS and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
207 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Ind AS financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
 
12. In preparing the financial statements, Management of the Company is responsible for assessing 
theCompany’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to 
goingconcern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
13. The Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 
 
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of Financial Statements 
 
14. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of these financial statements. 
 
As part of an audit in accordance with Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and 
maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: 
 
 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statement, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit 
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override 
of internal control. 
 
 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial control relevant to the audit in order to designaudit 
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of theCompanies 
Act, 2013 we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether theCompany has 
adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls. 
 
 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by Management. 
 
 
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management's use of the going concern basis of accounting 
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in 
our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up 
to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company 
to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 
 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, includingthe 
disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
208 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
15. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the 
plannedscope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 
deficiencies ininternal control that we identify during our audit. 
 
16. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have compiled with 
relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all 
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards. 
 
 
Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements. 
 
17. As required by section 143(3) of the Companies Act,2013 based on our audit we report that: 
 
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of 
ourknowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. 
 
b) In our opinion proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as appears from our examination of those books. 
 
c) The financial statements dealt with by this report are in agreement with the books of 
accounts; 
. 
d) In our opinion, the aforesaid financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
underSection 133 of the Companies Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards)Rules2015 as amended. 
 
e) The company being a Government Company, the provisions of Section 164(2) of the Act 
inrespect of disqualification of directors are not applicable to the company in terms 
ofnotification no. G.S.R.463(E) dated 5th June 2015 issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs,Government of India; 
 
f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of 
theCompany and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report 
in“Annexure A”. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and 
operatingeffectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting. 
 
g) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with 
the requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, we are informed that the 
company being a Government Company, the provisions of section 197 read with schedule V 
of the Act,relating to managerial remuneration are not applicable to the company in terms 
ofNotification No. G.S.R. 463(E) dated 5th June 2015. 
 
h) With respect to the other matters included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with 
Rule11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinionand 
to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: 
 
(i) The company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial 
position in its financial statements. Refer Note No. 31(c) to the financial 
statements. 
(ii) The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivatives 
contracts for which there were any material foreseeable losses; 
(iii) The Company has not declared any dividend in the previous financial year, so 
the applicable sections do not apply on the Company. 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
209 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
18. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the 
Central Government of India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure B” a 
statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable. 
 
19. On the basis of such checks of the books and records of the company, as we considered 
appropriate and according to the information and explanations given to us, we are enclosing our 
report in terms of section 143(5) of the Act, on the directions issued by the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India, in“Annexure C” attached. 
 
 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants  
Firm Registration Number -N500365/ 005469N  
 
Sd/- 
 
 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
Partner  
Membership No. 095619 
 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-  29th May 2023 
UDIN:23095619BHAEAL4927 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
210 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE - A TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Referred to in paragraph 17 (f) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members 
of  Hemisphere Properties India Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 
 
1. We were engaged to audit the internal financial controls over financial reporting (IFCoFR) of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited (“the Company”) as of and for the year ended March 31, 
2023, in conjunction with our audit of the financial statements of the Company for the year ended on 
that date. 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
2. The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI).These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of its business, including adherence to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of  the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act. 
Auditors’ Responsibility 
3.   Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls over financial 
reporting based on our audit conducted in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, 
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.  
Because of the matter described in Emphasis of matter paragraph below, we were not able to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting of the Company.  
Meaning of  Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
4.  A Company’s IFCoFR is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company’s IFCoFR includes those policies and 
procedures that:- 
(i) 
Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;  
(ii) 
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with 
authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and  
(iii) 
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
financial statements. 
 
Emphasis of  Matter 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
211 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
5. According to the information and explanation given to us, the Company is in the process of 
implementing its internal financial control over financial reporting on criteria based on or 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India. 
Because of this reason, we are unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis 
for our opinion whether the Company had adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting 
and whether such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at March 31, 2023. 
However, we also understand that the company has limited business operation for the financial year 
2022-23. We have considered thisaspect in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests 
applied in our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company, and the Emphasis of 
matter does not affect our opinion on the standalone financial statements of the Company. 
 
ForDhruv Aggarwal &Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No.: N500365/ 005469N 
 
 
Sd/- 
 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
Partner  
Membership No. 095619 
 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-   29th May 2023 
UDIN:23095619BHAEAL4927
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
212 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
ANNEXURE - B TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Referred to in paragraph 18 of  the Independent Auditors’ Report of  even date to the members of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 
Based on the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting a true and fair view on the 
financial statements of the Company and taking into consideration the information and explanations 
given to us and the books of account and other records examined by us in the normal course of audit, we 
report that: 
 
 
(i) 
(a) 
(A) 
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of Property, plant and equipment, to the extent of 
Computers only, forming part of Fixed Assets Register. 
 
 
(B) 
The Company does not have any Intangible Assets as of March 31, 2023, except for Goodwill, which 
was acquired as part of the Demerger Order passed by the National Company Law Tribunal. 
 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company does not have any Property 
Plant and Equipment’s, except for Computers forming part of Fixed Assets Register. 
The management has given a written representation regarding the physical existence of 
all such Computers, as on 31.03.2023, which has been relied upon by us. 
 
(c) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records, the title deeds of the immovable properties of 
Investment Property for 4 land parcels, are not held in the name of the Company 
as of March 31, 2023. Only the Conveyance Deed in respect of Chennai Land 
parcel is held in the name of the Company. 
 
The Company, as per the Scheme of Arrangement and Reconstruction dated 05.08.2019, 
got the transfer of the Surplus Land parcels from Tata Communications Limited. 
However, the title deeds are yet to be transferred in the name of the company. The 
details of the same are as under :- 
 
Description 
of Property 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
 
(Rs.  
In lacs) 
Held in 
name of 
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their 
relative 
or 
employee 
Period 
held- 
Reason for 
not being 
held in the 
name of the 
Company 
 
Greater 
Kailash – 
Delhi 
11.12 
Sarkar 
Daulat 
Madar 
Yes 
From 
Demerger 
 
After 
Demerger, the 
company is in 
the process of 
transferring 
the Land 
parcels in 
Company 
Name, which 
is pending. 
Chattarpur – 
Delhi* 
3.04 
 
 
Pune** 
 
1.09 
Tata 
Communi
cations 
Limited 
 
No 
Kolkata 
0.99 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
213 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
As Informed by the Company,  
*In respect of the Chattarpur Land Parcel, the Mutation of Landhas been transferred from Sarkar 
Daulat Mardar to Hemisphere Properties India Limited under L&DO records and MCD 
records.However, the stamp duty on transfer is not yet paid due to non-clear terms for stamp duty 
payment  
 
**In respect of the Pune land parcel, the Mutation of Landhas been transferred under Gramin 
records.However, the mutation of name is yet to be transferred in the Municipal records. Further, the 
stamp duty on transfer is also not paid. 
 
(d) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not revalued its Property, 
plant and equipment (including Right-of-use assets) or Intangible assets or both during 
the year. 
 
(e) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, there are no proceedings initiated or 
pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of 
Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder. 
(ii) 
(a) 
 
The Company does not have any inventory during the year and hence Clause 3(ii)(a) of 
the said order is not applicable. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not been sanctioned any 
working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees, and hence Clause 3(ii)(b) of the said 
order is not applicable. 
(iii) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not made any 
investments, provided guarantee or security or granted any advances in the nature of 
loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or any 
other parties during the year.The Company has not granted any loans, secured or 
unsecured, to firms, limited liability partnerships or any other parties during the year and 
hence Clause 3(iii) of the said order is not applicable. 
(iv) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records, the Company has not given any loans, or provided any 
guarantee or security as specified under Section 185 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Company has not provided any guarantee or security as specified under Section 186 of 
the Companies Act, 2013and hence Clause 3(iv) of the said order is not applicable 
(v) 
 
 
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be 
deposits from the public. Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Orderis not applicable. 
(vi) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Central Government has 
not prescribed the maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 for the products manufactured by it (and/ or services provided by it). 
Accordingly, clause 3(vi) of the Order is not applicable. 
(vii) 
(a) 
 
The Company does not have liability in respect of Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of excise 
and Value added tax during the year since effective 1 July 2017, these statutory dues has 
been subsumed into GST. 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, amounts deducted/ accrued in the books of 
account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Services Tax 
(‘GST’), Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Duty of Customs, 
Cess and other material statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited with the 
appropriate authorities. 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts 
payable in respect of GST, Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
214 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
Duty of Customs, Cess and other material statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 
2023 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no dues of GST, 
Provident fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of 
Customs, Value added tax, Cess or other statutory dues which have not been deposited 
by the Company on account of disputes. 
 
(viii) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not surrendered or 
disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, in 
the tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. 
(ix) 
(a) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company hastaken unsecured loans or 
borrowings from Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs,lender which is outstanding as on 
31.03.2023. However, there are no defaults whatsoever in the repayments during the year 
2022-23. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, the Company has not been declared a wilful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or government authority. 
 
(c) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the 
Company has obtained term loans only from Government of India, for the purposes as 
defined. There are no terms loans from any banks or financial institutions. Accordingly, 
clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
(d) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the balance sheet of the Company, we report that no funds have been 
raised on short-term basis by the Company. Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(d) of theOrder is 
not applicable. 
 
 
 
(e) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the Company, we report that the Company 
has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries as defined under the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, 
clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable 
 
(f) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by 
us, we report that the Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of 
securities held in its subsidiaries as defined under the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, 
clause 3(ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable. 
(x) 
(a) 
 
The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public 
offer (including debt instruments), during the financial ear 2022-23. Accordingly, clause 
3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company,the Company has made no Private 
Placement during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xi)  
(a) 
 
Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, considering the principles of materiality 
outlined in Standards on Auditing, we report that no fraud by the Company or on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during the course of the audit. 
 
(b) 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-section 
(12) of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been filed by the auditors in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
with the Central Government. 
 
(c) 
 
The Company has not received any whistle blower complaints during the year and 
accordingly, clause 3(xi)(c) of the order is not applicable. 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
215 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
(xii) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi 
Company. Accordingly, clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xiii) 
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the 
transactions with related parties are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, where applicable, and the details of the related party transactions 
have been disclosed in the standalone financial statements as requiredby the applicable 
Indian Accounting Standards. 
(xiv) 
(a) 
 
Based on information and explanations provided to us and our audit procedures, inour 
opinion, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and 
nature of its business. 
 
(b) 
 
We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till 31.03.2023 for 
the period under audit. 
(xv) 
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the 
Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons 
connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 192 of the Companies Act, 
2013 are not applicable to the Company. 
(xvi) 
(a) 
 
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
 
(b) 
 
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
(c) 
 
The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not 
applicable. 
 
(d) 
 
According to the information and explanations provided to us during the course of 
audit, the Group does not have any CIC. Accordingly, the requirements of clause 
3(xvi)(d) are not applicable. 
(xvii) 
 
 
The Company has incurred cash losses in the current year amounting to Rs. 590.18 lacs 
and in the immediately preceding financial year, amounting to Rs. 1715.21 lacs. 
(xviii) 
 
 
There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
(xix) 
 
 
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the 
financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realization of financial assets and payment 
of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial statements, our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our 
examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of 
the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the 
date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date.  
 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. 
We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit 
report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the 
Company as and when they fall due. 
 
(xx) 
 
 
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the 
provisions of Section 135 (5) are not applicable on the Company for the Financial Year 
under review. 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
216 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
For Dhruv Aggarwal & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants  
Firm Registration Number -N500365/ 005469N  
Sd/ 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
Partner  
Membership No. 095619 
 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-   29th May 2023 
UDIN:23095619BHAEAL4927 
 
ANNEXURE - C TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Annexure to the Auditor’s report referred to in Paragraph 19 of  our Audit Report of  Even date of 
Hemisphere Properties India Limited for the year ended on 31st March 2023 
 
S. 
No 
Direction issued by CAG under Section 
143(5) of the Companies Act, 2013  
Our Comment 
Impact on 
Financial 
Statements 
1 
Whether the company has system in place to 
process all the 
accounting transactions 
through IT system? If yes, the implications of 
processing of accounting transactions outside 
IT system on the integrity of the accounts 
along with the financial implications, if any, 
may be stated 
All the accounting transactions are 
properly recorded with the help of 
Tally.ERP9 accounting software. No 
cases 
of 
manual 
recording 
of 
transactions which may impact the 
integrity of the accounts has been 
observed. 
NIL 
2. 
Whether there is any restructuring of an 
existing loan or cases of waiver/write off of 
debts/loan/interest etc made by a lender to 
the company due to company’s inability to 
repay the loan? If yes, the financial impact 
may be stated. 
No such case has been observed 
during the year. 
NIL 
3. 
Whether funds (grants/subsidy etc.) received 
or receivable for specific schemes from the 
Central/State 
agencies 
were 
properly 
accounted for/ utilized as per its terms & 
conditions? List the cases of deviation.  
The Company has not received any 
funds 
under 
specific 
schemes 
(Grants/Subsidy) 
from 
the 
Central/State agencies. 
NIL 
For Dhruv Aggarwal &Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No.: N500365/ 005469N 
Sd/- 
Tilak Raj Chawla 
Partner  
Membership No. 095619 
Place: - New Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:-   29th May 2023 
UDIN:23095619BHAEAL492 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
217 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
218 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER 
SECTION 143(6)(B) READ WITH SECTION 129(4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON 
THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA 
LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023.  
 
 
The preparation of financial statements of HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA LIMITED for 
the year ended 31 March 2023 in accordance with the financial reporting framework 
prescribed under the Companies Act. 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management of 
the company. The statutory auditor appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of 
India under section 139(5) of the Act is responsible for expressing opinion on the financial 
statements under section 143 of the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the 
standards on auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act. This is stated to have 
been done by them vide their Audit Report dated 29 May 2023,  
 
I on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. have conducted a 
supplementary audit of the financial statements of HEMISPHERE PROPERTIES INDIA 
LIMITED for the year ended 31 March 2023 under section 143(6)(a) of the Act. This 
supplementary audit has been carried out independently without access to the working 
papers of the statutory auditor and is limited primarily to inquiries of the statutory auditor 
and company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records. 
 
On the basis of my supplementary audit nothing significant has come to my knowledge  
which would give rise to any comment upon or supplement to statutory auditors’ report 
under section143(6)(b) of the Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For and on behalf the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India 
 
Sd/- 
 
(Atoorva Sinha) 
 
Principal Director of Audit (Infrastructure) 
Place: New Delhi 
Dated: 03 August 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HEMISPHEREPROPERTIES INDIA LTD 
219 
 
 
ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23 
 
 
 
Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
******** 
Hemisphere Properties India Ltd 
Room no 144 C Wing,Nirman Bhawan New Delhi, 
www.hpil.co.in, info@hpil.co.in  
