 
 
July 29, 2023 
 
Listing Manager, 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., 
‘Exchange Plaza’, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Dalal Street, Bandra (E),  Mumbai-400 051 
Equity  Symbol: JAGRAN 
ISIN No.: INE199G01027 
NCD 
Symbol: JARP24 
ISIN No.: INE199G07057 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub.: Intimation of 47th Annual General Meeting of the Members of the Company and Closure 
of Register of Members and Share Transfer Books and submission of Annual Report of 
the Company for the financial year 2022-23. 
 
Pursuant to Regulations 34, 53, 30 and other applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (“Listing 
Regulations”), as amended, the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year 2022-23 along 
with the Notice convening the 47th Annual General Meeting of the Members of the Company 
(“AGM”) containing the e-voting instructions, attendance slip, and proxy form are enclosed herewith 
for your information and records. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that the AGM will be held on Friday, August 25, 2023 at 12:30 P.M. 
at Jalsaa Banquet Hall, 4th Floor, Rave@Moti, 117/K/13, Gutaiya, Kanpur-208025. 
 
The Company has dispatched the Notice and the Annual Report to the shareholders today i.e. on 
Saturday, July 29, 2023 in electronic mode to those members whose email addresses are registered 
with the Company / Depository Participant(s) / KFin Technologies Limited, the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent of the Company and the physical copies were dispatched to the other shareholders 
through permitted mode.  
 
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act, Listing Regulations, and Secretarial Standard-2 on 
General Meetings, each as amended, the Company is pleased to provide to its Members, the facility to 
exercise their right to vote electronically, through e-voting services provided by Company’s Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent, KFin Technologies Limited, from a place other than the venue of the AGM 
(“remote e-voting”), on all resolutions as set out in the Notice. Further, the facility for voting through 
ballot paper will also be made available at the AGM and Members who have not already cast their 
vote by remote e-voting shall be able to exercise their right at the AGM. Members who have cast their 
vote by remote e-voting may also attend the AGM, but shall not be allowed to cast their vote again. 
 
Manager–CRD, 
BSE Ltd., 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai-400001 
Equity  
Scrip Code: 532705 
 
ISIN No.: INE199G01027 
 
 
The cut-off date for determining the eligibility of Members to vote by remote e-voting or voting at the 
AGM is Friday, August 18, 2023.  
 
The remote e-voting will commence on Tuesday, August 22, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on 
Thursday, August 24, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). 
 
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain closed from 
Tuesday, August 15, 2023 to Friday, August 25, 2023 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of the 
AGM. 
 
The aforesaid documents are also available on the Company’s corporate website at www.jplcorp.in. 
 
Kindly take the same in your record. 
 
Thanking you 
 
Yours faithfully 
For Jagran Prakashan Limited 
  
 
 
(Amit Jaiswal) 
Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer    
ICSI Membership No.: F5863 
 
Encl.: As above 
 
CC: National Securities Depository Limited 
       Central Depository Services Limited 
       KFin Technologies Limited 
       IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited 
 
AMIT 
JAISWAL
Digitally signed by AMIT JAISWAL 
DN: c=IN, o=JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED, 
ou=COMPANY SECRETARY, 
pseudonym=58fc80b60e9a99e1d5e745dfe3c866c9
299f6a2b4be547f9974ba272b42e9d32, 
postalCode=208005, st=Uttar Pradesh, 
serialNumber=9bdcd60e25ceb704aad16624170759
9f77831b6640ec357f0dfd0029e3c883a4, cn=AMIT 
JAISWAL 
Date: 2023.07.29 13:14:29 +05'30'
NOTICE
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
CIN-L22219UP1975PLC004147
Registered Office:  Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur-208005
Tel: +91 512 2216161, Website: www.jplcorp.in, E-mail: investor@jagran.com
NOTICE is hereby given that the 47th Annual General Meeting 
of the Members of JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED will be 
held on Friday, the 25th day of August, 2023 at 12:30 P.M. 
at Jalsaa Banquet Hall, 4th Floor, Rave@Moti, 117/K/13, Gutaiya, 
Kanpur-208025 (“AGM” / “Meeting”), to transact the following 
businesses:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolutions as Ordinary 
Resolutions:
a)	
“RESOLVED THAT the audited standalone financial 
statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2023 and the reports of the Board 
of Directors and Auditors thereon, as circulated to 
the Members, be and are hereby considered and 
adopted.”
b)	
“RESOLVED THAT the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Company for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2023 and the report of Auditors 
thereon, as circulated to the Members, be and are 
hereby considered and adopted.”
2.	
To consider if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the interim dividend of `4/- per 
equity share declared by the Board of Directors of the 
Company on August 06, 2022 and already paid to the 
eligible shareholders, be and is hereby confirmed as final 
dividend for the financial year 2022-23.”
3.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following item as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Devendra Mohan 
Gupta (DIN: 00226837), who retires by rotation, and 
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following item as a Special Resolution:
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Dhirendra Mohan 
Gupta (DIN: 01057827), who retires by rotation, and 
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
Appointment of Mr. Shailesh Gupta (DIN: 00192466), 
Whole-time Director as the Managing Director of the 
Company.
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
2(54), 196, 197, 198, 203 read with Rules made thereunder 
and Schedule V thereto of the Companies Act, 2013 
(including any statutory modification or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force), and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and the Articles of Association of 
the Company, and to give effect to the appointment 
recommended by the Committee for Succession 
Planning which was duly approved by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee on 11th December 2022, 
thereafter approved by the Board of Directors on 17th 
January 2023, and re-affirmed by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, noted by Audit Committee on 
30th May 2023 and approved by the Board of Directors, 
consent of the members be and is hereby accorded for 
the appointment of Mr. Shailesh Gupta (DIN- 00192466) 
as detailed hereunder:
1.	
THAT in order to give effect to the recommendations 
of the already approved Succession Plan (prepared 
by the Committee for Succession Planning) approved 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
on 11th December 2022, followed by approval of 
the Board of Directors on 17th January 2023 and 
re-affirmed by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and noted by Audit Committee on 30th 
May 2023, the appointment of Mr. Shailesh Gupta 
(DIN- 00192466) as Managing Director of the 
Company is affirmed for a period of five (05) years 
with effect from 1st October, 2023.
2.	
THAT the remuneration and other terms and 
conditions of such appointment will be same, as was 
already approved by the Members at their Annual 
General Meeting held on 24th September, 2021, 
which are reproduced below:
	
I.	
SALARY
	
`17,20,000 (Rupees Seventeen Lakh Twenty 
Thousand Only) per month.
	
II.	
PERQUISITES
	
1.	
The Managing Director shall be entitled to 
perquisites like furnished accommodation or 
house rent allowance in lieu thereof, together 
with reimbursement of expenses for utilisation 
of gas, electricity, water, reimbursement of 
ordinary medical expenses and leave travel 
concession for self and his family including 
dependents, club fees, premium towards 
personal accident insurance and mediclaim 
and all other payments in the nature of 
perquisites and allowances, from time to time, 
     Notice
1
Annual Report   2022-23
subject however, that the aggregate monetary 
value of the perquisites per annum shall not 
exceed one month salary.
	
	
EXPLANATION:
	
	
“Family” here means the spouse, dependent children 
and dependent parents of the Managing Director.
	
	
For the purpose of calculating the above ceiling, 
perquisites shall be evaluated at actual cost. If 
the actual cost is not determinate, these shall be 
evaluated as per Income Tax Rules, wherever 
applicable.
	
	
Use of Company Car for official purposes and 
Telephone at residence (including payment for 
local calls and long distance official calls), shall not 
be included in the computation of perquisites for the 
purpose of calculating the said ceiling.
	
	
2.	
Any statutory contribution to Provident Fund 
or any other fund(s) shall not form part of such 
monetary value of perquisites, regardless of 
amount and taxability.
	
	
3.	
Gratuity payable as per the Rules of the 
Company and encashment of leave at the 
end of the tenure will not be included in the 
computation of the ceiling on perquisites to 
the extent the same are not taxable under the 
Income Tax Act.
	
III.	
OVERALL REMUNERATION:
	
The aggregate of the remuneration as specified 
above shall not exceed the overall ceiling of the total 
managerial remuneration as provided under Section 
197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Rules 
made thereunder and Schedule V thereto or such 
other limit as may be prescribed from time to time.
	
IV.	 MINIMUM REMUNERATION:
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT where in any financial 
year during the currency of the tenure of the 
Managing Director, the Company has no profits or 
its profits are inadequate, the remuneration and 
other terms will be subject to Schedule V read with 
Sections 196 and 197 of the Companies Act, 2013.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and 
is hereby severally authorized to do all such acts, 
deeds, matters and things and take all such steps 
as may be necessary, proper, expedient or desirable 
for the purpose of giving effect to this resolution 
and for matters connected therewith or incidental 
thereto.”
By Order of the Board
For Jagran Prakashan Limited
Amit Jaiswal
Place: Kanpur 	
Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer
Date: June 10, 2023 	
ICSI Membership No.: F5863
IMPORTANT NOTES:
1.	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) 
setting out material facts concerning the business under 
Item No. 5 of the accompanying Notice is annexed hereto. 
The relevant details of Directors seeking appointment 
/ re-appointment at this Annual General Meeting (“the 
Meeting” / “the AGM”) as required under the provisions 
of Regulation 36(3) and other applicable provisions 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”), and Secretarial Standard – 
2 on General Meetings (“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”), are also annexed 
herewith as Annexure-A.
2.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled to 
attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy 
to attend and vote on a poll instead of himself / herself 
and the proxy need not be a Member of the Company. 
A person can act as a proxy on behalf of Members not 
exceeding fifty (50) and holding in aggregate not more 
than 10% of the total share capital of the Company 
carrying voting rights. A Member holding more than 10% 
of the share capital of the Company carrying voting rights 
may appoint a single person as proxy and such person 
shall not act as a proxy for any other person or Member.
	
Proxies, in order to be effective must be received at 
the Company’s Registered Office at Jagran Building, 2, 
Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh – 208005 and 
must be addressed to the “Secretarial Department” or 
to investor@jagran.com not less than 48 hours before 
the Meeting. Proxies/Authorized Representations 
submitted for Corporate Members, Societies, Partnership 
Firms, etc. must be supported by a certified copy of 
the appropriate resolution/Power of Attorney/Authority 
Letter as applicable, issued on behalf of the nominating 
organization.
3.	
In case of Joint Members attending the Meeting only such 
joint holder who is higher in the order of names will be 
entitled to vote at the Meeting.
4.	
The route map as per the requirement of SS-2 and 
prominent landmark of the venue of the Meeting as 
well as Attendance Slip and Proxy Form are annexed 
to this Notice. Members are requested to bring their 
Attendance Slip along with their copy of the Annual 
Report to the Meeting, as the Annual Report will not 
be available for distribution at the Meeting.
5.	
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
shall be closed from Tuesday, August 15, 2023 to Friday, 
August 25, 2023 (both days inclusive) in connection with 
the Meeting.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
2
6.	
The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
and their shareholding, maintained under the provisions 
of Section 170 of the Act, and the Register of Contracts 
or Arrangements in which the directors are interested, 
maintained under the provisions of Section 189 of the 
Act, will be available for inspection by the Members 
during the AGM.
7.	
Regulation 40 of the Listing Regulations mandates that 
transfer, transmission and transposition of securities of 
listed companies held in physical form shall be effected 
only in dematerialised form. Further, SEBI, vide its Circular 
dated January 25, 2022, has clarified that listed companies, 
with immediate effect, shall issue the securities only in 
demat mode while processing investor service requests 
pertaining to issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim 
from unclaimed suspense account, renewal/exchange of 
securities certificate, endorsement, sub-division/ splitting 
of securities certificate, consolidation of securities 
certificates/ folios, transmission, transposition, etc. In 
view of this, Members holding shares in physical form 
are requested to consider converting their holdings to 
dematerialised form. Any shareholder who is desirous of 
dematerializing their securities may write to the Company 
at investor@jagran.com or to KFin Technologies Limited, 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the Company 
(“KFintech” / “RTA”) at einward.ris@kfintech.com.
8.	
The Members of the Company are informed that the 
amount of dividend which remains unclaimed for the 
period of seven (7) years from the date of transfer to the 
unpaid dividend account would be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) and the 
Member(s) would not be able to claim any amount of the 
dividend so transferred from the Company. However, 
Members are entitled to claim the same from the IEPF 
by submitting an online application in the prescribed 
form IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in 
and also on the website of the Company at www.jplcorp.
in. Those Members who have so far not encashed their 
dividend warrants may claim or approach the Company 
for the payment thereof before due date of transfer as the 
same will be transferred to the IEPF. The details regarding 
the due dates of transfer are provided in the Report on 
Corporate Governance, which forms part of the Annual 
Report.
9.	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, email address, 
telephone/mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number 
(PAN), mandates, nominations, power of attorney, bank 
details such as, name of the bank and branch details, 
bank account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc., to 
their Depository Participants ("DPs") in case the shares 
are held by them in electronic form and to KFintech in 
case the shares are held by them in physical form.
10.	 SEBI has mandated the submission of PAN by every 
participant in the securities market. Members holding 
shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to 
submit the PAN to their respective DPs with whom they 
are maintaining their Demat Accounts. Members holding 
shares in physical form can submit their PAN details to the 
Company or KFintech.
11.	 Members are requested to send in their queries on 
financial statements or any other business proposed to 
be transacted at the AGM at least ten (10) days in advance 
to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office of 
the Company or to investor@jagran.com to facilitate 
clarifications during the Meeting.
12.	 The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Adesh Tandon 
(Membership No. F2253 and CP No. 1121), Practicing 
Company Secretary, Kanpur, as a Scrutinizer to scrutinize 
the e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
13.	 The results shall be declared not later than 48 hours from 
the conclusion of the AGM and the resolutions will be 
deemed to be passed on the date of the AGM subject to 
receipt of the requisite number of votes in favour of the 
resolutions.
14.	 The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report(s) 
will be displayed at the Registered Office of the Company 
and communicated to the Stock Exchanges where 
the equity shares of the Company are listed i.e. BSE 
Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act. The results will 
also be displayed on the Company’s corporate website 
i.e. www.jplcorp.in and on the website of KFintech i.e. at 
https://evoting.kfintech.com.
15.	 Electronic copy of the Annual Report for financial year 
2022-23 including the Notice of the AGM, inter-alia, 
indicating the process and manner of e-voting along 
with Attendance Slip and Proxy Form are being sent 
to all the Members whose E-mail IDs are registered 
with the Company / DPs for communication purposes, 
unless any Member has requested for a physical copy 
of the same. For Members who have not registered 
their E-mail IDs, physical copies of the Annual Report 
for 2022-23 are being sent through the permitted mode. 
Members who have not registered their E-mail IDs so far 
are requested to register their E-mail IDs for receiving 
all communication, including Annual Report, Notices, 
Circulars, etc. from the Company electronically. Members 
may note that the Notice and Annual Report 2022-23 
will also be available on the Company’s website at 
www.jplcorp.in, and on the websites of the stock 
exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.
com respectively.
16.	 Relevant documents referred to in this Notice are open for 
inspection by the Members at the Company's Registered 
Office on all working days (except Saturdays, Sundays 
and Public Holidays) during normal business hours up 
to the date of the Meeting. The aforesaid documents 
will also be available for inspection by members at the 
Meeting. For any communication, the Members may also 
send requests to the Company at: investor@jagran.com, 
or to the RTA at einward.ris@kfintech.com.
17.	 Instructions for remote e-voting:
A.	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 
of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as 
amended from time to time, Regulation 44 of the 
Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI circular 
no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ CIR/P/2020/242 dated 
December 9, 2020 in relation to e-Voting facility 
provided by listed entities, the Members are provided 
with the facility to cast their vote electronically, 
     Notice
3
Annual Report   2022-23
through the e-Voting services provided by KFintech, 
on all the resolutions set forth in the accompanying 
Notice. The instructions for e-Voting are given 
herein below.
B.	
Pursuant to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on 
“e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies”, 
e-Voting process has been enabled to all the 
individual demat account holders, by way of single 
login credential, through their demat accounts / 
websites of Depositories / DPs in order to increase 
the efficiency of the voting process.
C.	
Individual demat account holders would be able 
to cast their vote without having to register again 
with the e-Voting service provider (‘ESP’) thereby 
not only facilitating seamless authentication but also 
ease and convenience of participating in e-Voting 
process. Shareholders are advised to update their 
mobile number and e-mail ID with their DPs to 
access e-Voting facility.
D.	
The remote e-voting period commences on 
Tuesday, August 22, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends 
on Thursday, August 24, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). During 
this period, Members of the Company may cast 
their vote by remote e-voting. The remote e-voting 
module shall be disabled by KFintech for voting 
thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution is cast by 
the Member, the Member shall not be allowed to 
change it subsequently. A Member can opt for only 
single mode of voting i.e. through remote e-Voting or 
voting at the AGM. If a Member casts votes by both 
modes, then voting done through remote e-Voting 
shall prevail and vote at the AGM shall be treated as 
invalid.
E.	
The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion 
to their shares in the paid-up equity share capital 
of the Company as on the Cut-off Date i.e. Friday 
August 18, 2023.
F.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-
individual shareholders, who acquire shares of the 
Company and become a Member of the Company 
after dispatch of the Notice and holding shares as 
on the Cut-off Date, may obtain the login ID and 
password by sending a request at evoting@kfintech.
com. However, if he / she is already registered with 
KFintech for remote e-Voting then he /she can use 
his / her existing User ID and password for casting 
the vote.
G.	
In case of Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode and  who acquire shares of the 
Company and become a Member of the Company 
after dispatch of the Notice and holding shares as 
on the Cut-off Date may follow steps mentioned 
below under “Login method for remote e-Voting and 
joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode.” 
H.	
Instructions for remote e-Voting are explained herein below:
	
(i)	
 Login method for remote e-Voting for Individual Shareholders holding shares in demat mode. 
Type of shareholders 
Login Method 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL
1. 	
User already registered for IDeAS facility:
	
i.	
Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com
	
ii.	
Click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” under ‘IDeAS’ section.
	
iii.	
On the new page, enter User ID and Password. Post successful authentication, 
click on “Access to e-Voting”
	
iv.	
Click on company name or e-Voting service provider and you will be re-directed to 
e-Voting service provider website for casting the vote during the remote e-Voting 
period.
2. 	 User not registered for IDeAS e-Services
	
i.	
To register click on link : https://eservices.nsdl.com
	
ii.	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” or click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/
SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
	
iii.	
Proceed with completing the required fields.
	
iv.	
Follow steps given in point no. 1 above.
3. 	
Alternatively by directly accessing the e-Voting website of NSDL
	
I.	
Open URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
	
II.	
Click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
	
III.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number held with NSDL), Password / OTP and a Verification Code 
as shown on the screen.
	
IV.	
Post successful authentication, you will be requested to select the name of the 
company and the e-Voting Service Provider name, i.e. KFintech.
	
V.	
On successful selection, you will be redirected to KFintech e-Voting page for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
4
Type of shareholders 
Login Method 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
1. 	
Existing user who have opted for Easi / Easiest
	
I)	
Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com
	
II)	
Click on New System Myeasi
	
III)	
Login with your registered user id and password.
	
IV)	 The user will see the e-Voting Menu. The Menu will have links of ESP i.e. KFintech 
e-Voting portal.
	
V)	
Click on e-Voting service provider name to cast your vote.
2. 	 User not registered for Easi/Easiest
I)	
Option to register is available at https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/
EasiRegistration
II)	
Proceed with completing the required fields.
III)	
Follow the steps given in point no. 1 above.
3. 	
Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL
	
I)	
Visit URL: www.cdslindia.com
	
II)	
Provide your demat account number and PAN
	
III)	
System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the demat account.
	
IV)	 After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESP, 
i.e KFintech where the e- Voting is in progress.
Individual Shareholder 
login through their 
demat accounts / 
website of DP
I.	
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP 
registered with NSDL /CDSL for e-Voting facility.
II.	
Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting 
option, you will be redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. 
III.	
Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider – 
Kfintech and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of KFintech  for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period without any further authentication.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forgot user ID and Forgot 
Password option available at respective websites.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Securities held with 
NSDL 
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in  or call at toll free 
no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30 
Securities held with 
CDSL 
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at 022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43 
(ii)	
Login method for e-Voting for shareholders other 
than Individual Shareholders holding shares in 
demat mode and shareholders holding shares in 
physical mode.
	
Members whose email IDs are registered with the 
Company/ DPs, will receive an email from KFintech 
which will include details of E-Voting Event Number 
(EVEN), USER ID and password, and they are 
required to follow the below-mentioned steps:
a.	
Launch internet browser and type the URL: 
https://evoting.kfintech.com in the address bar.
b.	
Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and 
password). In case of physical shares, User ID 
will be EVEN (E-Voting Event Number) xxxx, 
followed by folio number. In case of Demat 
account, User ID will be your DP ID and Client 
ID. However, if you are already registered with 
KFintech for e-voting, you can use your existing 
User ID and password for casting the vote.
c.	
After entering these details appropriately, click 
on “LOGIN”.
d.	
You will now reach password change Menu 
wherein you are required to mandatorily 
change your password. The new password 
shall comprise of minimum 8 characters with 
at least one upper case (A- Z), one lower case 
(a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special 
character (@,#,$, etc.,). The system will prompt 
you to change your password and update 
your contact details like mobile number, email 
ID, etc. on first login. You may also enter a 
secret question and answer of your choice to 
retrieve your password in case you forget it. It 
is strongly recommended that you do not share 
your password with any other person and that 
you take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential.
     Notice
5
Annual Report   2022-23
e.	
You need to login again with the new 
credentials.
f.	
On successful login, the system will 
prompt you to select the “EVEN” i.e., 
‘________________- “AGM” and click on 
“Submit”.
g.	
On the voting page, the number of shares 
(which represents the number of votes) held 
by you as on the Cut-off Date will appear. If 
you desire to cast all the votes assenting/
dissenting to the resolution, enter all shares 
and click ‘FOR’/‘AGAINST’ as the case may be 
or partially in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, 
but the total number in ‘FOR’ and/or ‘AGAINST’ 
taken together should not exceed your total 
shareholding as on the Cut-off Date. You may 
also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’, in which 
case, the shares held will not be counted under 
either head.
h.	
Members holding multiple folios/demat 
accounts shall choose the voting process 
separately for each folio/ demat account.
i.	
You may then cast your vote by selecting an 
appropriate option and click on “Submit”.
j.	
A confirmation box will be displayed. Click “OK” 
to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify. Once you 
have voted on the resolution (s), you will not be 
allowed to modify your vote. During the voting 
period, Members can login multiple times till 
they have voted on the Resolution(s).
k.	
Corporate/Institutional Members (i.e. other than 
Individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are also required 
to send scanned image (PDF/JPG format) of 
certified true copy of relevant board resolution/
authority letter/Power of Attorney etc. together 
with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorised signatory(ies) who is/are authorised 
to vote, to the Scrutinizer Mr. Adesh Tandon 
(Membership No. F2253 and CP No. 1121), 
Practicing Company Secretary, at E-mail ID: 
adesh.tandon11@gmail.com with a copy 
marked to evoting@kfintech.com and may 
also upload the same in the e-voting module 
in their login. The scanned image of the above-
mentioned documents should be in the naming 
format “Corporate Name____ Even No.”
Procedure for Registration of email and Mobile: securities 
in physical mode
Physical shareholders are hereby notified that based on 
SEBI Circular number: SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2023/37, dated March 16, 2023, all holders of physical 
securities in listed companies shall register the postal address 
with PIN for their corresponding folio numbers. It shall be 
mandatory for the security holders to provide mobile number. 
Moreover, to avail online services, the security holders can 
register e-mail ID. Security holders can register/update the 
contact details through submitting the requisite ISR 1 form 
along with the supporting documents.
ISR 1: Form can be obtained by following the link: https://ris.
kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx
ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be provided by 
any one of the following modes.
a)	
Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV): the authorized 
person of the RTA shall verify the original documents 
furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with IPV 
stamping with date and initials; or
b)	
Through hard copies which are self-attested, which can 
be shared on the address below; or
Name
KFIN Technologies Limited
Address
Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot No. 31 
& 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, 
Telengana India-500032.
c)	
Through electronic mode with e-sign by following the link: 
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx#
	
Detailed FAQ can be found on the link: https://ris.kfintech.
com/faq.html
	
For more information on updating the email and Mobile 
details for securities held in electronic mode, please reach 
out to the respective DP(s), where the demat account is 
held.
I.	
The Members who have not cast their vote through 
remote e-voting shall be eligible to cast their vote through 
voting system available during the AGM.
J.	
A Member can opt for only single mode of voting i.e., 
through Remote e-voting or voting at the AGM. If a 
Member casts votes by both modes, then voting done 
through Remote e-voting shall prevail and vote at the 
AGM shall be treated as invalid.
K.	
In case of any query and/or grievance, in respect of 
voting by electronic means, Members may refer to the 
Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and E-voting 
user manual available at the download section of https://
evoting.kfintech.com (KFintech Website) or contact 
Ms. Shobha Anand, at evoting@kfintech.com or call 
KFintech’s toll free No. 1-800-309-4001 for any further 
clarifications
L.	
The Members, whose names appear in the Register of 
Members / list of Beneficial Owners as on August 18, 
2023, being the Cut-off Date, are entitled to vote on 
the Resolutions set forth in this Notice. A person who 
is not a Member as on the Cut-off Date should treat this 
Notice for information purposes only. Once the vote on a 
resolution(s) is cast by the Member, the Member shall not 
be allowed to change it subsequently.
M.	
The results of the electronic voting shall be declared to 
the Stock Exchanges after the AGM. The results along 
with the Scrutinizer’s Report, shall also be placed on the 
website of the Company.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
6
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
As required under Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”), the following Explanatory Statement sets out all 
material facts relating to the business mentioned under Item 
No. 5 of the accompanying Notice:
Item No. 5:
The Shareholders may recall that at the 45th AGM of the 
Company held on 24th September, 2021, they had approved 
the re-appointment of Mr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta as the 
Chairman and Managing Director for a period of 2 years 
i.e. from October 01, 2021 to September 30, 2023 and on 
expiration of his term of office as the Managing Director of 
the Company, and thereafter he shall continue as the Non-
Executive Chairman of the Company for the remainder period 
i.e. from October 1, 2023 to September 30, 2026.
Pursuant to the decision of the Board, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), had formed a Committee 
for Succession Planning comprising of only the independent 
directors of NRC as members. The Committee for Succession 
Planning of the NRC post completing the detailed exercise 
of selection including interviews of all eight nominees 
working in the Company of promoters family recommended a 
Succession Plan to NRC, recommending the appointment of 
Mr. Shailesh Gupta as the Managing Director of the Company. 
The said Succession Plan was approved by NRC and was duly 
recommended to the Board for its consideration and approval. 
The Board in its meeting held on 17th January, 2023 had 
approved the Succession Plan.
In accordance with the aforesaid Succession Plan and as 
reaffirmed by the NRC and noted by the Audit Committee, 
the Board at its meeting held on June 10, 2023 had approved 
the appointment of Mr. Shailesh Gupta, Whole-time Director 
as Managing Director of the Company on the terms and 
conditions including remuneration as stated in the resolution 
set out at Item No. 5 of the accompanying Notice. Mr. Shailesh 
Gupta shall not be liable to retire by rotation.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable 
laws, rules and regulations, as Managing Director of the 
Company, he shall look after the business and affairs of the 
Company.
Mr. Shailesh Gupta aged about 52 years, holds a bachelor’s 
degree in commerce. He has more than 30 years of experience 
in the media industry. He has been managing advertisement 
space selling, branding and monitoring the business of Jagran 
Engage (OOH advertising division), Jagran Solutions (activation 
business), I-next, and performance of Company’s subsidiaries 
which he may delegate in full or part to one or more persons.
Brief profile of Mr. Shailesh Gupta is given in the Report on 
Corporate Governance, forming part of the Annual Report of 
the Company for the financial year 2022-23.
In accordance with the provisions of Regulation 17(6)(e) of the 
Listing Regulations the remuneration payable to Mr. Shailesh 
Gupta shall be subject to the approval of the shareholders by 
special resolution in general meeting as the total remuneration 
payable to the Executive Directors who are promoters or 
members of the promoter group, exceeds 5% of the Net Profits 
of the Company for the financial year 2022-23.
Keeping in view that Mr. Shailesh Gupta has rich experience 
it would be in the best interest of the Company to appoint 
Mr. Shailesh Gupta as Managing Director for a term of five (5) 
years with effect from October 01, 2023 which will expire on 
September 30, 2028.Your Directors recommend passing of this 
resolution as Special Resolution.
Mr. Shailesh Gupta, himself and Mr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta, 
being his immediate relative are deemed to be concerned or 
interested in the resolution set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice.
Save and except the above, none of the other Directors / Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company / their relative are, in any 
way, concerned or interested in the resolutions.
This explanatory statement may also be read and treated as 
disclosure in compliance with the requirements of Section 190 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
Disclosures pursuant to Regulations 36(3) and other applicable 
provisions of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 
– 2 on General Meetings are set out in Annexure-A to the 
Notice.
     Notice
7
Annual Report   2022-23
Annexure-A
Disclosure relating to Directors pursuant to Regulations 36(3), 26(4) and other applicable provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and Secretarial Standard 
– 2 on General Meetings
Name of Director
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
Devendra Mohan Gupta
Shailesh Gupta
DIN
01057827
00226837
00192466
Date of Birth 
March 12, 1944
January 07, 1950
April 07, 1969
Age
79 years
73 years
54 years
Date of first appointment
July 18, 1975
September 04, 2008
November 28, 1994
Area of expertise
Please refer report on Corporate Governance forming part of Annual Report for area of 
expertise.
Qualification
Bachelor’s Degree in Arts
Bachelor’s degree in 
Engineering (Mechanical)
Bachelor’s Degree in 
Commerce
Relationship with Directors and 
Key Managerial Personnel
Brother of Mr. Mahendra 
Mohan Gupta, Mr. Devendra 
Mohan Gupta, Mr. Shailendra 
Mohan Gupta.
Brother of Mr. Mahendra 
Mohan Gupta, Mr. Dhirendra 
Mohan Gupta and Mr. 
Shailendra Mohan Gupta  
Son of Mr. Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta.
Remuneration last drawn 
(per annum)
270.47 Lakhs
-
240.84 Lakhs
Shareholding in the Company
269,078 Shares
117,890 Shares
Nil
No. of Board meetings attended 
during FY 2022-23
6 out of 6
6 out of 6
6 out of 6
Directorships / partnerships in 
other bodies corporate in India
•	 Jagran Media Network 
Investment Private Limited 
•	 TDMD Private Limited
•	 Jagran Micro Motors Limited 
•	 Jagran Media Network 
Investment Private Limited 
•	 Jagmini Micro Knit Private 
Limited 
•	 DBR Ventures LLP
•	 Music Broadcast Limited 
•	 MMI Online Limited 
•	 Midday Infomedia Limited
•	 Rave Real Estate Private 
Limited
•	 The Indian Newspaper 
Society.
•	 Audit Bureau Of Circulations
•	 Media Research Users 
Council India
•	 VRSM Enterprises LLP
Chairman / Member of the 
Committee of the Board of 
Directors of the Company
None
None 
Member of Risk Management 
Committee
Chairman / Member of the 
Committee of other Public 
Limited Companies in which he / 
she is a Director
None
None
Music Broadcast Limited- 
Chairman of Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee, 
Member of Audit Committee, 
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee  
Midday Infomedia 
Limited- Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
8
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
CIN-L22219UP1975PLC004147
Registered Office:  Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur-208005
Tel: +91 512 2216161, Website: www.jplcorp.in, E-mail: investor@jagran.com
PROXY FORM
(Pursuant to Section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014)
Name of the Member(s):
Folio No.:
Registered address:
Folio No/*Client Id:
E-mail ID:
*DP Id:
*Applicable for investors holding shares in electronic form.
I/We, being the Member(s) of __________________________ shares of Jagran Prakashan Limited, hereby appoint:
1)	
Name:………………………………………………………….........................… E-mail Id:…………………………………………………...........................................................
	
Address: …………………………………………………….........................…… Signature……………............................................………………..........or failing him
2) 	
Name:………………………………………………………….........................… E-mail Id:…………………………………………………...........................................................
	
Address: …………………………………………………….........................…… Signature……………............................................………………..........or failing him
3) 	
Name:………………………………………………………….........................… E-mail Id:…………………………………………………...........................................................
	
Address: …………………………………………………….........................…… Signature……………............................................………………...................................	
and whose signature(s) are appended below as my / our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me / us and on my / our behalf at the 47th Annual 
General Meeting of the Company, to be held on Friday, the 25th day of August, 2023 at 12:30 P.M. at Jalsaa Banquet Hall, 4th Floor, Rave@
Moti, 117/K/13, Gutaiya, Kanpur-208025 and at any adjournment thereof in respect to such resolutions as are indicated below:
** I wish my above Proxy to vote in the manner as indicated in the box below:
Resolution
For
Against
1 (a)
Consideration and adoption of the Audited Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2023 and the 
Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended on that date together with the Reports of Board of Directors 
and the Auditors thereon.
1(b) Consideration and adoption of the Audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2023 and the 
Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended on that date together with the Reports of Board of Directors 
and the Auditors thereon.
2.
Confirmation of the interim dividend of ` 4/- per equity share declared by the Board of Directors of the 
Company on August 06, 2022 and already paid to the eligible shareholders of the Company as final 
dividend for the financial year 2022-2023
3.
Re-appointment of Mr. Devendra Mohan Gupta (DIN: 00226837) as a Director who retires by rotation.
4.
Re-appointment of Mr. Dhirendra Mohan Gupta (DIN: 01057827) as a Director who retires by rotation.
5.
Appointment of Mr. Shailesh Gupta (DIN: 00192466), Whole-time Director as the Managing Director of the 
Company.

Signed this …………… day of ……….…………. 2023		
	
	
	
	
       	
       _____________________
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
       Signature of Member
_____________________	
	
_______________________	
       _____________________
Signature of first proxy holder	
	
Signature of second proxy holder	
       Signature of third proxy holder
Affix ` 1 Revenue 
Stamp
Here
Notes:
(1)	 This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed and deposited at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 
hours before the commencement of the meeting.
(2)	 A Proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
(3)	 A person can act as a proxy on behalf of Members not exceeding fifty and holding in the aggregate not more than 10% of the total share capital of 
the Company carrying voting rights. A Member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights may appoint 
a single person as proxy and such person shall not act as a proxy for any other person or Member.
**(4)	This is only optional.  Please put a 'X' in the appropriate column against the resolutions indicated in the box, If you leave the ‘For’ or ‘Against’ column 
blank against any or all the resolutions, your Proxy will be entitled to vote in the manner as he/she thinks appropriate.
(5)	 Appointing a proxy does not prevent a Member from attending the meeting in person if he so wishes.
(6)	 In the case of joint holders, the signature of any one holder will be sufficient, but names of all the joint holders should be stated.	
9
This page is intentionally left blank
10
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
CIN-L22219UP1975PLC004147
Registered Office:  Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur-208005
Tel: +91 512 2216161, Website: www.jplcorp.in, E-mail: investor@jagran.com
ATTENDANCE SLIP
PLEASE FILL ATTENDANCE SLIP AND HAND IT OVER AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE MEETING HALL
Joint Members may obtain additional Slip at the venue of the meeting.
DP ID*
Folio No.
Client ID*
No. of Shares
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MEMBER
………………………………………………………………………………………………………….......…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….............
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….………………………………………………...…………………………………………………………….............
I / We hereby record my / our presence at the 47th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company held on Friday, the 25th day of August, 
2023 at 12:30 P.M. at Jalsaa Banquet Hall, 4th Floor, Rave@Moti, 117/K/13, Gutaiya, Kanpur-208025.
*Applicable for investors holding shares in electronic form.		
	
	
	
	
Signature of Member / Proxy
Note: Please sign this attendance slip and hand it over at the Attendance Verification Counter at the MEETING VENUE.
11
ROUTE MAP TO THE AGM VENUE
Jalsaa Banquet Hall
4th Floor, Rave@Moti, 117/K/13, Gutaiya, 
Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh- 208025
12
Credibility
Largest
Read daily in India –  
Dainik Jagran
19% 
Volume market 
share
3,000+ 
Media inventory
100+ 
Client base
19 
Digital media 
portals
Powered by
P R I N T
D I G I T A L
A C T I V A T I O N
O U T - O F - H O M E
R A D I O
2022-23
ANNUAL REPORT
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
42 Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
78 Board's Report
102 Dividend Distribution Policy
103 Report on Corporate Governance
136 Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report
02 Corporate identity 
04 Business verticals
06 Business model
08 Chairman’s Communiqué
10 Key performance indicators
Business segment review
12 Print
20 Radio
26 Digital
36 Out-of-home (OOH)
37 Activation
40 Awards and recognitions
41 Corporate Information
149 Standalone
245 Consolidated
Financial highlights of FY23
`1,856.17 Cr
Operating revenue
`326.88 Cr
Operating profit
`196.79 Cr
Profit after tax
Print
• The print performance was satisfactory,
despite a challenging environment
• Dainik Jagran remains No. 1 print daily
for 20 years.
• News in print continues to enjoy higher
credibility than all other media
• All brands delivered strong operating
performance
• The impact of high newsprint prices continued
to affect the operating profit.
Radio
• 32% revenue garnered from created business -
properties, proactive pitches, digital, sponsorships
and special days
• 33% of new clients advertised on the Radio City
platform.
• Liquidity position enhanced to `295 Crores as of
March 31, 2023
• Digital reach has increased to 1.2 Billion through
social media platforms such as YouTube, Facebook,
Twitter, Instagram, and Web Radio.
Digital
• Improved Ranking to 8th position from 11th in 2022
• User base recorded a strong growth of 17% on
y-o-y basis
• Reached ~84.55 Million in the News/Information
category*
• Digital business revenue of the Group crossed
`100 Crores on a yearly basis.
Outdoor and Activation
• Outdoor business reported operating revenue of
`100 Crores for FY23, showing a growth of 47%
Y-o-Y.
• Activation business reported a remarkable operating
revenue growth of 100% in FY23, compared to the
previous year.
• Both businesses are well-poised for steady growth
CONTENTS
C O R P O R A T E  O V E R V I E W
S T A T U T O R Y  R E P O R T S
F I N A N C I A L  S T A T E M E N T S
*Source: Comscore MMX 
Multi-Platform: February 2023
1
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
A new India is emerging – 
confident, bold and ready to stake 
its position as a global economic 
powerhouse and lead millions of 
people towards prosperity. As part 
of the country's one of the leading 
Media and Entertainment Groups, 
we are cognizant of our role and 
responsibility of disseminating 
credible information and insights 
that shape the future of the world’s 
largest democracy. 
At Jagran, we take great pride in 
contributing to India's progress as 
its fourth pillar of democracy. In 
the process, we have established 
ourselves as industry leaders in 
Print, Digital, Radio, Out-of-Home 
(OOH), and Activation. Being a 
trusted agent of change, we enjoy 
the trust of millions who rely on 
our ability to empower them with 
unbiased, credible and high-quality 
content across various platforms.
We have built this foundation 
of trust on three pillars: our 
extensive reach across markets 
and synergistic businesses 
accelerating growth, robust 
nationwide brand prominence, 
and a legacy of credibility and 
respect built over the years. 
We do not rely on our laurels 
but strive to work harder every 
day – undaunted and unbiased 
– to revolutionise the world 
of infotainment and enable 
informed decision-making and 
choices, which remains the 
bedrock of creating sustainable 
stakeholder value.
CORPORATE IDENTITY 
Built on trust 
Founded in 1942 by freedom fighter, Late Shri Puran Chandra Gupta, Jagran 
Prakashan Limited (Jagran), has emerged as one of India’s largest and most 
trusted media conglomerates. From printing and publication of newspapers 
and magazines, FM radio, digital, outdoor advertising and promotional 
marketing to event management and activation businesses, our interests span 
a growing universe.
Our Vision
Just like the morning sun that dispels 
darkness and brings warmth to the world, 
the vision of Jagran is to transform lives 
through enlightening and enriching 
experiences.
Our credit rating
CRISIL has reaffirmed its credit rating 
AA+ Stable for long-and-medium-term 
and A1+ for the short-term in respect of 
the Company, A1+ for the short-term and 
AA/Stable the for long-term in respect of 
Music Broadcast Limited and AA(-)/stable 
for the long-term in respect of Midday 
Infomedia Limited.
Jagran at a glance 
75+ years 
Of inspiring trust and 
leadership
10 
Language operations 
5 
Business verticals across 
print, radio, digital, 
activation and out-of-home
5,445  
Employee base across 
the organisation*
*Permanent employees 
across JPL, MBL and MIL
Jagran Prakashan Limited
2
Our pan-India  
presence 
Print
1
Bihar
2
Chhattisgarh 
3
Delhi
4
Haryana
5
Himachal Pradesh
6
Jammu & Kashmir
7
Jharkhand
8
Madhya Pradesh
9
Maharashtra
10
Punjab
11
Uttar Pradesh
12
Uttarakhand
13
West Bengal
*Map not to scale
5
10
12
2
13
7
1
11
3
9
4
6
16
29
13
20
8
11
6
8
15
4
22
36
2
37
35
25
28
31
3
34
33
21
27
17
26
14
5
10
7
24
9
1
23
19
12
38
30
32
18
39
1
Agra
2
Ahmedabad 
3
Ahmednagar
4
Ajmer
5
Akola
6
Bareilly
7
Bengaluru
8
Bikaner
9
Chennai
10
Coimbatore
11
Delhi
12
Gorakhpur
13
Hissar
14
Hyderabad
15
Jaipur
16
Jalandhar
17
Jalgaon
18
Jamshedpur
19
Kanpur
20
Karnal
21
Kolhapur
22
Kota
23
Lucknow
24
Madurai
25
Mumbai
26
Nagpur
27
Nanded Waghala
28
Nashik
29
Patiala
30
Patna
31
Pune
32
Ranchi
33
Sangli
34
Solapur
35
Surat
36
Udaipur
37
Vadodara
38
Varanasi
39
Vizag
Radio
3
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Corporate identity
BUSINESS VERTICALS 
Strong growth platforms 
Our robust presence across print, radio, digital, activation and out-of-home has 
enabled us to emerge as an integrated media solutions player. 
`1,435 Cr 
Operating revenues  
from the print division 
during FY23
81Mn+# 
Total readership 
33 
Printing facilities* 
* Including one outsourced printing 
facility and printing facility of Midday.
# IRS 2019 Q4
`100 Cr 
Group digital business 
revenue including 
associate company in FY23
Jagran Prakashan Limited
4
19 
Digital media 
portals
Print  
Our flagship division of the 
group offers leading dailies 
across 13 states and union 
territories across India in 5 
different languages. Jagran 
is the largest print media 
brand in the country.
Digital  
We are one of the topmost 
digital media platforms in 
the country. Our portals 
maintain veracity in news and 
information content spanning 
multiple genres such as 
news, education, lifestyle, 
entertainment, health, women, 
gaming and youth.
Read more on  - 12
Read more on  - 26
`199 Cr* 
Operating revenues  
from the radio division 
during FY23
39 
Radio stations 
15
Web-stations
5
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Radio  
Our radio brand Radio City - 
India’s first private FM radio 
station has been synonymous 
with the category since its 
inception in 2001.
Out-of-Home (OOH) 
We provide specialised  
'out-of-home' marketing solutions 
to suit customised client 
requirements across the nation.
`101Cr 
Operating revenues  
from the OOH division 
during FY23
3,000+ 
Media inventory
Activation 
We offer bespoke below-the-
line (BTL) marketing solutions 
or experiential marketing 
solutions with an integrated 
approach across the country.
`59 Cr 
Operating revenues  
from the activation 
division during FY23
100+
Client base
Read more on  - 37
Read more on  - 20
Read more on  - 36
*Includes Radio Digital
Business verticals
BUSINESS MODEL
Framework for 
value creation 
We are committed to 
creating and preserving 
long-term value for 
our stakeholders. We 
continue to serve the 
citizens of the Indian 
market through our 
various platforms with our 
unbiased and credible 
content, market reach, 
decades-rich experience 
and focus on efficiency. 
Our ability to rearticulate 
our business to offer 
strong integrated digital 
cum print solutions in 
order to be more of a 
solution provider than 
merely a vehicle of 
communication helped us 
boost scalability.
Key inputs 
Financial capital 
Refers to the shareholder funds 
and prudent borrowings, which 
are critical for our ability to create 
sustainable value.
Human resource 
Our employees are competent, capable, 
and engaged, and they combine these 
qualities with a strong motivation to upskill 
to build efficiencies in the ever-changing 
environment.
Tangible assets 
In print, we have 33 printing facilities across 
13 states and union territories with state-
of-the-art machinery. In radio, we have 39 
stations across 12 states and 15 web-
stations. For other businesses, we have 
offices across India at strategic locations. 
Scale and reach
Our unparalleled presence in metro cities 
as well as Tier-2 and Tier-3 markets lend 
us a deep understanding of the ethos 
and preferences of these demographies, 
equipping us to adopt a hyper-local 
approach.
Business partners
Our partners provide us with quality 
expertise, materials, and services, 
thereby enabling us to offer a wide range 
of innovative solutions across all our 
platforms.
Technology and Intellectual Property 
We have invested in integrating technology 
including AI in our operations to stay ahead 
of the curve. Our organisational knowledge-
based intangibles that include industry 
know-how and intellectual property enable 
us to maintain our edge. 
Robust governance framework 
Our transparent and responsible 
governance and strong internal controls 
ensure that we not only comply with 
the relevant rules and regulations, but 
also safeguard the interests of all our 
stakeholders.
Value creation approach 
Print 
Radio
Digital 
Out-of- 
Home  
(OOH) 
Activation
Digital  
Innovation
Community  
engagements  
Good  
governance 
Reinforcing 
and enriching 
strong brand
1
2
7
8
Jagran Prakashan Limited
6
Strategic imperative  
Pursuing sustainable growth
Our strategy is to pursue sustainable 
growth in our revenues and profits 
thereby enhancing shareholders’ 
value.
Driving efficiency
Our focus is on consistently 
enhancing our operating efficiency. 
Our cost-effective and agile 
operating model reinforces our 
presence as a value-driven 
organisation that invests where 
we see enduring value.
Ensuring a prudent mix of print 
and non-print businesses
We ensure the right mix of 
stability, scalability and prudent 
diversification. Our print business 
continues to generate strong 
cash. Radio and digital verticals 
enjoy a high-growth potential, 
enabling us to emerge as a 
holistic multimedia solutions 
player with expanded reach.
Leading with credible content: 
We cater the best and broadest 
range of content across print, 
digital and radio to a wide 
audience spectrum. We strive to 
deliver unbiased, credible and 
high-quality editorial content to the 
masses.
Investing in people
Our objective is to drive a work culture 
that allows people to consistently 
improve their craft to stay ahead of the 
curve. We also attempt to provide a safe 
space where our employees can work, 
connect, improvise and grow.
Creating value for…
Shareholders
We work to maintain a strong and efficient balance sheet, 
invest for growth and deliver improved returns for our 
shareholders.
Readers
We are recognised for superior editorial content and our 
unbiased and independent reporting. Our journalists 
and editorial teams have been felicitated with numerous 
prestigious media industry awards and are recognised for 
their excellence in reporting and refreshing insights. The 
result is strong trust among readers.
Listeners 
We air engaging and entertaining content for a wide 
cross-section of listeners. 
Clients 
We provide exciting and innovative value propositions 
ensuring a higher impact of their advertisements across 
multiple platforms. 
Employees 
We provide an enabling environment to our workforce 
that is fair, transparent and collaborative. We continually 
train and upskill them to stay ahead of the trends shaping 
the industry. We attempt to provide a safe, fair and 
discrimination free work environment and through a 
culture of meritocracy, we empower employees to realise 
their professional potential.
Community 
Our community interventions are guided by a set of seven 
principles, which we refer to as 'Saat Sarokaar'. These 
principles encompass Poverty Eradication, the creation 
of a Healthy Society, the promotion of Education, Women 
Empowerment, Environment Conservation, and Water 
Conservation. During the last fiscal, we successfully 
launched several impactful campaigns to address 
pressing issues within our community. These initiatives 
included the Gau Grass Campaign, aimed at raising 
awareness and fostering empathy towards cows. We also 
organised the Covid Awareness Campaign, focusing on 
physical and mental well-being in the post-pandemic 
era. Additionally, our Road Safety Campaign sought 
to enhance public awareness regarding road safety 
measures. To support the less fortunate, we introduced 
Jagran Arpan, an initiative encouraging the donation of 
warm clothes to those in need. Furthermore, our Jagran 
Sanskarshala program aimed to redefine children's 
relationship with technology and empower them to make 
informed choices.
Free cash 
flow 
Client  
retention
Operational 
excellence 
Prudent capital  
allocations 
3
4
5
6
Business model
7
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
CHAIRMAN’S COMMUNIQUÉ
Progressing with the 
power of credibility
As India moves ahead on its ambitious 
journey to become a ‘developed’ 
economy by 2047 and ushers in an 
equitable future for all, we – at Jagran 
– remain committed to playing a pivotal 
role in shaping perspectives and 
creating and preserving value for all our 
stakeholders.
During the year gone by, when the 
world was mired in geo-political strife 
and elevated cost of living, India 
has been a beacon of strength and 
resilience, becoming the fifth-largest 
economy. Leaving the pandemic and 
its aftermath behind, India has formed 
a league of its own during the ‘Amrit 
Kaal’, as it embarks on a 25-year 
journey to celebrate the centenary of its 
emergence as a modern, independent, 
and democratic nation.
The Media and Entertainment sector 
heavily relies on discretionary spending 
and is vulnerable to uncertainty 
and volatility in the macroeconomic 
environment, which weakens overall 
demand and industry performance. 
I am delighted to share with you that 
despite the near-term challenges in 
the last fiscal, we delivered a resilient 
performance, with our businesses 
clocking stable revenue growth. 
Performance for the year under 
review
Our Company reported satisfactory 
performance and recorded significant 
growth in revenues of almost all 
business streams, displaying resilience 
at its core. Our operating revenues 
reported a 14.9% increase from FY22.  
Special attention is drawn to Outdoor 
and Event & Activation businesses, 
which reported growth in revenue by 
46.6% and 99.6% respectively. We 
reported an operating profit of `327 
Crores, despite global economic 
headwinds coupled with a steep 
increase in newsprint prices.
Our operating revenues 
reported a 14.9% increase 
from FY22.  Special attention 
is drawn to Outdoor and Event 
& Activation businesses, which 
reported growth in revenue by 
46.6% and 99.6% respectively. 
We reported an operating 
profit of `327 Crores, despite 
global economic headwinds 
coupled with a steep increase 
in newsprint prices.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
I extend warm greetings to all of you. 
Hope you and your families are safe and 
in good health. 
The power of credibility has never 
been so apparent. In today's digital 
age, where information is accessible 
anytime and anywhere, evaluating 
its credibility becomes even more 
critical. Credibility and reliability play a 
pivotal role in empowering individuals, 
institutions, and policymakers to 
make informed decisions and take 
appropriate actions to shape the future 
by promoting transparency, ensuring 
accountability, and reinforcing trust. 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
8
Our print business reported satisfactory 
revenue growth. Midday, in particular, 
witnessed robust revenues, rapidly 
catching up to its pre-pandemic figures 
and even turning an operating profit 
from a significant operating loss. We 
maintained our market share and aim to 
increase it further in FY24, anticipating 
a reversal in the consumption slowdown 
within the next six months. Profitability 
for the fiscal suffered on account of 
an abnormal increase in newsprint 
prices. Although print business revenue 
may take another year or so to reach 
pre-pandemic levels, profitability is 
expected to improve significantly due 
to the moderation in exceptionally high 
newsprint prices and the normalisation 
of inflation.
Our radio business also performed 
satisfactorily, recording strong growth, 
although it remains approximately 
35% behind pre-pandemic revenue 
levels. Despite not fully recovering 
lost revenue, radio operations turned 
profitable for the first time since the 
outbreak of the pandemic. As radio 
primarily follows a fixed-cost business 
model without requiring significant 
additional capital deployment for 
growth, we anticipate that profits and 
cash generation will outpace revenue 
growth. Furthermore, we expect an 
improved yield as consumption picks up.
Our digital business reported mid-teen 
growth in revenue and remains well 
ahead of pre-pandemic levels. However, 
sustaining profit growth commensurate 
with revenue growth will require 
additional time as we continue to invest 
in strengthening the business.
I would like to give special mention 
to our outdoor and event & activation 
businesses, which performed 
exceptionally well and surpassed the 
revenue and profit growth reported 
in the pre-pandemic financial year. 
These businesses have been steadily 
increasing their share in our overall 
portfolio. Both these businesses 
are now self-dependent in meeting 
increased working capital requirements 
due to the scale of operations and 
potential inorganic growth. I am 
confident that they will continue to do so 
unless a larger investment opportunity 
arises.
Focus on value creation
Our dedicated efforts to unlock the 
value of surplus assets and preserve 
capital since the onset of the pandemic 
have yielded positive results. We 
have successfully liquidated several 
high-value surplus assets, enhancing 
our net worth. This, coupled with our 
augmented liquidity, enabled us to 
overcome the unique challenges posed 
by the pandemic.
Stock prices have remained under 
pressure in the recent past primarily 
because of uncertainty about the 
performance and profits due to 
headwinds faced by businesses in 
general and the media industry in 
particular. However, the intrinsic value 
of our Company has actually improved 
which would get captured in stock 
prices sooner than later after these 
uncertainties completely perish in a 
year or so. 
Additionally, I am pleased to announce 
that in recognition of our strong 
performance and commitment to 
rewarding our shareholders, we had 
paid an interim dividend of `4 per share 
to the shareholders of our Company. 
This dividend represented 200% of the 
paid-up capital of our company in FY23. 
Furthermore, I am proud to highlight 
that we have successfully completed 
the biggest buyback in our company’s 
history, amounting to `345 Crores 
during the year under review. These 
initiatives are in line with our steadfast 
focus to reward our shareholders 
and demonstrate our dedication to 
maximising value.
ESG commitments
Our commitment to sustainability 
encompasses three core areas: 
Environment, Social, and Governance, 
in line with the principles set forth 
by the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
In our pursuit of sustainability, we 
are dedicated to reducing our 
environmental impact through 
proactive green initiatives across all our 
operational locations. We understand 
the importance of preserving our planet 
for future generations and strive to 
implement sustainable practices that 
contribute to a healthier environment 
for future generations. Over the past 
years, Company has taken several steps 
towards energy conservation, judicious 
usage of water and preservation of 
natural resources.
Furthermore, we strongly believe in 
empowering the communities in which 
we operate. Through our community 
development initiatives, we focus on 
areas such as education, culture, and 
healthcare, among others. We aim to 
make a positive and lasting impact on 
the lives of individuals and the overall 
well-being of the communities we serve.
Our employees play a vital role in 
driving our shared organisational 
objectives. We prioritise nurturing 
their skills and competencies, as their 
growth and development are key 
to our success. Through our people 
development practices, we strive to 
strengthen the capabilities of our human 
capital, enabling them to contribute to 
our value-accretive growth and drive 
innovation within our organisation.
In addition, we are committed to 
upholding the highest standards of 
corporate governance. We continue 
to refine our Corporate Governance 
System, guided by ethical principles, 
transparency, and leadership in the 
application of the best international 
practices. By maintaining a robust 
governance framework, we ensure 
accountability, foster trust among our 
stakeholders, and safeguard the long-
term sustainability of our business.
By holistically integrating environmental 
stewardship, social empowerment, and 
strong governance practices, we aim to 
create value for our stakeholders while 
contributing to a more sustainable and 
equitable future.
As we move forward, we remain 
committed in our commitment to 
responsible growth, which forms the 
core of all our strategies. On behalf of 
the Board of Directors, I would like to 
express our sincere gratitude to all our 
stakeholders for their continued support 
and trust. I would also like to express 
my deepest gratitude to the significant 
contribution of our committed workforce 
across the country, who despite all 
headwinds, selflessly persevered to 
contribute to our success story.
Warm regards,
Dr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta, 
Chairman and Managing Director
Chairman’s Communiqué
9
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Delivering on our 
commitments
Our decades-old experience, diversified offerings, the strength 
of our brands, strong market position and robust balance sheet 
enabled us to report steady growth despite economic headwinds. 
All our businesses posted growth in revenues and profits – a few 
even exceeded pre-pandemic revenues. In line with our policy 
of rewarding shareholders, we distributed a dividend of `4 per 
share, i.e. 200% of the paid-up capital of our Company in FY23. 
Moreover, we successfully completed one of the biggest buybacks 
in the history of our Company aggregating to `345 Crores.
Annual  
performance 
Operating revenue 
FY23
1,856
FY22
1,616
1,289
2,097
2,363
FY21
FY20
FY19
(` in Crores)
Operating profit
FY23
327
FY22
360
228
433
534
FY21
FY20
FY19
(` in Crores)
Profit after tax
FY23
197
FY22
217
78
281
274
FY21
FY20
FY19
(` in Crores)
Advertisement revenue
FY23
1,290
FY22
1,139
886
1,521
1,737
FY21
FY20
FY19
(` in Crores)
Circulation revenue
FY23
373
FY22
352
324
422
438
FY21
FY20
FY19
(` in Crores)
Earnings per share
FY23
7.61
FY22
8.41
3.16
9.32
7.30
FY21
FY20
FY19
(` in Crores)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
10
FY18
Total 
414
Dividend paid
Buyback of shares
112
302
(` in Crores)
Robust track record of distribution 
to shareholders
* Buyback announced in March 2021, 
closed in August 2021
^ Interim Dividend
Quarterly  
performance 
Operating revenue 
Q1 FY23
454
Q2 FY23
454
488
459
Q3 FY23
Q4 FY23
(` in Crores)
Operating profit 
Q1 FY23
77
Q2 FY23
86
82
82
Q3 FY23
Q4 FY23
(` in Crores)
Advertisement revenue 
Q1 FY23
305
Q2 FY23
318
347
321
Q3 FY23
Q4 FY23
(` in Crores)
Profit after tax
Q1 FY23
Q2 FY23
51
83
23
41
Q3 FY23*
Q4 FY23**
(` in Crores)
Circulation revenue 
Q1 FY23
93
Q2 FY23
93
95
92
Q3 FY23
Q4 FY23
(` in Crores)
 * includes gain on transfer/ sale of leasehold 
land of `39 Crores
** includes impairment of goodwill 
and investment in associates of `73 
Crores and gain on transfer/ sale of 
property of `29 Crores
FY21
Total 
102
Dividend paid
Buyback of shares
-
102*
(` in Crores)
FY19
Total 
400
Dividend paid
Buyback of shares
107
293
(` in Crores)
FY20
Total 
226
Dividend paid
Buyback of shares
125 	
101
(` in Crores)
FY23
Total 
450
Dividend paid
Buyback of shares
105^
345
(` in Crores)
Key performance indicators
11
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
PRINT
Progressing 
with trust-led 
credibility 
The print media landscape in India 
continues to evolve, and the industry 
continues to reinforce its position as 
one of the most trusted sources of 
news and information. We disseminate 
credible news and information to millions 
of Indians through our publications. 
Our publications are recognised for 
their superior editorial content, and 
unbiased and independent reporting. 
Jagran’s journalists and editorial teams 
have won numerous media industry 
awards and are well-known for their 
excellence in veracity and unique 
authenticity in reporting.
As per the Ormax Media 
‘Fact or Fake?’ study's third 
edition, print continues to 
enjoy higher news credibility 
than all others with a 
Credibility Index of 62%, 
followed by Television (55%) 
and Radio (54%).
Jagran Prakashan Limited
No.1* 
Print Dailies: Dainik Jagran (Hindi) 
and Inquilab (Urdu)
Largest*
Read daily in India – Dainik Jagran
8 
Publications 
300+ 
Editions/ sub-editions in print
*IRS 2019 Q4
13
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Key highlights of FY23
•	Implemented price 
hikes across all brands 
to partially offset the 
increased cost of 
newsprint
•	Implemented prudent 
cost optimisation 
measures that successfully 
protected margins without 
compromising on quality
•	Registered strong 
advertisement growth in 
Mid-day and Nai Dunia on 
y-o-y basis
•	Maintained a strong 
market presence in both 
rural and urban areas
•	Operating profits for the 
year were impacted due 
to increase newsprint 
price, economic 
uncertainties and high 
inflation
PRINT
Strengths that  
drive us
•	Dainik Jagran is India’s 
most extensively read 
newspaper, a trusted 
brand and enjoys an 
undisputed leadership 
position for several years 
now
•	The Jagran brand enjoys 
a time-honoured legacy 
and a compelling pan-
India recall, giving us a 
competitive advantage 
when entering new 
markets
•	Our dedicated and highly 
experienced team works 
towards providing core 
value to our readers in 
terms of well-researched, 
reliable, high-quality and 
authentic news and 
information
•	Conduct various 
promotional campaigns 
to engage with larger 
audiences, enhance mass 
reach and reinforce our 
value proposition
•	Our reach enables 
advertisers to address 
a large multilingual 
audience base while 
targeting a hyper-local 
audience at the same 
time
•	Separate print titles with 
a focus on specific facets 
of the society
14
Dainik Jagran is our flagship brand. 
With over 68.7 Million readers and 
37 editions across 11 states, it is the 
most popular daily in India (Source: 
IRS 2019 Q4). The newspaper is 
the brand of choice across several 
demographics like Students, NCCS A, 
Graduates and above, and is the No.1 
newspaper in almost every age group. 
Apart from winning several awards 
across the globe, it’s the only Indian 
newspaper to win the ‘Best in South 
Asia’ for a record 4 times at the Global 
Media Awards by INMA.
 
Nai Dunia has created a name for 
itself with issue-based, unbiased and 
unprejudiced reporting on a wide 
variety of topics including business, 
technology, education and career, as 
well as national, International and local 
news coverage especially for readers 
in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. 
 
 
Mid-day is a compact newspaper that 
embodies Mumbai’s unique culture, 
pace and spirit. If it is happening 
in Mumbai, it is in the Midday. With 
over 14.13 Lakh readers (Source: IRS 
2019 Q4), it seamlessly balances 
hyper-local coverage with exclusive 
entertainment news and sports 
coverage.
 
Mid-day Gujarati is Mumbai’s second-
largest-read Gujarati newspaper, 
covering local news, career advice, 
ideal homes, a glance at what is 
happening in the city, and the best 
of Hindi and Gujarati film industries 
news, as well as traditional news 
and entertainment like comics and 
crosswords.
Punjabi Jagran, reaches out to new 
readers, expands our market reach 
and boosts the Jagran brand across 
Punjab. It is amongst Punjab's 
leading dailies.
India’s most popular Urdu 
newspaper was founded in 1938. 
Inquilab has grown by leaps 
and bounds over the years, with 
different editions for Maharashtra, 
Bihar, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. 
The Inquilab has a student edition 
that is circulated every Friday 
called the 'Taleemi Inquilab'. The 
content of this tabloid format 
supplement is customised to cater 
to the next generation informing, 
empowering and educating them 
while inculcating the habit of Urdu 
reading.
 
I-next is a fast-growing compact 
daily in bilingual format and has 
picked up on the pulse of the 
Young at Heart. It currently serves 
12 major cities in four Indian states. 
It distinctly stands apart from its 
competitors due to its beautiful 
packaging of news, attractive layout 
design and versatility of news and 
features.
Khet Khalihaan is a popular monthly 
agricultural magazine, circulated in 
Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
Print
15
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Spreading 
awareness 
with 
impact
PRINT
16
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Print
17
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Our publications platforms have consistently played a significant role in spreading 
awareness on key issues that need immediate attention. Our initiatives and 
publications are followed with great enthusiasm by millions of people in cities, 
small towns, and villages alike, due to our reputation for providing high-quality, 
trustworthy content and insightful analysis that resonates with our audience.
Gau Grass Campaign
In India, cows hold a sacred status. 
However, in many cities, over 5.2 Million 
stray cows wander around causing 
traffic disruptions and wreaking havoc 
on village fields. They feed on garbage, 
including large quantities of plastic. 
This led us to launch the ‘Gau Grass’ 
campaign, meaning ‘Food for the Cows’, 
with the goal of awakening people's 
conscience and dual standards towards 
these animals. The campaign, which 
received participation from over 685 
associations and organisations, aimed 
to bring together all their members to 
support the cause. It connected 257 
cow shelters, providing thousands of 
cows with much-needed aid. Over 
Road Safety Campaign
India's roads are infamous for being 
the most dangerous in the world, 
with over 425 road accident fatalities 
occurring each day. Despite this, 
road safety remains a low priority on 
the policy agenda. Dainik Jagran, 
recognising the gravity of the situation, 
launched a comprehensive campaign 
to address the issue. The campaign 
involved 750 reporters who travelled 
79,657 km on 182 highways across 
India. The goal was to conduct a 
highway audit, highlighting engineering 
flaws and educating citizens on road 
safety measures while pushing the 
government to enforce traffic laws.
Support received for Gau Grass Campaign
Reach of our Road Safety Campaign
1.5 Million students from more than 
10,158 schools actively participated 
in the campaign, taking the message 
home and amplifying its reach. The 
campaign's impact was massive, with 
millions taking the pledge to be more 
sensitive towards cows and feed them.
This multi-dimensional campaign was 
significant, with a humanitarian angle 
aimed at saving cows from starvation 
and the dangers of grazing on garbage. 
It also had an economic angle, with 
the livelihoods of cattle farmers and 
rural economies at risk. We aimed to 
point policymakers towards the need 
for sensitivity towards animals and to 
create mass awareness, shaking people 
out of their apathy towards animals.
The campaign's success transformed 
our newspaper into the voice of the 
voiceless, calling upon citizens to take 
collective responsibility for feeding the 
starving cows. It also set the agenda 
for policymakers and citizens alike, 
highlighting the potentially disruptive 
nature of this crisis on India's livestock 
economy and putting the country's 
already-stressed farmers at greater risk.
685 
Associations and 
organisations partnered 
with the campaign
1.5 Mn 
Students from more than 
10,158 schools actively 
participated in the campaign
2.7 Mn 
School children and 
130,000 drivers reached 
through workshops 
1,274 
Data points and heatmaps 
were created to demonstrate 
potential road hazards on 
specific highways in the first-
ever highway audit 
Millions  
Took a pledge to be more 
sensitive towards cows and 
feed them
The campaign was a resounding 
success, reaching 69 Million readers 
of Dainik Jagran and directly impacting 
2.7 Million school children and 130,000 
drivers through workshops. In total, 
58 Million people participated in the 
campaign by taking the oath on Road 
Safety. The first-ever highway audit at 
scale captured 1,274 data points, and 
heatmaps were created to demonstrate 
potential road hazards on specific 
highways.
Thanks to the campaign, policymakers 
in the Indian Parliament have begun 
taking the issue of road safety 
more seriously. Local government 
administrative departments issued 
letters to their officers, urging them to 
participate in the campaign and rally 
citizens to attend Road Safety oath 
ceremonies.
Sanskarshala Campaign
The COVID-19 pandemic led to a 
surge in tech-enabled education for 
children, but it also raised concerns 
about the potential risks associated with 
this shift. Companies were collecting 
data on children, while at the same 
time, denying them access to the 
digital world wasn't the solution. The 
content and media children consume 
could significantly impact their social 
development, learning, and behaviour. 
Recognising the role of technology 
in children's lives was essential to 
develop better products, public 
policies, and parenting. To redefine 
children's relationship with technology 
and encourage them to make informed 
decisions, we launched an immersive 
campaign.
Mid-Day’s award-winning 
environment series navigating 
the wild  
Mid-day, known for its dedicated space 
for environmental reportage, launched 
Navigating the Wild in 2022, a quarterly 
wildlife and environment series. The series 
was helmed by Ranjeet Jadhav, a senior 
journalist at Mid-day Print, and won the 
Talentrack Award.
The series included a short film 
showcasing the work of Mumbai's citizens 
who are actively involved in protecting 
and tracking wildlife in Aarey forest, a 
lush green area in the heart of the city. 
The film featured the untold stories of 
local residents who are passionate about 
preserving the environment.
Jadhav, who is also a wildlife 
photographer, is a member of the citizens' 
group that installed DSLR camera traps in 
Aarey Colony to monitor the movement 
of leopards and other wild animals. This 
project proved helpful for the Maharashtra 
Forest Department in tracking wild 
cats and reducing man-animal conflict 
incidents.
The coverage of Navigating the Wild 
spanned across Mid-day's print and digital 
assets with a diverse range of content, 
including articles, long videos, and reels.
Impact of Sanskarshala Campaign
The campaign adopted a storytelling 
approach that connected with 
800,000 children directly and 
reached 100 Million through the 
campaign media. We conducted 
946 story reading sessions during 
school morning assemblies, reaching 
623,050 students, and converted 
all stories into podcasts for a wider 
audience. We also involved school 
principals who authored 981 
newspaper articles and created 
55 videos, while students made 
80 videos on campaign topics. We 
invited 49 experts for Q&A sessions 
and reported them in the newspaper. 
Finally, we organised 130 round table 
discussions to encourage debate on 
redefining children's relationship with 
technology.
PRINT
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Sanctuary magazine spotlights 
Jadhav and Mid-day
Mid-day Special Correspondent 
Ranjeet Jadhav was recognised for his 
consistent reportage and conservation 
work surrounding the leopards of 
Aarey and Sanjay Gandhi National Park 
at the 2022 edition of the Sanctuary 
Wildlife Service Awards, which honours 
those working to protect wildlife in 
India.
Chhattisgarh’s wild elephants 
straying into Maharashtra tracked by 
drones  
As villagers from Gadchiroli and 
Gondia struggled to cope with the 
arrival of a family of pachyderms from 
Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra's Forest 
Department had to resort to thermal 
drone technology to reduce man-
animal conflict. The 23 elephants had 
caused widespread damage to crops 
and property. The Mid-day team of 
journalists and photographers travelled 
to the tribal districts to see how the 
GPS coordinates of the elephants 
were being inputted into GIS software. 
This helped officers understand their 
movement patterns and create an 
alert-and-alarm system for the villagers.
Velas' Olive Ridley turtles get 
satellite tagged
The Mid-day team visited Velas, a 
tiny coastal village in Ratnagiri of 
Western Maharashtra. The village 
is home to a first-of-its-kind satellite 
tagging project that is providing 
valuable data on the diving patterns 
and movement of Olive Ridley turtles. 
The turtles were once at risk due to 
local residents who used to steal their 
eggs for consumption. However, the 
villagers are now stakeholders in the 
conservation efforts of the Wildlife 
Institute of India, volunteering not 
only to sustain protective nesting 
efforts but also to support eco-tourism 
initiatives through homestays and 
organising the Velas Turtle Festival.
The satellite tags, also known as 
Platform Transmitter Terminal (PTT) 
devices, are attached to the turtle's 
carapace or upper shell with an on/
off saltwater switch. When the turtle 
dives into the water, the switch turns 
off, and it switches on again when 
the turtle comes to the surface to 
breathe. The transmitter connects 
with the Argos satellite, which then 
passes the information to the ground 
station. From there, the information is 
forwarded to the servers, where it is 
accessed by scientists at the Wildlife 
Institute of India.
08 city
mid-day Monday, September 12, 2022 | www.mid-day.com | twitter.com/mid_day | epaper.mid-day.com
Maximum city. 
Maximum noise
The recent festivities saw decibel levels reach 
unimaginable levels in the city and suburbs. Our 
sutradhaars, who had to take makeshift remedial 
measures, hope the scenario doesn’t get out of hand
IS that you, Pheroze? And if so, then 
what is that sprouting from your 
ears?” Lady Flora announced her 
arrival at their usual meeting spot 
where she hung out with her friend 
Sir Pherozeshah Mehta. 
Sir PM swung around and greeted 
his friend, albeit exercising some de-
gree of caution. “Oh, my lady…it’s you 
after all! I didn’t hear your footsteps 
since I was listening to this. You can 
blame it on this new apparatus that 
my cousin Sohrab gifted me. He felt I 
needed it in these times,” the former 
lawmaker and administrator hand-
ed over a pair of headphones to his 
friend for her inspection. She looked 
at it with a lot of curiosity. “So tell me, 
Pheroze, why are you wearing it on 
your ears, and what is its main pur-
pose?” Lady Flora asked. “You see…
these are called noise-cancellation 
headphones. You can listen to mu-
sic with it; they cancel out the back-
ground bustle and din for a fantastic 
experience. It was extremely handy 
for me these past weeks,” Sir PM re-
plied, taking her through the motions 
might have to the prayers in their 
name. Surely, they wouldn’t wish to 
be associated with this kind of dis-
ruptive music,” argued Lady Flora, 
who by now was taking turns with 
her friend to listen to music on the 
new acquisition.
“I wonder if this going to be mon-
itored at any level; I am curious to 
know if my former bosses will actu-
ally take any cognizance and act or 
actual ensure we don’t have a repeat 
of such high decibel levels as we 
move ahead,” Sir PM’s faced turned 
a tad grim. “You’re so right, Pheroze. 
Shouldn’t it be the role of the civic 
authorities to keep a check on such 
things? After all, we live in a civilised 
society, where the majority shouldn’t 
be inconvenienced, isn’t it?” Lady 
Flora exclaimed. 
Fiona Fernandez
bombay
nama
Mid-day series wins 
award at first hit!
Talentrack Awards 2022 honours mid-day scribe, videographer and 
video editor for short film Navigating the Wild With Ranjeet Jadhav 
on conservation efforts at Aarey Milk Colony
mid-day’s special correspondent Ranjeet Jadhav (seen here with Vivek Merani, co-founder, Talentrack) won in the ‘Best digital 
content—social cause, NGO, government’ category at the Talentrack Awards 2022, held at The Westin, Goregaon, on Thursday; 
(below) mid-day’s Ranjeet together with Atul Jain, Milind Salvi and Raj Patil accept the award. PICS/PRADEEP DHIVAR
A Ganesh idol with loudspeakers affixed 
to it makes its way along Bharatmata 
junction,Parel. PIC/PRADEEP DHIVAR
twitter.com/sundaymidday | facebook.com/middayindia | instagram.com/sundaymidday
feature
24
sunday mid-day
06.11.2022
Atithi devo bhava, Maharashtra
says to Chhattisgarh elephants
10 minutes to get to the shore to 
witness the conservation effort at 
the artificial pits.  
“Turtle conservation in Ve-
las began as recently as 20 years 
ago,” says local resident Mohan 
Upadhyay. The seeds for the 
project were sown in 2002, when 
members of the Sahyadri Nisarg 
Mitra, a Chiplun-based non-prof-
it, visited the village for a survey of 
the white-bellied sea eagle nests. 
“While roaming the beach, the 
team spotted empty turtle egg 
shells. They enquired with the lo-
cals, but weren’t able to get any in-
formation,” remembers Upadhyay.
One of the residents, Gopinath 
Mhadik, eventually came forward 
and informed the NGO staff that 
the eggs belonged to female turtles 
that would migrate to Velas to nest. 
“He narrated how villagers would 
scout for turtle eggs and cook them 
on a chulha outside their home, and 
enter only after bathing. It was a 
ritual of sorts.” Since the eggs were 
found in plenty, and because they 
were rich in protein, they’d also 
become fodder for the bullocks 
right before the bull race during 
Diwali. “A female turtle would lay 
between 100 and 150 eggs at a time. 
The villagers would sell what they 
didn’t consume in nearby villages 
to help them earn extra income.”
The eggs, the NGO would learn, 
1972 and Appendix I of the CIT
Convention, 
which 
prohib
trade in turtle products. “Local
says Upadhyay, “were unaware
the turtle’s protected status. T
non-profit steered a meeting wi
the gram panchayat to acquai
the villagers with the urgency f
conservation. 
Upadhyay, then 24, had just qu
his job as a clerk at a private fir
in Mumbai, and returned home
was fed up with the hectic life an
wanted to do something differe
here [in Velas],” he says.  
In 2003, sometime during t
beginning of the nesting seas
in November, Upadhyay was a
proached by Bhau Katdhare, pre
ident of Sahyadri Nisarg Mitra. “H
asked if I would join the efforts 
save  the turtle,” recalls Upadhya
now 45. “Until then, I had nev
seen the turtles, even though th
would nest close to my hamlet.”
Today, Upadhyay is considered
turtle conservation expert. It’s t
work of locals like him, which h
paved the way for similar effor
on others beaches along Mah
rashtra’s coast. Volunteers fro
the village are trained by the fore
department in how to extract eg
from the sand nests and release t
hatchlings into the sea, and offer
a monthly stipend.  
Last year, the Mangrove Cell 
LAS, MANDANGAD: Nestled be-
ween a secluded beach on one 
de and picturesque mountains 
n the other, the coastal village 
Velas in Mandangad Taluka of 
atnagiri district, wakes up before 
wn. At 5 am on a sluggish March 
eekend, a group of visitors throng 
e beach for a rare spectacle. As 
e salty sea breeze blows, tiny 
rtle hatchlings emerge from be-
ath layers of sand. With the sea 
stening in the early morning sun, 
e hatchlings follow the light. They 
awl towards the waters, amidst 
eers from an expectant crowd.
There was a time when turtle 
gs were a meal-time delicacy 
r the villagers. Today, the 225 
milies that live here are the 
ontrunners of turtle conserva-
on efforts in Maharashtra, and 
e force behind the annual Velas 
urtle Festival. Every March, when 
e turtles come to the beach to 
epare for hatching, the festival 
aws in tourists who are hosted at 
omestays and guided by the vil-
gers, who share stories with them 
out the importance of protecting 
e Olive Ridley turtles, a species 
und in the tropical waters of the 
cific, Atlantic and Indian oceans, 
nd gets its name thanks to the 
lour of the heart-shaped shell. It 
s given them a steady source of 
come. Ownership of the species 
WITH
JADHAV
NAVIGA
WILD
Mumbai | twitter.com/sundaymidday | facebook.com/middayindia | instagram.com/sundaymidd
feature
mid-day
.2023
The seeds of change sown by 
Ratnagiri’s tiny coastal village 
to protect its turtles has led 
to a first-of-its-kind satellite-
tagging effort along the 
entire western coast that’ll 
shine light on the migratory 
patterns of the Olive Ridley
Kachua 
chhaap
Print
19
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
RADIO
Playing up 
Radigitalization
Since its inception in 2001,  
Radio City – India's first private  
and premier FM radio brand – has 
been synonymous with the genre. 
With its innovative ideas and well-
researched needs of users, we 
have introduced several innovative 
broadcasting properties that won the 
hearts of millions of Indians.
We are expanding into new 
markets, offering an impeccable 
content and musical experience 
to our listeners and innovative 
solutions to our advertisers. 
Further, we are driving digital 
integration in audio content to 
augment one-on-one interactions 
with consumers, which is 
enabling us to gain reach and 
provide last-mile control over 
consumer acquisitions. In the 
process, we are reimagining a 
world with digital as the key to 
lasting brand affiliation.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
39% 
Of the total clients on the 
Radio platform advertised on 
Radio City
8,765 
Active client count
21 
Properties (programmes) 
on-air with Radio City’s 
unique content
1.2 Bn 
Total reach on social media 
including web radio
8 
Languages used for 
broadcasting
64 
Podcasts
21
Our radio stations enjoy a 
stronger emotional connection 
with the listener through a 
‘hyper-local’ content approach 
that reflects the city’s fabric, 
culture and nuances. At our 
radio stations, we endeavour 
to play contemporary music in 
regional languages, along with 
distinctive city-centric stories to 
cater to the local audience. We 
also operate a web radio under 
the domain, www.radiocity.in 
with 15 other web-stations.
RADIO
Strengths that  
drive us
•	Command a strong 
position in key markets, 
including Mumbai, 
Bengaluru and Delhi.
•	Radio City’s philosophy 
of ‘Rag Rag Mein 
Daude City’ envokes 
the feeling of pride 
among the people of its 
city and builds a strong 
emotional connection 
with listeners.
•	Reaping the benefits of 
geographical expansion 
and diversified market 
penetration.
•	Improvement in yield 
and inventory with fixed 
cost model translating 
into operating leverage.
•	The advent of RJ 
influencers is taking 
centre stage.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
22
Key properties
A one-stop show on love 
and relationships, a romantic 
endeavour for over two decades.
One of the most beloved retro 
shows on radio, encapsulating 
retro-era music and tales.
Pioneered humour on  
FM Radio, Babber Sher is an 
award winning sparkler running 
for over a decade.
India’s first singing talent hunt 
contest on radio. The year 2022 
witnessed the 14th season of 
the most sought after singing 
reality show.
A laughter riot of a show that 
has consistently been the 
platform for India’s best comics 
and their sketches
Celebrates ‘independent sounds 
and voices’ across genres and 
languages
Key highlights  
of FY23
•	 Unveiled a ground-breaking 
property, ‘Radio City Business 
Titans’. This three-day event 
celebrated the incredible 
achievements of Indian 
entrepreneurs who have made it 
big with resilience and innovation. 
Over 92+ Business Titans felicitated 
across 20 business categories from 
multiple industries, honouring their 
exceptional contributions to the 
Indian business landscape.
•	 Mid-day and Radio City 
collaborated on a digital-only 
initiative to compile a Powerlist of 
30 leaders from multiple brands 
who are inspirational as well as 
motivational. 
•	 We collaborated with Mid-day to 
organise the fourth edition of the 
prestigious 'Hitlist OTT Awards.' 
These awards recognise and 
honour the trailblazers of the OTT 
industry for their exceptional talent 
and innovative content. 
•	 'Radio City Super Singer' celebrated 
its 14th year and continues to 
be India's biggest singing talent 
hunt. It offers aspiring singers an 
unparalleled platform to showcase 
their unique talent.
•	 Radio City Free Verse was a series 
of events organised to bring 
together poetry enthusiasts from 
diverse backgrounds, in order to 
celebrate the glory and power of 
words and creative expression.
•	 Launched a PSU campaign 'Peeche 
Wale Babu, Helmet Laga Lo' 
initiative, to raise awareness about 
the crackdown on pillion riders 
without helmets by the Mumbai 
Traffic Police.
•	 Organised Radio City Radiance 
Awards, an event that aims to 
recognise the success stories of 
the state's business leaders and 
achievers, while honouring their hard 
work and dedication toward their 
respective fields.
•	 Organised Radio City Icon Awards, 
a highly respected accolade that 
celebrate community leaders for 
their contributions and dedication 
to the betterment of their city across 
multiple operating locations.
•	 Organised an event to honour 
individuals who have been 
recognised as 'City Ke Sitare' and 
have made significant contributions 
to the upliftment of society in various 
cities.
Radio
23
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Tuning in to 
the future 
faster
Radio has always been one of 
the most trusted and powerful 
mediums since its inception. Its 
unparalleled reach, coupled with 
the ability to establish a personal 
connection with diverse audiences 
and affordability, has made it a 
platform of choice for educating 
and empowering individuals, raising 
awareness on social issues, and 
widening our perspectives. Today, 
as radio adapts to a digital future, we 
analyse events and trends shaping 
the transformation and how we are 
bringing the future faster. 
RADIO
24
Ready for more!
We set ourselves apart with 
our focus on staying attuned 
to the latest developments 
in the media and 
entertainment industry. We 
have been adept at utilising 
consumer insights to provide 
tailor-made solutions that 
align with India's needs. In a 
constantly changing world of 
opportunities, we calibrate 
and recalibrate ourselves 
by embracing strategic 
collaborations with new-age 
platforms, delivering original 
and distinctive content, 
and prioritising growth 
that is both profitable and 
sustainable.
25
Power of platforms 
The advent of digital and social media 
platforms has transformed the traditional 
broadcast paradigm into a collaborative 
and cohesive entertainment ecosystem, 
enabling the radio industry to expand its 
reach using social media and digital tools. 
Internet radio has gained popularity among 
the younger generation, who request on-
demand content with convenient access. 
Internet radio also overcomes geographic 
barriers, making it accessible to people 
residing even in remote locations. By 
catering to the audience's needs, radio is 
driving higher engagement and an ever-
increasing listenership.
Emergence of RJ Influencers
RJs, who are highly influential voices in 
the radio industry and create hyperlocal 
content, effectively utilised social media 
platforms to build deeper connections 
with their audiences during the pandemic-
induced lockdown. This has resulted in an 
expansion of their audience base. Brands 
are now leveraging the popularity of 
RJs on social media to reach their target 
audience. Additionally, advertisers are 
benefitting from the hyper-local approach, 
popularity and well-known faces of RJs to 
target niche audiences. Our talented RJs 
also collaborate with brands to execute 
effective digital campaigns across radio 
and digital channels thereby ultimately 
enhancing the overall brand value in the 
market.
Rising localisation
Collaboration between RJ influencers and 
brands is the key to harnessing multi-
platform content and reinforcing captivating 
products with audiences, influencing 
their decisions. These collaborations are 
becoming vital not just in metro cities but 
also in tier 2 and 3 regions. RJs use their 
local knowledge to optimise radio and 
digital platforms for marketing. Native 
languages and hyperlocal content such 
as shows, reels, videos, podcasts, and 
vlogs deepen engagement. Social media 
enables audiences to enhance their 
relationship with RJs, which is leveraged by 
brands and advertisers.
Advent of AI 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and data analysis 
are crucial in the digital radio industry as 
they enable personalised content delivery 
based on audience preferences. One 
key application of AI is the selection of 
music and content that listeners desire, 
complementing the role of human RJ. 
Through AI-driven influencer marketing, 
analytics can identify relevant music genres 
and content combinations, amplifying the 
advertiser's selection of RJ influencers, and 
creating a mutually beneficial relationship 
between the radio platform and the 
advertiser.
Opportunities of Monetisation
The Indian radio industry is witnessing 
steady growth as more listeners tune 
in to various radio channels across the 
country. This has opened up a plethora 
of opportunities for radio businesses to 
generate revenue through advertising, 
sponsorships, and collaborations with 
other media platforms. With the emergence 
of digital radio and the increasing use 
of smartphones, radio stations are also 
exploring new avenues such as mobile 
advertising and podcasts to reach out to a 
wider audience. This trend is expected to 
continue in the coming years, making the 
Indian radio industry a promising space for 
businesses and other ventures looking to 
advertise and grow their brand.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Radio
DIGITAL
Enhancing 
digital 
prominence
Digital media has undoubtedly 
revolutionised the way we consume 
news and information. However, the 
true worth of this democratisation 
of information lies in its capacity 
to empower the 'New India' with 
trustworthy and credible content. 
Jagran New Media (JNM) has a focus 
to disseminate factual and reliable 
content that empowers the 'New 
Bharat' with Knowledge, Information, 
and Voice, leading to an Inclusive and 
progressive society.
We deliver meaningful content 
to our consumers using data-
driven journalism. Our team of 
journalists follows an ethical and 
process-driven manual, guided 
by Newsroom 2.0 tools and 
processes, to generate Breaking, 
Trending, Informative, and 
Authoritative content in multiple 
formats for distribution. Our 
multimedia content includes over 
1,650 digital first articles and 40 
videos per day, covering a wide 
range of relevant and latest topics.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
8th
In News/Information 
Category Digital Property 7.5 Mn** 
Subscribers on JNM’s 
YouTube channels
84.55 Mn* 
Users in the overall news/
information category
25 Mn** 
Facebook fan base of 
JNM
*Comscore MMX Multi-Platform: February 2023
** Source: YT Analytics & Facebook Analytics, February 2023
To ensure a personalised, engaging, and safe 
experience for our users, we have heavily invested 
in technology. Additionally, we are protecting our 
digital expansion from cookie deprecation by 
implementing a Data Management Platform (DMP).
Our revenue monetisation strategy is built on 
four pillars: advertisement inventory revenue, 
syndication revenue, production house, and 
subscription revenue. We are making steady 
progress toward achieving our goals in each of 
these arenas.
Ranked
27
DIGITAL
Jagran Prakashan Limited
28
Key highlights of FY23
•	 Jagran New Media holds 8th rank in India and 
is the top-ranked entity among the top 10 in 16 
states.
•	 Diversified audience segment-based approach, 
along with Indic language expansion, is 
enhancing their reach.
•	 Google India published a case study on Jagran 
New Media's IT infrastructure migration, titled 
‘Jagran New Media: Leveraging Data to Grow 
Brand Love and Provide a Seamless News 
Experience for Readers.’
•	 Launched GujaratiJagran.com at a ceremony 
in Ahmedabad by the Chief Minister of Gujarat, 
Mr. Bhupendra Bhai Patel, and the website is 
ranked amongst the top 10* Gujarati websites 
within 5 months of launch.
•	 HerZindagi.com, entered the state of Tamil Nadu 
with the launch of HerzindagiTamil.
•	 Jagran.com introduced Jagran Prime, covering 
in-depth long-form format news reporting and 
successfully targeting factual and credible stories 
through a solution-first journalism approach. Also, 
forayed into a subscription model through Jagran 
Prime.
•	 Launched Jagran Business channel, which 
recently received the coveted YouTube Silver 
Play Button and crossed 1 Lakh subscribers.
•	 Jagran Play culminated in the biggest Esports 
tournament, which was streamed live for 75+ 
hours on multiple platforms, with 5K+ concurrent 
viewer traction, and total video views of 70M+.
•	 Launched mobile apps for GujaratiJagran.com, 
HerZindagi.com, and PWA for Onlymyhealth.com.
•	 Video presence has been consolidated, 
achieving 45 Million** video views in February 
2022.
•	 Vishvas.News’  flagship media literacy 
programme Sach Ke Sathi bagged the Silver in 
the ‘ Best Trust Initiative’  category at South Asian 
Digital Media Awards 2022 organized by World 
Association of News Publishers (WAN-IFRA).
•	 Her Zindagi's Mighty Hive Case Study won the 
IDMA Special Award 2022 in the “Most Effective 
Use of Digital Analytics”  category.
•	 Laadli Media and Advertising Awards for Gender 
Sensitivity 2022 was awarded to HerZindagi's 
writer Shruti Dixit.
29
Strengths that  
drive us
•	Our Newsroom 2.0 workflow enables 
us to assimilate and publish factual and 
credible information across our websites 
while strictly complying with Google 
Gold Standard for content (E-E-A-T - 
Experience, Expertise, Authoritativeness, 
and Trustworthiness). Over 95% of our 
content engagement is through digital-
first original content, which is backed by 
industry experts and diverse voices to 
increase credibility and authenticity.
•	We have an extensive portfolio of 
distinguished clients, and our commitment 
to maintaining a Brand Safe Environment 
ensures a steady revenue stream.
•	Our growing presence in new media 
platforms is enhancing our outreach.
•	We have introduced strong community 
programs to strengthen our audience 
connections.
•	We have implemented a Data 
Management Platform (DMP) to ensure a 
personalised and secure user experience.
•	Our People First culture focuses on 
ideation, innovation, and collaboration, 
ensuring a strong and dedicated team.
•	Our constant drive for excellence in 
technology, product, revenue, and content 
is well reflected in our case studies and 
awards.
•	We are committed to gender 
inclusiveness, with a focus on Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DEI). We also 
prioritise future-oriented talent, with 
the majority of our employees being 
Generation Z.
*Source: ComScore MMX, Multimedia Media 
Platform, February 2023 
**Source: YT Analytics, February 2023
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Digital
DIGITAL
News 
Jagran News holds 
an overall 4th rank 
and is among the 
top 5 in 11 states
Lifestyle  
HerZindagi.com holds 2nd rank 
overall and is at the top of the 
charts, securing No. 1 position in 
5 states, while also being among 
the top 10 in 12 states
Health 
OnlyMyHealth.
com holds 11th 
rank overall and is 
among the top 10 
in 8 states
Education
Jagranjosh.com holds 7th 
rank overall and is among 
the top 10 in 9 states
State-wise category ranking*
Jagran Prakashan Limited
30
State-wise ranking across category*
List of 16 States
News & 
Information- JNM 
Group
Newspaper -
Jagran News
Health -  
OnlyMyHealth
Lifestyle -  
HerZindagi
Education - 
JagranJosh
Overall India Rank
8
4
11
2
7
Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
8
5
11
3
6
Assam and North East  
(7 States)
10
5
6
33
16
Bihar
6
3
10
1
13
Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand
6
3
18
3
10
Delhi (NCR)
6
4
2
4
6
Gujarat
10
5
5
2
11
Himachal Pradesh and  
Uttarakhand
10
6
6
10
31
Karnataka
7
4
7
48
2
Kerala
8
4
NA
27
1
Madhya Pradesh
5
3
26
1
17
Maharashtra and Goa
10
7
20
13
8
Punjab and Haryana
6
3
13
1
6
Rajasthan
8
7
3
1
14
Tamil Nadu
10
6
15
7
3
Uttar Pradesh
6
5
9
1
14
West Bengal, Sikkim and 
Odisha
11
7
73
9
9
State-wise ranking (among top 10 publishers in 16 States)*
08
Andhra 
Pradesh 
and  
Telangana
08
Kerala
10
Assam and 
North East 
(7 States)
05
Madhya 
Pradesh
06
Bihar
10
Maharashtra 
and Goa
06
Chhattisgarh 
and 
Jharkhand
06
Punjab & 
Haryana
06
Delhi (NCR)
08
Rajasthan
10
Gujarat
10
Tamil Nadu
10
Himachal 
Pradesh 
and  
Uttarkhand
06
Uttar 
Pradesh
07
Karnataka
11
West  
Bengal, 
Sikkim and 
Odisha
*Source: ComScore MMX, Multimedia Media Platform, February 2023
 
India’s leading Hindi news and 
information website, which is designed 
to cater to a fast-growing digital society. 
Jagran.com caters to a user base of 
41.84 Million*.
 
 
India’s fastest-growing education 
website in the country with a user base 
of 19.15 Million* unique users.
 
 
A leading lifestyle and entertainment 
website catering to female readers, 
which has a user base of 23.92 Million* 
and growing.
 
English news portal covering news, 
politics, Science & Entertainment, 
specifically for readers looking 
for credible and unbiased news. 
Stories covered are varied across 
content categories like national, 
local, international, business, sports, 
entertainment, lifestyle and more. The 
site has reached a user base of 7.26 
Million*.
 
 
Digital platform for Punjab reaches 
specific audiences in their mother 
tongue. The site currently has a user 
base of 0.3 Million*.
A leading fact-checking website that 
increased prominence with fact-based, 
quality news; expanded operations in 
12 different languages in collaboration 
with World Health Organisation and 
Press Information Bureau, IFCN, 
Facebook, and Google New Initiative. 
Conducts its media literacy program 
‘Sach Ke Sathi’ to spread awareness 
against misinformation.
 
Online portal for youth offering news, 
views, technology, sports, fun and 
entertainment in a decidedly young 
language and a unique communication 
style. The site currently has a user base 
of 0.37 Million.*
 
A popular portal offering health 
information and medical updates on 
leading a healthy lifestyle. It currently 
has a user base of close to 7.42 
Million*.
 
One of its kind OTT platform offering 
in-depth feature video stories that 
inform, educate and help you in 
taking better life decisions. Along 
with the web portal www.jagrantv.
com, it is also available as an OTT 
app on Android TV, Jio App and 
Amazon fire stick. The site currently 
has a user base of 1.6 Million*.
 
A one-stop destination for gaming for 
casual games, trivia games, fantasy, 
rummy and poker, among others. The 
platform provides a great gaming 
experience across all genres.
 
A unique progressive web application 
that helps you search the news for 
your city on your mobile phone, Jagran 
Local reaches out to readers in 30+ 
cities across the country.
 
An audio platform offering audio 
entertainment from news to music 
to crime to horror catering to a user 
base of 7 Lakh listeners and growing.
 
A dedicated Hindi channel that 
provides news, reviews and much 
more from the world of auto and tech.
 
Inspired by Mumbai's Ethos, our 
audience primarily consists of 
Mumbaikars who presently reside in 
the city and across the nation, as well 
as the global Mumbai diaspora.
 
Gujarati news portal that offers a wide 
range of rich and exclusive content in 
the Gujarati language. Our coverage 
spans various content genres, including 
politics, business, entertainment 
(Dhollywood & Bollywood), food, 
lifestyle, places, culture, and more 
local content, catering to the diverse 
interests of our audience.
 
Urdu news portal which focuses 
on social reforms, education and 
employment.
 
Offering Entertainment via 17 web radio 
stations- Online Music, 10K+ Podcasts, 
enrich video content and Entertainment 
News giving the user to enjoy their 
favourite shows and exclusive digital 
content.
Hindi news portal in central India known 
for value-based, fearless, unbiased, 
trustworthy and articulate Hindi 
Journalism. The site enjoys a user base 
of 11 Million* (Hindi+English).
The go-to source of information and 
content in Gujarati language. The 
news site provides relevant, trusted, 
and credible national and local news 
updates, as well as exclusive content 
covering entertainment, markets, 
lifestyle, business sports, and so on.
*Source: ComScore MMX, Multimedia Media 
Platform, February 2023
31
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Digital
Jagran Prakashan Limited
32
DIGITAL
Expanding 
the world of 
new media 
In recent years, there has been 
significant growth in the usage of 
digital media in India, touching millions 
of lives on a daily basis. However, 
despite this growth, credibility and 
quality issues remain a significant 
concern among consumers, with 
traditional media companies' online 
content being preferred over digital-
only platforms. To address these 
concerns, we have utilised data-
driven insights to shape our digital 
content strategy and leveraged 
our longstanding reputation for 
trustworthiness to deliver compelling 
content and launched inspiring 
campaigns that celebrate the unique 
spirit of India.
Digital
33
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
#RokeNaRuke Campaign in 
Association with LinkedIn India
Dainik Jagran partnered with LinkedIn 
India for the #RokeNaRuke campaign, 
aimed at sparking conversations about 
ending bias against women in the 
workplace. The campaign featured 
four powerful videos with Vineeta 
Singh, CEO of Sugar Cosmetics; Sairee 
Chahal, Founder of Sheroes; Saria 
Nazneen, Talent Partner at Indeed.com; 
and Jasleen Kaur, Marketing Head of 
Benetton Group.
7 Lakh 
pageviews
The #RokeNaRuke campaign’s 
(in association with LinkedIn 
India) microsite on Jagran.com 
received over 7 Lakh pageviews, 
and the Facebook page had an 
engagement rate of 2.34%, higher 
than DJ's average engagement 
rate of 1.23% for the month.
Sach Ke Sathi 
Sach Ke Sathi is the flagship media-
literacy initiative by Vishvas.News, 
the fact-checking arm of Jagran New 
Media, has successfully completed six 
editions in its ongoing battle against 
misinformation. The program was 
launched in 2019 and has covered a 
wide range of topics, including Fact-
Checking and News Verification, Health 
Fact Check, Bihar Elections 2020, Yes 
for Vaccine, Assembly Elections 2022, 
and FactsUp: Check the Facts.
Vishvasnews.com conducted SKS 6 
Facts Up – touching the largest number 
of cities and sessions in any edition 
of Vishvas’s flagship media literacy 
programme Sach Ke Sathi so far, to 
build a robust community of fact-
checkers in India.
Herzindagi’s ‘75 Buland Hausle’ 
series
On the occasion of India's 75th 
Independence Day celebrating Azadi 
Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Herzindagi.com 
launched a campaign called ‘75 Buland 
Hausle’, which celebrated the lives 
and accomplishments of some of the 
most remarkable female achievers 
who refused to conform to societal 
norms and paved the way for future 
generations. Herzindagi paid tribute to 
the resilience and inspiring stories of 
these women by creating a dedicated 
microsite that showcased all 75 
exceptional stories.
HaqSe Series
HerZindagi launched the 'HaqSe' 
campaign, as part of its editorial 
programming aimed at reaching a wider 
female audience. This women-centric 
series provides a comprehensive 
discussion of women's rights and 
policies with the aim of creating a more 
equitable society and helping women 
lead empowered lives. The year-long 
campaign has been promoted across 
multiple channels to boost engagement 
and increase brand awareness.
Kare Yog, Rahein Nirog
On Yoga Day, Onlymyhealth launched 
a campaign called ‘Kare Yog, Rahein 
Nirog’ which featured a live yoga 
masterclass by Grand Master Akshar. 
The campaign received a great 
response from the audience.
Jagran Prime 
On the occasion of the 75th 
Independence Day, Jagran.com 
launched Jagran Prime, which offers 
in-depth, long-form news reporting 
focused on factual and credible 
stories using a solution-first journalism 
approach. With Jagran Prime, 
the website has also entered the 
subscription model.
Strengthening Fact-
Checking Mission
Vishvas.News, showcased 
a case study at Global Fact 
9, an event organised by the 
International Fact-Checking 
Network in Oslo. This event 
aimed to promote fact-
checking and media literacy 
around the world.
To bolster the fact-checking 
ecosystem and media literacy 
in India and South Asia, Meta 
and IAMAI collaborated 
to establish a fellowship 
program that brought 
together ten leading media 
organisations.  
Vishvasnews.com played a 
key role in training journalists 
from these top media houses, 
effectively creating a stronger 
army of fact-checkers.
Recognising excellence across 
the society  
WomenPreneur Awards
Herzindagi.com hosted the Womenpreneur Awards 
2023 to recognise female leaders and achievers who 
have created new possibilities/avenues for themselves 
and other women. The first edition of the awards 
was organised in collaboration with the Women 
Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP), a unified access 
platform by Niti Aayog, as Knowledge Partners under 
the leadership of Anna Roy, Senior Adviser at Niti 
Ayog. The winners were selected by a stellar jury after 
reviewing and assessing over 400 entries received 
online across 15 categories. A special microsite was 
created for the Womenpreneur Awards on Herzindagi.
com. The Chief Guest at the awards ceremony was 
Union Minister for Women & Child Development Smriti 
Irani, who delivered an inspiring fireside chat alongside 
Bharat Gupta, CEO of Jagran New Media. The event 
featured two-panel discussions centred around women 
in the entrepreneurial realm, followed by a scintillating 
award ceremony at The Oberoi, New Delhi.
Healthcare Heroes Conclave &  
Awards 2023 
An annual intellectual property (IP) event organised by 
Onlymyhealth.com to recognise and applaud healthcare 
heroes. The third edition of the awards was graced by 
Gurudev Sri Sri Ravi Shankar as the Chief Guest. The 
event celebrates health technology and well-being, and 
honours individuals and brands for their remarkable 
achievements in the field.
JagranJosh Education Summit &  
Awards 2023 
An event organised to celebrate excellence in the 
education sector. The third edition of the event had the 
Minister of State for Education, Dr. Subhas Sarkar and 
the Minister of State for Education & External Affairs, 
Dr. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, as Guests of Honour. These 
awards aim to acknowledge and applaud the efforts 
of educational leaders, teachers, and students who 
went beyond the mile and demonstrated excellence in 
education.
Jagran HiTech Awards 2022
An annual event that celebrates innovations in the mobile 
and mobility sectors. The event honours and celebrates 
the excellence of the best players in the tech and auto 
industry. The 4th edition of the Jagran HiTech Awards was 
graced by dignitaries such as General VK Singh, Minister 
of State of Road Transport and Highways and Ministry of 
Civil Aviation, and Bollywood actor Kunal Kapoor.
Naya Bharat Business Conclave &  
Awards 2022
An annual event that celebrates excellence in business 
for SMEs and MSME industries. The awards recognise 
and reward outstanding small and medium enterprises 
(SME) startups and enablers with a focus on celebrating 
the spirit of entrepreneurship. This was the third edition of 
the awards.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
34
DIGITAL
Digital
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Amplifying brand 
visibility 
Jagran Engage provides dedicated out-of-
home advertising services across India. Our 
comprehensive portfolio of solutions is designed 
to suit diverse client requirements. Our services 
include planning, creative adaptations, competitive 
landscape, data on traffic count, and post-
campaign results.
We are amongst the top 10 out-of-home 
companies in India and are a dominant 
player in the media-owning space 
having built up more than 3,000 units of 
media inventory across multiple cities. 
Our clients and brands can leverage 
the combined power of a wide array of 
media options – Print, Radio, Digital, 
Below-the-Line in addition to the above 
to derive the maximum synergies.
Core services
•	 Hoardings, billboards
•	 Bus shelters, railway stations
•	 Metro stations and Metro media
•	 LED panels/digital options
•	 Retail signages, in-shop and out-
shop branding
Key highlights of FY23
•	 Established a strong presence in 8 
states and 28 cities across India.
•	 Expanded our presence in Delhi NCR 
through the addition of new locations 
in Noida and Gurgaon.
•	 Developed digital media assets in 
both Prayagraj and Noida to enhance 
our marketing capabilities.
•	 Secured the tender for the DMRC 
line-2 civil structure from Samay Pur 
Badli to New Delhi Metro Station.
•	 Expanded our portfolio with the 
addition of 70 billboards in Mumbai.
•	 Acquired marketing rights for both 
the Dwarka Flyover and Lajpat Nagar 
Multilevel Parking in Delhi, to further 
expand our reach.
OUT-OF-HOME 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
36
Strengths that  
drive us
•	Strong presence in 27 
locations 
•	Web-based planning 
tool, simulators and CMS 
to cater to the client’s 
campaign objectives
•	Diligent research and a 
well-organised database
•	Real-time data analytics 
and monitoring
•	Campaigns we execute 
lead to a better return on 
investments (ROI) and 
efficient utilisation of media 
options
Providing experiential 
marketing solutions 
Jagran Solutions offers end-to-end and experiential below-the-line 
(BTL) marketing solutions by providing versatile, comprehensive, 
and measurable solutions to ensure an immersive, interactive, and 
experiential integrated marketing plan. We do it across activations, 
corporate events, conventions, product launches, meetings, 
conferences, exhibitions, and contests. 
We use an integrated approach that comprises on-ground, events, 
digital, public relations, print, radio, mobile, outdoor, consumer-
generated media and word-of-mouth, among others. We offer original, 
relevant, scalable and sustainable brand experiences.
Core services
•	 Brand activations
•	 Event management
•	 Creative services
•	 Shoppers and retail marketing
•	 Integrated media campaigns
•	 Public health programmes
•	 Rural marketing conferences and exhibitions
Key highlights of FY23
•	 Successfully executed over 1,000 activations.
•	 Planned and executed over 500 events.
•	 Expanded our clientele by enrolling 30 new 
accounts across Mumbai, Bangalore, and 
Uttar Pradesh.
ACTIVATION 
Out-of-home | Activation
37
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Strengths that  
drive us
•	Strong domain expertise
•	Presence across 7 cities, 
delivering pan-India 
solutions
•	Highly skilled marketing 
team
•	Offer impactful and 
engaging content
•	Organise customised 
activations/events for a 
wide range of clients across 
diverse sectors 
TRENDS IN OOH AND 
ACTIVATION 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
38
Looking at 
the bigger 
picture 
Out-of-Home and Activation 
advertising has been around 
for a long time, but with recent 
technological advancements and 
heightened consumer awareness, 
advertising strategies need to be 
reshaped. Modern consumers are 
much more informed and intelligent 
than they were three decades ago, 
and simply repeating a message 
to the average person is no longer 
a viable return on investment 
strategy. Digitally-integrated 
companies are better positioned 
to offer frictionless solutions 
across platforms.
39
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Here are some of the trends in the 
activation and OOH sphere that are 
gaining traction and are essential for 
marketers and advertisers to evaluate 
today:
Consistent increase in digital 
outdoor advertising
As with many other industries, the 
trend toward digital marketing is having 
a significant impact on the outdoor 
advertising sector. This is in line with 
consumer demand for high-quality 
visuals, with 4K resolution becoming 
increasingly commonplace. Digital 
technology can enhance outdoor 
advertising by providing vivid, colourful 
and attention-grabbing visuals that can 
engage viewers for extended periods 
of time.
Digital advertising and large billboards 
are expected to increase in the coming 
year due to cost-saving benefits and 
convenience. Digital screens are easy 
to move and can display multiple 
advertisements, providing greater 
control over the final results. Digital 
outdoor advertising offers flexibility 
to accommodate static and dynamic 
visuals. By effectively using digital 
technology, brands can create engaging 
campaigns that resonate with their 
target audience.
Embracing the power of 
storytelling
Storytelling is a powerful way to 
enhance retention and enable 
consumers to recall information easily. 
For brands, telling a compelling story 
that resonates with its audience can 
make a lasting impact if the ad is 
narrated effectively across outdoor and 
activation. Going forward, the trend 
of storytelling is predicted to become 
even more prevalent, with outdoor 
advertising using ads that reveal only a 
part of the story to create anticipation 
for the next one.
Growth in advertising 
opportunities
Recent technological advancements 
have expanded outdoor advertising 
opportunities beyond traditional 
billboards to include digital ads in public 
spaces such as airports, transport hubs, 
and playgrounds. Blank walls have 
also become a popular alternative for 
projecting advertisements. Outdoor 
advertising outside of airports is a 
significant contributor to this growth, 
with expectations for continued 
expansion in 2023 and beyond.
Advertisements with AI-powered 
predictive targeting
In the past, advertisements were limited 
to promoting products and services. 
However, in 2023, advertisements will 
be equipped with advanced features 
like sensors, facial recognition software, 
and other AI technologies to predict 
user profiles based on their interactions 
with the ads. This innovation will enable 
outdoor billboards to interact with 
their target audience, making outdoor 
advertising campaigns more engaging 
and immersive through the use of 
augmented reality and virtual reality. 
As a result, the ads will become more 
effective in reaching and resonating 
with the intended audience.
Integrating technology for 
enhanced customer experience
By integrating mobile and outdoor/
activation advertisements, brands 
can improve user experience through 
the use of technology. Sensors and 
beacons can instantly connect with 
customers' mobile devices, allowing for 
real-time data sharing and personalised 
interactions. This provides a convenient 
experience for customers while 
enabling brands to collect valuable and 
viable data for future campaigns.
Multi-channel integration 
Outdoor advertisements are getting 
integrated with social media and 
television, utilising motion capabilities 
in digital out-of-home advertising and 
scalable content to expand their reach. 
This integration ensures a consistent 
and coherent message across all 
mediums, creating a transparent 
communication platform between 
brands and their audiences. By 
integrating various channels, brands 
can effectively engage with their 
audience and provide a unified brand 
experience, leading to increased brand 
awareness and customer loyalty.
Targeted outdoor advertising for 
improved efficiency
In the past, out-of-home advertising 
used a broad approach to reach 
specific demographics, but this is no 
longer effective. In the future, outdoor 
advertising will focus on reaching 
target customers when they are most 
likely to engage with the brand. This 
is made possible by improved media 
measurement tools that provide 
brands with in-depth insights into their 
consumers, allowing them to analyse 
and leverage large quantities of data 
efficiently.
The emergence of art installation 
and pop-up stores
Outdoor events are becoming 
increasingly popular among consumers, 
and many individuals are drawn to 
unique and visually appealing art 
installations that they can capture and 
share on social media. With emphasis 
on beautiful and captivating content 
across social media platforms, a well-
designed art installation can generate 
buzz, spark conversations and increase 
engagement.
Pop-up stores can be a strategic tool 
for brands to drive online sales for their 
offline community. This approach works 
particularly well when the objective is to 
promote and raise awareness around a 
new product or service.
Out-of-home | Activation
12
Dainik Jagran
54
Radio City
08
Dainik Jagran Inext
03
Midday
03
Jagran New Media
03 
Jagran Solutions
02 
Jagran Production
01 
Nai Dunia
09 
Jagran IT Team
Jagran Prakashan Limited
40
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES 
Winning 
Moments
During the year, we bagged several awards that celebrate our 
innumerable achievements.
41
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Chairman and Managing Director
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Whole-time Director
Sanjay Gupta
Shailesh Gupta
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Sandeep Gupta (w.e.f. May 30, 2022)
Satish Chandra Mishra
Director
Anuj Puri
Devendra Mohan Gupta
Dilip Cherian
Divya Karani
Jayant Davar
Ravi Sardana
Shailendra Mohan Gupta
Shailendra Swarup
Shashidhar Sinha
Vijay Tandon
Vikram Sakhuja
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER,  
COMPANY SECRETARY & COMPLIANCE OFFICER
Amit Jaiswal 
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Ravi Sardana, Chairman
Shailendra Mohan Gupta
Vijay Tandon
Vikram Sakhuja
Shailendra Swarup (w.e.f. May 30, 2022)
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Vijay Tandon, Chairman
Jayant Davar
Shailendra Swarup
Shashidhar Sinha (w.e.f. May 30, 2022)
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
Ravi Sardana, Chairman
Sanjay Gupta
Sunil Gupta
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
Mahendra Mohan Gupta, Chairman
Sanjay Gupta
Vikram Sakhuja
REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENTS
KFin Technologies Limited
(earlier: KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Selenium Building, Tower-B,
Plot No 31 & 32,Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana, India - 500 032.
P: WhatsApp Number: +91 910 009 4099 
Toll Free No: 1800 309 4001
KPRISM (Mobile Application): https://kprism.kfintech.com/
KFINTECH Corporate Website: www.kfintech.com
RTA Website: ris.kfintech.com
Investor Support Centre (DIY Link):  
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc
Mail Id: einward.ris@kfintech.com
STATUTORY AUDITORS
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants
LLP (FRN: 012754N/N500016)
Building No. 8, 8th Floor, Tower - B, 
DLF Cyber City, Gurugram - 122 002
INTERNAL AUDITORS
Ernst & Young LLP
Golf View Corporate Towers B,
Sector 42, Sector Road, Gurgaon 122 001
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS
Adesh Tandon & Associates
811, 8th Floor, Kan Chambers,
14/113, Civil Lines, Kanpur - 208 001, Uttar Pradesh
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY
Central Bank of India
Yes Bank Limited
Axis Bank Limited
Deutsche Bank
REGISTERED OFFICE
Jagran Building
2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur - 208 005
Tel. No.: 0512-2216161
CIN: L22219UP1975PLC004147
Website: www.jplcorp.in
Awards and accolades | Corporate information
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURE
I.	
Details of the Listed Entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company
L22219UP1975PLC004147
2
Name of the Company
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
3
Year of incorporation
1975
4
Registered office address
Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh, India- 208005
5
Corporate office address
Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh, India- 208005
6
E-mail ID
jpl@jagran.com; investor@jagran.com
7
Telephone
0512-2216161
8
Website
www.jplcorp.in
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2022-23
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed BSE Limited & National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11
Paid-up Capital
`4353.09 Lakhs
12
Name and contact details of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
Name of the Person
Mr. Amit Jaiswal,  
Chief Financial Officer & Company Secretary
Telephone
0512-2216161
Email address
investor@jagran.com
13
Reporting Boundary
Type of Reporting (Standalone / Consolidated)
Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis
II.	
Product/Services:
14
Details of 
business activities 
(accounting for 90% 
of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Description of Main 
Activity
Description of Business Activity
% Turnover of 
the Entity
1
Newspaper and 
magazine
Sale of newspaper in Hindi , Punjabi and Urdu 
languages and sale of Hindi magazine, Sakhi
22.8
2
Advertisement 
revenue
Publication and sale of advertisement space in 
Hindi, Punjabi and Urdu language newspapers and 
Sakhi magazine including digital advertisement
65.3
3
Outdoor 
Advertising
Display of advertisement through Hoarding, 
billboard, glow sign, Bus shelters, railway stations, 
Led panels and branding
6.3
4
Event management
Brand activation, event management, creative 
service public health program etc.
3.6
5
Others
Printing Job and scrap sales
2.0
Total
100.0
15
Products/Services 
sold by the Company
(accounting for 
90% of the entity’s 
Turnover)
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of Total 
Turnover 
contributed
1
Publishing of newspaper
58131
22.8
2
Advertisement revenue
74300
61.3
3
Digital advertisement revenue
51396, 74300
4.0
4
Outdoor Advertising
74300
6.3
5
Event management
74130, 92413
3.6
6
Others
51396
2.0
Total
100.0
Jagran Prakashan Limited
42
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
III. 	 Operations
16
Number of locations 
where plants and/
or operations/offices 
of the entity are 
situated: 
Location
Number of printing 
facilities
No. of Offices
Total
National
32 *
9 **
41
International
-
-
-
* For further details, please refer to the Report on Corporate Governance, forming part of the Annual Report.
** Only business offices located in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Mumbai, Jaipur, Chennai and Kolkata are considered.
17
Market served by the entity
Locations
Numbers
a.	 	 No. of Locations
National (No. of States)
Pan-India
International (No. of Countries)
Digital division of Jagran Prakashan 
Limited operates websites which are 
accessible on a global level.
b.	 	 What is the contribution of 
exports as a percentage of the 
total turnover of the entity?
Contribution of export is 1.75% of total turnover for FY 22-23
c.	 	 A brief on type of Customers
Jagran Prakashan Limited is a leading media group with interests spanning 
across print (newspapers and magazines), digital, outdoor advertising and 
promotional marketing, event management and activation. 
The customer base includes but is not limited to: individual customers, corporate 
customers, educational organisations, government organisations, non-
government organisations, agencies, etc.
IV. 	 Employees
	
18.	 Details as at the end of financial year 2022-23:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
a.	
Employees (including differently abled)
Employees
1. Permanent (A)
4,092
3,901
95.33%
191
4.67%
2. Other than Permanent (B)
1,441
1,396
96.88%
45
3.12%
3. Total (A+B)
5,533
5,297
95.73%
236
4.27%
b.	
Workers (including differently abled):
Workers
1. Permanent (E)
694
693
99.86%
1
0.14%
2. Other than Permanent (F)
18
18
100.00%
0
0.00%
3. Total (E+F)
712
711
99.86%
1
0.14%
c.	
Differently abled Employees	
Employees
1. Permanent 
6
6
100.00%
0
-
2. Other than Permanent
2
2
100.00%
0
-
3. Total 
8
8
100.00%
0
-
d.	
 Differently abled Workers:
Workers
1. Permanent
1
1
100.00%
0
-
2. Other than Permanent
0
0
-
0
-
3. Total
1
1
100.00%
0
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
43
Annual Report   2022-23
	
19.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
S. 
No.
Category
Total (A)
No. and % of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
1
Board of Directors
18
1
5.56%
2
Key Management Personnel *
8
-
-
* Includes Chairman and Managing Director, Whole-time Directors, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary as defined under 
Section 203 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013
	
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Category
FY 2022-23  
(Turnover rate in current FY)
FY 2021-22  
(Turnover rate in current FY)
FY 2020-21  
(Turnover rate in current FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
12.1%
24.1%
12.7%
12.6%
23.6%
13.1%
17.5%
27.1%
18.0%
Permanent Workers
5.7%
0.0%
5.7%
4.4%
0.0%
4.4%
11.7%
50.0%
11.8%
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21
(a) Names of holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint 
ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether 
it is a Holding / 
Subsidiary / 
Associate / or 
Joint Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate 
in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of 
the listed entity? (Yes/No) 
1.
Jagran Media Network 
Investment Private Limited
Holding 
Company
67.97%
No
2.
Midday Infomedia Limited
Subsidiary 
Company
100.0%
No
3.
Music Broadcast Limited
Subsidiary 
Company
74.05%
No
4.
Leet OOH Media Private 
Limited
Associate 
Company
48.84%
No
5.
X-Pert Publicity Private 
Limited
Associate 
Company
39.2%
No
6.
MMI Online Limited
Associate 
Company
44.92%
No
VI. 	 CSR Details:
22
a. Whether CSR is applicable as per the provision of Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: *
Yes
Turnover (in `)
1,59,390.34 Lakhs
Net worth (in `)
1,36,146.45 Lakhs
	
 *For further details on CSR activities, you may refer the Board’s Report, forming part of the Annual Report.
VII. 	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
Being a leading media conglomerate, the Company adheres to highest level of ethical practices. The Code of Conduct 
and Ethics that is approved by the Board of Directors is applicable to all Directors and Senior Management Personnel. The 
Company has policies relating to Human Resources and Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), which promote a free 
working environment for employees and provide a mechanism for raising concerns and resolution of disputes. The Company 
also has in place a Supplier / Vendor Code. Additionally, certain business units also have their own Code of Conduct that 
reflect the needs and demands of their area of work and are applicable to all employees.
Some of the policies guiding the Company’s relations with its stakeholders, including grievance mechanisms are placed 
on the corporate website of the Company at: https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.aspx?CID=14. The other policies are placed on 
the intranet of the Company.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
44
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
23
Complaints/
Grievances on any 
of the principles 
(Principles 1 to 9) 
under the National 
Guidelines on 
Responsible 
Business Conduct
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No) If 
Yes, then provide web-link for 
grievance redress policy
FY 2022-23
Current Financial Year
FY 2021-22
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints filed 
during the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints filed 
during the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes. Direct interaction with 
communities during CSR 
activities and other social & 
awareness programs
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes. Shareholders may 
register their complaints / 
grievances / concerns either 
directly with the Company 
or they may approach the 
Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company, KFin 
Technologies Limited.
Other investors may also 
contact the Company or 
they may approach the 
Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company, KFin 
Technologies Limited.
The contact details are 
mentioned on the Company’s 
website at https://jplcorp.in/
new/Pages.aspx?PID=21
66
Nil
All complaints 
were duly 
resolved. For 
further details, 
refer Report 
on Corporate 
Governance.
84
Nil
All complaints 
were duly 
resolved. For 
further details, 
refer Report 
on Corporate 
Governance for 
FY 21-22
Shareholders
Employees and 
workers
Yes. For safeguarding the 
interests of employees and 
workers, grievance redressal 
mechanism is detailed in the 
POSH Policy (which can be 
accessed on the intranet of 
the Company) and the Vigil 
Mechanism / Whistle Blower 
Policy of the Company, 
(which can be accessed at 
https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.
aspx?CID=14).
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
45
Annual Report   2022-23
23
Complaints/
Grievances on any 
of the principles 
(Principles 1 to 9) 
under the National 
Guidelines on 
Responsible 
Business Conduct
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place (Yes/No) If 
Yes, then provide web-link for 
grievance redress policy
FY 2022-23
Current Financial Year
FY 2021-22
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints filed 
during the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints filed 
during the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the year
Remarks
Customers
Yes. In addition to the 
Sales Feedback Form 
for our printing business, 
customers have the option of 
approaching different officials 
of the Company on the 
contact details mentioned on 
our website at https://jplcorp.
in/new/Contact_Us.aspx.
Additionally, customers may 
also approach the officials 
of the Company on the 
contact details mentioned 
on the various digital portals 
maintained by the Company.
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Value Chain 
Partners 
Yes. Value Chain Partners 
may register their complaints 
/ grievances / concerns 
directly with the head of 
the concerned department 
of the Company. Further, a 
dedicated email ID is also 
provided on the vendor 
purchase order for reaching 
out to the Company.
Nil
Nil
NA
Nil
Nil
NA
Other (please 
specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Jagran Prakashan Limited
46
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
24.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate 
the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Material Issue 
Identified 
(High priority 
material issues 
are listed 
below)
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
1
Human Rights
Risk
Instances of human rights 
violation or non-compliance 
of statutory norms can lead to 
adverse financial and reputational 
implications
i. 	 Comprehensive policies and 
procedures such as Code of 
Business Conduct, Whistle Blower 
Policy and POSH policy to foster a 
culture of trust, in place.
ii. 	 Mechanism in place to avoid 
workforce discrimination, sexual 
harassment and provide free 
& fair working environment for 
employees.
Negative
2
Intellectual 
Property / 
Cyber Security 
- Theft of the 
Company’s 
content 
including digital 
piracy. 
Risk
The Company’s success depends 
in part on its ability to maintain, 
enforce and monetize the 
intellectual property rights in its 
original and acquired content, and 
theft of its brands, digital content 
and other intellectual property 
affects the value of its content. 
Developments in technology, 
including the wide availability of 
higher internet bandwidth and 
reduced storage costs, increase 
the threat of content piracy 
by making it easier to stream, 
duplicate and widely distribute 
pirated material.
i. 	 The Company seeks to limit 
the threat of content piracy by, 
among other means, preventing 
unauthorized access to its content 
using content encryption and other 
security access devices, as well as 
by obtaining site blocking orders 
against pirate streaming and a 
variety of other actions.
ii. 	 However, piracy is difficult to 
monitor and prevent and these 
efforts may be costly and are not 
always successful, particularly as 
infringers continue to develop tools 
that undermine security features 
and enable them to disguise their 
identities online.
Negative
3
Increase in 
likelihood of 
climate-related 
physical 
hazards
Risk
There is an expected increase 
in the likelihood of extreme 
weather events and chronic 
climate anomalies in the future. 
Hazards related to climate 
change (including heat stress, 
water scarcity, flooding, storm 
surges, wildfire etc.) could impact 
operations across the publishing 
value chain, from pre-press, to 
suppliers, to distribution, and to 
retail. 
i. 	 Build resilience in production by 
identifying multiple suppliers and 
supplier regions.
ii. 	 Develop a business continuity and 
disaster management plan.
iii. 	Identify opportunities to increase 
online marketing to mitigate 
impacts from the shift to online 
media.
Negative
4
Human Capital
Risk
The Company’s businesses 
depend upon the continued 
efforts, abilities and expertise 
of its corporate and divisional 
executive teams and other highly 
qualified employees who possess 
substantial business, technical 
and operational knowledge. The 
market for highly skilled personnel 
is very competitive, and the 
Company cannot ensure that it will 
be successful in retaining these 
employees or hiring and training 
suitable additions or replacements 
without significant costs or delays.
i. 	 Providing meaningful and 
challenging roles which enrich 
individual capability and act as a 
powerful incentive to stay, learn 
and grow.
ii. 	 Building a robust talent pipeline 
across responsibility levels through 
requisite quality in key roles.
iii. 	Maintaining fair wages basis 
performance/appraisal or industry 
standard & applicable code.
iv. 	The company tries to maintain 
an employee friendly work 
environment.
Negative
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
47
Annual Report   2022-23
S. 
No.
Material Issue 
Identified 
(High priority 
material issues 
are listed 
below)
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
5
Business, 
Ethics, 
Governance 
and 
Transparency
Risk & 
Opportunity
Building a culture of integrity 
and transparency is linked with 
fulfillment of mandates as well as 
strengthening relationships with 
stakeholders
i. 	 Development of Code of Conduct 
and whistle blower policy for its 
employees, vendors and channel 
partners.
ii. 	 Mechanism in place to avoid 
workforce discrimination, sexual 
harassment and provide free 
& fair working environment for 
employees.
Negative & 
Positive
6
Digital 
advertising 
market changes
Risk & 
Opportunity
JPL relies on digital advertising as 
a key source of revenue. Content 
and information shown should be 
as per need and requirement to 
drive engagement and optimal 
performance as users have 
optimum advertising opportunities.
The company’s ability to compete 
for a share of available advertising 
expenditures will be challenged 
as more traditional offline and 
emerging media companies 
continue to enter the online 
advertising market.
i. 	 JPL's Digital business is an integral 
part of our future growth strategy.
ii. 	 The company has forged alliances 
with global tech giants which have 
given our digital products a distinct 
edge.
iii. 	The company has data-backed 
strategy and prudent investments 
policies in the digital business, 
which have been a key 
differentiator.
Negative & 
Positive
7
Community 
Engagement
Opportunity
Aligning awareness campaigns 
and CSR initiatives with the needs 
of the community to create a 
positive impact which can unlock 
goodwill and social license to 
operate
Being a leading media Company, JPL 
recognizes its responsibilities towards 
its readers and citizens of the country. 
The company has undertaken several 
voluntary awareness campaigns for 
overall development of the community 
in field of environment conservation, 
women empowerment, poverty 
eradication, managing population, 
water conservation, educated society 
and healthy society. JPL is promoting 
education by way of contribution to 
Shri Puran Chandra Gupta Smarak 
Trust for establishment, expansion, 
administration and maintenance of 
academic institutions.
Positive
Notes:
	
1.	
For the major business risks identified, please refer to the section titled ‘Risks and Concerns’ in the Report on 
Management Discussion and Analysis, forming part of the Annual Report.
	
2.	
The material issues are identified based on peer benchmarking data and globally recognized ESG (Environmental, 
Social, and Governance) ratings and framework. Going forward, stakeholder consultation will be conducted to derive 
the material topics and set its priority.
	
3.	
The ESG risks and opportunities are evaluated for high impact material issues and the company will undertake the 
process of integration ESG R&O with ERM framework.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
48
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and Management Processes
1
a. 	Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b. 	Has the policy been approved by 
the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
c. 	Web Link of the Policies, if available
Some of our policies are available at https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.aspx?CID=14. 
Other internal policies are placed on the intranet of the Company and are open to 
access by the relevant stakeholders.
2
Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
The Company has translated the policies and incorporated the 9 principles in its 
processes and procedures, as applicable.
3
Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)
The Company's documented Supplier's / Vendor's Code of Conduct largely 
covers the mentioned principles, and the Company expects its suppliers/vendors 
to follow the same.
4
Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ standards 
(e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, 
ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and 
mapped to each principle.
ISO: 9001:2015 for printing facility and registered office situated in Kanpur.
5
Specific commitments, goals and 
targets set by the entity with defined 
timelines, if any.
Through its newspapers, the Company works on awakening the readers on social 
values and at the core of its editorial philosophy are 7 principles. These 7 principles 
or as JPL calls them ‘Saat Sarokaar’ are at the core of our philosophy and are 
intrinsically linked to the real progress of our nation. These seven principles are:
• 	 Poverty Eradication: End poverty in all its form everywhere. End hunger, food 
security, improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
• 	 Healthy Society: Ensure Healthy lives and promote well-being for all.
• 	 Educated Society: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and 
promote lifelong learning opportunities for all
• 	 Women Empowerment: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and 
girls.
• 	 Environment Conservation: Take urgent action to combat climate change 
and its impacts. Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and 
reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss. Ensure access to affordable, 
reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all.
• 	 Water Conservation: Ensure access to clean drinking water and sanitation for 
all.
• 	 Population Management: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 
employment and decent work for all.
The Company has created an ESG roadmap along with a governance framework 
to integrate environment, social and governance practices into our business 
model and thus ensuring sustainability in our ways of doing business.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
49
Annual Report   2022-23
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and Management Processes
6
Performance of the entity against 
the specific commitments, goals and 
targets along-with reasons in case the 
same are not met.
Being a leading media Company, JPL recognizes its responsibilities towards 
its readers and citizens of the country. We consciously leverage our extensive 
reach in both rural and urban demographics to sensitize the public at large, 
about the various issues and concerns that pervade our country. Every day, JPL 
delivers enriching and empowering content to its readers in line with its Saat 
Sarokaar. This ranges from a daily column on health and wellbeing, to youth-
centric supplement focusing on providing them with access to job opportunities 
and to content catering specifically to the needs of women readers. 
Beyond the content, the Company also leverages its massive reach to organize 
initiatives that have the potential to mobilize citizens from all walks of life and 
generate ground-level impact. The details of the initiatives undertaken during 
the year are provided elsewhere in the report.
The Company has been working on climate change issues by improving its 
process efficiency and taking initiatives in energy efficiency. For instance, the 
Company started using ‘Vio-Green Plate Technology’ (waterless chemistry) 
to save water, installed various water harvesting structures, star rated energy 
efficient air conditioners, solar panels (Kanpur plant) and LED lights to save & 
conserve energy.
Through daily publications and editorial content weaved around these themes, 
the Company endeavors to empower and enable its readers to become more 
aware about environmental challenges and potentially play a role in solving 
these issues
For various initiatives undertaken by the Company in the reporting year, please 
refer response to Leadership Question 6 of Principle 8.
Governance, Leadership and Oversight
7
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements
In our rapidly changing world, ESG is gaining prominence as a guiding principle for responsible business practices. As a 
Company, we embrace this framework, recognizing our responsibility to protect the environment, uplift communities, and 
uphold strong governance standards. By integrating ESG into our operations, we strive to create sustainable value for all 
stakeholders, which can contribute to long-term value creation and stakeholder trust.
The Company's focus on ESG parameters is best reflected through its work on awakening the readers on social values 
and at the core of its editorial philosophy are 7 principles (called Saat Sarokaar) viz. Poverty Eradication, Healthy Society, 
Educated Society, Women Empowerment, Environment Conservation, Water Conservation and Population Management.
In consultation with firm of international repute, we have created an ESG roadmap with quick, medium and long-term actions 
along with a governance framework to integrate environment, social and governance practices into our business model 
and thus ensuring sustainability in our ways of doing business.
We engaged in discussion with some of our stakeholders to identify key ESG issues and have identified Community 
Engagement, Promoting Reading Culture, Digitalization, Diversity & Inclusion, Business Ethics & Compliance, Climate 
Change, Creating Social Impacts through Content and Training & Development as few of the most important issues.
Please refer the details of initiatives undertaken by the company such as Saat Sarokaar, building responsible corporate 
citizen and CSR activity details provided elsewhere in the report.
8
Details of the highest authority 
responsible for implementation 
and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy (ies).
Mr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director (DIN 00020451)
9
Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). 
If yes, provide details.
The Company's business responsibility and sustainability performance is 
reviewed by the Board annually. 
Further, the Board has identified Mr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta, the Chairman 
and Managing Director of the Company (DIN 00020451) to oversee the ESG 
framework of the Company.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
50
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other – please specify)
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
Policies, wherever stated, have been approved by the Board / functional heads. Polices 
are reviewed at periodic intervals depending on the statutory requirements or on need 
basis.
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance to the 
principles, and, rectification of any 
non-compliances
The Company is in compliance with all the statutory laws and regulations as applicable. 
In consultation with a professional agency of international repute, the Company has set 
up an electronic compliance tool for monitoring and strengthening compliance with the 
applicable laws. The tool is updated regularly for amendments / modifications in applicable 
laws from time to time. This has contributed in strengthening the compliances at all levels 
under supervision of the Compliance Officer.
Further, in compliance with the provisions of Section 138 of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rules made thereunder, the Internal Auditors of the Company review the functions 
and activities of the Company and present their report on a half-yearly basis to the Audit 
Committee of the Board of the Company. 
11. 	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Policies, wherever stated, have been approved by the Board 
/ functional heads. Polices are reviewed at periodic intervals 
depending on the statutory requirements or on need basis.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
Not applicable since the policies and procedures of the 
Company cover all principles of NGRBCs
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
51
Annual Report   2022-23
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/principles covered under the training and its impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of 
Directors
1
During the reporting year, the company conducted an orientation and 
familiarization program for its Board of Directors and KMPs, comprising 
of matters including key regulatory changes in the corporate laws in 
India covering the amendments in SEBI regulations 2022, Companies 
Act 2013 and SEBI consultation paper. The details of familiarization 
program are posted on the Company’s website at https://jplcorp.in/
new/Reports.aspx?CID=26.
Further, a note on business review and a presentation on the business 
developments and financial performance of the Company are presented 
to the Board on a quarterly basis, to keep them apprised of the latest 
developments.
The Statutory Auditors of the Company also showcase a presentation 
covering the latest legal updates to the Audit Committee.
100%
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
Employees 
other than 
BODs and 
KMPs
299
The Company recognizes the importance of trainings and organizes 
various training sessions to facilitate safety and skill upgradation 
among employees. Various trainings undertaken by the company 
during the reporting year includes BI concepts, POSH test, ADF 
Training, Production review meeting, Fire safety & evacuation drill etc. 
Other trainings include orientation and induction program for new 
recruits.
5%
Workers 
(Non-
Permanent)
The Company recognizes the importance of trainings and organizes various training sessions to facilitate 
safety and skill upgradation among workers. However, the trainings conducted for workers are not being 
tracked currently but are considering tracking the workers data as well in future.
Note:
The tracking and record maintenance of employee attendance in trainings was initiated from Jan-23. Hence, the above-
mentioned training count is for 3 months only (Jan to Mar 2023). Prior to that, trainings were conducted at regular intervals, 
however, the same were not tracked.
2.	
Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format.
a. Monetary
Type
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (In `)
Brief of the case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding fee
b. Non-Monetary
Type
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the 
case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding fee
Jagran Prakashan Limited
52
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not applicable
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethics and is backed by informed and independent Board 
and Senior Management. These values are embedded in Company’s core and have stood test of time since inception. The 
Company has a Code of Conduct and Ethics that is approved by the Board of Directors and is applicable to all Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel. Additionally, certain business units also have their own Code of Conduct that reflect 
the needs and demands of their area of work and are applicable to all employees. Further, the Company has documented 
Editorial Code covering aspects like independent / unbiased reporting and robust Vigil Mechanism / Whistle-Blower Policy. 
The Company has also documented Supplier / Vendor Code of Conduct applicable to suppliers and follows zero tolerance on 
any acts of bribery, corruption etc. by such agencies during their dealings with the Company and or with any of its employees. 
Some of our codes / policies are available at https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.aspx?CID=14. Other internal policies are placed 
on the intranet of the Company and are open to access by the pertinent stakeholders.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
Category
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Category
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of KMPs
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of training and 
awareness programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the 
training and its impact
% age of persons in value chain covered by 
the awareness programmes
The Company’s value chain partners have access to the Company’s documented Supplier / Vendor Code of Conduct. The 
Company intends to conduct awareness sessions on the pertinent Principles with respective vendors.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/
No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, the Company has processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board.
The Company has a Code of Conduct and Ethics that is approved by the Board of Directors and is applicable to all Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel. The Directors and Senior Management provide an annual affirmation that they have 
complied with the Code of Conduct and that there were no instances of non-compliance with the said code. In addition to 
the above, the Directors also disclose their interests in Form MBP-1 in accordance with the provisions of section 184 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. Pursuant to the provisions of the said section, the aforesaid confirmation is duly taken note of by the 
Board every year in the first Board meeting of the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
53
Annual Report   2022-23
Further, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Rules framed thereunder and Schedules 
thereto, and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, each as amended from time to 
time, Directors do not participate in discussions on those agenda items in which they are interested, at the meetings of the 
Board and its committees. Further, the Board’s Audit Committee consists of only independent directors, and almost all the 
other committees constituted by the Board have majority independent directors, to promote transparency and accountability.
The Company also has in place a Related Party Transaction Policy, which is framed to ensure the proper approval and 
reporting of transactions between the Company and its Related Parties.
The abovementioned Code and Policy can be accessed at: https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.aspx?CID=14.
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Type
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Details of improvement in 
social and environmental 
aspects
Research & Development (R&D)
Since the raw materials required for newspaper production are sourced externally 
from vendors, there is no R&D investment translated in the same. However, we are 
conducting regular discussions with vendors to understand latest technological 
advancement and environmental concerns related to newsprint. The cost associated 
with such discussions is minimal.
Capital Expenditure (CAPEX)
JPL has taken several initiatives across operations in areas related to energy 
efficiency, emissions management, and water management. The Company has 
invested 2% of the total CAPEX in Solar panel and ETP installation in the reporting year 
and has been working on climate change issues by improving its process efficiency 
and taking initiatives in energy efficiency. For instance, the Company started using 
‘Vio-Green Plate Technology’ (waterless chemistry) to save water, installed various 
water harvesting structures, star rated energy efficient air conditioners, solar panels 
(Kanpur plant) and LED lights to save energy. In order to efficiently utilize the limited 
resources, the Company has deployed operational control measures to control the 
wastage and set wastage norms for each plant. Plant wise actual wastage is closely 
monitored to ensure that wastage is within permissible limits. Also, the company 
has set up ETP (Effluent Treatment Plant) for treating and reusing wastewater for 
non-potable uses like gardening, cleaning, in flush system etc. While the Company 
endeavours to deliver other waste materials to the vendors who sells the waste to 
recyclers, it does not do recycling itself.
2.	
a. 	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
As a part our sustainable sourcing initiative, we aim to assess the vendors on various parameters which include 
environmental, social and ethical areas. We are in the process of defining the supplier code of conduct for sustainable 
sourcing to ensure that vendors provide their confirmations to our parameters on a periodical basis. Separately, we 
aim to include these parameters at the time of vendor selection and on-boarding as an additional control measure.
In supplier selection criteria, local sourcing is considered as an essential criterion.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Considering the purchase of low penetration inks and vio-green plates, the Company is sustainably sourcing 100% of 
these key inputs.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, 
for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Given the nature of the business, the Company has a limited scope to use recycled material as processed inputs other than 
paper. As part of production wastage, paper/newsprint is not recycled by us since it is directly purchased from vendor, and 
the finished product is delivered to the end user. Newsprint is imported as well as purchased from Indian companies. Indian 
manufacturers account for 66.42 % of the total newsprint purchased, which is mostly recycled newsprint.
	
Minimal quantity of e-waste has been generated in the reporting year and the company has engaged with certified 3rd party 
government approved e-waste handler to safely dispose off the generated e-waste.
In addition to above waste disposal practices, to efficiently utilize the limited resources, the Company has deployed 
operational control measures to control the wastage and set wastage norms for each plant. Plant wise actual wastage is 
closely monitored to ensure that wastage is within permissible limits.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
54
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
Nil
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, 
briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
The Company is primarily engaged in the business of printing & publication of newspapers and magazines. The LCA of these 
business activities is not considered material to the Company at this stage. The environmental and social impacts shall be 
identified once LCA is conducted of our products.
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
As explained elsewhere in this report, the Company endeavors to deliver waste materials (which cannot be re-used or 
recycled internally) to the vendors who sells the waste to recyclers. JPL ventures to re-use the wastepaper generated 
during production activity in the form of writing pads along with paper packaging to reduce the quantity of waste delivered 
to the vendors.
As part of production wastage, paper/newsprint is not recycled by us since it is directly purchased from vendor, and the 
finished product is delivered to the end user. Newsprint is imported as well as purchased from Indian companies. Indian 
manufacturers account for a higher percentage share of the total newsprint purchased, which is recycled newsprint.
Indicate Input Material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Newsprint
66.42 % of the total 
newsprint purchased was 
100% recycled newsprint
68.8 % of the total 
newsprint purchased was 
100% recycled newsprint 
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and 
safely disposed, as per the following format:
Category
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
Please refer to response given in question 3 of Principle 2.
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products 
sold in respective category
Please refer to response given in question 3 of Principle 2.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
55
Annual Report   2022-23
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a. 	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
Total (A)
Health & Accident 
Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
Number 
(E)
% (E / A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
Permanent
Male
3901
1087
27.8%
N/A
-
3901
100.0%
N/A
N/A
Female
191
56
29.3%
191
100.0%
N/A
-
N/A
N/A
Total
4092
1143
27.9%
191
100.0%
3901
100.0%
N/A
N/A
Other than Permanent (Non-Permanent)
Male
1396
298
21.35%
N/A
-
1396
100.0%
N/A
N/A
Female
45
20
44.44%
45
100.0%
N/A
-
N/A
N/A
Total
1441
318
22.07%
45
100.0%
1396
100.0%
N/A
N/A
	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
Total (A)
Health & Accident 
Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Number 
(C)
% (C / A)
No.
%
Number 
(B)
% (B / A)
Permanent
Male
693
269
38.8%
N/A
-
693
100.0%
N/A
N/A
Female
1
1
100.0%
1
100.0%
N/A
-
N/A
N/A
Total
694
270
38.9%
1
100.0%
693
100.0%
N/A
N/A
Other than Permanent (Non-Permanent)
Male
18
4
22.22%
N/A
-
18
100.00%
N/A
N/A
Female
0
0
-
N/A
-
N/A
-
-
-
Total
18
4
22.22%
N/A
-
18
100.00%
N/A
N/A
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year:
S. 
No.
Benefits
FY 2022-23 (Current FY)
FY 2021-22 (Previous FY)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
worker
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total worker
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
1
PF
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
2
Gratuity
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
3
ESI *
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
4
Others – please 
specify
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
Note:
	
 * Applicable for employees and workers who are covered under the applicable provisions of Employee State Insurance Act, 1948.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and 
workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are 
being taken by the entity in this regard.
Most of the Company’s offices and buildings are accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Additionally, they have taken measures to ensure that the 
workplace for these individuals is located on the ground floor and has appropriate entrances and exits
Jagran Prakashan Limited
56
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
Jagran family comprises of talented and inspired professionals who contribute towards Company’s vision and success. 
The Company recognizes that the success of Company’s business, quality of work and brand perception depends on 
the ability and commitment of its employees. Further, the Company attempts to provide safe, fair and discrimination free 
work environment. The Company adheres to highest level of ethical practices as articulated by its Code of Conduct. The 
Company values contribution of each stakeholder and provides thriving work environment to employees to work together 
and succeed. The Company has policies relating to Human Resources and Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), which 
promote a free, fair and discrimination free working environment for employees. The Code of Conduct can be accessed at 
https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.aspx?CID=14, while the POSH Policy is available on the intranet of the Company.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
98%
100%
100%
Female
100%
-
-
-
Total
100%
 98%
100%
100%
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
At JPL, we are committed to provide a safe, conducive and an enabling work environment to our employees and workers. A 
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle-blower Policy has been formed for the Directors and employees to report their genuine concerns 
or grievances. The employees and workers can raise their concerns or grievances in accordance with the procedure laid 
down in these policies. The Vigil Mechanism provides adequate safeguards against victimization of employees and Directors 
who use the Vigil Mechanism and provides for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. In case of frivolous 
complaints being filed by a director or an employee, the Chairman of the Audit Committee may take suitable action against 
the concerned Director or employee including reprimanding.
The Company has policies relating to Human Resources and Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), which promote a free 
working environment for employees and provide a mechanism for raising concerns and resolution of disputes.
The above mechanisms in the abovementioned policies are accessible by both permanent and other than permanent 
employees and workers.
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2022-23 (Current FY)
FY 2021-22 (Previous FY)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A) 
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees / 
workers in 
respective 
category (C) 
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
%(D/C)
Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Nil
Female
Others
Total
Permanent Workers
Male
Nil
Nil
Female
Others
Total
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
57
Annual Report   2022-23
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23 (Current FY)
FY 2021-22 (Previous FY)
Total 
(A)
On Health & Safety 
measures
On Skill Upgradation
Total  
(D)
On Health & Safety 
measures
On Skill Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
No. (E)
% (E / D)
No. (F)
% (F / D)
Employees (1)
Male
5297
40
0.8
273
5.2%
Not tracked (1) 
Female
236
0
-
11
4.7%
Total
5533
40
0.72%
284
5.1%
Worker
Male
The Company recognizes the importance of trainings and organizes various training sessions to facilitate 
safety and skill upgradation among workers. However, the trainings conducted for workers are not being 
tracked currently, but are considering tracking the workers data as well in future.
Female
Total
	
Note:
	
1.	
The tracking and record maintenance of employee attendance in trainings was initiated from Jan-23. Hence, the above-
mentioned training count is for 3 months only (Jan to Mar 2023). Prior to that, trainings were conducted at regular 
intervals however, the same were not tracked.
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2022-23 (Current FY)
FY 2021-22 (Previous FY)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
had a career 
review (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who had 
a career review (D)
%(D/C)
Employees
Male
5297
3409
64%
5236
3754
72%
Female
236
153
65%
238
179
75%
Total
5533
3562
64%
5474
3933
72%
Worker
Male
711
673
95%
733
714
97%
Female
1
1
100%
1
1
100%
Total
712
674
95%
734
715
97%
Jagran Prakashan Limited
58
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a. 	Whether an occupational health and 
safety management system has been 
implemented by the entity? (Yes/No)
a. Yes. We have a designated Safety Committee, which is a part of the Production 
Department, and is headed by Whole-time Director, Production. The 
Committee conducts safety training and mock drills at regular intervals. We 
are also accredited with ISO 9001-2015 for our printing facility and registered 
office situated in Kanpur. Additionally, fire extinguishers are maintained for 
use in the event of an emergency. Most of our offices and printing centers 
have smoke detectors and fire alarm systems. Employees are informed 
about assembly points and the floor plans of the premises are exhibited 
at strategic spots. First-aid kits are maintained and are available in case of 
medical emergencies.
b. 	We are proactively engaged in hazard and risk identification and assessment. 
Daily pre-check and maintenances check-ups are conducted on printing 
machineries and maintenance of forklifts are done at a regular interval as 
required.
c. 	Yes. We have necessary systems in place to ensure that the employees’ safety 
is not compromised. At least one Safety Committee meeting is conducted 
monthly for addressing the issues related to risks and hazards; at least one 
meeting is conducted weekly for all printing facility to address all type of 
concerns. Additionally, corporate meetings are conducted on a monthly basis 
via virtual platform to discuss and address the concerns.
d. 	Yes. Some units have opted for mediclaim policy and few of the employees 
have voluntarily undertaken the medical policy at the relevant units.
a.	 What is the coverage of such system?
b. What are the processes used to 
identify work-related hazards and 
assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
c. 	Whether you have processes for 
workers to report the work related 
hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Yes/No) 
d. 	Do the employees/ worker of 
the entity have access to non-
occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/ No) 
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2022-23 
(Current FY)
FY 2021-22 
(Previous FY)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-
person hours worked) 
Employees
 Nil
 Nil
Workers
 Nil
 Nil
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
 Nil
 Nil
Workers
 Nil
 Nil
No. of fatalities
Employees
 Nil
 Nil
Workers
 Nil
 Nil
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities) 
Employees
 Nil
 Nil
Workers
 Nil
 Nil
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
The Company recognizes the importance of the mental and physical well-being of all its employees and workers. The 
Company is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for all employees and workers on its premises. There 
are safety meetings being conducted at a monthly level to address the issues pertaining to risks and hazards. The employee 
undergoes safety training which engages them to meet regulations regarding safety. Additionally, safety week is celebrated 
to raise awareness of safety in order to prevent incidents, thus maintain zero accident record.
For further details, please refer to 10(a) above.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Topic
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
NA
-
0
NA
-
Health & Safety
0
NA
-
0
NA
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
59
Annual Report   2022-23
14.	 Assessments for the year:
Topic
 % of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety 
practices 
Assessments are being conducted by internal teams on Health and Safety practices and working 
conditions at regular intervals. However, detailed record of these assessments is not maintained. 
The Company recognises the importance of these assessments and shall maintain the record 
of these assessments. Process of including plants assessment done by statutory authorities or 
third parties is under consideration.
Working Conditions 
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) 
(B) Workers (Y/N).
Yes, the Company extends support to families in the event of an employee’s death. JPL has EDLI scheme in place, wherein 
term insurance is provided for all permanent employees. Benefits like provident fund, gratuity, etc., are settled on a priority 
basis as per law.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by 
the value chain partners
The Company is compliant with deduction of statutory dues of employees towards income tax, provident fund, ESIC etc. as 
applicable from time to time. Value chain partners (vendors) are also encouraged to comply as per the business agreements 
with the Company.
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment 
or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Category
 Total no. of affected  
employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment 
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Employees
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
Workers
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
 Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No).
Yes. The Company recognizes the importance of trainings and organizes various training sessions to facilitate skill upgradation 
of employees.
In order to facilitate retired employees, the Company may provide an opportunity to work as a consultant/reviewer based 
on the position, role and qualification of the employee to enable a smooth transition. To make use of the competency of the 
employee, service may be extended if required, up to certain extent.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Topic
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health 
and safety 
practices
As a part our sustainable sourcing initiative, we aim to assess the vendors on various parameters which include 
environmental, social and ethical areas. Also, the Company is working with trusted and reputed vendors.
The Company has a documented Supplier / Vendor Code of Conduct applicable to suppliers and follows zero 
tolerance on any acts of violation or misconduct by such agencies during their dealings with the Company and or 
with any of its employees.
JPL encourages suppliers to provide an inclusive and supportive working environment and to exercise diversity 
when it comes to their employees as well as in their decisions to select subcontractors. JPL also expects its vendors 
to comply with all extant laws.
Working 
Conditions 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
60
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not applicable.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity:
JPL has mapped its internal and external stakeholders and based on the valuation provided in the value chain and relevance 
for the organization, the major/ key categories include:
	
-	
Readers
	
-	
Society
	
-	
Distribution agencies
	
-	
Advertisers
	
-	
Vendors / Suppliers / Contractors of goods and services
	
-	
Employees / workers (including content producers, journalists)
	
-	
Community organizations / NGOs
	
-	
Government and regulatory authorities
	
-	
Investors / Banks
JPL’s brand is defined by the trust that our stakeholders place in us every day, be it the millions of readers or business 
partners or the communities that the company works in.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group:
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Readers and 
Society
Yes- Children, 
Women and 
Senior Citizen
Newspapers/Websites/
Advertisements
Daily
• 	 Resolve any queries / grievance and 
customize the content to reflect the 
interest of our readers in each market.
• 	 Regular updates on launch/update of 
the products. 
• 	 Information on various campaigns and 
awareness sessions.
Distribution 
agencies 
No
Newspapers/Websites/
Advertisements/Emails
Daily
• 	 Query Resolution & Grievance 
Redressal.
• 	 Distributor’s performance assessment.
• 	 Addressing non-compliance issues.
Advertisers 
No
Newspapers/Websites/
Advertisements/Emails
Daily
• 	 Resolve any queries / grievance to 
understand changing market condition 
and provide innovative offerings.
• 	 Regular updates on launch/update of 
the product portfolio. 
Vendors / 
Suppliers / 
Contractors 
of goods and 
services 
No
Newspapers/Websites/
Advertisements/Emails
Daily
• 	 Query Resolution & Grievance 
Redressal.
• 	 Supplier performance assessment.
• 	 Addressing non-compliance issues.
• 	 Signing / breach of contract.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
61
Annual Report   2022-23
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees 
(including 
content 
producers, 
journalists) 
No
Multiple channels – direct 
communication, intranet, 
emails, other digital 
means. Townhall – some 
divisions
Daily / As and 
when required 
basis the nature 
of work assigned 
to the employee
• 	 Employee engagement (fun at work 
/ motivation / happiness / passion / 
wellbeing).
• 	 Feedback & grievance redressal.
• 	 Engagement for self-performance 
improvement and team productivity 
improvement.
• 	 Diversity and Inclusion.
• 	 Career and professional growth.
• 	 Employee assistant program.
• 	 Training programs and learning 
nuggets
Community 
organizations 
/ NGOs 
Yes- Children, 
Women and 
Senior Citizen
Newspapers/Websites/
Advertisements/Direct 
communication
Frequent and as 
may be required
• 	 Assessment for CSR Projects & 
Grievance Redressal.
• 	 Campaigns for promoting health care 
including preventive health care and 
sanitization
Government 
and 
regulatory 
authorities 
No
Written communications, 
Presentations, Industry 
associations, newspapers, 
websites, advertisements 
Frequent and as 
may be required
• 	 Understanding and adherence to local 
governance.
• 	 Seeking clarifications and relaxation.
• 	 Communicating challenges and 
providing recommendations.
Investors and 
banks.
No
Quarterly Results, Investor 
Presentations, Annual 
Report, General Meetings, 
Media Releases, 
Website, Newspaper 
Advertisements, Notice 
Board, Stock exchange 
communications, Emails 
Frequent and as 
may be required
• 	 Resolve any queries received from 
investors.
• 	 Showcase an overview of JPL’s 
business performance, strengths, 
future strategy, etc
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Company has in place a Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board (“SRC”) which has been constituted by the 
Board for speedy disposal of grievances/ complaints relating to stakeholders / investors, and also has in place a Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee, which identifies CSR activities to be undertaken by the Company, affecting communities 
in areas or subject as specified in Schedule VII of the Act and Rules made thereunder. The Risk Management Committee 
has also been constituted to identify elements of risk in different areas of operations. Risk management is carried out under 
policies approved by the Board of Directors which provides principles for overall risk management. The Company’s overall 
risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse 
effects on the Company’s financial performance. The observations of each of these Committees are duly intimated to the 
Board at its respective meeting.
	
Value Chain Partners may register their complaints / grievances / concerns directly with the head of the concerned department 
of the Company. In addition to this, a dedicated email ID has also been provided in the vendor purchase order on which our 
value chain partners can reach for any grievance / concerns. All the employees of the Company have unrestricted access 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee under the Vigil Mechanism implemented by the Company through which Directors 
& Employees may report breach of Code of Conduct including Code of Conduct for Insider Trading, unethical business 
practices, illegality, fraud, corruption, leak of unpublished price sensitive information pertaining to the Company etc. at 
workplace without fear of reprisal.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
62
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
2. 	 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics 
were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
As mentioned elsewhere in the Report, JPL delivers enriching and empowering content to its readers in line with the seven 
principles of Saat Sarokaar. This ranges from a daily column on health and wellbeing, to youth-centric supplement focusing 
on providing them with information relating to job opportunities and to content catering specifically to the needs of women 
readers. Beyond the content, the Company also leverages its massive reach to organize initiatives that are in spirit of these 
seven principles and have the potential to mobilize citizens and generate ground-level impact. Being a leading media 
Company, JPL recognizes its responsibilities towards its readers and citizens of the country. Accordingly, every word of 
editorial content generated across both print and digital medium follows a strict Editorial Code, which itself is founded on 
Saat Sarokaar.
	
For e.g., the Company receives concerns from the members of the society on its WhatsApp messenger in Delhi and Noida, 
wherein the company follows up with regulatory authorities on those crucial concerns raised by the society. The Company 
also creates awareness through its campaigns and addresses the grievances of the society through its Prashn Pehar.
3. 	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
	
The Company undertakes several initiatives for engaging with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized sections 
of society. Some of the initiatives undertaken by the Company are detailed in Principle 2 and details of CSR initiatives is 
provided under Principle 8. For further details on CSR Expenditure, reader may also refer the Board’s Report, forming part 
of this Annual Report. These campaigns are taken at a large scale and allow JPL to mobilize thousands of stakeholders and 
make a meaningful impact on the ground. Her Zindagi, our bi-lingual women centric web portal through its content aspires 
to cover diverse aspects of femininity alongside motivating and educating them. Company promotes education and health 
through its independent arms/charitable trusts promoted by its promoters
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format: 
Category
FY 2022-23
Current Financial Year
FY 2021-22
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
% (B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (D)
% (D / C)
Employees 
Permanent
4,092
981
24.0%
Not tracked (1) 
Other than permanent
1,441
67
4.6%
Total Employees
5,533
1,048
18.9%
Total Employees
Permanent
694
154
22.2%
Other than permanent
18
2
11.1%
Not tracked (1) 
Total Workers
712
156
21.9%
Note
1.	
The Company recognizes the importance of trainings and conducts a range of sessions to promote the value of Human 
Rights. The tracking and record maintenance of employee attendance in trainings was initiated from FY 22-23. Prior to 
that, trainings were conducted at regular intervals however, the same were not tracked.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format: The Company is in compliance 
with the provisions of the applicable laws.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
63
Annual Report   2022-23
Category
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
Count 
in 
Current 
FY
Number of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage 
% age of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage 
Number of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage 
% age of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage
Total 
Count in 
Previous 
FY
Number of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage 
% age of 
Employees 
Paid 
Minimum 
wage 
Number of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage 
% age of 
Employees 
Paid more 
than 
Minimum 
wage
Employees
Permanent
Male
3,901
0
0
3,901
100%
3,942
0
0
3,942
100%
Female
191
0
0
191
100%
199
0
0
199
100%
Workers
Permanent
Male
693
-
-
693
100%
716
716
100%
Female
1
-
-
1
100%
1
1
100%
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following (in Lakhs):
Male
Female
No.
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
No.
Median remuneration/ salary/ 
wages of respective category
Board of Directors (2,3)
17
240.8
1
Note 2
Key Managerial Personnel (1,3)
8
172.7
0
-
Employees other than BoD and 
KMP
5,297
2.8
236
3.2
Workers
711
2.6
1
4.3
Note:
1) 	
KMP includes Chairman and Managing Director, Whole-time Directors, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary as 
defined under Section 203 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013. Hence, KMPs also include 7 members of Board of Directors.
2) 	
Sitting fees for NED/independent directors is not considered for median remuneration calculation of BoD. Non-
Executive Directors viz. Mr. Devendra Mohan Gupta and Mr. Shailendra Mohan Gupta, Non-Executive Independent 
Directors viz. Divya Karani and Shashidhar Sinha have foregone their sitting fees for the meetings.
3) 	
Remuneration includes salary and perquisites & excludes contribution to provident fund and its perquisites, gratuity, 
and encashment of leaves as per rules of the Company.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
Chairman and Managing Director of the Company, who is also BRSR head, along with the executive directors are jointly 
responsible for overseeing and addressing any human rights issues caused or contributed by the business.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
Jagran family comprises of talented and inspired professionals who contribute towards Company’s vision and success. 
The Company recognizes that the success of Company’s business, quality of work and brand perception depends on the 
ability and commitment of its employees. Further, the Company attempts to provide safe, fair and discrimination free work 
environment.
The Company adheres to highest level of ethical practices as articulated by its Code of Conduct and vehemently opposes 
any violation or misconduct and has zero tolerance towards discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, region, sexual orientation, 
race, caste, gender, religion, disability, work, designation etc. The Company values contribution of each stakeholder and 
provides thriving work environment to employees to work together and succeed.
The Company has policies relating to Human Resources and Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), which promote a 
free, fair and discrimination free working environment for employees and provide a mechanism for raising concerns and 
resolution of disputes. The policy covers complaints of sexual harassment not only in the workplace, but also includes any 
place visited by the employee arising out of, or during the course of employment including transportation provided by the 
employer for undertaking such journey. The Company also has an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) in compliance with 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
The POSH Policy is uploaded on the intranet of the Company and is accessible by all employees.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
64
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Topic
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Wages
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other human rights related issues
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
7.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
The Company has policies relating to Human Resources and Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), which promote a 
free, fair and discrimination free working environment for employees and provide a mechanism for raising concerns and 
resolution of disputes. The policy covers complaints of sexual harassment not only in the workplace, but also includes any 
place visited by the employee arising out of, or during the course of employment including transportation provided by 
the employer for undertaking such journey and also contains strict provisions on confidentiality. The Company also has 
an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) in compliance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The Company promotes ethical behavior in all its business activities and in line with the best practices for corporate 
governance. It has established a system through which Directors & Employees may report breach of Code of Conduct, 
unethical business practices, illegality, fraud, corruption, leak of unpublished price sensitive information pertaining to the 
Company etc. at workplace without fear of reprisal. It also provides adequate safeguards against victimization of employees.
8. 	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, human rights requirements form an integral part of our business agreements and contracts, wherever applicable. JPL 
encourages suppliers to provide an inclusive and supportive working environment and to exercise diversity when it comes to 
their employees as well as in their decisions to select subcontractors, and the same is extended in the form of our Supplier’s/
Vendor’s Code of Conduct. JPL also expects its vendors to comply with all extant laws.
9.	
Assessments for the year: (CE)
Topic
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third 
parties)
Child labor
The Company recognizes that the success of Company’s business, quality of work and 
brand perception depends on the ability and commitment of its employees. Human rights 
practices like prevention of Child labour, Forced/involuntary labour, are taken care of during 
hiring process. 
The Company has policies relating to Human Resources and Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment (POSH), which promote a free, fair and discrimination free working environment 
for employees and provide a mechanism for raising concerns and resolution of disputes.
No statutory assessments were undertaken, however, sample assessment by the internal 
auditors of the Company was undertaken, and no non-compliance was reported.
Forced/involuntary labor
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
10.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
	
Not applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
Not Applicable, as the Company has not received any grievance/complaint during the year under review.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Please refer response to Question number 9 of Principle 5.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
65
Annual Report   2022-23
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Most of the Company’s offices and buildings are accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Further, to facilitate them, visitor rooms have been provided 
in the ground floor and has appropriate entrances and exits.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Topic
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners)  
that were assessed
Sexual harassment
The Company has a documented Supplier / Vendor Code of Conduct applicable to suppliers 
and follows zero tolerance on any acts of violation or misconduct by such agencies during 
their dealings with the Company and /or with any of its employees.
JPL encourages suppliers to provide an inclusive and supportive working environment 
and to exercise diversity when it comes to their employees as well as in their decisions to 
select subcontractors.
We are currently in process of selecting the assessment criterion for value chain partners.
Discrimination at workplace
Child labour
Forced labour/involuntary 
labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5. 	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Total electricity consumption (A)
66,243.5 (GJ) (3)
72,688.7 (GJ) (3)
Total fuel consumption (B) 
11,685.8 (GJ) (1,2,4)
9,244.3 (GJ) (1,2,4)
Energy consumption through other sources (C) 
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C) 
77,929.3 (GJ)
81,933.0 (GJ)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total energy consumption/turnover in rupees) 
 48.9 (GJ per ` Crores)
58.5 (GJ per ` Crores)
Energy intensity (optional) –  
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
Notes
1.	
The output energy consumption of DG set is presently not measured. Hence, the energy consumption from DG is 
calculated based on diesel energy consumption and output efficiency of 40%.
2.	
LPG cylinders consumption is considered on approximate basis for Lucknow canteen in the financial year to report the 
energy consumption.
3.	
The electricity consumption from small offices / district offices is currently not considered in electricity consumption.
4.	
Tracking of Diesel consumption data for vehicles owned by Nai Dunia plants has commenced from Aug-22 and same 
has been included in energy consumption.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme 
have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
The Company does not have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
66
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
	
Water is a shared resource which must continue to be equitably available for businesses, communities and the natural 
ecosystem to thrive. JPL has deep sense of responsibility for efficient use of water and thus regular practices are being 
followed to manage water judiciously for human consumption and its operations.
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface water
-
-
(ii)	
Groundwater
23,943 (1,2)
23,625 (1,2)
(iii)	 Third party water
-
-
(iv)	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v)	
Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i+ii+ii+iv+v)
23,943 (1,2)
23,625 (1,2)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 
14,366 (1,2)
14,175 (1,2)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed in kilolitres 
/ turnover in crores)
9
 10.1
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
-
-
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance 
has been carried out by an external agency?
No
No
Notes
1)	
Currently, the discharged water is not being measured, however, the Company recognizes the importance of water 
discharge measurement and initiatives will be undertaken to monitor the discharged water quantity.
2)	
Since discharged water is not monitored, the water consumption is considered tentatively as 60% of the total water 
withdrawal. The water discharged is reported as difference of water withdrawal and water consumption.
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
Yes. We have ETP plants installed in our facilities situated in Kanpur, Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Patna, 
Bhagalpur, Indore, Haldwani, Dehradun, and Meerut. Installations of ETP plants is under progress/pending in Jalandhar and 
Ranchi.
The treated water is then reused and recycled for gardening/flushing/cleaning or sent back to earth for recharge, as 
appropriate.
Company has plans to install ETP plants across all the printing facilities.
5.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
NOx
kg
1744.2 (1)
1691.1 (1)
SOx
-
-
-
Particulate matter (PM)
-
-
-
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others – please specify (CO)
kg
130.8 (1)
126.8 (1)
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No.
Notes:
1) 	
Air emissions may not be a material for our business inventory. However, these are still evaluated and calculated based 
on diesel consumption in various DG sets. The air emission factors are considered from http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.
or.jp/public/gp/bgp/2_2_Non-CO2_Stationary_Combustion.pdf
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
67
Annual Report   2022-23
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
(Current  
Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous  
Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) 
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
1244.9 (1,2,4)
1053.5 (1,2,4)
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
13035.2 (3)
14335.8 (3)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent / 
Crores of turnover
8.96
11
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional)– the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
-
	
Note:
1.	
Fugitive emissions generated from leakage of refrigerants are not tracked and hence not reported in the above 
emissions.
2.	
LPG cylinders consumption is considered on approximate basis for Lucknow canteen in the financial year to report the 
energy consumption.
3.	
The electricity consumption from small offices / district offices is currently not considered in electricity consumption.
4.	
Tracking of Diesel consumption data for vehicles owned by Nai Dunia plants has commenced from Aug-22 and same 
has been included in energy consumption.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide detail
JPL has started investing in renewable energy project such as Solar rooftop project. The company has installed solar 
Panels in the Jagran Building, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, in the month of Nov '22. This investment has helped the company 
to generate 41,536 units of renewable energy from Nov '22 to Mar '23.
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Scrap Plastic
7.6
7.4
E-waste
1.8
0
Bio-medical waste
0
0
Construction and demolition waste
0
0
Battery waste
0
0
Radioactive waste
N.A
N.A
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any.
N.A
N.A
Other Non-hazardous waste generated. Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Aluminium Scrap
726.1
576.1
Cable (Aluminium / Copper)
0
1.1
Iron
14.2
32
Mobile Oil
2.2
4.8
Office Waste
7.6
11.2
Packing Tape
2.7
2.1
Paper
2066.9
2026.9
Printing Waste
2057.3
2265.1
Scrap Bearing
0.3
0.9
Scrap Gutka
7
4.7
Tin
4.7
0
Jagran Prakashan Limited
68
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Tyre
0
0.04
Wood
0.2
1.2
Total
4896.8
4933.6
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered 
through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	
Recycled
While the Company endeavors to deliver waste 
materials (which cannot be re-used or recycled 
internally) to the vendors who sells the waste to 
recyclers. JPL ventures to re-use the wastepaper 
generated during production activity in the form of 
writing pads along with paper packaging to reduce the 
quantity of waste delivered to the vendors.
(ii) 	 Re-used
(iii) 	 Other recovery operations
Total
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed 
by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Incineration
-
-
(ii) 	 Landfilling
-
-
(iii) 	 Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
-
-
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance 
has been carried out by an external agency?
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by 
your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes.
Given the nature of the business, the generation of hazardous and toxic waste by the Company is minimal.
Minimal quantity of e-waste has been generated in the reporting year and the company has engaged with certified 3rd party 
government approved e-waste handler to safely dispose of the generated e-waste. The non-hazardous waste such as metal 
scrap are being directly sold to local vendors.
In addition to above waste disposal practices, to efficiently utilize the limited resources, the Company has deployed 
operational control measures to control the wastage and set wastage norms for each plant. Plant wise actual wastage is 
closely monitored to ensure that wastage is within permissible limits.
10.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Not applicable
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Not Applicable
12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format.
Yes, the Company is generally compliant with the applicable environmental laws / regulations/ guidelines in India.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
69
Annual Report   2022-23
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, 
in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption
149.5 (GJ) (3)
-
Total fuel consumption
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources
149.5 (GJ)
-
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption
66,094 (GJ) (3)
72,689 (GJ) (3)
Total fuel consumption
11,686 (GJ) (1,2,4)
9,244 (GJ) (1,2,4)
Energy consumption through other sources
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources
77,779.8 (GJ)
81,933 (GJ)
	
Notes
1.	
The output energy consumption of DG set is presently not measured. Hence, the energy consumption from DG is 
calculated based on diesel energy consumption and output efficiency of 40%.
2.	
LPG cylinders consumption is considered on approximate basis for Lucknow canteen in the financial year to report the 
energy consumption.
3.	
The electricity consumption from small offices / district offices is currently not considered in electricity consumption.
4.	
Tracking of Diesel consumption data for vehicles owned by Nai Dunia plants has commenced from Aug-22 and same 
has been included in energy consumption.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
2.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	
To Surface water 
-
-
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii)	
To Groundwater 
- No treatment 
2,154.5 (1,2,3)
2,111.3 (1,2,3)
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
7,422.8 (1,2,3)
7,338.8 (1,2,3)
(iii) 	 To Seawater 
-
-
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) 	 Sent to third-parties 
-
-
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v) 	 Others 
-
-
- No treatment 
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
9,577.3 (1,2,3)
9,450.1 (1,2,3)
	
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency
	
No
Jagran Prakashan Limited
70
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
	
Note:
1)	
We have ETP plants installed in our facilities situated in Kanpur, Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Patna, 
Bhagalpur, Indore, Haldwani, Dehradun, and Meerut.
2)	
Currently, the discharged water is not being measure however, the Company recognizes the importance of water 
discharge measurement and initiatives will be undertaken to monitor the discharged water quantity.
3)	
Since discharged water is not monitored, the water consumption is considered tentatively as 60% of the total water 
withdrawal. The water discharged is reported as difference of water withdrawal and water consumption.
3.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
(i)	
Name of the area –
	
	
• Panki Industrial Area, Kanpur.
	
	
• UPSIDC, Sikandra, Agra City.
• Tala Nagri Industrial Area, Aligarh.
• Pilibhit Bypass Road, Bareilly.
• Harthala, Moradabad.
• Nadesar, Varanasi.
• Naini, Allahabad.
• Noida, Uttar Pradesh.
• Huda, Panipat.
• Muzaffarpur, Bihar.
• Rangwasa (Rau), Indore.
• Bhanpuri, Raipur.
• Adhartal, Jabalpur.
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations – Manufacturing
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
Surface water
-
-
(ii) 	 Groundwater
8910.1
8474.1
(iii) 	 Third party water
-
-
(iv) 	 Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) 	 Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
8910.1 (1,2,3)
8474.1 (1,2,3)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
5346.1 (1,2,3)
5084.5 (1,2,3)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
 
6
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
-
-
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment  
(in kilolitres)
(i) 	
into Surface water
-
-
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii)	
into Groundwater
No treatment
681.6
679.2
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
2882.4
2710.4
(iii)	 into Seawater 
-
-
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
71
Annual Report   2022-23
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
(iv)	 Sent to Third parties
-
-
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v)	
Others
-
-
No treatment
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
3564 (1,2,3)
3389.6 (1,2,3)
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency
	
	
No
	
	
Note:
1)	
We have ETP plants installed in our facilities situated in Kanpur, Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Patna, 
Bhagalpur, Indore, Haldwani, Dehradun, and Meerut.
2)	
Currently, the discharged water is not being measure however, the Company recognizes the importance of water 
discharge measurement and initiatives will be undertaken to monitor the discharged water quantity.
3)	
Since discharged water is not monitored, the water consumption is considered tentatively as 60% of the total water 
withdrawal. The water discharged is reported as difference of water withdrawal and water consumption.
4.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
(Current  
Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous  
Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
Not Measured
Not Measured
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e / `
-
-
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
-
Note:
Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
No
5.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities.
N.A., as the Company does not have operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals / clearances are required
6.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the 
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
The Company understands the need of protecting the environment and optimal use of natural resources. The Company’s 
Environment Policy outlines its commitment towards running the operations in line with the applicable environmental laws 
and optimal utilization of natural resources. Though the Policy, currently, does not apply to external stakeholders including 
suppliers, contractors, NGOs etc., the Company follows zero tolerance on any hazardous activities and encourages them 
to positively work towards creating a better environment. Company has taken several initiatives across operations in areas 
related to energy efficiency, emissions management and water management. JPL has been working on climate change 
issues by improving its process efficiency and taking initiatives in energy efficiency. For instance, the Company started using 
‘Vio-Green Plate Technology’ (waterless chemistry) to save water, installed various water harvesting structures, star rated 
energy efficient air conditioners, solar panels (Kanpur plant) and LED lights to save energy. Further, two of the principles in 
Company’s editorial content policy pertain to environment and water conservation. Through daily publications and editorial 
content weaved around these themes, the Company endeavors to empower and enable its readers to become more aware 
about environmental challenges and potentially play a role in solving these issues.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
72
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
S. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided along-
with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Set up of Effluent 
Treatment Plant (ETP)
The company has ETP plants installed in our facilities situated 
in Kanpur, Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Patna, 
Bhagalpur, Indore, Haldwani, Dehradun, and Meerut. Installations 
of ETP plants is under progress/pending in Jalandhar and Ranchi.
The treated water is then reused and recycled for gardening/
flushing/cleaning or sent back to earth for recharge, as 
appropriate.
Company has plans to install ETP plants across all the printing 
facility.
Reuse of wastewater for 
non-potable uses like 
gardening, cleaning, 
f lushing 
which 
is 
ultimately reducing the 
fresh-water withdrawal.
2
Vio-Green Plate 
Technology
The Company has been working on climate change issues by 
improving its process efficiency and taking initiatives in energy 
efficiency. One of such initiative is the use of ‘Vio-Green Plate 
Technology’ (waterless chemistry) to save water consumption 
during printing process. The use of this technology has resulted 
in reduced water consumption of 2.5 liters per sq. meter of plate 
area. Total number of half plates and full plates consumed in the 
reporting year are 31.4 Lakhs which has resulted in total reduced 
water consumption of 24.36 lakhs litres.
Saves water at the 
installed facilities which 
is ultimately reducing the 
fresh-water withdrawal 
of 24.36 lakhs litres.
3
Installed Star-Rated 
systems & Renewable 
energy
The Company has been investing in various energy savings 
renewable energy project such as installation of star-rated 
system and solar rooftop project. JPL has installed efficient 
air conditioners and LED lights in the office facilities. Lightings 
are being used in all major facilities including workspace, 
canteen, parking spaces etc. The capex investment of replacing 
conventional lightning with LED lightings have resulted in 
savings in absolute energy consumption. The company has also 
installed solar panels in the Jagran Building, Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur, in the month of Nov '22. This investment has helped the 
company to generate 41,536 units of renewable energy from 
Nov '22 to Mar '23.
Efficient air conditioners, 
LED lights to save energy 
and renewable energy 
generation
7.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
Company has a business continuity and disaster management plan. Company has planned in case of disturbance and 
breakdown to print the papers from nearby printing plants so that our business continuity may not be affected. Regarding 
disaster management plan, we have daily back up of applications to avoid such problems. We have planned, in case of any 
problem, IT related function may start at the earliest so that business related activity may be carried out without any loss 
of business.
The company has never experienced any disturbance in business operations and continuity due to the pioneering role 
played by the employees. This has helped us to maintain the Company’s tradition of keeping consumer’s interest at the 
forefront. Pandemic has adequately demonstrated our abilities to ensure uninterrupted operations for a prolonged time of 
unprecedented crisis and disruptions.
8.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation 
or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
No significant adverse impacts have been reported from any value chain partners. JPL has in place a documented Supplier 
/ Vendor Code of Conduct applicable to suppliers which sets out guidelines relating to Health, Safety and Environment 
and Quality. Suppliers are expected to provide a safe and healthy working environment and, if applicable, safe and healthy 
company living quarters, and to operate in an environmentally responsible and efficient manner.
9.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impact
The Company has a documented Supplier / Vendor Code of Conduct applicable to suppliers and follows zero tolerance 
on any acts of violation or misconduct by such agencies during their dealings with the Company and /or with any of its 
employees.
JPL encourages suppliers to provide an inclusive and supportive working environment and to exercise diversity when it 
comes to their employees as well as in their decisions to select subcontractors.
We are currently in process of selecting the assessment criterion for value chain partners.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
73
Annual Report   2022-23
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a) 	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: The Company is affiliated with 13 trade and 
industry chambers/ associations
	
b) 	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) 
the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
no
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
1
International News Media Association (INMA)
International
2
Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC)
National
3
Indian Newspaper Society (INS)
National
4
Readership Studies Council of India (RSCI)
National
5
Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI)
National
6
Rural Marketing Association of India (RMAI)
National
7
Indoor Outdoor Advertising Association (IOAA)
National
8
Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA)
National
9
Indian Languages Newspapers Association (ILNA)
National
10
All India Newspaper Editors’ Conference (AINEC)
National
11
Media Research Users Council (MRUC)
National
12
The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI)
National
13
Merchants’ Chamber of Uttar Pradesh
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
	
N.A.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
Jagran engages with industry associations in responsible manner for advocating public and regulatory policies towards the 
advancement of the industry and public good. The Company’s Editorial Policy ensures balanced, unbiased, responsible and 
truthful reporting. Additionally, being into news publication; the Company has always strived to publish the content which 
the readers have a right to know. In its published content it has always endeavored to strike a balance between news and 
views, thereby attempting to educate readers and create a difference. Being a media company, we interact with government 
/ regulatory authorities through newspaper associations.
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
	
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity:
	
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community
At JPL, there are teams which works closely with the communities and connects with the programme participants on a 
regular basis throughout the project cycle. This makes it relatively easier to establish strong communication lines and 
swiftly address any grievances through a dedicated SPOC. In addition, regular monitoring visits are conducted by various 
stakeholders which are linked to these programs to ensure no bias and complete fairness. Details of CSR programmes are 
mentioned elsewhere in the report.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
74
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from local or small-scale suppliers: 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ Small producers
3.3%
10.5%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts
5.7%
8.3%
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
	
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
CSR activities are not done in the aspirational districts identified by Government.
3.	
(a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) -
The Company recognizes its responsibility as a corporate citizen and as part of its Saat Sarokaar, it believes in equal 
and fair opportunity to all vendors including marginalized /vulnerable vendors. The Company does not differentiate 
/ discriminate while selecting its vendors. The Company has developed trusted relationship with local vendors and 
works with them to develop quality product that meets its as well as industry needs, thereby enabling local vendors to 
grow their business. Also, the Company works with local businesses to generate productive local employment by hiring 
talent from nearby locations to meet requirements for services like printing, waste handling, housekeeping, logistics, 
machine and other business operations besides purchasing materials.
Presently there is no preferential policy in place giving preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalized 
/ vulnerable groups. However, as stated above, the Company recognizes the importance of such purchases and may 
consider including the same in future.
	
(b) 	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not Applicable
	
(c) 	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not Applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge
	
Not applicable.
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
	
Not applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects.
We have been persistently exploring novel opportunities and possibilities in the form of sustainable programs or projects for 
our CSR activities in order to create larger social impact and positive changes in the lives of the community and integrating 
social and environmental concerns in our business operations. The Company also leverages its massive reach to organise 
initiatives that are in spirit of "Saat Sarokar" principles and have the potential to mobilise citizens and generate ground-level 
impact.
Details of CSR Projects for financial year 2022-23:
S. 
no
CSR Project
No of persons benefited 
from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized group
1
Promoting education by way of contribution to Shri 
Puran Chandra Gupta Smarak Trust for establishment, 
expansion, administration and maintenance of 
academic institutions
12,000 +
Not Measured
Apart from the mandated CSR activities, we have also launched the following new initiatives:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
75
Annual Report   2022-23
1) 	
Gau Grass Campaign: In Hinduism, cows hold a sacred status. However, in many cities, over 5.2 million stray cows 
wander around causing traffic disruptions and wreaking havoc on village fields. They feed on garbage, including large 
quantities of plastic. This led us to launch the ‘Gau Grass’ campaign, meaning ‘Food for the Cows’, with the goal of 
awakening people's conscience and dual standards towards these animals. The campaign, which received participation 
from over 685 associations and organisations, aimed to bring together all their members to support the cause. It 
connected 257 cow shelters, providing thousands of cows with much-needed aid. Over 1.5 million students from more 
than 10,158 schools actively participated in the campaign, taking the message home and amplifying its reach. The 
campaign's impact was massive, with millions taking the pledge to be more sensitive towards cows and feed them.
2) 	
Covid Awareness Campaign: With the worst of the pandemic behind us, it was important to not drop guard completely 
and at the same time work on maintaining physical and mental health. We did an awareness campaign on physical and 
mental fitness in the post-pandemic times. At the same time we generated awareness on the need for booster doses. 
Our campaign message – that it’s our collective behavior that will enable us to emerge stronger and fight of the effects 
of Covid-19.
3) 	
Campaign on Road Safety: India's roads are infamous for being the most dangerous in the world, with over 425 road 
accident fatalities occurring each day. Dainik Jagran, recognising the gravity of the situation, launched a comprehensive 
campaign to address the issue. The campaign involved 750 reporters who travelled 79,657 km on 182 highways across 
India. The goal was to conduct a highway audit, highlighting engineering flaws and educating citizens on road safety 
measures while pushing the government to enforce traffic laws. 
	
The campaign was a resounding success, reaching 69 million readers of Dainik Jagran and directly impacting 2.7 million 
school children and 130,000 drivers through workshops. In total, 58 million people participated in the campaign by 
taking the oath on Road Safety. The first-ever highway audit at scale captured 1,274 data points, and heatmaps were 
created to demonstrate potential road hazards on specific highways.
4) 	
Jagran Arpan: This was a campaign launched during winters that appealed to people to donate generously with warm 
clothes for the homeless and poor sections of the society.
Additionally, the Company continued following up of its earlier flagship campaign:
Jagran Sanskarshala: The pandemic ushered in tech-enabled school education, but it created several pitfalls. Tech companies 
are collecting data on kids, yet shutting access to the digital world isn’t the answer. The media children consume could 
profoundly impact their learning, social development and behavior. Understanding the role of technology in children’s lives 
could lead to better products, parenting and public policies. Our campaign attempted to redefine kids’ relationship kids with 
technology and help them develop the ability to make smart choices. The immersive campaign using story telling formats 
connected with 8,00,000 kids directly while the campaign media reach was 100 million. We conducted 946 story reading 
sessions during school morning assemblies, reaching 623,050 students, and converted all stories into podcasts for a wider 
audience. We also involved school principals who authored 981 newspaper articles and created 55 videos, while students 
made 80 videos on campaign topics. We invited 49 experts for Q&A sessions and reported them in the newspaper. Finally, 
we organised 130 round table discussions to encourage debate on redefining children's relationship with technology.
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in responsible manner
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
The complaints received from stakeholders like suppliers, customers and contractors are forwarded to the respective 
Department Heads and addressed on a case-to-case basis based on their priorities
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environment and Social 
parameters relevant to product
Not Applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Jagran Prakashan Limited
76
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
3.	
Number of consumer complaints:
Topic
FY 2022-23 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2021-22
 (Previous Financial Year)
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
0
0
-
0
0
-
Advertising
0
0
-
0
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of essential services
0
0
-
0
0
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Others
0
0
-
0
0
-
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues
Number
Reason for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
0
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes. The company has framed its cyber security & data privacy policy which considers customer information safety as a critical 
aspect. The Risk Management Committee which is constituted by the board is responsible for monitoring and reviewing 
of risk mitigation strategies associated with cyber security. The cyber security & data privacy policy is established to set a 
clear corporate direction and demonstrate support for, and commitment to information security throughout its operations. 
This policy is available and is uploaded on the intranet portal, JConnect, and communicated on a need-to-know basis.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
Since there are no complaints, there was no need for any corrective action.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
Corporate Website at www.jplcorp.in ; Additionally, the requisite information may also be accessed on the individual websites 
of business verticals maintained by the Company, details of which are given in the Annual Report.
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Not Applicable since major revenues consists of newspapers/magazines (which are generally disposed off by end customers 
and mostly recycled) and digital advertisements.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/
No/Not Applicable)? If yes, provide details in brief.
Not applicable.
	
Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of 
the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Yes, survey is carried out with customers at regular intervals. The Product Sales and Marketing Team (PSM Team) generates 
a sales survey form for customers for recording their feedback.
5.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a. 	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact – No Data Breaches have occurred
	
b. 	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – Not Applicable.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
77
Annual Report   2022-23
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Shareholders,
The Directors are pleased to present the 47th Annual Report and Audited Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited (“JPL” / “the Company”) for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023.
1.	
COMPANY OVERVIEW:
JPL is a media conglomerate with interests spanning across printing and publication of Newspapers & Magazines, FM Radio, 
Digital, Outdoor Advertising and Promotional Marketing, Event Management and Activation businesses. The details of the 
Group’s businesses are provided in the Annual Report of the Company.
2.	
FINANCIAL RESULTS:
The summarized standalone and consolidated financial results of the Company along with appropriation to reserves for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the previous year are as under:
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations
1,59,390.34 
1,40,123.40 
1,85,617.45
1,61,595.11
Other income
3,209.37 
2,082.41 
5,009.87
3,378.24
Other gains/(losses) - net
5,293.22 
2,941.90 
5,581.24
3,294.39
Expenditure
1,29,801.01
1,04,441.56
1,52,929.70
1,25,631.98
Profit before finance costs, depreciation and 
tax 
38,091.92
40,706.15
42,278.86
42,635.76
Less: Finance costs
3,326.88 
2,761.19 
3,859.33
3,149.19
Less: Depreciation and amortisation expenses
4,907.96 
6,016.16 
17,971.05
11,862.48
Profit before exceptional items and share of 
net profits of associates and tax 
29,857.08
31,928.80
21,448.48
27,624.09
Less: Exceptional item
-
(564.26)
(3,868.28)
(564.26)
Add: Share of Net Profit of Associates accounted 
for using the equity method
-
-
2.24
32.43
Profit before tax
29,857.08
32,493.06
25,319.00
28,220.78
Less: Tax Expense 
6,988.78
7,659.01
5,640.32
6,533.22
Profit for the year
22,868.30 
24,834.05 
19678.68
21,687.56
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the 
year, net of tax
(428.90)
447.87
(395.53)
408.09
Total comprehensive income for the year
22,439.40 
25,281.92
19,283.15
22,095.65
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company
-
-
19,581.17
22,668.41
Non-controlling interest
-
-
(298.02)
(572.76)
Opening balance of retained earnings
1,44,222.62
1,27,807.88
1,68,509.52
1,54,878.28
Net profit for the year
22,868.30
24,834.05
19,678.68
21,687.56
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit 
obligation, net of tax
(428.90)
(5.83)
(395.53)
408.09
Share of Non-controlling interest in the Profit for 
the year
298.02
572.76
Change in share of Non- controlling interest after 
buy-back
2153.95
-
Jagran Prakashan Limited
78
Board's Report
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Appropriations:
Transfer to capital redemption reserve from 
retained earnings
(920.00)
(290.53)
(920.00)
(290.53)
Amount utilised for issue of bonus preference 
shares
-
-
(6762.97)
-
Amount utilised in buy-back of equity shares
(33,580.00)
(8,122.95)
(33580.00)
(8,122.95)
Tax on buy-back of equity shares
(7,168.07)
- 
(7168.07)
-
Transaction cost related to buy-back
(276.66)
- 
(276.66)
-
Interim Dividend paid during the year
(10,546.17)
- 
(10,546.17)
-
Closing balance of retained earnings
1,14,171.12 
1,44,222.62 
1,30,990.77
1,68,509.52
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Basic
8.71 
9.39
7.61
8.41
Diluted
8.71 
9.39
7.61
8.41
3.	
FINANCIAL 
HIGHLIGHTS 
AND 
STATE 
OF 
COMPANY’S AFFAIRS:
	
CONSOLIDATED:
The consolidated turnover of the Group was `1, 85,617.45 
Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2023 as compared 
to `1,61,595.11 Lakhs in the previous year. Profit for the 
year ended March 31, 2023 was `19,678.68 Lakhs as 
compared to `21,687.56 Lakhs in the previous year.
	
STANDALONE:
The turnover of the Company was `1,59,390.34 Lakhs 
for the year ended March 31, 2023 as compared to 
`140,123.40 Lakhs in the previous year. Net profit for the 
year ended March 31, 2023 was `22,868.30 Lakhs as 
compared to `24,834.05 Lakhs in the previous year.
For a detailed analysis of the financial performance of the 
Group, refer to the Report on Management Discussion 
and Analysis, forming part of the Annual Report.
4.	
BUYBACK OF EQUITY SHARES AND CHANGES 
IN PAID-UP EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL OF THE 
COMPANY:
During the financial year under review, the Company 
completed its sixth consecutive buyback of equity shares 
in last six (6) financial years.
Pursuant to the receipt of approval of Board of Directors 
on 4th November, 2022 and approval of Members by way 
of passing of the special resolution dated 17th December, 
2022 through Postal Ballot by way of voting through 
electronic means only, the Company completed the 
buyback of 4,60,00,000 fully paid-up equity shares of 
face value of `2/- each through tender offer (representing 
17.45% of the total number of outstanding equity shares 
of the Company) at a price of `75/- per equity share, 
for an aggregate amount of `34,500 Lakhs excluding 
the transaction costs in March 2023. The tax expense 
incurred in relation to the Buyback amounted to `71.68 
Crores.
Consequently, the issued, subscribed and paid-up share 
capital of the Company was reduced from `5,273.09 
Lakhs comprising 26,36,54,272 equity shares of `2/- 
each to `4353.08 Lakhs comprising 21,76,54,272 equity 
shares of `2/- each, improving the EPS for all future years.
The Buyback was undertaken to utilize the surplus cash 
optimally and reward the shareholders continuing with 
the Company’s policy.
For details on the postal ballot process and further details 
on the buyback, please refer the Report on Corporate 
Governance, forming part of the Annual Report.
5.	
DIVIDEND:
Considering the financial performance and keeping in 
line with its policy of rewarding the shareholders, the 
Board of Directors, at its meeting held on August 6, 
2022 had considered and approved the payment of an 
Interim Dividend of `4/- on 26,36,54,272 equity shares of 
the Company (i.e. 200% on face value of `2/- per equity 
share) for the financial year 2022-23.
The said dividend, amounting to `10,546 Lakhs, was 
paid to the eligible shareholders as on the record date of 
August 18, 2022 on September 02, 2022, after deduction 
of due tax under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
During the financial year 2022-23, in line with our 
commitment of rewarding the shareholders of the 
Company, a total payout in the form of buyback and 
dividend as mentioned below was incurred:
(Amounts in ` Crores)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total Payout
1.
Buyback including Tax paid on 
Buyback 
416.68
2.
Dividend 
105.46
TOTAL
522.14
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
79
Annual Report   2022-23
6.	
DEPOSITS:
The Company has not accepted any deposit from public / shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Section 73 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 and as such, no amount 
on account of principal or interest on public deposits was outstanding as on the date of the Balance Sheet.
7.	
CREDIT RATING:
	
The details of credit rating re-affirmed by CRISIL Limited on April 21, 2023 is detailed as under:
Rating Agency
Instruments
Period
Rated Amount  
(in ` Crores)
Rating Reaffirmed
CRISIL
Non-convertible Debentures
Long term rating
300
CRISIL AA+/Stable
Total bank loan facilities rated
Long term rating
CRISIL AA+/Stable
Short term rating
285
CRISIL A1+
Commercial paper
Short term rating
70
CRISIL A1+
The ratings continue to reflect the leadership position of Dainik Jagran, the flagship daily published by the group, healthy 
market position of JPL in the radio business and its strong financial risk profile.
Details of credit rating are also uploaded on the Company’s corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/
JPLUPDATEINCREDITRATING21042023.pdf
8.	
NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES:
During the financial year 2020-21, the Company had issued 2,500 rated, secured, senior, listed, redeemable, non-convertible 
debentures (“NCDs”) of face value of `10,00,000 (Rupees Ten Lakhs) each, aggregating to `25,000 Lakhs through two 
different issues on a private placement basis. These NCDs were raised to create liquidity buffer for contingency arising out 
of COVID-19 pandemic.
Details of the NCDs are as under:
S. 
No.
Security 
Name
No. of 
Debentures
Face Value 
in `
Redemption
Coupon 
Rate
Listed 
on
Amount in 
` Crores
Redemption Date
1.
8.35% JPL 
2023
1,000
10,00,000
3 years, bullet
8.35% 
p.a.
BSE
100
The entire issue of 1,000 
NCDs was fully redeemed on 
April 21, 2023 as per the terms 
and conditions of the NCDs.
2.
8.45% JPL 
2024
1,500
10,00,000
50% at the end 
of 3rd year (`75 
Crores) & 50% 
at the end of 
4th year (`75 
Crores).
8.45% 
p.a.
NSE
150
750 NCDs i.e. 50% of total 
1,500 NCDs were redeemed 
on April 27, 2023 and 
remaining 50% i.e. `75 Crores 
will be redeemed at the end 
of 4th year as per the terms 
and conditions of the NCDs.
Total
2,500
250
The annual interest and redemption of these NCDs as per the agreed terms and conditions were duly made on April 21, 
2023 and April 27, 2023 respectively to the eligible debenture holders.
As on the date of this Report, 750 NCDs are outstanding, which will be repaid on the due date i.e. April 27, 2024.
There is no creation of pledge, lien or any other encumbrance except “Non-Disposal Undertaking” given by the Promoter 
and Promoter Group that they shall hold at least 60% equity shareholding in the Company, directly or indirectly, and exercise 
management control till the tenor of the NCDs.
In accordance with the Information Memorandum and Debenture Trust Deed, the Company has also created required security 
on the assets of the Company with regards to the NCDs and complied with all the covenants.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
80
Board's Report
9.	
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL:
i)	
Retirement by Rotation: In accordance with the 
provisions of the Act and Articles of Association 
of the Company, Mr. Dhirendra Mohan Gupta (DIN: 
01057827) and Mr. Devendra Mohan Gupta (DIN: 
00226837) are the Directors liable to retire by 
rotation in the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
and being eligible, had offered themselves for 
re-appointment.
ii)	
Changes in Directors / Key Managerial Personnel: 
During the year under review, Mr. Sandeep Gupta 
(DIN:00038410) was appointed as an Additional 
Director and Whole-time Director with effect from 
May 30, 2022 and subsequently upon regularization 
as the Director of the Company in the 46th Annual 
General Meeting on August 29, 2022.
10.	 DECLARATION 
OF 
INDEPENDENCE 
BY 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
Necessary declarations from the Independent Directors 
of the Company, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 149(7) of the Act read with the Code of Conduct 
as specified in Schedule IV to the Act, and Regulations 
16(1)(b) and 25(8) of the Listing Regulations were received, 
that he/she meets the criteria of independence as laid out 
in Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulations 16(1)(b) of the 
Listing Regulations.
In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors 
fulfill the criteria of Independence and there has been no 
change in the circumstances which may affect their status 
as Independent Directors of the Company, also the Board 
is satisfied of the integrity, expertise, and experience 
(including proficiency in terms of the provisions of Section 
150(1) of the Act and applicable Rules made thereunder) 
of all Independent Directors on the Board.
Further, in accordance with the provisions of Section 
150 of the Act read with Rule 6 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, Independent Directors of the Company are 
duly registered in the data bank of Independent Directors 
maintained with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
Disclosure regarding the skills/expertise/competence 
possessed by the Directors is given in detail in the Report 
on Corporate Governance forming part of the Annual 
Report.
11.	 ANNUAL EVALUATION OF THE BOARD OF ITS 
OWN PERFORMANCE, ITS COMMITTEES AND 
INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS (INCLUDING CHAIRMAN 
OF THE COMPANY):
In accordance with the evaluation framework in compliance 
with the requirements of the Act, Listing Regulations, read 
with the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by 
SEBI and as set out by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, a 
formal annual performance evaluation was carried out 
by the Board of (i) its own performance; (ii) individual 
Directors; (iii) Chairman of the Company; and (iv) all 
Committees of Board.
The Evaluation was conducted through questionnaire 
designed with qualitative parameters and feedback based 
on ratings with the help of an independent professional 
agency of international repute to ensure independence, 
confidentiality and neutrality.
Evaluation of the Board was done on key attributes such 
as composition, administration, strategic, corporate 
culture, effective participation and corporate governance/
compliance framework. Parameters for evaluation of 
directors included constructive participation in Meetings 
and engagement with colleagues on the Board. Similarly, 
Committees were evaluated on parameters such as 
understanding its mandate and accordingly discharging 
its duties and, providing adequate oversight on key 
areas. The Chairman was evaluated on leadership and 
overall effectiveness in managing affairs of the Company, 
ensuring Corporate Governance and carrying out duties 
as entrusted by the Board. Responses submitted by Board 
Members were collated, analyzed and improvement 
opportunities were noted by the Board to optimize its 
overall effectiveness.
The evaluation process confirms that the Board and its 
Committees continue to operate effectively and that the 
performance of the Directors and the Chairman continues 
to be satisfactory.
12.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD:
The Board has constituted various committees viz., 
Audit Committee (“AC”), Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (“NRC”), Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee (“SRC”), Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee (“CSR”) and Risk Management Committee 
(“RMC”), in compliance with the requirements of the 
relevant provisions of applicable laws and statutes.
The details with respect to the composition, powers, roles, 
terms of reference, policies, dates of meetings conducted 
and attendance thereon etc. of the Committees are given 
in detail in the Report on Corporate Governance forming 
part of the Annual Report.
13.	 NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION POLICY:
In accordance with Section 134(3)(e) of the Act read with 
the applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations, as 
amended, the Nomination and Remuneration Policy has 
been updated and is attached hereto as Annexure-I 
to the Board’s Report and is also uploaded on the 
Company’s corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/
pdf/NRC_Policy_Final.pdf
14.	 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD:
Six (6) meetings of the Board of Directors were held 
during the year. Further details are given in the Report on 
Corporate Governance forming part of the Annual Report.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
81
Annual Report   2022-23
15.	 SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
In accordance with the Ind-AS 110 - Consolidated Financial Statements read with the Ind-AS 28 - Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures notified under the provisions of Section 133 read with Section 129(3) of the Act and applicable provisions 
of the Listing Regulations, the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements are provided in the Annual Report.
The financial statements of the following Subsidiaries and share in Profit / Loss of the following Associates have been 
consolidated into the financial statements of the Company:
S. 
No.
Name and Address of the Company
CIN / GLN
Holding / Subsidiary /
Associate
% of Shares Held
1.
Music Broadcast Limited 
5th Floor, RNA Corporate Park, 
off Western Express Highway, 
Kalanagar, Bandra (East), Mumbai, 
Maharashtra-400051
L64200MH1999PLC137729
Subsidiary
74.05%
2.
Midday Infomedia Limited
6th Floor, RNA Corporate Park, Kalanagar, 
Near chetana college, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai, Maharashtra-400051
U22130MH2008PLC177808
Subsidiary
100.00%
3.
X-Pert Publicity Private Limited
Jagran Building 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh-208005
U74900UP2008PTC036413
Associate
39.20%
4.
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh-208005
U22219UP2003PTC027675
Associate
48.84%
5.
MMI Online Limited
Jagran Building 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh-208005
U72300UP2008PLC036242
Associate
44.92%
The Company has no joint ventures.
In accordance with Regulation 16(1)(c) of the Listing 
Regulations, Music Broadcast Limited has been identified 
as a material listed subsidiary of the Company. Midday 
Infomedia Limited continues to be an immaterial unlisted 
wholly-owned subsidiary. For the financial year 2023-24 
Midday Infomedia Limited shall also be considered as 
material subsidiary of the Company as its income exceeds 
10% of the consolidated income of the Company and its 
subsidiaries as per the Listing Regulations.
Details of transactions with subsidiaries and associates 
are provided in Note No. 29 to the standalone financial 
statements.
At any time after the closure of the financial year and till 
the date of the Report, the Company has not acquired 
or formed any new subsidiary, associate or joint venture.
The Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries as 
approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s 
corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/POLICY_
FOR_DETERMINING_MATERIAL_SUBSIDIARIES_1.pdf.
16.	 ISSUE OF BONUS NON- CONVERTIBLE NON-
CUMULATIVE REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES 
(“NCRPS”) BY MUSIC BROADCAST LIMITED:
In accordance with the Scheme of Arrangement as 
approved by the Board of Directors of Music Broadcast 
Limited (“MBL”) and the Hon’ble National Company 
Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench, between MBL and 
its shareholders, MBL completed the issue of non-
convertible non-cumulative redeemable preference 
shares (“NCRPS”) by way of bonus and allotted 89,69,597 
NCRPS, carrying dividend of 0.1% p.a., subject to deduction 
of applicable taxes, to its non-promoter shareholders, 
wherein 1 (one) NCRPS of the face value of `10/- each 
was issued at a premium of `90/- per NCRPS for every 10 
(ten) equity shares of face value of `2/- each held by the 
non-promoter shareholders of MBL, redeemable at the 
expiry of 36 (thirty-six) months from the date of allotment 
of the NCRPS. Subsequently, the NCRPS received trading 
approvals from BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited w.e.f. April 20, 2023.
17.	 PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL DETAILS OF 
SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES:
The financial performance of the subsidiaries and 
associates are discussed in the Report on Management 
Discussion & Analysis. Pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 129, 133, 134 and 136 of the Act read with 
Rules framed thereunder, the Company has prepared 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries and a separate statement containing the 
salient features of financial statements of subsidiaries and 
associates in Form AOC-1 which forms part of the Annual 
Report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the annual financial statements of the subsidiaries are 
available on the Company’s corporate website.
18.	 MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS, IF ANY, 
AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION:
The Board reports that no material changes and 
commitments affecting the financial position of the 
Company have occurred between the end of the financial 
year ending March 31, 2023 and the date of this Report.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
82
Board's Report
19.	 RELATED PARTY CONTRACTS / ARRANGEMENTS:
All related party transactions that were entered into during 
the financial year were in the ordinary course of business 
and on arm’s length basis. There were no materially 
significant related party transactions entered into during 
the year with its Promoters, Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel or other related parties which could have a 
potential conflict with the interest of the Company.
All related party transactions are placed before the Audit 
Committee for approval, wherever applicable. Prior 
overall approval is obtained for the transactions which 
are foreseen or are recurring in nature. A statement of all 
related party transactions is presented before the Audit 
Committee on a quarterly basis, specifying the relevant 
details of the transactions.
The policy on dealing with related party transactions is 
placed on the Company’s corporate website at https://
jplcorp.in/new/pdf/RPT_policy.pdf.
In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 23(9) of 
the Listing Regulations, the Company submits disclosures 
of related party transactions on a consolidated basis, 
in the format as specified by SEBI from time to time to 
the stock exchanges and also publishes the same on 
its corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.
aspx?CID=27.
Since all related party transactions entered into by the 
Company were in the ordinary course of business and 
on an arm’s length basis, Form AOC-2 as prescribed 
pursuant to Section 134 read with Rule 8(2) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is not applicable.
The details of the transactions with related parties are 
provided in Note Nos. 29 and 30 to the standalone and 
consolidated financial statements respectively.
20.	 INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS:
The Company has in place adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to the financial statements. During 
the year, such controls were tested by the management 
as well as auditors and no reportable material weakness 
in the processes or operations was observed.
To ensure the efficacy of the internal financial controls, 
a two-phase testing exercise is performed to evaluate 
operating effectiveness of controls basis the defined 
testing strategy. The first phase includes initial testing, 
documentation and deficiency reporting while the second 
phase includes roll forward and remediation testing, 
testing of annual controls, documentation and deficiency 
assessment and reporting.
For the financial year 2022-23, the Internal Auditors noted 
no exception in IFC controls tested.
21.	 INTERNAL AUDITOR:
Ernst & Young LLP are the Internal Auditors of the 
Company. The terms of reference and scope of work of the 
Internal Auditors are approved by the Audit Committee. 
The Internal Auditors monitor and evaluate the efficiency 
and adequacy of internal control system in the Company, 
including Information Technology. Significant audit 
observations and recommendations along with plan of 
corrective actions are presented to the Audit Committee.
22.	 PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES & 
INVESTMENTS UNDER SECTION 186 OF THE ACT:
The details of loans, guarantees and investments under 
the ambit of the provisions of Section 186 of the Act are 
provided in Note Nos. 28 and 29 to the standalone and 
consolidated financial statements respectively.
23.	 LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND REPORTING STRUCTURE:
In consultation with a professional agency of international 
repute, the Company has set up an electronic compliance 
tool for monitoring and strengthening compliance with 
the applicable laws. The tool is updated regularly for 
amendments / modifications in applicable laws from 
time to time. This has contributed in strengthening 
the compliances at all levels under supervision of the 
Compliance Officer, who has been entrusted with the 
responsibility to oversee its functioning. The Company 
has also set up a dedicated desk consisting of one 
representative each of JPL and the professional agency 
for help in updation of compliances in the Compliance 
Tool and providing clarification with regards to any doubts 
/ queries of the users.
24.	 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY AND IDENTIFICATION 
OF KEY RISKS:
In consultation with a professional agency of international 
repute, the Company has in place a Risk Management 
System and has also identified the key risks to the 
business and its existence and mitigation measures 
thereof. There is no risk identified that threatens the 
existence of the Company. For major risks, please refer 
to the section titled ‘Risks and Concerns’ in the Report 
on Management Discussion and Analysis, forming part 
of the Annual Report.
The Company has a Risk Management Committee to 
identify elements of risk in different areas of operations; 
the details regarding composition and terms of reference 
of the Risk Management Committee are given in the 
Report on Corporate Governance forming part of the 
Annual Report.
Also the Company’s documented Risk Management 
policy acts as an effective tool in identifying, evaluating 
and managing significant risks and prioritizing relevant 
action plans in order to mitigate such risks. The Risk 
Management Policy is uploaded on the Company’s 
corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/Policy-
RMC.pdf.
25.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES:
As a responsible corporate citizen, your Company supports 
a charitable trust, Shri Puran Chandra Gupta Smarak Trust 
(“the Trust”), to discharge its social responsibilities. Pehel, 
an outfit of the Trust provides social services such as 
organizing workshops/seminars to voice different social 
issues, health camps / road shows for creating awareness 
on the social concerns and helping the underprivileged. 
The Trust, under its aegis, has also been imparting 
primary, secondary, higher and professional education 
to about 12,000 students through schools and colleges at 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
83
Annual Report   2022-23
Kanpur, Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi, Dehradun and smaller 
towns like Kannauj and Basti.
Through its newspapers, the Company works on 
awakening the readers on social values and at the core 
of its editorial philosophy are 7 principles (called Saat 
Sarokaar) viz. Poverty Eradication, Healthy Society, 
Educated Society, Women Empowerment, Environment 
Conservation, Water Conservation and Population 
Management. Beyond the content, we also leverage our 
massive reach to organise initiatives that are in spirit of 
these seven principles and have the potential to mobilise 
citizens and generate ground-level impact. Some of 
the initiatives undertaken in financial year 2022-23 are 
detailed in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report forming part of the Annual Report.
Post outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company 
has constantly been working towards elevating the 
living conditions among communities and aims to 
spread awareness and make a larger impact in the 
development of the society in the post COVID-19 era. 
The Company is carrying various campaigns / initiatives 
towards promoting health care including preventive 
health care and sanitation across several mediums such 
as print media, outdoor advertisement, digital and FM 
radio broadcasting. The Company has been strategically 
leveraging the Group’s internal resources and robust 
capabilities, i.e. its print, radio, digital and outdoor media 
platforms in order to reach a wider mass, covering both 
rural and urban areas.
The CSR expenditure incurred by the Company is detailed 
hereunder:
•	
CSR expenditure for financial year 2020-21:
Out of total statutory CSR obligation of `688.06 
Lakhs for financial year 2020-21, an amount of 
`26.24 Lakhs was spent in the financial year 2020-21 
and `680.00 Lakhs was transferred to the Unspent 
Corporate Social Responsibility Account, to be spent 
in future in accordance with the provisions of Section 
135 of the Act. Further, `458.18 Lakhs were spent 
in financial year 2021-22 and `247.05 Lakhs were 
spent in financial year 2022-23 out of such Unspent 
Corporate Social Responsibility Account. Interest 
earned on the said Unspent Corporate Social 
Responsibility Account amounting to `36.08 Lakhs 
remains to be utilized on 31st March 2023 which shall 
be utilized in financial year 2023-24.
•	
CSR expenditure for financial year 2021-22:
As against total statutory CSR obligation of `550 
Lakhs for the financial year 2021-22, `552 Lakhs 
were transferred to the Unspent Corporate Social 
Responsibility Account in the financial year 2021-22. 
By March 31, 2023, an amount of `266.46 Lakhs was 
spent from Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility 
Account. The balance amount of `285.5 Lakhs in the 
Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility Account 
along with interest earned thereon amounting to 
`26.27 Lakhs as on March 31, 2023 shall be utilized 
in future in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
•	
CSR expenditure for financial year 2022-23:
For the financial year 2022-23, on the 
recommendation of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee, Board has approved to 
spend an amount of `550 Lakhs as CSR expenditure 
as against the obligation of `534.10 Lakhs towards 
promotion of education as per the approved plan, 
by way of contribution to Shri Puran Chandra 
Gupta Smarak Trust, a charitable trust, (“Trust”) for 
the establishment, expansion, administration and 
maintenance of academic institutions in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule VII to the Act and 
the CSR Policy of the Company. The entire amount 
of `550 Lakhs has been transferred to the Unspent 
Corporate Social Responsibility Account, which 
shall be spent in three years, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act.
The Company has adopted the CSR policy keeping 
into account the provisions of Section 135 of the Act 
read with the Rules made thereunder and Schedule 
VII to the Act. The salient features of the CSR policy 
and its details of expenditure on CSR activities 
as required under the Act read with Rule 8 of 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, are given in Annexure-II. 
The CSR Policy is also uploaded on the Company’s 
corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/
CSR_Policy_Final.pdf.
26.	 ESTABLISHMENT OF VIGIL / WHISTLE-BLOWER 
MECHANISM:
The Company promotes ethical behavior in all its business 
activities and in line with the best practices for corporate 
governance. It has established a system through which 
Directors & Employees may report breach of Code of 
Conduct including Code of Conduct for Insider Trading, 
unethical business practices, illegality, fraud, corruption, 
leak of unpublished price sensitive information pertaining 
to the Company etc. at work place without fear of 
reprisal. It also provides adequate safeguards against 
victimization of employees. The functioning of the vigil / 
whistle-blower mechanism is reviewed by the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee from time to time. None of the 
employees / directors has been denied access to the 
Audit Committee. The details of the Vigil Mechanism / 
Whistle Blower Policy are given in the Report on Corporate 
Governance and the entire Policy is also available on the 
Company’s corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/
pdf/JPL_Vigil_Mechanism_Whistle-blower_Policy.pdf.
During the financial year 2022-23, the management did 
not receive any complaint under the system.
27.	 PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT 
WORKPLACE:
As per the requirement of The Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) 
Act, read with the Rules made thereunder, the Company 
has in place a Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) 
Policy. Communication of this Policy is done from time to 
time to the employees. The Company has constituted the 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
84
Board's Report
Internal Complaints Committee in accordance with the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, which is responsible for 
redressal of Complaints related to sexual harassment. No 
complaint on sexual harassment was received during the 
year under review.
28.	 WEBLINK OF ANNUAL RETURN:
A weblink of Annual Return for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023, in Form MGT – 7 as required under 
Section 92 (3) of the Act read with Rule 12 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 
is available on the corporate website of the Company at 
the link https://jplcorp.in/new/FinancialReports.aspx.
29.	 AUDITORS & AUDITORS’ REPORT:
i)	
Statutory Auditors & Audit Report:
In accordance with the provisions of Section 139 of 
the Act and other applicable provisions and rules 
made thereunder, M/s. Price Waterhouse, Chartered 
Accountants LLP (FRN: 012754N/N500016), being 
eligible, were appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company at the 46th AGM and will continue to hold office 
for term of 5 (five) years till the conclusion of 51st AGM to 
be held in the year 2027.
There is no qualification, reservation or adverse remark 
or disclaimer made in the Auditor’s Report, needing 
explanations or comments by the Board. The Statutory 
Auditors have not reported any incident of fraud to the 
Audit Committee in the year under review against the 
Company by its officers or employees as specified under 
Section 143(12) of the Act.
ii)	
Secretarial Audit & Secretarial Audit Report:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company 
has appointed Adesh Tandon & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries as Secretarial Auditors up to the 
financial year 2025-26.
The Secretarial Audit Report in Form No. MR-3 for the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2023 is set out in 
Annexure-III to the Board’s Report. In accordance with 
SEBI Circular no. CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 dated February 
08, 2019, the Company has obtained, from the Secretarial 
Auditors an Annual Secretarial Compliance Report, which 
was duly submitted to the stock exchanges and is also 
uploaded on the corporate website of the Company.
There is no qualification, reservation or adverse remark 
or disclaimer made in the Report, needing explanations 
or comments by the Board.
The Secretarial Auditors have also not reported any 
instances of fraud committed against the Company by its 
officers or employees as specified under Section 204(3) 
of the Act.
30.	 INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND:
The details of amount and shares transferred to Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) are given in the 
Report on Corporate Governance, forming part of the 
Annual Report.
31.	 OTHER DISCLOSURES:
Following other disclosures are made:
i)	
No shares (including sweat equity shares and ESOP) 
were issued to the employees of the Company 
under any scheme.
ii)	
No orders were passed by any of the regulators 
or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern 
status and Company’s operations in future.
iii)	
There is no change in the nature of the business of 
the Company.
iv)	
The Board has in place the Code of Conduct for all 
the members of Board and team of Key Managerial 
Personnel and Senior Management Personnel. The 
Code lays down, in detail, the standards of business 
conduct, ethics and governance.
v)	
Maintenance of cost records as specified by the 
Central Government under the provisions of Section 
148(1) of the Act is not applicable.
vi)	
No application has been made under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code hence the requirement to 
disclose the details of application made or any 
proceeding pending under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (31 of 2016) during the year 
along with their status as at the end of the financial 
year is not applicable.
vii)	 The requirement to disclose the details of difference 
between amount of the valuation done at the time 
of one-time settlement and the valuation done while 
taking loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions 
along with the reasons thereof, is not applicable.
32.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
In accordance with the requirements of Sections 134(3)(c) 
and 134(5) of the Act, the Directors hereby confirm that:
i)	
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards had been followed 
and there were no material departure from the same.
ii)	
The Directors had selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and of the profit and loss of the 
Company at the end of the financial year.
iii)	
The Directors had taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
85
Annual Report   2022-23
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities.
iv)	
The Directors had prepared the annual accounts on 
a going concern basis.
v)	
The Directors had laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls were adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
vi)	
The Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
33.	 COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
During the financial year under review, the Company 
has complied with the applicable Secretarial Standard-1 
(Secretarial Standard on Meetings of the Board of 
Directors), Secretarial Standard-2 (Secretarial Standard 
on General Meetings), issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
34.	 CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
REPORT 
AND 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CERTIFICATE:
A Report on Corporate Governance as stipulated under 
Regulations 17 to 27 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V 
of the Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time, 
is set out separately and forms part of this Report. The 
Company has been in compliance with all the norms of 
Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 17 
to 27 and Clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and Para 
C, D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, as 
amended from time to time.
The requisite Certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company, Adesh Tandon & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, confirming compliance with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under 
the Listing Regulations forms part of this Report.
35.	 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT:
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the 
Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 2021, SEBI 
has prescribed the format for the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR) in respect of reporting 
on ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) parameters 
by listed entities. The BRSR seeks disclosures from listed 
entities on their performance against the nine principles 
of the ‘National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct’(NGBRCs) and reporting under each principle 
is divided into essential and leadership indicators. The 
essential indicators are required to be reported on 
a mandatory basis while the reporting of leadership 
indicators is on a voluntary basis.
With effect from the financial year 2022-23, filing of 
BRSR is mandatory for the top 1000 listed companies 
(by market capitalization) and has replaced the existing 
Business Responsibility Report. Accordingly, we have 
prepared the BRSR in the prescribed format, which is set 
out separately and forms part of the Annual Report.
36.	 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
REPORT:
Report on Management Discussion and Analysis for the 
year under review as required under Regulation 34(2)(e) 
of the Listing Regulations is set out separately and forms 
part of this Report.
37.	 FAMILIARIZATION PROGRAMME FOR DIRECTORS:
Upon appointment of a new Independent Director, the 
Company issues a formal Letter of Appointment, which 
sets out in detail, inter-alia, the terms and conditions of 
appointment, their duties, responsibilities and expected time 
commitments. The terms and conditions of their appointment 
are disclosed on the Company’s corporate website.
The Board members are provided with the necessary 
documents, presentation, reports and policies to enable 
them to familiarize with the Company’s procedures 
and practices. Periodic presentations are made at the 
meetings of Board and its Committees, on Company’s 
performance. Detailed presentations on the Company’s 
businesses and updates on relevant statutory changes 
and important laws are also given in the meetings.
For the financial year 2022-23, familiarization program for 
Directors was held in February, 2023 to give an overview 
of key regulatory changes in corporate laws in India 
covering the amendments in SEBI Listing Regulations 
and Companies Act, 2013. The details of familiarization 
program for Directors are posted on the Company’s 
corporate website at https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.
aspx?CID=26
38.	 PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES REMUNERATION:
i)	
The information as per the provisions of Section 
197(12) of the Act, read with Rules 5(2) and (3) of 
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 as amended, is 
provided separately and forms part of the Annual 
Report. Further, the Report and Financial Statements 
are being sent to the members excluding the 
aforesaid annexure.
	
In terms of the provisions of Section 136 of the Act 
the same is open for inspection at the Registered 
Office of the Company. Members who are interested 
in obtaining such particulars may write to the 
Company Secretary of the Company.
ii)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the 
median employee(s) remuneration and other details 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 197(12) 
of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
86
Board's Report
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 are set out in Annexure-IV 
to the Board’s Report.
39.	 DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY:
The Dividend Distribution Policy as adopted sets out the 
basis for determining the distribution of dividend to the 
shareholders, as required under Regulation 43A of the 
Listing Regulations. It forms part of the Annual Report 
and is also placed on the Company’s corporate website at 
https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/dividend_distribution_policy.
pdf.
40.	 PARTICULARS 
REGARDING 
CONSERVATION 
OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
i)	
Conservation of Energy:
The operations of the Company are not energy intensive. 
However, every effort is taken to conserve energy in 
all possible ways. In past few years, the Company has 
undertaken several initiatives not only in the areas of 
energy efficiency across locations to conserve energy but 
also in the area of pollution control. We are consciously 
working on climate change issues by improving its process 
efficiency and taking initiatives in energy efficiency. For 
instance, the Company started using ‘Vio-Green Plate 
Technology’ (waterless chemistry) to save water, installed 
various water harvesting structures, star rated energy 
efficient air conditioners, LED lights to save & conserve 
energy and solar panels at Kanpur.
For further details on the Company’s ESG practices, 
please refer the Business Responsibility & Sustainability 
Report forming part of the Annual Report.
ii)	
Technology Absorption:
Technology absorption is a continuing process. Besides 
stabilizing the initiatives taken in past few years, the 
Company moved to adopt mobile applications for filing 
stories by the reporters from the field itself to enable us 
to capture the news till very last and for various approvals 
needed in workflow.
iii)	
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo:
The details of earnings and outgo in foreign exchange 
are as under:
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
Year ended 
March 31, 
2023
Year ended 
March 31, 
2022
Foreign exchange earned
2,796.46
2,692.46
Foreign exchange outgo
i.	 Import of Raw Materials
13,437.36 
10,642.70
ii.	 Import of stores and 
spares
0
1.10
iii.	Import of Capital goods
0
-
iv.	 Travelling Expenses
22.99 
14.07
v.	 Other Expenses
488.52 
566.18
41.	 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
The Directors would like to express their sincere 
appreciation of the cooperation and support received 
from the Readers, Hawkers, Advertisers, Advertising 
Agencies, Bankers, Credit Rating Agencies, Depositories, 
Stock Exchanges, Registrar and Share Transfer Agents, 
Suppliers, Associates, Advisors, Authorities as well as 
our Shareholders at large during the year under review.
The Directors also place on record their deep sense of 
gratitude for the commitment, abilities, contribution and 
hard work of all executives, officers and staff who enabled 
the Company to consistently deliver satisfactory and 
rewarding performance in a challenging environment. 
Their dedicated efforts and enthusiasm have been pivotal 
to the growth of the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Kanpur 	
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Date: May 30, 2023 	
Chairman and Managing Director
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
87
Annual Report   2022-23
ANNEXURE-I
NOMINATION, REMUNERATION AND EVALUATION 
POLICY
This Nomination, Remuneration and Evaluation Policy (the 
“Policy”) applies to the Board of Directors (the “Board”), Key 
Managerial Personnel (the “KMP”) and the Senior Management 
Personnel of Jagran Prakashan Limited (the “Company”).
1.	
DEFINITIONS
•	
“Director” means a Director appointed to the Board 
of the Company;
•	
“Independent Director” shall have the meaning as 
defined under the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
relevant Rules made thereunder and the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as 
amended from time to time.
•	
“Key Managerial Personnel” (“KMP”) shall have the 
meaning as defined under the Companies Act, 
2013 read with relevant Rules made thereunder, as 
amended from time to time and any other applicable 
provisions for the time being in force.
•	
“Managing Director” shall have the meaning as 
defined under the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
relevant Rules made thereunder, as amended from 
time to time and any other applicable provisions for 
the time being in force.
•	
“Senior Management” shall mean the officers and 
personnel of the listed entity who are members of 
its core management team, excluding the Board of 
Directors, and shall also comprise all the members 
of the management one level below the Chief 
Executive Officer or Managing Director or Whole 
Time Director or Manager (including Chief Executive 
Officer and Manager, in case they are not part of the 
Board of Directors) and shall specifically include the 
functional heads, by whatever name called and the 
Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer.
	
In reference to the Company, the Senior Management 
Personnel would refer to personnel occupying the 
positions identified by Board / NRC, as per the 
organizational framework of the Company.
•	
“Whole-time Director(s)” includes a Director in the 
whole-time employment of the Company and shall 
have the meaning as defined under the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with relevant Rules made thereunder, 
as amended from time to time and any other 
applicable provisions for the time being in force.;
Words and definitions not defined herein, shall have the 
same meaning as provided in the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”) read with relevant Rules made thereunder 
and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“the Listing Regulations”) or other provisions as 
may be applicable, as amended from time to time.
This Policy complies with Section 178 of the Act read with 
the applicable Rules thereto and the Listing Regulations, 
as amended from time to time.
2.	
PURPOSE
The primary objective of the Policy is to provide a 
framework and set a standard for the nomination, 
remuneration and evaluation of the Directors, KMP and 
Senior Management Personnel. The Company aims to 
achieve a balance of merit, experience and skill amongst 
its Directors, KMP and Senior Management Personnel. 
The objectives of the policy, thus, would be:-
•	
To lay down criteria and terms and conditions with 
regard to identifying persons who are qualified to 
become Directors (Executive and Non-Executive) 
and persons who may be appointed or re-appointed 
as KMP and Senior Management Personnel and 
such other positions as may be decided and to 
determine their remuneration and recommend to 
the Board about appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of Directors and KMP.
•	
To determine remuneration based on the Company’s 
size and financial position, and trends and practices 
on remuneration prevailing in peer companies.
•	
Recommend to the Board, the remuneration of the 
Directors, KMP, Senior Management Personnel and 
other employees.
•	
To establish framework for evaluation of the 
performance of Directors, including Independent 
Directors, Committees of the Board and Board as a 
whole.
•	
To retain, motivate and promote talent and to ensure 
long-term sustainability of talented managerial 
persons and create competitive advantage.
•	
To devise a policy on Board Diversity.
•	
Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the independent directors, on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors.
3.	
ACCOUNTABILITY
•	
The Board is ultimately responsible for the 
appointment, re-appointment and removal of 
Directors, KMP and Senior Management Personnel.
•	
The Board has delegated responsibility for assessing 
and recommending the candidates for the role 
of Directors, KMP and laying down the criteria for 
selection of the Senior Management Personnel to 
the Committee, which makes recommendations to 
the Board.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
88
Board's Report
4.	
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
(“NRC”)
 
	
COMPOSITION:
•	
The Committee shall consist of a minimum 
three (3) Non-Executive Directors, majority of 
them being Independent Directors.
 
	
CHAIRPERSON:
•	
The Chairperson of the Committee shall be an 
Independent Director.
•	
The Chairperson of the Company may be 
appointed as a member of the Committee but 
shall not be a Chairperson of the Committee.
•	
In the absence of the Chairperson, the 
members of the Committee present at the 
meeting shall choose one amongst them to act 
as Chairperson.
•	
Chairperson of the Committee meeting or any 
other person authorized by him shall be present 
at the Annual General Meeting to answer the 
shareholders’ queries.
	
	
COMMITTEE MEMBERS’ INTERESTS:
•	
A member of the Committee is not entitled to 
be present when his or her own remuneration 
is discussed at a meeting or when his or her 
performance is being evaluated.
•	
The Committee may invite such executives, as 
it considers appropriate, to participate at the 
meetings of the Committee.
	
	
MEETING:
•	
The NRC shall meet at least once in a year.
•	
The quorum for a meeting of the NRC shall 
be either two members or one-third of the 
members of the Committee, whichever is 
greater, including at least one Independent 
Director in attendance.
	
	
VOTING:
•	
Matters arising for determination at Committee 
meetings shall be decided by a majority of 
votes of Members present and voting and 
any such decision shall, for all purposes, be 
deemed a decision of the Committee.
•	
In the case of equality of votes, the Chairperson 
of the meeting will have a casting vote.
	
	
GENERAL:
•	
Membership of the Committee shall be 
disclosed in the Annual Report.
•	
Term of the Committee shall be continued 
unless terminated / dissolved by the Board of 
Directors.
5.	
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE – 
RESPONSIBILITY
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for:
•	
reviewing the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge and experience) of 
the Board annually and making recommendations on 
any proposed changes to the Board to complement 
the Company’s corporate strategy;
•	
identifying individuals suitably qualified to be 
appointed as the Executive Directors, Independent 
Directors, KMPs and Senior Management Personnel 
for the Company;
•	
recommending to the Board on the selection of 
individuals nominated for directorship;
•	
formulating the criteria for determining qualification, 
positive attributes and recommending to the Board 
a policy relating to the remuneration for Executive 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other 
employees;
•	
assessing the independence of Independent 
Directors, so as to ensure that the individual meets 
with the requirement prescribed under the Act read 
with the Listing Regulations;
•	
such other key issues / matters as may be referred 
by the Board or as may be necessary in view of the 
Listing Regulations and provisions of the Act and 
Rules made thereunder;
•	
to make recommendations to the Board concerning 
any matters relating to the continuation in office of 
any Director at any time including the suspension or 
termination of service of an Executive Director as an 
employee of the Company subject to the provision 
of the law and their service contract;
•	
to devise a policy on Board diversity;
•	
to develop a succession plan for the Board and to 
regularly review the plan;
•	
lay down criteria for evaluation of the individual 
Directors, Committees and Board as a whole; and
•	
recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to Senior Management.
6.	
POSITIVE 
ATTRIBUTES 
AND 
QUALIFICATIONS 
OF DIRECTORS / KMPS / SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
PERSONNEL
When recommending a candidate for appointment or 
re-appointment, the Committee shall have regard to the 
following qualifications and positive attributes:
•	
assessing the appointee against a range of criteria 
which includes but not limited to qualifications, skills, 
industry experience, background and other qualities 
required to operate successfully in the position;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
89
Annual Report   2022-23
•	
the extent to which the appointee is likely to 
contribute to the overall effectiveness of the Board, 
work constructively with the existing directors 
and enhance the efficiencies of the Company; in 
case of KMPs and Senior Management Personnel 
their contribution towards effectiveness of the 
organization as a whole would be considered;
•	
the nature of existing positions held by the appointee 
including directorships or other relationships and 
the impact they may have on the appointee’s ability 
to exercise independent judgment;
•	
ability of the appointee to represent the Company;
•	
ability to work individually as well as a member of 
the Board and senior management;
•	
influential communicator with power to convince 
other in a positive way;
•	
ability to participate actively in deliberation and 
group processes;
•	
have strategic thinking and facilitation skills;
•	
act impartially keeping in mind the interest of the 
Company on priority basis;
•	
Personal specifications:
	
	
-	
Educational qualification;
	
	
-	
Experience of management in a diverse 
organization;
	
	
-	
Interpersonal, 
communication 
and 
representational skills;
	
	
-	
Demonstrable leadership skills;
	
	
-	
Commitment to high standards of ethics, 
personal integrity and probity;
	
	
-	
Commitment to the promotion of equal 
opportunities, community cohesion and health 
and safety in the workplace.
7.	
INDEPENDENCE OF A DIRECTOR
The key role of an Independent Director is to provide 
an unbiased, varied and experienced perspective 
to the Board. While evaluating the candidature of 
a Director, the Committee abides by the criteria for 
determining Independence as stipulated under the Act, 
Listing Regulations and other applicable regulations or 
guidelines, as amended from time to time.
The Committee takes a broad perspective with respect to 
Independence and takes into consideration not only the 
dealings, transactions, relationships with the concerned 
Individual Director(s) but also with the relatives, as 
defined in Section 2(77) of the Act, and affiliated entities 
and organizations.
The Committee, along with the Board, regularly reviews 
the skill and characteristics required from the Board & 
Individual Directors. One of the prime objectives of this 
exercise is to identify competency gaps in the Board 
and make suitable recommendations. The objective is 
to have a Board of diverse background and experience 
in business, technology, governance and areas that are 
relevant for the Company.
Besides considering all other qualifications w.r.t to talent, 
relevant professional experience, proven track-record of 
performance and achievement, ethics and integrity and 
the ability to bring in fresh and independent perspectives, 
the Committee objectively evaluates whether an 
individual can dispassionately discharge the statutory 
functions of a Director as enshrined in the Act and Listing 
Regulations.
8.	
BOARD DIVERSITY
The Board shall consist of such number of Directors 
including at least one woman independent director as 
is necessary to effectively manage a company of the 
size of Jagran Prakashan Limited. The Board shall have 
an optimum combination of Executive and Independent 
Directors.
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee will lead the 
process for Board appointments. All Board appointments 
will be based on meritocracy in the context of the skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge, which the 
Board as a whole requires to be effective. The candidates 
will be considered against objective criteria, having due 
regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board. The 
Company believes that increased diversity in Board is 
associated with better financial performance, greater 
innovation and has a positive impact on the Company.
9.	
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
Each Director, including Executive Directors, Independent 
Directors, KMPs and Senior Management Personnel 
are required to sign the letter of appointment with the 
Company containing the terms of appointment and the 
role assigned in the Company.
The term / tenure of the Directors including Executive 
Directors and Independent Directors shall be in 
accordance with the applicable laws.
10.	 REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS, KEY MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
The Committee will determine individual remuneration 
packages for Directors and lay down criteria for deciding 
upon the remuneration of KMPs and Senior Management 
Personnel of the Company, taking into account factors 
it deems relevant, including but not limited to market, 
business performance and practices in comparable 
companies, having due regard to financial and commercial 
health of the Company as well as prevailing laws and 
government/other guidelines. The core factors taken into 
consideration are:
	
•	
Industry practice and benchmarks;
	
•	
Long-term value creation.
	
•	
Reward achievement of results on the basis of 
prudent practice, responsibility and risk-taking 
abilities.
	
•	
Attract and retain and motivate the best professionals.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
90
Board's Report
	
•	
Reward the experience and professional track-
record.
	
•	
Ensure equity within the Group and competitiveness 
outside it.
	
•	
Ensure transparency in its remuneration policy
	
FOR 
EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS 
(MANAGING 
DIRECTOR(S) AND WHOLE- TIME DIRECTOR(S)):
•	
Section 197(1) of the Act provides for the total 
managerial remuneration payable by the Company 
to its directors, including managing director and 
whole-time director, and its manager in respect of 
any financial year shall not exceed eleven percent of 
the net profits of the Company for that financial year 
computed in the manner laid down in Section 198 
in the manner as prescribed under the Act.
•	
The Company, with the approval of the shareholders 
by way of special resolution, may authorise the 
payment of remuneration exceeding eleven percent 
of the net profits of the Company, subject to the 
provisions of Schedule V of the Act.
•	
The Company may, with the approval of the 
shareholders by way of special resolution, authorise 
the payment of remuneration up to five percent of the 
net profits of the Company to its any one Managing 
Director / Whole-Time Director / Manager and ten 
percent in case of more than one such officer.
•	
The fees or compensation payable to executive 
directors who are promoters or members of the 
promoter group, shall be subject to the approval of 
the shareholders by special resolution in general 
meeting, if-
(i)	
the annual remuneration payable to such 
executive director exceeds rupees 5 Crores 
or 2.5 per cent of the net profits of the listed 
entity, whichever is higher; or
(ii)	
where there is more than one such director, 
the aggregate annual remuneration to such 
directors exceeds 5 per cent of the net profits 
of the listed entity:
	
Provided that the approval of the shareholders 
under this provision shall be valid only till the expiry 
of the term of such director.
	
FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS:
•	
The Company may pay remuneration to its directors, 
other than Managing Director(s) and Whole Time 
Director(s) up to one percent of the net profits of the 
Company, if there is a managing director or whole-
time director or manager and three percent of the 
net profits in any other case.
•	
Section 197(5) provides for remuneration by way 
of a fee to a director for attending meetings of the 
Board of Directors and Committee meetings or for 
any other purpose as may be decided by the Board.
•	
The Independent Directors shall not be entitled to 
any stock option and may receive remuneration 
by way of fee for attending meetings of the Board 
or Committee thereof or for any other purpose as 
may be decided by the Board and profit related 
commission as may be approved by the members.
•	
The sitting fee to the Independent Directors & 
Woman Director(s) shall not be less than the sitting 
fee payable to other directors.
•	
The approval of shareholders by special resolution 
shall be obtained every year, in which the annual 
remuneration payable to a single non-executive 
director exceeds fifty per cent of the total annual 
remuneration payable to all non-executive directors, 
giving details of the remuneration thereof.
	
GENERAL:
•	
The remuneration payable to the Directors shall be 
as per the Company’s Policy and shall be valued as 
per the Income Tax Rules.
•	
The remuneration payable to Directors shall be 
subject to the approval of Shareholders, if required, 
as per the provisions of applicable laws.
•	
The net profits for the purpose of the above 
remuneration shall be computed in the manner 
referred to in Section 198 of the Act.
•	
The Company may opt for Directors including 
Independent Directors & Officers Liability Insurance, 
in accordance with the Policy.
•	
Where any insurance is taken by the Company on 
behalf of its Whole-time Director, Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Company 
Secretary and any other employees for indemnifying 
them against any liability, the premium paid on 
such insurance shall not be treated as part of the 
remuneration payable to any such personnel. 
Provided that if such person is proved to be guilty, 
the premium paid on such insurance shall be treated 
as part of the remuneration.
	
FOR KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL AND SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
•	
The remuneration payable to the KMPs and the 
Senior Management Personnel shall be as per the 
criteria decided by the Committee having regard to 
their experience, leadership abilities, initiative taking 
abilities and knowledge base.
•	
The remuneration, in whatever form, payable to 
senior management will be recommended to the 
Board by the Committee
	
FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES
•	
The policy for determination of the remuneration of 
employees other than Directors, KMPs and Senior 
Management Personnel shall be as per the normal 
process followed by the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
91
Annual Report   2022-23
11.	 EVALUATION 
/ 
ASSESSMENT 
OF 
BOARD 
/ 
COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD
The Committee shall undertake a formal and rigorous 
annual evaluation of the Board, including its Committees 
and Individual Directors. The evaluation of performance of 
the Board shall be independent and objective and should 
take into account the overall impact of their functioning 
on the Company and its Stakeholders. Besides the 
performance evaluation of Individual Directors, evaluation 
of the performance of the Committees and the Board as a 
whole is also required to be conducted. The performance 
evaluation shall be undertaken on yearly basis, starting 
from financial year 2014-15, the schedule of which may 
be laid down by the Committee.
	
PERFORMANCE REVIEW OF THE DIRECTORS:
The Committee is required to establish mechanism for 
Performance Evaluation & Assessment of the Directors 
including the Independent Directors. The evaluation 
/ assessment of the Directors of the Company is to be 
conducted on an annual basis to cater to the requirements 
of the Act and the requirements of the Listing Regulations. 
The following criteria may assist in determining how 
effective the performances of the Directors have been:
•	
Leadership qualities contributing to corporate 
objectives & plans;
•	
Communication of expectations & concerns clearly 
with colleagues;
•	
Obtain adequate, relevant & timely information from 
external sources;
•	
Review & approval achievement of strategic and 
operational plans, objectives, budgets;
•	
Regular monitoring of corporate results against 
projections;
•	
Identify, monitor & mitigate significant corporate 
risks;
•	
Assess policies, structures & procedures;
•	
Effective meetings;
•	
Assuring appropriate board size, composition, 
independence, structure;
•	
Clearly defining roles & monitoring activities of 
committees; and
•	
Review of organization’s ethical conduct.
The Committee shall finalize a series of assessment 
questionnaire to enable such evaluation being conducted. 
Once the assessment is completed, the Committee shall 
evaluate such assessments. The Company may engage 
external consultants / agencies to provide assistance in 
the evaluation process. Further, the Committee needs to 
review the implementation and compliance of evaluation 
process
	
PERFORMANCE 
REVIEW 
BY 
INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS:
In accordance with the mandate given under the Act & 
Listing Regulations, Independent Directors will hold at 
least one separate meeting without the attendance of 
non- independent directors and members of management 
starting from the financial year 2014- 15 onwards.
	
The Independent Directors, in the meeting, shall:
(a)	
review the performance of non-independent 
directors and the Board as a whole;
(b)	
review the performance of the Chairperson of the 
Company, taking into account the views of Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors;
(c)	
assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Company Management 
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
	
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEES:
Performance Evaluation of the respective Committees 
shall be done by the Board. The performance evaluation 
shall be undertaken on an annual basis, starting from 
financial year 2014-15, the schedule of which may be 
laid down by the Committee.
12.	 SUCCESSION PLANNING
The Company recognizes the need of a formal, proactive 
process, which can assist in building a leadership 
pipeline / talent pool to ensure continuity of leadership 
for all critical positions. Succession Planning involves 
assessment of challenges and opportunities facing the 
Company, and an evaluation of skills and expertise that 
would be required in future.
The NRC will work with the Board to develop plans and 
processes for orderly succession to the Board and Senior 
Management. The Committee shall endeavor to develop 
a diverse pool of candidates who may be considered to 
fill the gap in Board positions or Senior Management in 
case of any eventuality. The Committee would ensure 
that the Company is prepared for changes in Senior 
Management, either planned or unplanned. Succession 
Planning Process would cover identification of internal 
candidates, development plans for internal candidates, 
and identification of external candidates. The Committee 
would also assist in formulating an emergency succession 
contingency plan for unforeseen events like death, 
disability etc. The Board will periodically monitor the 
review and monitor the succession planning process.
13.	 REVIEW OF THE POLICY
This Policy shall be reviewed by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee periodically or as and when it 
is statutorily required in order to ensure that it meets the 
requirements of latest market requirements and trends 
and the Committee shall make recommendations to the 
Board on required amendments.
The policy shall be placed on the website of the Company, 
and the salient features of the policy and changes therein, 
if any, along with the web address of the policy shall be 
disclosed in the Directors’ Report.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
92
Board's Report
ANNEXURE-II
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities
 (Pursuant to the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies  
(Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014)
1.	
A brief outline of the Company's CSR policy, including 
overview of projects or programs proposed to be 
undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR 
Policy and projects or programs.
	
I.	
Policy Objective
Jagran Prakashan Limited (“JPL” or “the Company”) 
is committed to conduct its business in a socially 
responsible, ethical and in an environment friendly 
manner and to continuously work towards improving 
quality of life of the communities in its operational 
areas.
II.	
Principles
The CSR activities of the Company will be 
implemented in accordance with the following 
principles:
•	
Businesses should respect, protect, and make 
efforts to restore the environment.
•	
Businesses should respect the interests of, 
and be responsive towards all stakeholders, 
especially those who are disadvantaged, 
vulnerable and marginalised.
•	
Businesses should respect and promote human 
rights.
•	
Business work should towards equal 
development of society.
•	
Business should respect cultural ethnicity 
and dignity of individuals and foster positive 
relationship with the people in the areas where 
the Company operates.
•	
Business should provide development 
opportunities to local communities in a 
culturally appropriate manner, in consultation & 
cooperation with local government authorities 
and other stakeholders, as may be appropriate.
•	
Business should endeavour to develop local 
entrepreneurship and encouraging use of local 
goods, services and manpower to promote 
inclusive economic growth of local areas.
III.	
Scope of CSR Activities
In line with the broad principles defined above, 
the Company would have freedom and flexibility 
to choose from any of the activities specified 
in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, as 
amended from time to time. Thus, with any change 
in the statutory provisions governing the activities, 
the policy shall be deemed to include / exclude such 
activities as permissible under law.
The list and implementation modalities may 
be modified from time to time, as per the 
recommendations of the CSR Committee.
The Company has framed a CSR Policy in 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the same is placed on the Company’s 
website at www.jplcorp.in and the web-link for 
the same is https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/JP-CSR-
POLICY-04032021.pdf
IV.	 CSR activities are carried out through:
•	
Pehel, the Initiative – Monitoring agency 
registered under Societies Registration Act, 
1860.
•	
Contribution / donation made to such 
organizations / institutions as may be permitted 
under the applicable laws from time to time.
•	
Collaboration with other companies / agencies 
undertaking projects / programs in CSR 
activities.
•	
Directly by the Company for fulfilling its 
responsibilities towards various stakeholders.
For financial year 2022-23, the CSR activities were 
carried out directly by the Company.
2.	
Composition of the CSR Committee:
S. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/ nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the year
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Chairman of the Committee 
/ Chairman and Managing 
Director
1
1
2.
Sanjay Gupta
Member of the Committee / 
Whole-time Director 
1
1
3.
Vikram Sakhuja
Member of the Committee / 
Independent Director
1
1
(For further details on the meeting of the CSR Committee, please refer to the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of the 
Annual Report).
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
93
Annual Report   2022-23
3.	
The weblink for composition of the CSR Committee is: https://jplcorp.in/new/BOD.aspx?PID=20
4.	
Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report): Not Applicable
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any: Nil
6.	
Average net profit before tax of the Company as per section 135(5): `26,705.01 Lakhs.
7.	
(a) 	 Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): `534.10 Lakhs
	
(b) 	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: Nil.
	
(c) 	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: Nil
	
(d) 	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): `534.10 Lakhs
	
8.	
(a) 	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
S. 
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the list of 
activities in 
Schedule VII 
to the Act
Local 
area 
(Yes/
No)
Location of the 
project
Project 
duration
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project
(estimated 
amount) 
Amount 
spent in 
the current 
financial 
Year (2021-
22) 
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account 
for the 
project as 
per Section 
135(6)
Mode of 
Implem- 
entation - 
Direct (Yes/
No)
Mode of 
Implementation 
- Through 
Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
number
1.
initiatives 
towards 
promoting 
education
Promoting 
education
Yes
Primarily 
Kanpur
Lucknow, 
Varanasi,
Noida
The 
Project is 
expected 
to 
complete 
on or 
before 
31st March 
2026
`550.00 
Lakhs
The entire 
amount 
allocated 
for CSR 
activities 
was 
transferred 
to the 
Unspent 
CSR 
Account
`550.00 
Lakhs
Yes, the 
Company 
will directly 
spend 
the funds 
allocated 
for CSR 
Expenditure
N.A.
N.A.
Total
`550.00 
Lakhs
`550.00 
Lakhs
(b) 	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: Nil
(c) 	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
(d) 	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not applicable
(e) 	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): Nil
(f) 	
Excess amount for set off, if any: Nil
S. 
No.
Particular
Amount (in ` Lakhs.)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the 
company as per section 135(5)
534.10
(Entire amount was transferred to the Unspent CSR account to 
be spent in accordance to the provisions of the Act.)
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year*
-
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year 
[(ii)-(i)]
-
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
- 
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding 
financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
-
Jagran Prakashan Limited
94
Board's Report
	
9.	
(a)	
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
S. 
No.
Preceding
Financial
Year.
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135 (6) 
(in `)
Amount 
spent in the 
reporting 
Financial Year 
(in `).
Amount transferred to any fund 
specified under Schedule VII as per 
section 135(6), if any.
Amount remaining to be spent 
in succeeding financial years. 
(in `)
Name of 
the Fund
Amount  
(in `).
Date of 
transfer.
1
2020-21
`680.00 Lakhs
`247.05 
Lakhs
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
`36.08 Lakhs (i.e. interest 
earned on unspent CSR 
account).
2
2021-22
`552.00 Lakhs
`266.46 
Lakhs
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
`311.81 Lakhs (Including 
interest earned on unspent 
CSR account)
Note: Interest earned as on March 31, 2023 on amount held as deposit in the unspent CSR account amounting to `36.08 Lakhs and 
`26.27 Lakhs relating to the year 2020-21 and 2021-22 respectively shall be utilized in future in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act. Amount spent in the reporting financial year is excluding GST.
	
	
(b) 	 Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
S.
No. Project ID.
Name of the 
Project.
Financial Year 
in which the 
project was 
commenced.
Project 
duration.
Total 
amount 
allocated for 
the project 
(in `).
Amount 
spent on the 
project in 
the reporting 
Financial 
Year (in `).
Cumulative 
amount 
spent at 
the end of 
reporting
Financial
Year. (in `)
Status of 
the project 
-Completed /
Ongoing.
1
FY31.03.2021_1
Public outreach 
campaigns 
on COVID-19 
awareness and / 
or vaccination
2020-21
Up to 
2023-24
Up to 
`720.00 
Lakhs
247.05
`705.23 
Lakhs
Ongoing
1
FY31.03.2021_1
Public outreach 
campaigns 
on COVID-19 
awareness and / 
or vaccination
2021-22
Up to 
2024-25
Up to 
`571.00 
Lakhs
`266.46 
Lakhs
`266.46 
Lakhs
Ongoing
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, 
furnish the details relating to the asset so created 
or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year: 
(asset-wise details).
	
	
(a) 	 Date of creation or acquisition of the capital 
asset(s): Not Applicable
	
	
(b) 	 Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition 
of capital asset. Nil
(c) 	 Details of the entity or public authority or 
beneficiary under whose name such capital 
asset is registered, their address etc. Not 
Applicable
(d) 	 Provide details of the capital asset(s) created 
or acquired (including complete address and 
location of the capital asset).: Not Applicable
	
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to 
spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
section 135(5):
As a socially responsible corporate citizen, JPL has 
been persistently exploring novel opportunities and 
possibilities in the form of sustainable programs or 
projects for its CSR activities in order to create larger 
social impact and positive changes in the lives of 
community, keeping in line with the Saat Sarokar. 
The Company supports a charitable trust, Shri 
Puran Chandra Gupta Smarak Trust (“the Trust”), 
to discharge its social responsibilities. Pehel, an 
outfit of the Trust provides social services such as 
organizing workshops/seminars to voice different 
social issues, health camps / road shows for creating 
awareness on the social concerns and helping the 
underprivileged. The Trust, under its aegis, has 
also been imparting primary, secondary, higher and 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
95
Annual Report   2022-23
professional education to about 12,000 students 
through schools and colleges at Kanpur, Noida, 
Lucknow, Varanasi, Dehradun and smaller towns 
like Kannauj and Basti.
For the financial year 2022-23, on the 
recommendation of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee, Board has approved to 
spend an amount of `550 Lakhs as CSR expenditure 
as against the obligation of `534.10 Lakhs towards 
promotion of education as per the approved plan, 
by way of contribution to Shri Puran Chandra 
Gupta Smarak Trust, a charitable trust, (“Trust”) for 
the establishment, expansion, administration and 
maintenance of academic institutions in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule VII to the Act and 
the CSR Policy of the Company. The entire amount 
of `550 Lakhs has been transferred to the Unspent 
Corporate Social Responsibility Account, which 
shall be spent in three years, in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act.
For and on behalf of the CSR Committee
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Place: Kanpur	 	
(Chairman & Managing Director /
Date: May 30, 2023 	
Chairman of CSR Committee
Jagran Prakashan Limited
96
Board's Report
ANNEXURE-III
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar,
Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh – 208005
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Jagran Prakashan Limited (hereinafter 
called as “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in 
a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon. Based on our verification of the Company’s 
books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other 
records maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, We 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the 
audit period covering the financial year ended on March 31, 
2023 (“Audit Period”), complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-
processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023 according to 
the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules made 
there under as amended from time to time;
(ii)	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”) 
and the rules made there under;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed there under;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made there under to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings (Not applicable to 
the Company during the Audit Period);
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (“SEBI Act”), as amended from time to time:
(a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
(b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 (Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period);
(d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
(e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 
(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with the client (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period);
(g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 (Not applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period);
(h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
We further report that, having regard to the compliance 
system prevailing in the Company and as certified 
by management and on examination of the relevant 
documents and records in pursuance thereof, on test 
check basis, the Company has complied with the laws 
applicable specifically to the Company named as under:
(a)	
Delivery of Books and Newspapers (Public Libraries) 
Act, 1954;
(b)	
Newspaper (Price and Page) Act, 1956 (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
(c)	
Press (Objectionable Matter) Act, 1951 (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
(d)	
Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867;
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
97
Annual Report   2022-23
I.	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (as amended from 
time to time);
II.	
The Listing Agreement as entered into by the 
Company with the Stock Exchange(s).
During the period under review, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above,
We further report that, the Company had statutory 
obligation to spent `550 Lakhs towards CSR expenditure 
for the year 2021-2022. However the company had 
transferred `552 Lakhs to the Unspent Corporate Social 
Responsibility Account in the financial year 2021-22. in 
compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 
2013 i.e. within thirty days from the closure of financial 
year March 31, 2022. By March 31, 2023, an amount of 
`266.46 Lakhs was spent from the Unspent Corporate 
Social Responsibility Account during the year towards 
the ongoing project. The balance amount along with 
interest in the Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility 
Account shall be utilized in future in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act.
For the financial year 2022-2023, the Company has a 
statutory obligation of `534.10 Lakhs towards CSR 
expenditure. The company transferred `550 Lakhs in 
the Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility Account on 
March 31, 2023 which shall be spent in three years, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act.
We further report that, the Board of Directors of the 
Company is duly constituted with proper balance of 
Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors. The changes in the composition 
of the Board of Directors that took place are in compliance 
with applicable provisions during the review period.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
All decisions at the Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings have been carried out without dissent, as 
recorded in the minutes of the meetings of the Board or 
Committees of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that, there exist adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
	
We further report that, during the Audit Period:
(a)	
There was no instance of issue of Public/Right/
Preferential issue of shares/debentures/sweat 
equity etc.
(b)	
Pursuant to the resolution passed by the Board of 
Directors at its meeting held on November 04, 2022 
and approval of Members by way of passing special 
resolution dated 17th December, 2022 through 
Postal Ballot by way of voting through electronic 
means only the Company has approved buyback of 
4,60,00,000 fully paid-up equity shares of face value 
of `2/- each (“Equity Shares”) at Maximum Buyback 
Price of `75/- per Equity Share, representing 17.45% 
of total paid up equity share capital of the Company 
for an aggregate amount of `34,500 Lakhs. The 
Company has completed Buyback through tender 
offer process as prescribed under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) 
Regulations, 2018. The Buyback of Equity Shares 
open from March 02, 2023 and closes on March 16, 
2023.
Further, during the year under review there were no 
instances of Redemption of Securities.
(c)	
There were no major decisions taken by the 
members in pursuance to section 180 of the Act;
(d)	
There was no instance of merger / amalgamation / 
re-construction, etc.
(e)	
There was no instance of foreign technical 
collaborations.
For ADESH TANDON & ASSOCIATES
Company Secretaries
Peer Reviewed Unit: 741/2020
UDIN:F002253E000406459
(Adesh Tandon)
Proprietor
Place: Kanpur
FCS No. 2253
Date: May 30, 2023
C. P. No.1121
Note: This Report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure-A and forms an integral part 
of this report.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
98
Board's Report
‘ANNEXURE - A’
To,
The Members
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc. 
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
For ADESH TANDON & ASSOCIATES
Company Secretaries
(Adesh Tandon)
Proprietor
Place: Kanpur
FCS No. 2253
Date: May 30, 2023
C. P. No.1121
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
99
Annual Report   2022-23
ANNEXURE-IV
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
READ WITH RULE 5 OF COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
The information required under Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 including any statutory amendments, modifications, if any, is given below:
I.	
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
financial year 2022-23:
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
Ratio (Remuneration of each 
Director to Median Remuneration)
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta – Chairman & Managing Director
28X
2.
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta – Whole-time Director
84X
3.
Sanjay Gupta –Whole-time Director 
87X
4.
Sunil Gupta – Whole-time Director
95X
5.
Sandeep Gupta – Whole-time Director 
34X
6.
Shailesh Gupta – Whole-time Director
77X
7.
Satish Chandra Mishra – Whole-time Director
13X
II.	
Percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary or Manager in 
the financial year 2022-23:
S. 
No.
Name of the Director / CFO / 
CS / Manager
Designation
% increase between (I) and (II)
[(I-II)/II*100]
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Chairman & Managing Director
-49
2.
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta^
Whole-time Director
0.9
3.
Sanjay Gupta^
Whole-time Director 
1.6
4.
Sunil Gupta^
Whole-time Director
3
5.
Sandeep Gupta#
Whole-time Director
-0.06
6.
Shailesh Gupta^
Whole-time Director
-0.1
7.
Satish Chandra Mishra
Whole-time Director
21.5
8.
Amit Jaiswal$
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
39
^There is no change in the salary of the Whole-time Directors. However, the percentage changes in the remuneration are attributed to 
changes in the value of perquisites.
# Mr. Sandeep Gupta who was earlier working as an Executive President was appointed as the Whole-time Director of the Company w.e.f. 
May 30, 2022 at his existing salary of `9,10,000/- (Rupees Nine Lakhs and Ten Thousand Only) per month and perquisites not exceeding 
`10,00,000/- (Rupees Ten Lakhs Only) per month. The remuneration that he drew as Executive President has been considered for calculating 
the percentage increase in remuneration.
$ Mr. Amit Jaiswal was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f. November 1, 2021.
Remuneration includes Salary plus Value of contribution to provident fund in excess of `7.5 Lakhs p.a. is considered in value of perquisites 
as provided in table above.
III.	
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2022-23 is 10.69%.
IV.	 Number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company – There were 4,786 permanent employees as on March 
31, 2023.
V.	
Average percentile increase/decrease already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel 
in the last financial year and its comparison with percentile increase/decrease in managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase/decrease in the managerial 
remuneration.
Average decrease in remuneration of managerial personnel (as identified as per Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the 
Company as applicable for the financial year), was 3.55% and average increase in remuneration of employees other than 
these managerial personnel was 9.32% which is based Remuneration Policy of the Company. The average increase/decrease 
in remuneration of managerial personnel and employees other than managerial personnel are calculated considering those 
employees who were employed in both financial years.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
100
Board's Report
VI.	 Affirmation that remuneration is as per remuneration policy of the company
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration of all employees is in accordance with the remuneration policy of the Company.
VII.	 Details of Whole Time Directors or Managing Directors who are in receipt of any commission from the Company as 
well as holding company or subsidiary company:
Name of WTD or MD
Details of commission received from the company (In `) (%)
Commission received from the Holding 
Company / Subsidiary Company (Name 
of the company) (Relationship) (In `) (%)
NONE
	
Note:
	
a)	
Remuneration includes salary, allowances and taxable value of perquisites and excludes contribution to provident fund, 
gratuity, and encashment of leaves as per rules of the Company.
For and on Behalf of Board
Place: Kanpur 	
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Date: May 30, 2023 	
Chairman and Managing Director
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
101
Annual Report   2022-23
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
1.	
Background and applicability
	
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Regulations”) require 
the top 500 listed companies (by market capitalisation) 
to disclose a Dividend Distribution Policy in the annual 
report and on the corporate website.
	
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Jagran Prakashan 
Limited (“Company”) has adopted this Dividend 
Distribution Policy to comply with these requirements.
	
The Company currently has only one class of shares, 
viz. equity, for which this policy is applicable. The policy 
is subject to review if and when the Company issues 
different classes of shares.
2.	
Dividend distribution philosophy
	
The Company is committed to driving value creation 
for all its stakeholders. The focus will continue to be on 
sustainable returns. The Board philosophy is to distribute 
maximum possible surplus cash to the shareholders.
3.	
Dividend
	
Dividend represents the profit of the Company, which is 
distributed to shareholders in proportion to the amount 
paid-up on shares they hold. Dividend includes Interim 
Dividend.
4.	
Circumstances under which shareholders can 
expect Dividend
	
The Board will assess the Company’s financial 
requirements, including present and future organic and 
inorganic growth opportunities and other relevant factors 
(as mentioned elsewhere in this policy) and declare 
Dividend in any financial year.
	
The Dividend for any financial year shall normally be paid 
out of the Company profits for that year. This will be arrived 
at after providing for depreciation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. If circumstances 
require, the Board may also declare dividend out of 
accumulated profits of any previous financial year(s) in 
accordance with provisions of the Act and Regulations, 
as applicable.
5.	
Interim and Final Dividend
	
The Board may declare one or more Interim Dividends 
during the year. Additionally, the Board may recommend 
Final Dividend for the approval of the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting. The date of the Board meeting 
in which the Dividend proposal will be considered, will be 
provided to the stock exchanges, as required by Listing 
Regulations.
6.	
Financial parameters and other internal and 
external factors that would be considered for 
declaration of Dividend:
	
•	
Distributable surplus available as per the Act and 
Regulations
	
•	
The Company’s liquidity position and future cash 
flow needs
	
•	
Mergers & Acquisitions
	
•	
Additional investment in subsidiaries/associates of 
the company
	
•	
Prevailing Taxation Policy or any amendments 
expected thereof, with respect to Dividend 
distribution
	
•	
Capital expenditure 
	
•	
Stipulations/ Covenants of loan agreements
	
•	
Any other relevant factors that the Board may deem 
fit to consider before declaring Dividend
7.	
Utilisation of retained earnings
	
Subject to applicable regulations, the Company’s retained 
earnings shall be applied for:
	
•	
Funding inorganic and organic growth needs 	
including working capital, capital expenditure, 
repayment of debt, etc.
	
•	
Buyback of shares subject to applicable limits
	
•	
Payment of Dividend in future years
	
•	
Issue of Bonus shares
	
•	
Any other permissible purpose
8.	
Modification of the Policy
	
The Board is authorised to change/amend this policy from 
time to time at its sole discretion and/or in pursuance of 
any amendments made in the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Regulations, etc.
9.	
Disclaimer
	
This document does not solicit investments in the 
Company’s securities. Nor is it an assurance of guaranteed 
returns (in any form), for investments in the Company’s 
equity shares.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
102
Report on Corporate Governance
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board of Directors (“the Board” / “the Directors”) of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited (“JPL” / “the Company”) present 
the Company’s Report on Corporate Governance for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 in terms of Regulation 34(3) read with 
Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(“SEBI”) (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), as amended from 
time to time.
At JPL, we believe that corporate governance is the cornerstone 
of an organization and expect all employees and Directors to 
ensure transparency in all dealings and in functioning of the 
Management and the Board. We are committed to enhancing 
long term stakeholder value without compromising on ethical 
standards and focus on better structure, rigorous checks and 
balances and greater independence of all key gate-keepers 
including Board and Auditors in line with our Saat Sarokaar, 
the seven principles, which are at the core of our editorial 
philosophy and are intrinsically linked to the real progress of 
our nation.
1.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE:
Corporate Governance is based on the principles of 
integrity, fairness, equity, transparency, accountability 
and commitment to values. Good governance practices 
stem from the culture and mindset of the organization. 
Corporate governance is an integral part of management, 
execution of business plans, policies and processes as 
the Company believes that it is, in essence, a toolkit to 
attain and enhance the Company’s standing in its social, 
regulatory and market environment, and ensure that the 
interests of all its stakeholders are balanced.
JPL continually strives to adhere to the highest levels 
of transparency, accountability and ethics in all its 
operations, at the same time fully realizing its social 
responsibilities. The Company’s focus on corporate 
governance is reflected in the following:
•	
Composition, size and functioning of and disclosures 
to the Board of Directors and its Committees.
•	
Board’s commitment to discharge duties and 
responsibilities entrusted upon it by the statutes 
and to live up to the expectations of stakeholders 
of the Company and public at large and evaluation 
of performance of the Board and its Committees, 
individual directors and the Chairman of the Board.
•	
Strong value systems and ethical business conduct 
guided by Saat Sarokaar.
•	
Sound mechanism in place for internal audit, 
statutory compliance, internal financial controls and 
risk management.
•	
Transparency, accountability, responsibility and 
ethics in all its operations.
•	
Putting in place the Code of Conduct for all the 
members of Board and team of senior management 
personnel.
•	
Putting in place the Code of Conduct to Regulate, 
Monitor and Report trading by Designated Persons 
and Immediate Relatives and Code of Practices and 
Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information.
•	
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy.
•	
Policy on Related Party Transactions and on dealing 
with Related Party Transactions.
•	
Efforts for prompt redressal of investors’ grievances.
•	
Appropriate delegation of authority and responsibility, 
monitoring of performance and collective decision 
making involving senior management team in all key 
decisions.
•	
Automated seamless integrated workflow to ensure 
consistency and timely flow of information.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
As on March 31, 2023, our Board of Directors comprises of 
eighteen (18) Directors, having an optimum combination 
of executive and non-executive directors. The Board is 
constituted of seven (7) Executive Directors and eleven 
(11) Non-Executive Directors, nine (9) of whom are 
Independent Directors (including one (1) Independent 
Woman Director), which constitutes 50% of the total 
strength of the Board. The composition of the Board is 
in conformity with the provisions of Regulation 17 of the 
Listing Regulations read with the provisions of Sections 
149 and 152 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act”) read 
with Rules made thereunder.
As the Chairman of the Board is an executive director, 
the requirement of provisions of Regulation 17(1)(b) of 
the Listing Regulations stipulating that if the chairperson 
of a company is an executive director, at least half of 
the Board should consist of independent directors, has 
been complied with. In the opinion of the Board, the 
Independent Directors of the Company fulfill the criteria of 
independence as envisaged in the provisions of Section 
149(6) of the Act read with the Rules made thereunder 
and Schedule IV thereto and also the criteria specified 
in the provisions of Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing 
Regulations, and are independent of the management.
The Board comprises Directors of repute, who are 
experienced business persons, professionals and 
executives. The Executive Directors of the Company 
command respect in the industry for their valuable 
experience and contribution. They look after the areas 
of responsibilities assigned to them and seek directions/ 
guidance from the Chairman and Managing Director on 
all important matters. JPL’s management team endeavors 
to adhere to the directions of the Board. They believe 
that an active, well-informed and independent Board is 
necessary to ensure the highest standards of corporate 
governance. In line with the Nomination, Remuneration 
and Evaluation Policy of the Company, the Directors are 
identified based on their qualifications, positive attributes, 
area of expertise etc.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
103
Annual Report   2022-23
The matrix of core skills/expertise/competencies identified by the Board as required in the context of the Company’s business 
and sector for it to function effectively and actually available with the Board and the names of Directors who possess such 
skills/expertise/competence is annexed hereto as Annexure-I.
The details of Directors seeking appointment / re-appointment, and changes in the Board are detailed in the Board’s Report 
read with the Notice convening the 47th Annual General Meeting, forming part of the Annual Report.
3.	
COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PARTICULARS THEREOF:
3.1	 The composition of the Board and other requisite details, in conformity with the provisions of Regulation 17 of the 
Listing Regulations and other applicable laws, are given in the table below:
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
Category of Director
Relationship with other Directors
Shareholding in the 
Company as at March 
31, 2023 (in number 
and percentage)
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta Promoter, Executive / Non-
Independent Director, Chairman 
and Managing Director
Brother of Dhirendra Mohan 
Gupta, Devendra Mohan Gupta 
and Shailendra Mohan Gupta; 
Father of Shailesh Gupta
125,359;
0.06%
2.
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta Promoter, Executive / Non-
Independent Whole-time 
Director
Brother of Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta, Devendra Mohan Gupta 
and Shailendra Mohan Gupta
269,078;
0.12%
3.
Sanjay Gupta
Promoter, Executive / Non-
Independent, Whole-time 
Director
Brother of Sandeep Gupta
53,000;
0.02%
4.
Shailesh Gupta
Executive / Non-Independent, 
Whole-time Director
Son of Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Nil
5.
Sunil Gupta
Executive / Non-Independent, 
Whole-time Director
-
100,000
0.05%
6.
Sandeep Gupta 
(appointed w.e.f. May 
30, 2022)
Executive / Non-Independent, 
Whole-time Director 
Brother of Sanjay Gupta
68,336;
0.03%
7.
Satish Chandra Mishra 
Executive / Non-Independent 
Whole-time Director
-
137
0.00%
8.
Devendra Mohan Gupta Non-Executive / Non-
Independent Director
Brother of Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta, Dhirendra Mohan Gupta 
and Shailendra Mohan Gupta
117,890;
0.05%
9.
Shailendra Mohan 
Gupta
Non-Executive / Non-
Independent Director
Brother of Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta, Dhirendra Mohan Gupta 
and Devendra Mohan Gupta
383,600;
0.18%
10.
Anuj Puri
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
11.
Dilip Cherian
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
12.
Divya Karani
Non-Executive / Independent 
Director
-
Nil
13.
Jayant Davar 
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
14.
Ravi Sardana 
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
15.
Shailendra Swarup
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
16.
Shashidhar Sinha
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
17.
Vijay Tandon
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
18.
Vikram Sakhuja 
Non-Executive /Independent 
Director
-
Nil
Jagran Prakashan Limited
104
Report on Corporate Governance
3.2	 Attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting (AGM):
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of Board Meetings 
entitled to attend during 
financial year 2022-23
No. of Board Meetings 
attended during financial 
year 2022-23
Whether attended last 
AGM held on August 29, 
2022
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
6
6
Yes
2.
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
6
6
No
3.
Sanjay Gupta
6
6
No
4.
Shailesh Gupta
6
6
No
5.
Sunil Gupta
6
6
Yes
6.
Sandeep Gupta (appointed w.e.f. May 
30, 2022)
5
5
Yes
7.
Satish Chandra Mishra 
6
6
Yes
8.
Devendra Mohan Gupta
6
6
Yes
9.
Shailendra Mohan Gupta
6
5
No
10.
Anuj Puri
6
5
No
11.
Dilip Cherian
6
5
No
12.
Divya Karani
6
3
No
13.
Jayant Davar 
6
5
No
14.
Ravi Sardana 
6
6
No
15.
Shailendra Swarup
6
6
No
16.
Shashidhar Sinha
6
5
No
17.
Vijay Tandon
6
6
Yes
18.
Vikram Sakhuja 
6
5
No
	
NOTES:
1.	
Relationship with other Director(s) means ‘Relative’ of other Director(s) as defined in the provisions of Section 2(77) of 
the Act.
2.	
The Company has not issued any convertible instrument(s).
4.	
NUMBER OF DIRECTORSHIP(S) AND CHAIRPERSONSHIP(S) / MEMBERSHIP(S) IN COMMITTEES OF 
OTHER COMPANIES AS AT MARCH 31, 2023:
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of 
directorships 
in other public 
companies 
(including listed 
and unlisted)
Details of directorship in other 
listed entities 
No. of committee positions held in other 
companies
Chairpersonship(s)
Membership(s)
(including 
chairpersonship(s))
1
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
1
Nil
Nil
Nil
2
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Nil
3
Sanjay Gupta
2
Nil
1
1
4
Shailesh Gupta
3
1 – Music Broadcast Limited 
as Non-Executive - Non 
Independent Director
Nil
2
5
Sunil Gupta
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Nil
6
Sandeep Gupta
2
Nil
Nil
Nil
7
Satish Chandra Mishra
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
8
Devendra Mohan Gupta
1
Nil 
Nil
Nil
9
Shailendra Mohan Gupta
1
Nil 
Nil
Nil
10
Anuj Puri
2
1 – Music Broadcast Limited as 
Non-Executive - Independent 
Director
2- Mahindra Lifespace 
Developers Limited as Non-
Executive – Additional Director 
(appointed w.e.f. November 3, 
2022)
Nil
1
11
Dilip Cherian
1
1 - Bajaj Consumer Care Limited 
as Non-Executive - Independent 
Director 
1
2
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
105
Annual Report   2022-23
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of 
directorships 
in other public 
companies 
(including listed 
and unlisted)
Details of directorship in other 
listed entities 
No. of committee positions held in other 
companies
Chairpersonship(s)
Membership(s)
(including 
chairpersonship(s))
12
Divya Karani
Nil 
Nil
Nil
Nil
13
Jayant Davar
4 
1-Sandhar Technologies Limited 
as Managing Director, Executive 
Director
2- HEG Limited-as Non-
Executive Independent Director
Nil
2
14
Ravi Sardana
1
1 - Music Broadcast Limited as 
Non-Executive - Independent 
Director
1
1
15
Shailendra Swarup
6
1- JK Paper Limited
(Non-Executive- Independent 
Director)
2-Gujarat Fluorochemicals 
Limited
(Non-Executive- Independent 
Director)
3- Sterling Tools Limited
(Non-Executive- Independent 
Director)
4- Bengal & Assam Company 
Limited
(Non-Executive- Independent 
Director)
5- Subros Limited
(Non-Executive- Independent 
Director)
2
6
16
Shashidhar Sinha
1
Nil
Nil
2
17
Vijay Tandon
1
1 – Music Broadcast Limited as 
Non-Executive - Independent 
Director, Chairman
2
2
18
Vikram Sakhuja
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Nil
NOTES:
1.	
This excludes directorships in private limited companies, foreign companies and companies licensed under Section 8 
of the Act / Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956, if any.
2.	
This relates to chairpersonship(s) / membership(s) in the Audit Committees and Stakeholders Relationship Committees 
of the board of public limited companies in compliance with the provisions of Regulation 26(1) of the Listing Regulations.
3.	
The directorships and committee memberships / chairpersonships of all Directors are in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act and the Listing Regulations.
5.	
BRIEF PROFILE OF THE DIRECTORS:
	
Dr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Dr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta (82 years) is the Chairman 
and Managing Director of the Company and also holds 
the position of Editorial Director of Dainik Jagran. He has 
been associated with Jagran Prakashan Limited since its 
inception.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Commerce. Dr. Gupta 
has more than 60 years of experience in the print media 
industry.
He has held various key positions in the industry 
including being the Chairman of United News of India 
(“UNI”), President of The Indian Newspaper Society 
(“INS”), President of Indian Languages Newspaper 
Association (“ILNA”), Council Member of Audit Bureau 
of Circulations, Member of Press Council of India and 
Member of Film Censor Board of India, Member of the 
Board and Chairman of Press Trust of India (PTI) besides 
holding senior honorary positions in various social 
and cultural organisations. Dr. Gupta was a Member of 
Parliament (Rajya Sabha) from April, 2006 to April, 2012 
and is presently member of Executive Committee of INS, 
the Board of PTI and is also Non-Executive Chairman / 
Director of Jagran Media Network Investment Private 
Limited, holding company of the Company. In May, 2018, 
the Jharkhand Rai University, Ranchi has conferred an 
Honorary Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in recognition 
of his outstanding contribution to media leadership 
and public life. His work for the cause of society, Indian 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
106
Report on Corporate Governance
trade and industry in general and newspaper industry in 
particular has been recognised by various social, cultural 
and professional bodies in India.
	
Mr. Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
Mr. Dhirendra Mohan Gupta (79 years) is a Whole-time 
Director of the Company. Mr. Gupta has been a Director 
of the Company since its inception. He holds a Bachelor’s 
degree in Arts. He has more than 55 years of experience 
in the print media industry. He is also Director of Jagran 
Media Network Investment Private Limited, holding 
company of the Company.
Mr. Sanjay Gupta
Mr. Sanjay Gupta (60 years) is a Whole-time Director of 
the Company and also holds the position of Editor in Chief 
of Dainik Jagran. Mr. Gupta has been a Director of the 
Company since 1993.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Science. He has more 
than 35 years of experience in the print media industry. 
Mr. Gupta is a Director of Midday Infomedia Limited, MMI 
Online Limited, YPO (Delhi Chapter) and Member of 
Executive Committee of The Indian Newspaper Society. 
He is also the Chairman of Board of Governors of the 
Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Amritsar. He is also 
a Director of Jagran Media Network Investment Private 
Limited, holding company of the Company.
Mr. Shailesh Gupta
Mr. Shailesh Gupta (54 years) is a Whole-time Director of 
the Company. He has been a Director of JPL since 1994.
He holds a bachelor’s degree in Commerce. Mr. Gupta 
has more than 30 years of experience in the media 
industry. He has held various key positions in the industry 
including being the President of The Indian Newspaper 
Society (INS) and Chairman of Council of Audit Bureau 
of Circulations (ABC). He is currently member of the 
Governing Board/ Council of INS and ABC, Vice Chairman 
of Media Research User’s Council (MRUC), Director of 
Music Broadcast Limited, Rave Real Estate Private Limited, 
MMI Online Limited and Midday Infomedia Limited. In 
December, 2017, The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) 
nominated Mr. Shailesh Gupta as INS Nominee on the 
Board of WAN-IFRA.
Mr. Sunil Gupta
Mr. Sunil Gupta (61 years) is a Whole-time Director of the 
Company. Mr. Gupta has been a Director of the Company 
since 1993. He holds a Bachelor’s and a Master’s 
Degree in Commerce. Mr. Gupta has more than 35 years 
of experience in the print media industry. He is also a 
Director of Jagran Media Network Investment Private 
Limited, holding company of the Company.
Mr. Sandeep Gupta
Mr. Sandeep Gupta, (58 years) is a Director and Whole-
time Director of the Company w.e.f. May 30, 2022. He has 
been associated with the Company for about 35 years in 
various capacities. Mr. Sandeep Gupta holds a bachelor’s 
degree in electrical engineering from Ohio University. 
Mr. Sandeep Gupta is Board member of WAN-IFRA-ASIA, 
Member of Entrepreneur’s Organization UP Chapter and 
is also Council Member of Merchants Chamber of Uttar 
Pradesh.
Mr. Satish Chandra Mishra
Mr. Satish Chandra Mishra (60 years) is a Whole-time 
Director of the Company. Mr. Mishra has been a Director 
of the Company since October 30, 2013.
Mr. Mishra completed his B.E. (Electronics) in 1983, 
P.G. Diploma in Human Resource Management and 
MBA (Major-Marketing Management, Minor-Operations 
Management). He has over 35 years of experience in 
Newspaper industry. Mr. Mishra is also the Occupier 
under Factories Act, 1948 for the printing centres of the 
Company.
Mr. Devendra Mohan Gupta
Mr. Devendra Mohan Gupta (73 years) is a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company. Mr. Gupta has been a Director 
of the Company since September 04, 2008.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering 
(Mechanical). Mr. Gupta has a vast experience in handling 
Product Design, Research & Development, Production, 
Purchase & Sales (Domestic & Overseas). He is pioneer in 
introducing D.C. Micro Motors technology in the country 
and Indian Standard Institution (I.S.I.) took Mr. Gupta on 
its Panel in the year 1979 for D.C. Micro Motors. Mr. Gupta 
has helped I.S.I. in formulating the specifications for D.C. 
Micro Motors & bringing out its first Standard IS: 9670 in 
the year 1980. He is the Managing Director of Jagmini 
Micro Knit Private Limited, and a Director of Jagran Micro 
Motors Limited and Jagran Media Network Investment 
Private Limited, holding company of the Company. He is 
the recipient of Export Award of Electronics & Computer 
Software Export Promotion Council (sponsored by the 
Ministry of Commerce, Govt. of India), New Delhi for the 
year 1995-96 from Hon’ble Minister of Commerce.
Mr. Shailendra Mohan Gupta
Mr. Shailendra Mohan Gupta (72 years) is a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company. He has been a Director of the 
Company since September 04, 2008.
Mr. Shailendra Mohan Gupta holds a Bachelor’s degree 
in Science. He has over 40 years of experience in 
administration, sales and marketing fields in Sugar, 
Alcohol and Electronics industries. He was a Joint 
Managing Director of Jagran Micro Motors Limited 
and Managing Director of Shakumbari Sugar & Allied 
Industries Limited. He is also the Director of Jagran Media 
Network Investment Private Limited, holding company 
of the Company, Jagran Micro Motors Limited and Om 
Multimedia Private Limited.
Mr. Anuj Puri
Mr. Anuj Puri (57 years) is an Independent Director of the 
Company. Mr. Puri has been a Director of the Company 
since January 31, 2013.
Mr. Anuj Puri is Group Chairman of ANAROCK Group 
and is widely acknowledged for revolutionizing the 
real estate sector with his visionary outlook and tech-
driven solutions. He has been the trusted advisor to 
developers, occupiers, and investors for decades. He 
holds a bachelor’s degree in commerce, is an Associate 
of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Associate of 
Chartered Insurance Institute -UK, Associate of Insurance 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
107
Annual Report   2022-23
Institute of Surveyors & Adjusters (India), and an Associate 
of Insurance Institute of India. Until February 2017, he 
was Chairman & Country Head of international property 
consultants - JLL India overseeing a team of over 9000 
employees in 11 cities. He was also a key member of JLL’s 
Asia Pacific Leadership Group and Head of its Global 
Retail Leasing Board. Mr. Puri had set up ANAROCK in 
2017 which is now India’s leading independent real estate 
consulting services Company with presence across 19 
cities in India and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and 
an employee strength of 2200+. Under his leadership, 
ANAROCK has added Residential Broking & Technology, 
Retail(in partnership with Vindico- UAE headquartered 
retail real estate specialist in tenant coordination and 
design review services), Commercial, Investment 
Banking, Hospitality (in partnership with HVS- a global 
leader in hospitality consulting & transaction advisory), 
Land Services, Industrial and Logistics (in partnership 
with Binswanger- US-headquartered industrial advisory 
& brokerage firm), Investment Management, Research, 
Strategic Advisory & Valuations, and Project Management 
Services (in partnership with Mace- UK headquartered 
project management and construction specialist), Flexi 
Spaces(in partnership with myHQ & Upflex) and Society 
Management Services(acquisition of ApnaComplex-India/
ANACITY-EMEA) and is aggressively expanding to newer 
geographies and real estate business verticals.
He has held various key positions in the real estate 
industry including MoHUA- Urban Expert Committee, 
Member of the Advisory Committee of Maharashtra 
Chamber of Housing Industry & Confederation of Real 
Estate Developers Association of India (MCHI-CREDAI), 
Member of Young Presidents Organization (YPO), Member 
of Construction Week India National Advisory Board, 
Member of Hotelier India Magazine’s Advisory Board and 
Advisory Board Member of CREDAI MCHI Forum for Real 
Estate Marketing Experience & Innovations. He is also 
Fellow Member of Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, 
UK - FRICS.
Mr. Dilip Cherian
Mr. Dilip Cherian (67 years) is an Independent Director 
of the Company. Mr. Cherian has been a Director of the 
Company since January 31, 2013.
He holds Bachelor’s and Master’s degree in Economics 
and has been a Chevening Fellow at the London School 
of Economics. Mr. Cherian is Founder & Consulting 
Partner of Perfect Relations, South Asia’s leading 
image management consultancy. He advises CEOs 
on Communications, Crisis and Public Affairs. Among 
Mr. Cherian’s other affiliations have included serving 
on the Governing Board of Advertising Standards 
Council of India and the Governing Council of the NID. 
Mr. Cherian has also spent time on the Apex Committee 
of Shareholder Grievance of the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs. Mr. Cherian serves on the Boards of a number of 
companies and Social Organisations.
Ms. Divya Karani
Ms. Divya Karani (57 years) is an Independent Director 
of the Company. Ms. Karani was appointed as an 
Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. November 
13, 2019.
Till March 2023, Divya was the chief executive officer, 
dentsu South Asia. Prior to that she served as chief 
executive officer of dentsu X India and dentsu media for 9 
years. Credited with building dentsu among the top three 
networks in India and dentsu X as the fastest growing 
agency for three consecutive years, as per RECMA 2022. 
Divya also represented India on dentsu’s Global Social 
Impact Steering Committee.
Divya has over 3 decades of professional experience. 
Working with global and local organizations, in South 
Asia, London & APAC. She has worked at agencies 
like Grey, Ogilvy, MediaCom, MEC (India & Singapore), 
Reliance ADA Group and Hindustan Times Media. She 
has won and successfully run media mandates, for large 
Indian and global clients.
Divya is an active participant in the larger media industry. 
She has served on Media Research Users Council 
Board 2014-2017 & 2006-2010 and also played the 
role of championing Radio as Chairperson, MRUC Radio 
Committee. She has been a Judge on International News 
Media Association-INMA Global Awards, Spikes Asia Jury 
2022 and Cannes Media Lion Jury in 2004 and 2022. She 
has also taken on the role of National President, Brand 
& Marketing, Women’s Indian Chamber of Commerce & 
Industry
Divya holds a Bachelor’s degree in Commerce and 
Economics; Sydenham College, Mumbai. Divya has 
been recognized as one of the top five, among 50 Most 
Influential Women of 2022 in advertising, media, and 
marketing by the prestigious Impact magazine. She has 
had the distinction of being on this top 50 list for the past 
10 years. Divya was also awarded the ‘Agency Leader of 
the Year’ by Mumbrella Asia Awards 2019.
Mr. Jayant Davar
Mr. Jayant Davar (61 years) is an Independent Director 
of the Company. Mr. Davar has been a Director of the 
Company since September 30, 2014.
He holds degree of Mechanical Engineer and is also 
an alumni of Harvard Business School and has been 
conferred with the distinguished alumnus award by his 
engineering college. He is the founder, Co-Chairman & 
Managing Director of Sandhar Technologies Limited. The 
Company manufactures a diverse range of automotive 
components. He was the President of Automotive 
Skills Development Council, Govt. of India, Governing 
Council Member – Innovation Council, Govt. of Haryana, 
Governing Council Member – National Testing and 
R&D Infrastructure Project (NATRIP), Govt. of India, 
Executive Committee Trustee- Raman Munjal Vidya 
Mandir and Founder Trustee of Sandhar Foundation. 
He is also Past President of ACMA & Past Chairman of 
CII Northern Region and is also a member of Advisory 
Committee of Fraunhofer Gesellschaft, Germany. He 
was also a nominated member of the Governing Council 
VLFM Program, National Committee for Public Policy and 
Affirmative Action & Trade Fairs. Presently, he is on the 
Boards of several reputed companies, Training Institutions 
and Non-Government (social) organisations.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
108
Report on Corporate Governance
Mr. Ravi Sardana
Mr. Ravi Sardana (57 years) is an Independent Director 
of the Company. Mr. Sardana has been a Director of the 
Company since September 30, 2014. He is a Chartered 
Accountant and a Chevening Scholar. He has over three 
decades of experience in investment banking and 
corporate finance and has contributed to more than two 
hundred successful transactions. He is the past Executive 
Vice President in ICICI Securities Limited. Mr. Sardana is 
presently a Consultant with Ebner Stolz, an accounting 
and management consulting firm as part of their India 
desk.
Mr. Sardana has worked extensively in the media sector 
advising companies on advisory and fund-raising 
assignments.
Mr. Shailendra Swarup
Mr. Shailendra Swarup (78 years) is an Independent 
Director of the Company. Mr. Swarup has been a Director 
of the Company since September 27, 2019.
Mr. Swarup holds a Bachelor’s degree in Arts and is also a 
law graduate. He is a Corporate Lawyer and has also been 
practicing as an Advocate in the Delhi High Court and the 
Supreme Court for about 55 years. Mr. Shailendra Swarup 
is a Director of JK Paper Ltd., Bengal & Assam Company 
Ltd., Gujarat Fluorochemicals Ltd., The India Thermit 
Corporation Ltd., Vis Legis Consult Pvt. Ltd., Subros 
Limited, Sterling Tools Limited, Kangaroo Properties Pvt. 
Ltd. and Dev Valley Devcon Pvt. Ltd. He is also Member 
of the Audit Committee of Gujarat Flurochemicals Ltd. 
The India Thermit Corporation Ltd., and Sterling Tools 
Limited. He is also a Director of Xfinite Global PLC,. 
Mr. Swarup was a Member of the Task Force on Corporate 
Governance constituted by the Confederation of Indian 
Industry. He was a member of Ganguly Committee 
constituted by the Reserve Bank of India in the year 2002 
on Corporate Governance of public sector Banks and 
financial institution with particular emphasis on role of 
Independent Directors.
Mr. Shashidhar Sinha
Mr. Shashidhar Sinha (65 years) is an Independent 
Director of the Company. Mr. Sinha has been a Director 
of the Company since September 04, 2008.
Mr. Sinha is CEO – India, Mediabrands, manages the 
second largest Media Agency Group that includes 
Lodestar UM, Initiative Media, Interactive Avenues, 
Mediabrands, Reprise, Rapport, Kinesso India, Orion, and 
Magna Global in India. The group manages approximately 
20% of the overall media spend in the country and is 
widely recognised for its strategic approach to media 
solutions across a wide portfolio of over 100 blue chip 
clients such as – Samsung, Amazon, Amul, Coca-Cola, 
Johnson & Johnson. Mr. Sinha is also actively involved 
in various industry bodies such as the Advertising 
Standards Council of India (ASCI), the Advertising 
Agencies Association of India (AAAI), past Chairman of 
Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC), and past president 
of The Ad Club. He is the Chairman of the Broadcast 
Audience Research Council India (BARC) and of Media 
Research Users Council (MRUC). Mr. Sinha is also an 
honorable member of the prestigious Meta India Client 
Council. He is an alumni of IIT Kanpur and IIM Bangalore 
where he was recently conferred the “Most Distinguished 
Alumni Award”. An industry veteran with over 30 years of 
experience, where he has built a highly awarded team 
of professionals and organisations that today form the 
country’s leading media network.
Mr. Vijay Tandon
Mr. Vijay Tandon (79 years) is an Independent Director of 
the Company since November 18, 2005.
Mr. Tandon is a Chartered Accountant and fellow 
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India. Qualifying in 1969, Mr. Tandon was associated with 
Thakur Vaidyanath Aiyar & Co., a leading firm of Chartered 
Accountants in New Delhi and was a partner of the firm 
between 1977 and 1999. As a chartered accountant and 
financial management consultant, with over 46 years 
of professional experience in various capacities, he 
has been associated with number of private and public 
sector companies and banks in the capacity of auditor. 
Mr. Tandon has extensive knowledge of the corporate 
laws and was heading the Corporate Division of the 
firm. Mr. Tandon has been associated with print media 
industry in various capacities, as publisher auditor, auditor 
representing the Audit Bureau of Circulations and as 
Director of the National Herald Group of publication. As a 
management consultant, Mr. Tandon has been associated 
with a number of consulting services in diverse sectors of 
economy, industry and public utilities funded by the Asian 
Development Bank, the World Bank, the UK Department 
of International Development and others, in India as 
well as in South & Central Asia. Between 2000-2015, 
Mr. Tandon was Principal Consultant/Director India with 
GHK Consulting Limited (now ICF Consulting Group) a UK-
based development consultant. Presently, Mr. Tandon is 
an advisor on Urban Governance and Management and 
is also an Independent Director and Chairman of Music 
Broadcast Limited, a listed subsidiary of the Company.
Mr. Vikram Sakhuja
Mr. Vikram Sakhuja (61 years) is an engineer from IIT 
Delhi and MBA from IIM Calcutta. Mr. Sakhuja has been a 
Director of the Company since April 15, 2016.
Mr. Sakhuja joined Procter & Gamble in 1988 and held 
positions in Marketing Research and Media over a period 
of 8 years. He then joined Coca-Cola where in over 5 
years he went on to manage the brand marketing portfolio. 
Mr. Sakhuja spent a year with the Star TV Network 
(Newscorp) setting up their marketing department as the 
Executive VP Marketing for India. From 2002 onwards 
he was with GroupM. He began his association as the 
Managing Director of MindShare Fulcrum, went on to 
become the Managing Director of MindShare South Asia 
and then he was the CEO of GroupM South Asia for 7 
years. Thereafter, he took up global role of world-wide 
CEO for Maxus for two years, following which he was 
GroupM’s Global Strategic Development Officer, with 
a remit of driving data and technology deeper into the 
Media practice. Since 2016, he has partnered with Mr. Sam 
Balsara and is the Group CEO of Madison Media and 
OOH. Mr. Sakhuja has served on several industry body 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
109
Annual Report   2022-23
boards/ committees including ASCI, ABC, RSCI, BARC, 
AAAI committees with ISA, INS and IBF, and is currently 
Head of IRS Tech Comm, MRUC Board member, ABC 
Board member, BARC Disciplinary committee member, 
CO-chair of IBF-AAAI subcommittee on payments and Ad 
Club ManCom member. He has consistently been voted 
one of the top most influential persons in Indian Media by 
the Economic Times.
6.	
BOARD MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES:
The Board of Directors is the apex body constituted by 
the shareholders for overseeing the overall functioning 
of the Company, management policies and their 
effectiveness and ensuring that the long-term interest of 
the shareholders is served. The internal guidelines of the 
meetings of the Board and its Committees facilitate the 
decision - making process at the meetings in an informed 
and efficient manner.
6.1	 Scheduling and selection of agenda items for board 
meetings:
i)	
Minimum four (4) board meetings are held in each 
calendar year in accordance with the provisions of 
the Act and Secretarial Standard-1 on Meetings of 
the Board of Directors (“Secretarial Standard-1”). 
Additional board meetings are convened to address 
the specific needs of the Company, as and when 
they arise. In case of business exigencies or urgency 
of matters, resolutions are passed by circulation.
ii)	
The Chairman of the Board and the Company 
Secretary finalize the agenda papers for the Board 
and Committee meetings.
iii)	
The Company provides facility to the Directors to 
attend the meetings through video-conferencing.
iv)	
The Board has complete access to any information 
within the Company and with the employees of the 
Company. The minimum information placed before 
the Board includes:
1)	
Annual operating plans, budgets and quarterly 
updates.
2)	
Capital budgets and any updates.
3)	
Quarterly results for the Company, its 
businesses segments and subsidiaries.
4)	
Minutes of meetings of the Audit Committee 
and other Committees of the Board, and also 
resolutions passed by circulation, minutes 
of meetings of the board of directors of 
subsidiaries.
5)	
The information on recruitment, remuneration 
and resignation of senior management 
personnel just below the Board level, including 
appointment or removal of Chief Financial 
Officer and the Company Secretary.
6)	
Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and 
penalty notices, which are materially important.
7)	
Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous 
occurrences, any material effluent or pollution 
problems.
8)	
Any material default in financial obligations 
to and by the Company, or substantial non-
payment for goods sold by the Company.
9)	
Any issue, which involves possible public or 
product liability claims of substantial nature, 
including any judgment or order which, may 
have passed strictures on the conduct of the 
Company or taken an adverse view regarding 
another enterprise that can have negative 
implications on the Company.
10)	 Details of any joint venture or collaboration 
agreement.
11)	 Statement of all significant transactions and 
arrangements entered into by the unlisted 
subsidiary.
12)	 Transactions that involve substantial payment 
towards goodwill, brand equity, or intellectual 
property.
13)	 Significant labour problems and their proposed 
solutions and any significant development in 
Human Resources / Industrial Relations front like 
signing of wage agreement, implementation of 
voluntary retirement scheme etc.
14)	 Sale of material nature of investments, 
subsidiaries and assets, which is not in normal 
course of business.
15)	 Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures 
and the steps taken by management to limit the 
risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if 
material.
16)	 Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or 
listing requirements and shareholders service 
such as non-payment of dividend, delay in 
share transfer etc.
17)	 Dividend recommendation and / or declaration.
18)	 Quarterly summary of the borrowings taken, 
loans taken/given and investments made.
19)	 Internal audit findings, secretarial audit report, 
annual secretarial compliance report and 
statutory audit report, including reports on 
limited review of financial results.
20)	 Company’s Annual Financial Statements, 
Board’s Report and annexures thereto, Report 
on Corporate Governance and anexures 
thereto, Business Responsibility Report and 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
21)	 Formation / reconstitution / dissolution of 
Committees constituted by the Board and 
terms of reference thereon.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
110
Report on Corporate Governance
22)	 Declaration of Independence by Independent 
Directors at the time of appointment and 
thereafter annually and as and when there is 
any change in the circumstances which may 
affect their status as an Independent Director.
23)	 Disclosure of Director’s interest and their 
shareholding, a declaration regarding eligibility 
to act as Director in compliance with provisions 
of Section 164 of the Act and declaration of 
compliance with Code of Conduct in terms of 
the provisions of Regulation 26(3) of the Listing 
Regulations.
24)	 Register of contracts and arrangements 
with related parties in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 189 of the Act.
25)	 Appointment of Tax Auditors, Internal Auditors 
and Secretarial Auditors and fixing their fee, as 
recommended by the Audit Committee.
26)	 Recommending the appointment of and fixing 
of remuneration of the Statutory Auditors, as 
recommended by the Audit Committee.
27)	 Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report 
under Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 
2018.
28)	 Quarterly Investor Grievance Redressal 
Report under Regulation 13(3) of the Listing 
Regulations, Shareholding Pattern under 
Regulation 31(1)(b) of Listing Regulations, 
and Corporate Governance Report under 
Regulation 27 of Listing Regulations.
29)	 Approval, quarterly review and recommendation 
to the shareholders, wherever required, of 
related party transactions.
30)	 Recommendation 
of 
appointment , 
reappointment and removal of Directors and 
recommendation of remuneration payable to 
the Whole-time Directors, to the shareholders.
31)	 Annual evaluation of performance of the Board, 
its Committees, Individual Directors including 
the Chairman of the Board.
32)	 Approval / review of corporate policies and 
codes.
33)	 Details of pre-clearance taken by Designated 
Persons and trading thereof in the equity 
shares of the Company.
6.2	 Board material distributed in advance:
i)	
Notices, agendas and notes on agendas are 
circulated to the Directors well in advance pursuant 
to the stipulated timeline. All material information is 
incorporated in the agenda papers for facilitating 
meaningful and focused discussions and effective 
decision-making at the meetings. Where it is not 
practicable to enclose any document with the 
agenda papers, the same is placed at the meeting 
with specific reference to this effect in the agenda 
papers, in accordance with the provisions of 
Secretarial Standard-1.
ii)	
In exceptional circumstances, circulation of 
additional and / or supplementary item(s) on the 
agenda is permitted. Sensitive subject matters may 
be discussed at the meetings without any written 
material being circulated in advance, in accordance 
with the provisions of Secretarial Standard-1.
iii)	
General consent for giving notes on agenda which 
are in the nature of Unpublished Price Sensitive 
Information (“UPSI”) at a shorter notice is taken in 
the first meeting of the Board held in each financial 
year, in accordance with the provisions of Secretarial 
Standard-1.
6.3	 Recording minutes of proceedings at Board and 
Committee Meetings:
The Company Secretary records the minutes of the 
proceedings of each Board and Committee meeting, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 118 of the 
Act read with Secretarial Standard-1. Draft minutes are 
circulated to all the members of the Board / Committee, 
as applicable, for their comments/suggestions, if any, 
to be submitted by them within a period of 7 days, in 
accordance with guidelines prescribed under Secretarial 
Standard-1, post which the draft minutes are reviewed 
by the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of the 
respective Committee, as the case may be for recording 
in the minutes book.
6.4	 Post Meeting follow-up mechanism:
Follow up in the form of Action Taken Report on the 
decisions of the previous meeting(s) is placed at the 
succeeding meeting for updating and noting by the Board 
/ Committee respectively.
6.5	 Compliance:
The Company Secretary is responsible for and is required 
to ensure adherence to all the applicable laws and 
regulations including, inter-alia, the Act read with the 
Rules made thereunder and Schedules thereto as well 
as the Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India, each as amended from 
time to time.
The Company adheres to the provisions of the Act, 
applicable Secretarial Standards and SEBI Regulations 
with respect to convening and holding the meetings of 
the Board of Directors, its Committees and the General 
Meetings of the members of the Company.
6.6	 Board Meetings held during the year:
Six (6) Board Meetings were held during the financial 
year 2022-23 on: April 29, 2022; May 30, 2022; August 
06, 2022; November 04, 2022; January 17, 2023 and 
February 02, 2023. The gap between any two Board 
Meetings did not exceed 120 days.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
111
Annual Report   2022-23
Leave of absence was granted to the non-attending 
Directors on their request and noted in the Attendance 
Register as well as in the minutes of the meetings.
6.7	 Familiarization Programme:
A familiarization programme for all, including Independent 
Directors was held in February 2023, and the details 
of the orientation and familiarization programme are 
uploaded on the Company’s website at:
https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/JPLDetails_on_Orientation_
and_Familiarisation_Programme_2023.pdf
6.8	 Quorum:
The quorum of the Board has been adopted pursuant 
to the provisions of Regulation 17(2A) of the Listing 
Regulations and Section 103 of the Act i.e. the quorum 
of a meeting of the Board of Directors shall be one-
third of total strength of the Board or three Directors, 
whichever is higher, including at least one independent 
director. In accordance with the applicable provisions, the 
participation of Directors through video conferencing or 
by other audio-visual means is counted for the purpose 
of quorum.
7.	
BOARD COMMITTEES:
In terms of the provisions of the Act and Listing Regulations, 
as amended from time to time, the Board has constituted 
the following Committees i.e. Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee, and Risk Management Committee. The Board 
has also constituted a Sub-Committee to provide ease 
of administration for businesses like opening / closing 
of bank accounts and giving all such power of attorney 
/ authorizations as may be needed by the Whole-time 
Directors and employees to represent the Company 
before the various governmental authorities etc., and 
such other authorizations, as may be required.
The Board has also constituted various Committees for 
specific purposes as delegated by the Board from time to 
time such as Buyback Committee (formed on November 
04, 2022, dissolved on April 27, 2023), Debenture 
Committee and Succession Planning Committee.
7.1	 Audit Committee:
In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 18 of the 
Listing Regulations read with the provisions of Section 
177 of the Act and Rules made thereunder, the Audit 
Committee of the Board (“AC”) has been constituted to 
monitor and supervise the Company’s financial reporting 
process with a view to provide accurate, timely and proper 
disclosures and financial reporting.
	
i)	
Terms of Reference
	
	
The role of AC includes the following:
1)	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of its financial 
information to ensure that the financial 
statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
2)	
Recommendation 
for 
appointment, 
remuneration and terms of appointment of 
Auditors of the Company;
3)	
Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for 
any other services rendered by the Statutory 
Auditors;
4)	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual 
financial statements and Auditor's Report 
thereon before submission to the Board for 
approval, with particular reference to:
a)	
Matters required to be included in the 
director’s responsibility statement to be 
included in the Board’s Report in terms of 
Section 134(3)(c) of the Act.
b)	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices, and reasons for the same.
c)	
Major accounting entries involving 
estimates based on the exercise of 
judgment by management.
d)	
Significant adjustments made in the 
financial statements arising out of audit 
findings.
e)	
Compliance with listing and other 
legal requirements relating to financial 
statements.
f)	
Disclosure of any related party 
transactions.
g)	
Modified opinion(s) in the draft Audit 
Report.
5)	
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly, 
half yearly and annual financial statements 
before submission / recommendation to the 
Board for approval, along with the limited 
review reports or Audit Report thereon as the 
case may be;
6)	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement 
of uses / application of funds raised through 
an issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential 
issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilized for 
purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document / prospectus / notice and the report 
submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring 
the utilization of proceeds of a public issue or 
rights issue or preferential issue or qualified 
institutions placement, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps 
in this matter;
7)	
Reviewing and monitoring the Auditor’s 
independence and performance, and 
effectiveness of audit process;
8)	
Approval or any subsequent modification 
of transactions of the Company with related 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
112
Report on Corporate Governance
parties and laying down the criteria for granting 
overall approval in line with the Company’s 
Policy on Related Party Transactions in respect 
of transactions which are repetitive in nature;
9)	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and 
investments;
10)	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
Company, whenever there is such occasion;
11)	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
12)	 Reviewing, with the management, performance 
of Statutory and Internal Auditors, adequacy of 
the internal control systems;
13)	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, including the structure of the internal 
audit department, staffing and seniority of the 
official heading the department, reporting 
structure coverage and frequency of internal 
audit;
14)	 Discussion with Internal Auditors of any 
significant findings and follow up there on;
15)	 Reviewing the findings of any internal 
investigations by the Internal Auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control 
systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the Board;
16)	 Discussion with Statutory Auditors before the 
audit commences, about the nature and scope 
of audit as well as post-audit discussion to 
ascertain any area of concern;
17)	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in the payment to the depositors, debenture 
holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment 
of declared dividends) and creditors;
18)	 To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower/ 
Vigil Mechanism;
19)	 Approval of appointment of Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) after assessing the qualifications, 
experience and background, etc. of the 
candidate;
20)	 Reviewing the utilization of loans and / or 
advances from / investment by the Company in 
its subsidiaries exceeding `100 Crores or 10% 
of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever 
is lower including existing loans / advances / 
investments
21)	 Reviewing compliance with the provisions of 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015, as amended from time to time and shall 
verify that the systems for internal control are 
adequate and are operating effectively.
22)	 To consider and comment on rationale, cost-
benefits and impact of schemes involving 
merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the 
Company and its shareholders.
23)	 Carrying out any other function as is mentioned 
in the terms of reference of the audit committee.
ii)	
Mandatory Review by Audit Committee:
	
	
The AC shall mandatorily review the following:
1)	
Management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations;
2)	
Management letters / letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors;
3)	
Internal Audit Reports including internal control 
weaknesses;
4)	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor 
(including Unit Auditor) shall be subject to 
review by the AC; and
5)	
Statement of deviations:
a)	
Quarterly statement of deviation(s) 
including report of monitoring agency, if 
applicable, submitted to stock exchange(s) 
in terms of Regulation 32(1) of the Listing 
Regulations.
b)	
Annual statement of funds utilized for 
purposes other than those stated in the 
offer document / prospectus / notice in 
terms of Regulation 32(7) of the Listing 
Regulations.
The AC may call for the comments of the Auditors on 
internal control systems, the scope of audit, including 
the observations of the Auditors and review of 
financial statements before their submission / 
recommendation to the Board. The Committee may 
also discuss any related issues with the Internal 
and Statutory Auditors and the management of the 
Company.
The AC has the authority to investigate into any 
matter in relation to the items specified above or 
referred to it by the Board and for this purpose 
shall have power to obtain professional advice from 
external sources and have full access to information 
contained in the records of the Company.
The Auditors of the Company and the Key Managerial 
Personnel have a right to be heard in the meetings 
of the Committee when it considers the Auditor’s 
Report, but do not have the right to vote.
	
	
The Committee has the powers to:
1)	
Investigate any activity within its terms of 
reference,
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
113
Annual Report   2022-23
2)	
Seek information from any employee,
3)	
Obtain outside legal or other professional 
advice, and
4)	
Secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise, if it considers necessary.
In terms of Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations, 
the Company has established a vigil mechanism 
for Directors and employees to report genuine 
concerns, including leak of unpublished price 
sensitive information pertaining to the Company. 
Vigil mechanism provides for adequate safeguards 
against victimization of persons who use such 
mechanism and make direct access to the 
Chairperson of the Committee in appropriate or 
exceptional case. The details of establishment of 
such mechanism are mentioned elsewhere in this 
Report.
In accordance with the provisions of the Listing 
Regulations, all related party transactions and 
subsequent material modifications thereof (if any) 
entered into by the Company shall require prior 
approval of the Audit Committee and approval of 
only those members of the Audit Committee, who 
are Independent Directors, shall be required to 
approve related party transactions. 
All recommendations made by the Committee during 
the financial year were accepted by the Board.
iii)	
Composition and attendance in AC Meetings 
held during the year:
The AC met five (5) times on April 29, 2022; May 
30, 2022; August 06, 2022; November 04, 2022 
and February 02, 2023. The gap between two AC 
meetings did not exceed 120 days.
The AC constitutes of only Independent Directors. 
The composition of the AC along with the number 
of meetings attended by the members during the 
year is as follows:
Names of 
Committee 
Members
Category
Meetings 
entitled 
to attend 
Meetings 
attended
Vijay Tandon
Chairman 
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
5
5
Jayant Davar 
Member 
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
5
4
Shashidhar 
Sinha
(appointed w.e.f. 
May 30, 2022)
Member
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
 3
3
Shailendra  
Swarup
Member
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
5
5
All members of the AC are financially literate and 
have accounting and related financial management 
expertise.
Amit Jaiswal, Company Secretary and Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company, is Secretary to 
the Committee.
Pursuant to Regulation 18(2)(b) of the Listing 
Regulations, the quorum for the meeting of the AC 
shall be two members or one-third of the members 
of the AC, whichever is greater, with at least two 
independent directors.
The Chairman of the Committee was present at the 
last Annual General Meeting held on August 29, 
2022.
The Chief Financial Officer and other senior 
members of accounts and finance department are 
regular invitees to the meetings of the Committee.
Representatives of the Statutory Auditors, Internal 
Auditors and Secretarial Auditors and the credit 
rating agency appointed by the Company to rate 
its instruments are invited to attend the Committee 
Meetings and share their findings and address 
queries, if any.
7.2	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 19 of 
the Listing Regulations, and the provisions of Section 
178 of the Act read with the Rules made thereunder, 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board (“NRC”) has been constituted to primarily assist 
the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by, inter-alia, 
recommending the criteria for Board membership and 
senior management, recommend the appointment 
(including re-appointment), remuneration and removal of 
Board members and senior management, and specify the 
manner for effective evaluation of Chairman, individual 
directors, Committees and the Board.
The NRC has formed a succession planning committee 
comprising of only the Independent Directors of the NRC 
as members. The committee has submitted a succession 
plan to NRC, which after its approval was approved by 
the Board in its meeting held of 17th January, 2023. The 
succession plan is under implementation.
	
i)	
Terms of Reference:
	
	
The role of NRC includes the following:
1)	
Formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and 
independence of a director and recommend to 
the Board a policy relating to the remuneration 
of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
other employees;
Jagran Prakashan Limited
114
Report on Corporate Governance
2)	
For every appointment of an independent 
director, the NRC shall evaluate the balance of 
skills, knowledge and experience on the Board 
and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a 
description of the role and capabilities required 
of an independent director. The person 
recommended to the Board for appointment 
as an independent director shall have the 
capabilities identified in such description. For 
the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, 
the Committee may:
a.	
use the services of external agencies, if 
required;
b.	
consider candidates from a wide range 
of backgrounds, having due regard to 
diversity;
c.	
consider the time commitments of the 
candidates.
3)	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of 
Independent Directors and the Board;
4)	
Devising a policy on Board diversity;
5)	
Identifying persons who are qualified to 
become Directors and who may be appointed 
in senior management in accordance with the 
criteria laid down, and recommend to the Board 
their appointment and removal.
6)	
Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the Independent Director, 
on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of Independent Directors.
7)	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to senior management.
The Nomination, Remuneration and Evaluation 
Policy of the Company is annexed as an annexure 
to the Board’s Report, forming part of the Annual 
Report, and is also uploaded on the Company’s 
website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/NRC_Policy_
Final.pdf
SEBI vide its notification dated January 17, 2023 
has amended the definition of Senior Management. 
Accordingly, the Nomination, Remuneration and 
Evaluation Policy of the Company was amended 
to reflect the said change. The Company had 
also consequently identified persons as Senior 
Management Personnel, which was duly noted by 
NRC and Board.
The Chairman of the NRC or any other Member of 
the Committee, so authorised, shall be present at the 
Annual General Meeting to answer the shareholders' 
queries.
All recommendations made by the Committee during 
the financial year were accepted by the Board.
	
ii)	
Composition and attendance in NRC Meetings 
held during the year:
During the year, the NRC met twice on; July 16, 2022 
and December 11, 2022
The composition, along with the number of meetings 
attended by the members during the year is as 
follows:
Names of 
Committee 
Members
Category
Meetings 
entitled 
to attend 
Meetings 
attended
Ravi Sardana
Chairman 
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent) 
2
2
Shailendra 
Swarup
(Appointed as 
Member w.e.f. May 
30, 2022)
Member
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
2
2
Shailendra 
Mohan Gupta
Member 
(Non-
Executive 
and Non- 
Independent)
2
2
Vijay Tandon
Member 
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
2
2
Vikram Sakhuja
Member 
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
2
2
Amit Jaiswal, Company Secretary and Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company, is Secretary to 
the Committee.
Pursuant to Regulation 19(2A) of the Listing 
Regulations, the quorum for the meeting of the NRC 
shall be one-third of the members of the committee 
or two members, whichever is higher, and shall 
include at least one independent director.
iii)	
Performance Evaluation criteria for the Board, its 
Committees and Individual Directors including 
Independent Directors and Chairman of the 
Company:
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 134 and 178 of 
the Act read with Regulations 17 and 19 of the Listing 
Regulations, a formal evaluation of performance 
of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and 
Individual Directors was carried out in the financial 
year 2022-23, details of which are provided in the 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
115
Annual Report   2022-23
Board’s Report, forming part of the Annual Report. 
Parameters for evaluation of Independent Directors 
include, inter-alia, constructive participation in 
meetings, intellectual independence, engagement 
with colleagues on the Board. All Directors were 
subjected to peer evaluation.
iv)	
Remuneration of Directors
	
	
1)	
Non-Executive Directors’ Compensation and 
Disclosures:
The sitting fees for the Board Meeting and 
for all Committee Meetings is `1,00,000/- and 
`25,000/- respectively. The sitting fees paid to 
Non-Executive Directors during the year are 
as under:
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name 
Sitting Fees
1.
Anuj Puri
5.00
2.
Dilip Cherian
5.00
3.
Jayant Davar
6
4.
Ravi Sardana
9.50
5.
Shailendra Swarup
9.75
6.
Vijay Tandon
10.00
7.
Vikram Sakhuja
8.75
Non-Executive Directors viz., Devendra Mohan 
Gupta, Divya Karani, Shailendra Mohan Gupta 
and Shashidhar Sinha have foregone their 
sitting fees for the meetings.
	
	
2)	
Executive Directors:
	
	
	
Managerial Remuneration to Executive Directors during the financial year 2022-23 was as under:-
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name of Directors
Salary
Value of Perquisites
Total
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
84.00
6.99
90.99
2.
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
259.20
11.27
270.47
3.
Sanjay Gupta
230.40
43.61
274.01
4.
Shailesh Gupta
206.40
34.44
240.84
5.
Sunil Gupta
259.20
41.95
301.15
6.
Sandeep Gupta
91.60
12.91
104.51
7.
Satish Chandra Mishra
36.27
-
36.27
NOTES:
1.	
No bonus, stock option and pension were paid to the Directors.
2.	
No incentives linked with performance were paid to the Directors.
3.	
The term of Whole-time Directors is for a maximum period of 5 years from the date of appointment. The 
Company does not have any service contract with any Director.
4.	
Mr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta has been re-appointed as Chairman and Managing Director of the Company 
for a period of first two (2) years with effect from October 01, 2021 and thereafter or upon relinquishment 
of office as the Managing Director of the Company, whichever is earlier, will continue as the Non-executive 
Chairman of the Company for the remainder period i.e. up to September 30, 2026.
5.	
Besides the above remuneration, Executive Directors are also entitled to Company’s contribution to Provident 
Fund, Gratuity and Encashment of Leave as per the Rules of the Company.
6.	
Value of contribution to provident fund in excess of `7.5 Lakhs p.a. is considered in value of perquisites as 
provided in table above.
7.3	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee:
In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 20 of the 
Listing Regulations read with the provisions of Section 
178 of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee of the Board (“SRC”) 
has been constituted for speedy disposal of grievances / 
complaints relating to stakeholders / investors.
i)	
Terms of Reference:
	
	
The role of SRC includes the following:
1)	
Resolving the grievances of the security 
holders of the Company including complaints 
related to transfer / transmission of shares, 
non-receipt of annual reports, non-receipt of 
declared dividends, issue of new / duplicate 
certificates, general meetings etc.
2)	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise 
of voting rights by shareholders.
3)	
Review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent.
4)	
Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the 
quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
116
Report on Corporate Governance
timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual 
reports / statutory notices by the shareholders 
of the Company.
5)	
Look into the various aspects in the interest of 
the security holders of the Company.
The Chairman of the SRC or any other Member of the 
Committee, so authorised, shall be present at the Annual 
General Meeting, to answer the shareholders’ queries.
All recommendations made by the Committee during the 
financial year were accepted by the Board.
ii)	
Composition and attendance in SRC Meetings 
held during the year:
During the year, the SRC met 4 (four) times on May 
30, 2022; August 06, 2022; November 04, 2022 and 
February 02, 2023.
The composition of the SRC along with the number 
of meetings attended by the members during the 
year is as follows: 
Names of 
Committee 
Members
Category
Meetings 
entitled 
to attend 
Meetings 
attended
Ravi Sardana
Chairman 
(Non-
Executive and 
Independent)
4
4
Sanjay Gupta
Member 
(Executive 
and Non-
independent) 
4
4
Sunil Gupta
Member 
(Executive 
and Non-
independent) 
4
4
iii)	
Compliance Officer:
Amit Jaiswal, Company Secretary and Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company, is designated 
as the Compliance Officer for complying with the 
requirements of the Securities Law, including the 
Listing Regulations.
iv)	
Investor Grievance Redressal:
The SRC specifically looks into the redressal of 
investor complaints on matters relating to refund 
orders transfer of shares, dematerialization / 
rematerialization, sub-division, consolidation 
of share certificates, issue of duplicate share 
certificates, non-receipt of annual report, non-
receipt of declared dividends etc. In addition, the 
Committee advises on matters which can facilitate 
better investor services and relations. As per the 
certificate issued by the Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company, KFin Technologies Limited 
(“the RTA” / “KFintech”), sixty-six (66) complaints 
were received from shareholders in the financial 
year 2022-23 and all the complaints were replied / 
resolved to the satisfaction of the shareholders. The 
break-up of these complaints is as under:
Types of Complaint
Number of 
Complaints
Non- receipt of Dividend Warrants
59
Non- receipt of Annual Report
4
Non-receipt of securities/ Complaint 
relating to Transfer of shares
1
Clarification regarding Buyback of 
Securities
2
TOTAL
66 
All complaints were resolved to the full satisfaction 
of the shareholders and no complaint was pending 
as on March 31, 2023.
7.4	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:
In compliance with the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Act read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules 2014, the Company has constituted a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board 
(“CSR Committee”). Statutory disclosures with respect to 
the CSR Committee and CSR activities form part of the 
Board’s Report.
All recommendations made by the Committee during the 
financial year were accepted by the Board.
	
i)	
Terms of Reference:
	
	
The role of CSR Committee includes the following:
1)	
To formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy 
indicating activities to be undertaken by the 
Company in areas or subject, specified in 
Schedule VII and Rules made thereunder.
2)	
To recommend the amount of expenditure to 
be incurred on the CSR activities.
3)	
To monitor the CSR Policy of the Company from 
time to time.
4)	
CSR Committee shall formulate and recommend 
to the Board, an annual action plan in pursuance 
of its CSR policy.
5)	
To perform any function as stipulated in the Act 
and any applicable laws, as may be prescribed 
from time to time.
The details of the CSR activities carried out by the 
Company are mentioned in the Board’s Report 
forming part of the Annual Report of the Company.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the 
Company (“CSR Policy”) is uploaded on the website 
of the Company at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/JP-
CSR-POLICY-04032021.pdf
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
117
Annual Report   2022-23
Details of ongoing projects undertaken are also 
disclosed on the website of the Company at https://
jplcorp.in/new/pdf/DETAILS_OF_THE_ONGOING_
PROJECT_UNDERTAKEN_AS_PER_THE_CSR_
POLICY.pdf
	
ii)	
Composition 
of 
and 
attendance 
in 
CSR 
Committee meeting during the year:
	
During the year, the CSR Committee met once on 
February 02, 2023.
	
The composition of the CSR Committee along with 
the number of meetings attended by the members 
during the year is as follows:
Name of 
Committee 
Members
Category
Meetings 
entitled 
to attend 
Meetings 
attended
Mahendra 
Mohan 
Gupta
Chairman 
(Executive and 
Non-Independent)
1
1
Sanjay 
Gupta
Member 
(Executive and 
Non-independent) 
1
1
Vikram 
Sakhuja 
Member 
(Non- Executive 
and Independent)
1
1
7.5	 Risk Management Committee:
Pursuant to Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations, the 
Board has constituted the Risk Management Committee 
(“RMC”) for monitoring and reviewing of the risk 
management plan and specifically, cyber security.
The role of the RMC is, inter-alia, to approve the 
strategic risk management framework of the Company, 
and review the risk mitigation strategies and results of 
risk identification, prioritisation and mitigation plans for 
all business units / corporate functions, and also the 
measures taken for cyber security.
	
i)	
Terms of reference:
	
	
The role of RMC includes the following:
1)	
Discuss with senior management, the 
Company’s Risk Management System (“RMS”) 
and provide oversight as may be needed.
2)	
Ensure it is apprised of the most significant 
risks along with the action management which 
is taken and how it is ensuring effective RMS.
3)	
Review and recommend changes to Risk 
Management Policy and / or associated 
frameworks / plans including cyber security, 
processes and practices of the Company.
4)	
Be aware and concur with the Company’s risk 
appetite including risk levels, if any, set for 
financial and operational risks.
5)	
Ensure that the Company is taking appropriate 
measures to achieve prudent balance between 
risk and reward in both ongoing and new 
business activities.
6)	
Being apprised of significant risk exposures of 
the Company.
7)	
Report periodically to the Board of Directors.
8)	
The RMC shall have access to any internal 
information necessary to fulfill its oversight role.
9)	
Perform such other activities related to this 
Policy as requested by the Board of Directors 
or as may be stipulated in any applicable 
provisions as amended from time to time or 
to address issues related to any significant 
subject within its term of reference.
10)	 To formulate a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
i.	
A framework for identification of 
internal and external risks specifically 
faced by the listed entity, in particular 
including financial, operational, sectoral, 
sustainability (particularly, ESG related 
risks), information, cyber security risks or 
any other risk as may be determined by 
the Committee.
ii.	
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control 
of identified risks.
iii.	
Business continuity plan.
11)	 To ensure that appropriate methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor 
and evaluate risks associated with the business 
of the Company;
12)	 To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating 
the adequacy of risk management systems;
13)	 To periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including 
considering the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity;
14)	 To keep the board of directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
15)	 The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if 
any) shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee.
The Risk Management Policy of the Company is 
uploaded on the website of the Company at https://
jplcorp.in/new/pdf/JPL-RMC_POLICY.pdf .
During the year, the RMC met twice on August 17, 
2022 and February 13, 2023. The gap between two 
RMC meetings did not exceed 180 days. 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
118
Report on Corporate Governance
	
ii)	
The Composition of the RMC along with the 
number of meetings attended by the members 
during the year is as follows:
Name of 
Committee 
Members
Category
Meetings 
entitled 
to attend 
Meetings 
attended
Mahendra 
Mohan Gupta
Chairman
(Chairman 
and Managing 
Director)
2
2
Sanjay Gupta
Member
(Whole-time 
Director)
2
2
Shailesh Gupta
Member
(Whole-time 
Director)
2
1
Sandeep Gupta Member 
 (Whole-time 
Director)
2
2
Sarbani Bhatia
Member
(Sr. Vice 
President, IT)
2
2
Vijay Tandon
Member
(Independent 
Director)
2
2
Amit Jaiswal
Member 
 (Chief 
Financial 
Officer and 
Company 
Secretary)
2
2
Post the closure of the financial year, the Board has 
inducted Mr. Vikram Sakhuja, Independent Director, as 
a member of the RMC w.e.f. April 27, 2023.
7.6	 Meeting of Independent Directors:
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act and 
Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, the Independent 
Directors of the Board of the Company met on February 
02, 2023 and February 24, 2023, without the presence of 
Executive Directors or management personnel, except for 
the partial presence of the Company Secretary to perform 
the duties of Secretary to the meeting.
The Independent Directors, inter-alia, conduct the 
following businesses at their meetings:
(a)	
review the performance of non-independent 
directors and the Board as a whole;
(b)	
review the performance of the Chairperson of the 
Company, taking into account the views of Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors;
(c)	
assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Company Management 
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
The terms of reference are aligned with Section 149 
of the Act read with the Rules made thereunder and 
Schedule IV thereto and Regulations 17 and 25 of the 
Listing Regulations, and any other applicable provisions.
8.	
CMD / CFO CERTIFICATION:
In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 17(8) read 
with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, a 
certificate from CMD/CFO to the Board of Directors is 
annexed to this report as Annexure - II.
9.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS:
	
The details of annual general meetings (“AGM”) held in last 3 years are as under:
Year
Day, Date and Time
Venue
Special Resolution passed at the General Meetings
2021-
22
46th AGM held on 
Monday, August 29, 
2022 at 12:30 P.M.
Jalsaa Banquet Hall, 
4th Floor, Rave@Moti, 
117/K/13, Gutaiya, 
Kanpur - 208025
At the 46th AGM, the shareholders passed one (1) special resolution:
(i) 	Appointment of Mr. Sandeep Gupta (DIN: 00038410) as a Whole-
time Director of the Company for a period of five (5) years w.e.f. 
May 30, 2022.
2020-
21**
45th AGM held on 
Friday, September 
24, 2021 at 12:00 
Noon through Video 
Conferencing (VC) / 
Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM) 
Jagran Building, 2, 
Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur - 208005
At the 45th AGM the shareholders passed six (6) special resolutions:
i) 	 Appointment of Mr. Dhirendra Mohan Gupta (DIN- 01057827) 
who was retiring by rotation, and being eligible, offered himself 
for re-appointment, (ii) Re-appointment of Mr. Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta (DIN-00020451) as the Chairman and Managing Director 
w.e.f. October 01, 2021 for a period of two (2) years. Thereafter, 
or upon relinquishment of office by Mr. Mahendra Mohan Gupta 
as the Managing Director of the Company, whichever is earlier, 
he will continue as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company 
for the remainder period, i.e. up to September 30, 2026 and (iii) 
Re-appointment of following directors as Whole-time Directors of 
the Company for a further period of five (5) years w.e.f. October 
01, 2021: Mr. Sanjay Gupta (DIN-00028734), Mr. Dhirendra Mohan 
Gupta (DIN-01057827), Mr. Sunil Gupta (DIN-00317228) and 
Mr. Shailesh Gupta (DIN-00192466).
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
119
Annual Report   2022-23
Year
Day, Date and Time
Venue
Special Resolution passed at the General Meetings
2019-
20**
44th AGM held 
on Wednesday, 
September 23, 2020 
at 12:00 Noon through 
Video Conferencing 
(VC) / Other Audio 
Visual Means (OAVM)
Jagran Building, 2, 
Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur - 208005
At the 44th AGM the shareholders passed one (1) special resolution 
for the re-appointment of Mr. Vikram Sakhuja (DIN- 00398420) as 
Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five 
(5) years.
**In view of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and in compliance with the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, the 44th 
AGM and 45th AGM of the Company were conducted through VC/OAVM facility, which does not require physical presence of shareholders 
at a common venue. The deemed venue for the 44th AGM and 45th AGM was the Registered Office of the Company.
The shareholders passed all the resolutions with requisite majority, including special resolutions set out in the respective 
notices.
No Extra-ordinary General Meetings were held during the financial year 2022-23.
10.	 POSTAL BALLOT:
10.1	Details of Special Resolutions passed through Postal 
Ballot:
During the financial year 2022-23, the Company 
conducted postal ballot through remote e-voting for 
obtaining approval of members for Buyback of up to 
4,60,00,000 fully paid-up equity shares having a face value 
of `2/- (Indian Rupees Two only) each (“Equity Shares”), 
(representing 17.45% of the total number of Equity Shares 
in the total paid-up equity capital of the Company as on 
March 31, 2022), from all equity shareholders of the 
Company through the tender offer route as prescribed 
under the SEBI (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 
2018, as amended, at a price of `75/- (Indian Rupees 
Seventy Five only) per Equity Share payable in cash for 
an aggregate amount not exceeding `3,45,00,00,000/- 
(Indian Rupees Three Hundred Forty Five Crores only).
The brief details of the postal ballot process are given 
below:
Date of Notice of Postal Ballot
November 16, 2022
Number of votes cast in favour
22,21,80,668
Percentage of votes cast in favour
99.98%
Number of votes cast against
53,140
Percentage of votes cast against
0.02%
Date of passing of the resolution
December 17, 2022
The special resolution was passed with requisite majority.
10.2	Person who conducted the Postal Ballot exercises:
Mr. Adesh Tandon (Membership No. F2253 and CP No. 
1121), Practicing Company Secretary, was appointed as 
the Scrutiniser for the above-mentioned Postal Ballot 
processes.
10.3	Procedure for Postal Ballot:
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 108 
and 110 of the Act read with Rules 20 and 22 of The 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014, read with the various pertinent circulars issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), and applicable 
provisions of the Listing Regulations, the resolution was 
proposed to be passed by means of Postal Ballot, only by 
way of remote e-voting process (“e-voting”). The Notice, 
Explanatory Statement were dispatched to the members 
as on the cut-off date by electronic mode only to enable 
them to consider and vote for or against the proposals 
within a period of 30 days from the date of dispatch. The 
instructions for voting were explained in the Postal Ballot 
Notice.
The Scrutiniser submitted his report after the completion 
of scrutiny. Thereafter, the results of the Postal Ballot were 
declared in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 
44 of the Listing Regulations, by the Company Secretary, 
who was authorised to declare the results on behalf of 
the Board of Directors. The same were filed with the stock 
exchanges and posted on the website of the Company 
and at its Registered Office.
10.4	E-voting facility:
E-voting facility was offered to all the members to enable 
them to cast their votes electronically.
10.5	Whether any special resolution is proposed to be 
conducted through Postal Ballot: None
10.6	No resolution requiring postal ballot is proposed to 
be placed at the ensuing Annual General Meeting for 
obtaining shareholders’ approval.
11.	 OTHER DISCLOSURES:
11.1	Internal Audit System:
The Company has a robust system for internal audit and 
assessment of risk on an ongoing basis. The Company 
has appointed Ernst & Young LLP, (supported by a unit 
auditors firm) as Internal Auditors who also assist in risk 
identification and management. Audit observations 
are periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee, and 
necessary directions are issued and actions are taken, 
wherever required.
Adequate internal control has been put in place in all 
areas of operations. The role and responsibility of all 
managerial positions are established, monitored and 
controlled regularly. All transactions are authorised, 
timely recorded and reported truly and fairly.
The Company is fully committed to continually work 
in strengthening the systems and processes so as to 
achieve the highest degree of transparency, efficiency 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
120
Report on Corporate Governance
and accuracy in reporting, monitoring and decision 
making and has done so during the year as part of an 
ongoing exercise.
11.2	Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel:
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its 
Directors and Senior Management Personnel in terms 
of Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations. This Code 
is a comprehensive Code applicable to all Directors 
(Executive and Non-Executive) as well as members of 
Senior Management. The Code lays down, in detail, the 
standards of business conduct, ethics and governance.
The Code is uploaded on the Company’s website at 
https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/Code_of_Business_Conduct_
approved.pdf .
The Code is circulated to all the members of the Board 
and Senior Management Personnel and the compliance 
of the same is affirmed by them annually under Regulation 
26(3) of the Listing Regulations. Pursuant to Schedule 
V(D) of the Listing Regulations, a declaration signed to 
this effect by the Chairman and Managing Director of the 
Company forms part of the Annual Report.
11.3	Disclosures on materially significant related party 
transactions:
No materially significant related party transaction has 
taken place during the year. The details of related parties 
and related party transactions have been provided in 
Note No. 29 and 30 of Notes to the Standalone and 
Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, forming 
part of the Annual Report.
The details of the transactions entered into with related 
parties are placed before the Audit Committee on a 
quarterly basis in compliance with the provisions of 
Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 23 of the Listing 
Regulations. All related party transactions are negotiated 
at an arm’s length basis and are for the purpose or 
incidental to the business needs of the Company.
In addition to routine transactions with related parties 
such as rendering and receiving of services, sale and 
purchase of goods, leasing of properties, remuneration 
paid etc. the Company during the year under review had 
entered into a registered agreement for sale of one of its 
flat in Mumbai for a consideration of `4500 Lakhs to VRSM 
Enterprises LLP (“VRSM”), a related party being member 
of the Promoter and Promoter Group of the Company. 
The Company has received an advance amount of `10 
Crores and the balance consideration shall be paid in 6 
yearly installments and on receiving the full payment the 
possession and ownership of the flat shall be transferred 
to VRSM. The said transaction was duly approved by 
the Audit Committee and the Board at their respective 
meetings.
The Company has disclosed the policy on dealing with 
related party transactions pursuant to Regulation 23 of 
the Listing Regulations on its website at https://jplcorp.
in/new/pdf/Policy_on_Related_Party_Transactions.pdf
11.4	Material Subsidiaries:
In accordance with Regulation 16(1)(c) of the Listing Regulations, Music Broadcast Limited continues to be a material listed 
subsidiary of JPL, while Midday Infomedia Limited continues to be a non-material unlisted wholly-owned subsidiary.
Details of material subsidiaries including the date and place of incorporation and the name and date of appointment of the 
statutory auditors of such subsidiaries:
Name of Material 
Subsidiary
Date of Incorporation/
Acquisition
Place of Incorporation
Name of the Statutory Auditors
Date of appointment of 
Statutory Auditors
Music Broadcast 
Limited
04-11-1999
India
Price Waterhouse Chartered 
Accountants LLP
15.09.2020
(for second consecutive 
term of Five years)
Pursuant to the Explanation to Regulation 16(1) (c) of the Listing Regulations, the Company has adopted the policy for 
determining material subsidiaries and the said policy is available on the Company’s website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/
POLICY_FOR_DETERMINING_MATERIAL_SUBSIDIARIES_1.pdf.
11.5	Pecuniary Relationship and Transactions of Non-
Executive Directors with JPL:
The Company pays sitting fees to Non-Executive Directors 
as detailed in 7.2 (iv) above.
11.6	Details of Public Issue/Rights Issue/Sweat Equity 
Shares:
During the financial year under review, there was no public 
issue / rights issue / preferential issue of shares / sweat 
equity / qualified institutional placement, etc.
11.7	Vigil Mechanism / Whistle-blower Policy:
A Vigil Mechanism / Whistle-blower Policy has been 
formed for the Directors and employees to report their 
genuine concerns or grievances, in compliance with the 
provisions of Section 177 of the Act read with Rules made 
thereunder and Regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations.
The Vigil Mechanism / Whistle-blower Policy is hosted 
on the Company’s website at https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/
JPL_Vigil_Mechanism_Whistle-blower_Policy.pdf.
The Board has designated and authorized Mr. Amit Jaiswal, 
CFO of the Company as the Vigilance Officer and Mr. Vijay 
Tandon, Chairman of the Audit Committee, to oversee the 
Vigil Mechanism.
The Vigil Mechanism provides for adequate safeguards 
against victimization of employees and Directors who 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
121
Annual Report   2022-23
use the Vigil Mechanism and also provides for direct 
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and in 
case of frivolous complaints being filed by a Director 
or an employee, the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
may take suitable action against the concerned Director 
or employee including reprimanding. No one has been 
denied access to the Audit Committee to report their 
concerns / grievances.
11.8	Details 
of 
Non-Compliance 
by 
the 
Company, 
penalties, stricture imposed on the Company by the 
Stock Exchanges, SEBI or any statutory authorities or 
any matter related to capital markets.
There was no case of any non-compliance warranting 
imposition of any penalty and issuance of any strictures 
on the Company by the stock exchange(s) or SEBI or 
any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital 
markets.
11.9	Details of fees paid to the Statutory Auditor:
Details of total fees for all services paid by JPL and its 
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, to the Statutory 
Auditors and all entities in the network firm / network 
entity of which the Statutory Auditors are a part, for 
financial year 2022-23 are tabled hereunder:
(Amounts in ` Lakhs)
S. 
No.
FEES PAID TO STATUTORY AUDITOR # $
Particulars
Fees Paid
1.
Audit fee 
189.92
2.
Other services
14.66
3.
Re-imbursement of expenses
11.76
TOTAL
216.34
# Includes `78.41 Lakhs paid to auditors of subsidiaries.
$ Net of GST input credit, as applicable
11.10	Compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements 
and 
adoption of the non-mandatory requirements:
	
i)	
Compliance with mandatory requirements:
The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements as prescribed in the Listing Regulations, 
including corporate governance requirements as 
specified in the provisions of Regulations 17 to 27, 
34 and 46 of the Listing Regulations, as applicable.
ii)	
Adoption of the non-mandatory requirements:
1)	
Details regarding circulating financial 
performance of the Company including 
significant events are provided in the head 
‘Means of communication’ elsewhere in this 
Report.
2)	
Pursuant to the provisions of Part E of Schedule II 
of the Listing Regulations, the Auditor’s Reports 
on the statutory Standalone and Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company have an 
unmodified opinion.
3)	
The Internal Audit Plan is approved by the Audit 
Committee and the Internal Auditors present 
their report periodically to the Audit Committee 
for its consideration.
11.11	 Insider Trading:
The Company has formulated the Code of Conduct to 
Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading by Designated 
Persons and Immediate Relatives and the Code of Practices 
and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (“UPSI”) in accordance with the 
guidelines specified under Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015, as amended from time to time (“Insider Trading 
Regulations”).
Pursuant to the provisions Regulation 3(5) of Insider 
Trading Regulations, a structured digital database shall 
be maintained by the listed entity, containing the nature of 
UPSI and the names of such persons who have shared the 
UPSI and also the names of such persons with whom UPSI 
is shared along with the PAN. In view of the same, the IT 
division of the Company has developed a “UPSI Tracking 
Portal”, which enables the insiders to effectively share the 
UPSI and also maintain a track record of the UPSI shared 
along with the requisite details of the Originator (including 
Deemed Originators) and the Recipient (including Deemed 
Recipients) and the date and time of sharing the UPSI. 
Accordingly, the financials and other UPSI for the meetings 
are shared using the UPSI Tracking Portal with the insiders 
and are available for restricted access. SEBI mandated 
the listed companies to file the System Driven Disclosure 
(“SDD”) Compliance Certificate on a quarterly basis with the 
stock exchanges stating the UPSI transactions captured in 
the said portal during the quarter. Pursuant to provisions 
of Regulation 3(5) and 3(6) Insider Trading Regulations 
the Company timely submits the required certificate with 
the exchanges duly certified by the Practicing Company 
Secretary in the prescribed SEBI format confirming that the 
Company maintains a Structured Digital Database in place 
along with other relevant disclosures.
The Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the 
Company is the Compliance Officer designated under 
the Code of Conduct and is responsible for complying 
with the procedures, monitoring adherences to the rules 
for the prevention of disclosure of UPSI, pre-clearance 
of trading by designated persons and their relatives, 
monitoring of trades and implementation of Code of 
Conduct under the overall supervision of the Board. The 
Compliance Officer regularly intimates the designated 
persons on trading window closures during the year. 
The Company has availed services of KFin Technologies 
Limited (the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Company) to provide software-based reporting facility 
(i.e. FINTRAKS TOOL) which enables smooth and timely 
compliance of the provisions of the PIT Regulations and 
the Code. In view of the above, and based on the weekly 
reports shared with the Compliance Officer, there are 
no non-compliances observed under the Insider Trading 
Regulations during the year 2022-23.
The Company’s Codes, inter-alia, prohibits purchase and / 
or sale of shares of the Company by a designated person, 
while in possession of UPSI in relation to the Company 
during the prohibited period, i.e. the period when the 
trading window is closed, the details of which are notified 
to all designated persons sufficiently in advance.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
122
Report on Corporate Governance
While the Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and 
Report Trading by Designated Persons and Immediate 
Relatives is circulated regularly to the Designated Persons, 
the Company’s Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair 
Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information is 
uploaded on the Company’s website at
https://jplcorp.in/new/pdf/JPL_Code_of_Practices_for_
Fair_Disclosure_of_UPSI_2.pdf
11.12	Certificate from Practicing Company Secretary:
A certificate has been obtained from Adesh Tandon & 
Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, confirming that 
none of the Directors on the Board has been debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors by 
the SEBI / MCA or any such Statutory Authority and is annexed 
hereto as Annexure-III.
11.13	Adherence to Accounting Standards:
The Company has followed the relevant Accounting Standards 
notified by the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended from time to time while preparing 
its Financial Statements (both standalone and consolidated).
11.14	Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013:
	
i)	
Number of complaints filed during the financial year: 
Nil
	
ii)	
Number of complaints disposed of during the 
financial year: N.A.
	
iii)	
Number of complaints pending as on end of the 
financial year: N.A.
11.15	Corporate benefits to investors (Since Date of Listing 
i.e. 22.02.2006):
	
i)	
Bonus Issues of fully paid-up equity shares:
Financial Year
Ratio
2006-07
1:5
	
ii)	
Stock Split:
In 2007-08, the face value of equity shares of the 
Company was split in the ratio of 5:1. Post sub-
division, shareholders who held 1 equity share of 
face value of `10/- were given 5 equity shares of 
face value of `2/- each.
iii)	
Dividend:
Financial Year
Dividend per 
share (in `)
Dividend percentage 
(in %)
2022-23**
4
200
2021-22**
NIL
-
2020-21**
NIL
-
2019-20**
NIL
-
2018-19**
3.5
175
2017-18**
3
150
2016-17
3
150
2015-16
NIL
-
2014-15
3.5
175
2013-14**
4
200
Financial Year
Dividend per 
share (in `)
Dividend percentage 
(in %)
2012-13
2
100
2011-12
3.5
175
2010-11
3.5
175
2009-10
3.5
175
2008-09
2
100
2007-08
2
100
2006-07*
6
60
Note: Dividend includes Interim Dividend
*On face value of `10/- per share.
**Refer the Buyback as detailed below.
iv)	
Buy-back of fully paid-up equity shares:
1)	
In March 2023 the Company concluded a buyback 
of 4,60,00,000 fully paid-up equity shares of the 
Company of `2/- each, constituting 17.45% of the 
fully paid-up equity share capital of the Company, 
at a price of `75/- per equity share for an aggregate 
amount of `34,500 Lakhs excluding transaction 
costs, on a proportionate basis through the 
tender offer route, which represents 23.67% of the 
aggregate of the Company’s paid-up equity share 
capital and free reserves as on March 31, 2022.
	
Since the Buyback constituted more than 10% of 
the total paid up equity capital and free reserves 
of the Company, in terms of Section 68(2)(b) of 
the Companies Act and Regulation 5(i)(b) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018, the Buyback was 
also approved by the Members of the Company 
vide special resolution dated December 17, 2022, 
through Postal Ballot only by voting through 
electronic means i.e. remote e-voting.
	
The Company has duly extinguished the bought-
back 4,60,00,000 equity shares of `2/- each. 
Accordingly, the issued, subscribed and paid-up 
share capital of the Company was reduced from 
`5,273.09 Lakhs comprising 26,36,54,272 equity 
shares of `2/- each to `4,353.09 Lakhs comprising 
21,76,54,272 equity shares of `2/- each.
2)	
In March 2021, the Board of Directors, approved 
the buyback of the Company’s fully paid-up equity 
shares of face value of `2/- each, for an aggregate 
amount not exceeding `11,800 Lakhs excluding 
Transaction Costs, at a price not exceeding `60/- 
per Equity from the open market through stock 
exchange mechanism. The Company had bought 
back 1,75,45,728 fully paid-up equity shares of face 
value of `2/- each, at an average price of `58.14/- per 
equity share (representing 6.24% of the total number 
of outstanding equity shares of the Company pre-
buyback). The amount utilised was `10201.93 
Lakhs, excluding transaction costs. The Buyback 
had reduced the share capital of the Company from 
`5,624.00 Lakhs comprising 28,12,00,000 equity 
shares of `2/- each to `5,273.09 Lakhs comprising 
26,36,54,272 equity shares of `2/- each. The 
Buyback concluded in August 2021.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
123
Annual Report   2022-23
3)	
In February 2020, the Company concluded a buy-
back of 15,211,829 fully paid-up equity shares of 
the Company of `2/- each from the open market 
through stock exchange mechanism, constituting 
5.13% of the fully paid-up equity share capital of 
the Company, at an average price of `66.37/- per 
equity share for an aggregate amount of `10,095.39 
Lakhs, which represents 8.56% of the aggregate of 
the Company’s paid-up equity share capital and free 
reserves as on March 31, 2019.
	
The Buyback reduced the share capital of the 
Company from `5,928.24 Lakhs comprising 
296,411,829 equity shares of `2/- each to `5624.00 
Lakhs comprising 281,200,000 equity shares of `2/- 
each.
4)	
In July, 2018 the Company concluded a buy-back 
of 15,000,000 fully paid-up equity shares of the 
Company of `2/- each, constituting 4.82% of the 
fully paid-up equity share capital of the Company, 
at a price of `195/- per equity share for an aggregate 
amount of `29,250 Lakhs, through tender offer, 
which represents 24.66% of the aggregate of the 
Company’s paid-up equity share capital and free 
reserves as on March 31, 2017.
The Buyback reduced the share capital of the Company 
from `6,228.24 Lakhs comprising 311,411,829 equity 
shares of `2/- each to `5,928.24 Lakhs comprising 
296,411,829 equity shares of `2/- each.
5)	
In April 2017, the Company concluded a buy-back 
of 15,500,000 fully paid-up equity shares of the 
Company of `2/- each, constituting 4.74% of the fully 
paid-up equity share capital of the Company, at a 
price of `195/- per equity share for an aggregate 
amount of `30,225 Lakhs through tender offer, 
which represents 24.32% of the aggregate of the 
Company’s paid-up equity share capital and free 
reserves as on March 31, 2016.
	
The Buyback reduced the share capital of the Company 
from `6,538.24 Lakhs comprising 326,911,829 equity 
shares of `2/- each to `6,228.24 Lakhs comprising 
311,411,829 equity shares of `2/- each.
6)	
In January 2014, the Company concluded a buy-
back of 5,000,000 fully paid-up equity shares of the 
Company of `2/- each, constituting 1.506% of the 
fully paid-up equity share capital of the Company, 
at a price of `95/- per equity share for an aggregate 
amount of `4,750 Lakhs through tender offer, which 
represents 5.54% of the aggregate of the Company’s 
paid-up equity share capital and free reserves as on 
March 31, 2013.
	
The Buyback reduced the share capital of the 
Company from `6,638.24 Lakhs comprising 
331,911,829 equity shares of `2/- each to `6,538.24 
Lakhs comprising 326,911,829 equity shares of `2/- 
each.
	
For further details, please refer to the Board’s 
Report, forming part of the Annual Report.
11.16	Green Initiative for Paperless Communications:
The MCA and SEBI have taken a green initiative by 
allowing paperless compliances by companies through 
electronic mode. In accordance with the provisions of 
Sections 20 and 101 of the Act, companies can now 
send various notices / documents to their shareholders 
through electronic mode to the e-mail addresses of the 
shareholders, registered with either the Company or 
Depository Participant and changes therein from time 
to time. This is an opportunity for every shareholder of 
the Company to contribute to the green initiative for 
paperless communication.
The shareholders holding shares in demat mode are 
requested to register their e-mail address / change their 
email address with their Depository Participant, in the 
event they have not done so earlier for receiving notices 
/ documents through electronic mode.
11.17	Non-Convertible Debentures:
During the financial year 2020-21, the Company had 
issued 2,500 rated, secured, senior, listed, redeemable, 
non-convertible debentures (“NCDs”) of face value of 
`10,00,000 (Rupees Ten Lakhs) each, aggregating to 
`25,000 Lakhs through two different issues on a private 
placement basis, in dematerialized form.
	
Details of the NCDs are as under:
Security 
Name
Number of 
Debentures
Face Value  
(in `)
Coupon 
Rate
Listed at
Amount  
(in ` Crores)
Redemption of Debentures
8.35% 
JPL 2023
1,000
10,00,000
8.35% 
p.a.
BSE
100
On April 21, 2023, the Company made timely 
payment of annual interest, and the entire 
issue of NCD was fully redeemed. 
8.45% 
JPL 2024
1,500
10,00,000
8.45% 
p.a.
NSE
150
On April 27 2023, the Company made timely 
payment of annual interest and partially 
redeemed 750 NCDs i.e. 50% of total issue of 
1,500 NCDs. Remaining 50% i.e. 750 NCDs 
will be redeemed at the end of 4th year i.e. 
April, 2024.
In accordance with the Information Memorandum and Debenture Trust Deed, the Company has also created sufficient 
security on the assets of the Company with regards to the NCDs.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
124
Report on Corporate Governance
11.18	Information pursuant to Regulation 39(4) of the Listing Regulations:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Number of
Shareholders
Number of 
Shares
1.
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense 
account lying at the beginning of the year i.e., on April 01, 2022.
6
271
2.
Number of shareholders who approached issuer for transfer of shares from 
suspense account during the year.
0
0
3.
Number of shareholders whose shares were transferred from suspense account 
during 2022-23.
0
0
4.
Aggregate number of shareholders and outstanding shares in the suspense account 
lying at the end of the year as on March 31, 2023.
6
271
Voting rights on the equity shares lying in the suspense account shall remain frozen until the rightful owner of such equity 
shares claims these equity shares.
11.19	Information relating to Sections 124 and 125 and other relevant provisions of Act for the Unpaid Dividend:
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the Act, read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“the IEPF Rules”), all unpaid or unclaimed dividends are required to be 
transferred by the Company to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central Government, 
after the completion of seven years. Further, according to the IEPF Rules, the shares in respect of which dividend has not 
been paid or claimed by the shareholders for seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred to the demat account 
created by the IEPF Authority. Accordingly, in the financial year 2022-23, the unpaid / unclaimed final dividend of 1,937 
cases amounting to `529,168/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Twenty-nine Thousand One Hundred and Sixty-eight only) and 11,226 
Shares involving 150 cases were duly transferred to the IEPF.
During the financial year under review, request was received from 2 shareholders for claiming 120 shares each transferred 
to IEPF. The shares were successfully claimed by the shareholders.
The dates by which the dividend amounts will be transferred to IEPF are as under:
Financial Year
Date of Declaration 
of Dividend
Rate of Dividend per 
share (in `)
Due date for transfer 
to IEPF
2016-2017 (Final Dividend)
28.09.2017
3.00
3.11.2024
2017-2018 (Final Dividend)
24.09.2018
3.00
30.10.2025
2018-2019 (Final Dividend)
27.09.2019
3.50
02.11.2026
2022-2023 (Interim Dividend)
06.08.2022
4.00
11.09.2029
The details of unclaimed dividend along with due dates for the 
transfer of such amounts and shares, are also uploaded on 
the Company’s website at https://jplcorp.in/new/Shares.aspx.
Any shareholder whose shares are transferred to IEPF can 
claim the shares by making an online application in Form IEPF-
5 (available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with the fee prescribed 
to the IEPF authority with a copy to the Company.
For this purpose, the investors may also contact the Nodal Officer 
of the Company for IEPF, Mr. Amit Jaiswal, whose contact details 
are mentioned elsewhere in this Report, or refer the Company’s 
website at https://jplcorp.in/new/Pages.aspx?PID=21 or the RTA 
on the mail id einward.ris@kfintech.com .
Reminders are sent to the Shareholders who have not claimed 
their dividends and whose shares are due to be transferred to 
IEPF in accordance with provisions of the Act and IEPF Rules.
11.20	Non-compliance of any requirement of Corporate 
Governance Report of sub-paras (2) to (10) of Para C 
to Schedule V of the Listing Regulations:
The Company has, to the extent applicable, complied with 
all the requirements pertaining to sub-paras (2) to (10) of 
Para C to Schedule V of the Listing Regulations.
12.	 MEANS OF COMMUNICATION:
12.1	Quarterly results: The Company regularly publishes 
its audited and unaudited financial results in all the 
editions of Business Standard (English) and in Kanpur 
(place of situation of registered office) edition of Dainik 
Jagran (Hindi), in the format as prescribed under the 
law. Quarterly financial results are duly submitted to the 
Stock Exchanges after the approval of the Board. The 
financial results, official press releases and other relevant 
information are updated promptly on the Company’s 
corporate website at www.jplcorp.in.
12.2	Presentations to institutional investors / analysts: 
Detailed presentations are made to institutional investors 
and financial analysts on the Company’s unaudited 
quarterly financial results as well as audited annual 
financial results/statements. These presentations are 
submitted to the stock exchanges and are also uploaded 
on the Company’s corporate website at www.jplcorp.in.
12.3	Website: The Company’s corporate website (www.
jplcorp.in) contains a separate dedicated section ‘Investor 
Relations’ where shareholders’ information is available. 
The Company’s Annual Report is also available in a 
downloadable, user-friendly format.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
125
Annual Report   2022-23
12.4	 Annual Report: The Annual Report containing, inter-
alia, Audited Standalone and Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Board’s Report including annexures thereto, 
Auditors’ Report and other important information are 
circulated to Members and others entitled thereto.
12.5	Communiqué / Reminders to Investors: The Company 
also takes into consideration the shareholders’ queries, 
complaints and suggestions which are responded timely 
and in consistent manner. Shareholders can contact the 
Company as well as the Registrar and Transfer Agents, of 
the Company, KFin Technologies Limited (formerly known 
as KFin Technologies Private Limited) for their services. 
The Company sends relevant reminders and communiqué 
to the investors, as applicable in accordance with the 
provisions of the applicable law from time to time.
12.6	NSE Electronic Application Processing System 
(‘NEAPS’) and BSE Corporate Compliance and Listing 
Centre (‘Listing Centre’): NEAPS, NSE’s Digital Portal 
and Listing Centre are web-based applications for 
corporates to undertake electronic filing of all periodical 
compliance related filings like shareholding pattern, 
corporate governance report, media releases, among 
others. Various compliances as required under law are 
filed through these portals. The said filings are also made 
available on the corporate website of the Company under 
the relevant heads at www.jplcorp.in.
12.7	Securities and Exchange Board of India Complaints 
Redress System (SCORES): The investor complaints 
are processed in a centralized web-based complaints 
redress system. The salient features of this system are: 
centralized database of all complaints, online upload of 
Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by concerned companies 
and online viewing by investors of actions taken on the 
complaint and its current status.
12.8	Designated Exclusive email-id: The Company has 
designated the following email-ids exclusively for investor 
servicing:
	
For queries on Annual Report: investor@jagran.com
	
For any other queries: einward.ris@kfintech.com
13.	 GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION:
	
The Company is registered in the State of Uttar Pradesh, 
India, under the Registrar of Companies, Kanpur. The 
Corporate Identification Number (CIN) allotted to the 
Company by the MCA is L22219UP1975PLC004147.
13.1	Annual General Meeting:
	
Day and Date August 25, 2023 
	
Time: 12:30 PM
	
Venue: Jalsaa Banquet Hall, 4th Floor, Rave@Moti, 
117/K/13, Gutaiya, Kanpur.
13.2	Financial Calendar: The financial year of the Company 
starts on April 01 and ends on March 31 of next year.
13.3	For the year ended March 31, 2024, interim results 
will be announced as follows:
First Quarter 
On or before August 14, 2023
Second Quarter 
On or before November 14, 2023
Third Quarter 
On or before February 14, 2024
Fourth Quarter 
On or before May 30, 2024
13.4	Book Closure: The Register of Members and Share 
Transfer Books of the company will remain closed from 
August 15, 2023 to August 25, 2023 (both days inclusive).
13.5	Dividend: In view of the interim dividend paid by the Board of `4/- per equity share (200% on face value of `2/- per equity 
share) for the financial year 2022-23, the Board does not recommend any final dividend on the equity shares of the Company 
for the financial year under review.
13.6	Listing on Stock Exchanges (The Company’s shares are regularly traded on NSE and BSE in electronic form):
Type of Securities
Name of Stock 
Exchange
Security 
Code/ 
Trading 
Symbol
Address of  
Stock Exchange
International 
Securities 
Identification 
Nos. (ISIN)
Equity shares 
(listed from February 22, 2006)
BSE Limited (BSE)
532705
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001
INE199G01027
Equity shares 
(listed from February 22, 2006)
National Stock 
Exchange of India 
Limited (NSE)
JAGRAN
“Exchange Plaza”, Bandra-Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 
400 051.
INE199G01027
1,000 Secured, Senior, Listed, 
Redeemable Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
(listed from May 05, 2020 and 
redeemed on April 21, 2023) 
BSE Limited (BSE)
959443
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400 001
INE199G07040
1,500 Secured, Senior, Listed, 
Redeemable Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
(listed from May 04, 2020 and 50% 
of the total issue of 1,500 NCDs 
were partially redeemed on April 27, 
2023)
National Stock 
Exchange of India 
Limited (NSE)
JARP24
“Exchange Plaza”, Bandra-Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 
400 051.
INE199G07057
Annual Listing Fee for the year 2022-23 has been paid.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
126
Report on Corporate Governance
13.7	Stock Data:
The price of the Company's equity shares high and low during each month in the financial year 2022-23 on NSE and BSE 
is given below in tabular form:
MONTH
NSE
BSE
High (in `)
Low (in `)
Volume (in No.)
High (in `)
Low (in `)
Volume (in No.)
April 2022
73.45
67.00
83,68,938 
73.40
66.90
8,96,964
May 2022
65.30
56.85
35,48,937 
65.40
56.85
3,32,473
June 2022
58.60
47.75
56,71,728 
58.45
47.90
5,07,706
July 2022
54.95
49.30
31,46,678 
54.90
49.40
2,06,566
August 2022
69.75
54.30
1,07,64,864 
69.60
54.40
9,20,290
September 2022
70.60
62.30
62,47,898
70.35
61.70
4,25,577
October 2022
68.20
63.40
2,29,84,000
68.40
63.40
3,06,835
November 2022
73.15
65.25
1,01,39,478
73.05
65.60
7,40,177
December 2022
75.00
70.75
59,28,646
75.05
70.60
5,86,039
January 2023
79.70
72.15
95,37,173
79.45
72.10
9,19,126
February 2023
73.25
67.85
27,06,380
73.05
67.85
3,52,204
March 2023
74.35
69.30
 25,26,349
74.34
69.47
1,97,800
	
Source: NSE and BSE Websites.
	
Note: Closing share prices are considered
13.8	Share price performance in comparison to broad-based indices, BSE Sensex and NSE Nifty:
Period
Percentage change in
JPL (at BSE)
SENSEX (BSE)
JPL (at NSE)
NIFTY (NSE)
2022-23
10.99%
0.722%
11.70%
-0.60%
2 Years
22.81%
19.15%
23.49%
18.17%
	
Source: NSE and BSE Websites
	
Note: Closing share prices are considered 
13.9	Share transfer system:
In terms of SEBI Circular No D&CC/FITT/CIR-15/2002 
dated December 27, 2002, the Company is providing 
facility of a common agency for all the work related to 
share registry in terms of both physical and electronic at 
a single point by the RTA, whose address is given below:
KFin Technologies Limited (formerly known as KFin 
Technologies Private Limited):
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32
Gachibowli, Financial District
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, Hyderabad - 
500032, India
Tel No.: +91 40 6716 2222; Toll Free No: 1800-309-4001
Website: www.kfintech.com, ris.kfintech.com
Mail Id: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Contact Person:
Ms. C. Shobha Anand
Deputy Vice President
Tel no.: +91 40 6716 2222
KFin Technologies Limited has also been appointed by 
the Company as the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 
for the two (2) issues of NCDs as detailed in this Report.
Shareholders’ requests for transfer / transmission of 
equity shares/debentures and other related matters are 
handled by the RTA and are effected within stipulated 
timelines, if all the documents are valid and found in order.
SEBI has mandated that securities of listed companies can 
be transferred only in dematerialised form from April 01, 
2019. In view of the above and to avail various benefits of 
dematerialisation, members are advised to dematerialise 
shares held by them in physical form. The Company has 
entered into agreements with both National Securities 
Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) whereby shareholders 
have an option to dematerialise their shares with either 
of the depositories.
Mr. Sunil Gupta, Whole-time Director and Mr. Amit Jaiswal, 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary are 
severally empowered to approve transfer of shares.
The Company obtains, on yearly basis, a certificate 
from a Company Secretary in Practice, certifying that 
all certificates for transfer, transmission, sub-division, 
consolidation, renewal, exchange and deletion of names, 
as required under Regulation 40(9) and Regulation 61(4) 
of the Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circulars issued 
from time to time. These certificates are duly filed with 
BSE and NSE.
13.10	List of credit ratings: The details of credit rating are available on the Company’s website at https://jplcorp.in/new/Reports.
aspx?CID=29. Details of credit rating assigned by CRISIL are given below:
Rating Agency
Instruments
Period
Rated Amount (in ` Crores)
Rating Reaffirmed
CRISIL
Non-convertible Debentures
Long term rating
300
CRISIL AA+/Stable
Total bank loan facilities rated
Long term rating
285
CRISIL AA+/Stable
Short term rating
CRISIL A1+
Commercial paper
Short term rating
70
CRISIL A1+
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
127
Annual Report   2022-23
13.11	Audit for Reconciliation of Share Capital:
	
Pursuant to Regulation 76 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 
all issuer companies shall submit an audit report of capital integrity, reconciling the total shares held in both the Depositories, 
viz. NSDL and CDSL and in physical form with the total issued, subscribed and paid-up capital of the Company.
	
The said report, duly signed by a Practicing Company Secretary is submitted to the stock exchanges where the securities 
of the Company are listed, within 30 days of the end of each quarter and the audit report is also placed before the Board 
of Directors of the Company.
13.12	Shareholding Pattern:
	
The tables below show the shareholding pattern of JPL as on March 31, 2023.
	
i.	
Distribution of Shareholding by size as on March 31, 2023:
S. 
No.
Number of Equity Shares held
(Face value `2/- each)
Shareholders
Shares
Number
% of Total
Number
% of Total
1
1 
2500
42,111
96.53
84,68,448
3.89
2
2501 
5000
729
1.67
26,51,964
1.22
3
5001
10000
356
0.82
26,06,426
1.20
4
10001
15000
117
0.27
14,36,309
0.66
5
15001 
20000
56
0.13
9,86,801
0.45
6
20001 
25000
39
0.09
8,68,368
0.40
7
25001 
50000
80
0.18
28,45,625
1.31
8
50001
above
135
0.31
19,77,90,331
90.87
TOTAL
43,623
100.00
21,76,54,272
100.00
	
ii.	
Categories of Shareholding as on March 31, 2023
S. 
No.
Category
No. of shares held
% of holding (rounded off)
1
Promoters and Promoters Group 
15,01,77,478
69
2
Mutual Funds
2,17,99,279
10.02
3
Banks, Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies, 
Central / State Gov. Institutions / Non-governmental 
Institutions, Venture Capital / other Institutions
31,57,581
1.45
4
Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) / Foreign Portfolio 
Investors
73,85,420
3.39
5
Corporate Bodies 
62,73,909
2.88
6
Resident Individual 
2,56,39,167
11.78
7
NRIs / OCBs
15,53,909
0.71
8
Clearing Members 
15,701
0.01
9
Trust
4,071
0.00
10
NBFC
0
0
11 
HUF
15,69,556
0.72
12
IEPF
56,961
0.03
13
Qualified Institutional Buyer 
21,240
0.01
TOTAL
21,76,54,272
100.00
	
iii.	
Dematerialization of shares as on March 31, 2023:
Form
No. of Shares
% of Total
Held in dematerialized form in CDSL
 15,73,04,583
72.27
Held in dematerialized form in NSDL
 6,03,49,143
27.73
Physical form
546
0.00
TOTAL
21,76,54,272
100.00
13.13	Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities:
The Company is exposed to newsprint price fluctuation as well as foreign exchange risk. For fluctuation in newsprint prices 
refer to sub-paragraph 3 of the section titled as Major Risks and Concerns of the Management Discussion and Analysis 
Report forming part of the Annual Report. The foreign exchange risk is insignificant as it relates primarily to the imported 
newsprint for which the Company does not remain exposed to the fluctuation for a period exceeding 2–3 months. On the 
basis of its past experience, the management believes that cost of hedging of such insignificant risk is much higher than the 
value of risk and therefore it does not hedge such risk.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
128
Report on Corporate Governance
13.14	Outstanding Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) or 
warrants or any convertible instrument, conversion 
dates and likely impact on equity:
The Company has not issued any GDRs / ADRs / Warrants 
or any convertible instruments in the past and hence as 
on March 31, 2023, the Company does not have any 
outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible 
instruments.
13.15	Investor services:
The Company, under the overall supervision of Mr. Amit 
Jaiswal, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer, 
is committed to providing efficient and timely services 
to its shareholders. The Company has appointed KFin 
Technologies Limited as its Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agents for rendering the entire range of services to the 
shareholders and debentureholders of the Company 
in regard to share transfer, refund, remateralisation, 
dematerialisation, change of address, change of mandate, 
dividend etc.
13.16	Nomination:
Individual shareholders holding shares singly or jointly 
in physical form can nominate a person in whose name 
the shares shall be transferable in the case of death 
of all the registered shareholder(s) pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 72 of the Act. The prescribed form 
for such nomination can be obtained from the Company. 
Nomination facility in respect of shares held in electronic 
form is also available with the Depository Participant (DP) 
as per the by-laws and business rules applicable to NSDL 
and CDSL.
Investors shall file form SH-13 and SH-14 for declaration 
of nomination and change in nomination respectively. 
However, in case investor wants to opt-out of nomination, 
form ISR-3 shall be filed.
The Company has sent a communication to its physical 
shareholders in this regard.
13.17	
Address for correspondence:
	
i.	
Investors and shareholders can correspond with 
the Company at the following address:-
	
	
The Company Secretary and Compliance Officer,
	
	
Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, 
	
	
Kanpur-208 005
Phone: +91 512 2216161-64
E-mail: investor@jagran.com /  
amitjaiswal@jagran.com
Website: www.jplcorp.in
	
ii.	
The Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Company: –
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32,  
Financial District
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal,  
Hyderabad – 500032, India
Tel No.: +91 40 6716 2222; 
Toll Free No: 1800-309-4001
Website:www.kfintech.com,ris.kfintech.com
Mail Id: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
iii.	
The Debenture Trustees of the Company (for 
NCDs) are: –
	
	
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
	
	
Asian Building, Ground Floor, 17,
	
	
R. Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate, Mumbai-400 001
	
	
P: +91 22-4080 7000
	
	
F: +91 22-6631 1776
	
	
Mail Id: itsl@idbitrustee.com
14.	 DETAILS OF PLANT LOCATIONS:
	
The Company has following printing centres as at March 31, 2023:
S. 
No.
Place
Address
1.
Kanpur
C-12B, Panki Industrial Area, Site No. 1, Kanpur
2.
Lucknow 
Jagran Building, Gram Anaura, Kala Gaon, Faizabad Road, Lucknow
3.
Gorakhpur 
Plot No. K – 31, Sector – 15, GIDA Tehsil – Sahjanwa Gorakhpur
4.
Varanasi 
Plot No. 321, Nadesar, Varanasi
5.
Prayagraj 
Plot No. C-28, UPSIDC Industrial Area, near Dey’s Medical, Naini, Prayagraj
6.
Meerut 
Bijli Bamba, Hapur Bypass, Mohkampur, Meerut
7.
Dehradun 
Plot No. C2/2 Selagui Industrial Area, Dehradun
8.
Agra 
B-1, Site A, UPSIDC Industrial Area, Sikandara, Agra
9.
Aligarh 
A-32, Sector II, Tala Nagri, Ramghat, Aligarh
10.
Bareilly 
Birhaman Nagla, Pilibhit Bypass Road, Near Jingle Bell School, Bareilly
11.
Moradabad 
Jagran Bhawan, Kanth Road,(Harthala) Moradabad
12.
Jalandhar 
C-120, Focal Point Extension, G.T. Road, Jalandhar
13.
Noida 
D 210-211, Sector 63, Noida
14.
Hisar 
15, IDC Industrial Estate, Hisar
15.
Patna 
C-5, C-6 & 15, Patliputra Industrial Area, Patliputra, Patna
16.
Ranchi 
62, Kokar Industrial Area, Ranchi
17.
Dhanbad 
A-65(P), Kandra Industrial Area, G. T Road, Kandra, Govindpur, Dhanbad
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
129
Annual Report   2022-23
S. 
No.
Place
Address
18.
Jamshedpur 
C-33, First phase, Near NIT Railway Overbridge, Adityapur Industrial Area, Distt Saraikela, 
Kharsawan
19.
Bhagalpur 
Plot No. D-4, Industrial Area Estate Growth centre Barari, Bhagalpur
20.
Panipat 
Plot No. 10, Sector – 29 Huda, Panipat
21.
Haldwani (Nainital) 
Devalchaur, Rampur Road, Haldwani
22.
Muzaffarpur 
Uma Shanker Marg, Near Pani Tanki, Ramna, Muzaffarpur
23.
Jammu 
SIDCO Industrial Complex, Bari-Brahmana, Jammu
24.
Dharamshala 
Vill-Banoi, Near Kangra Airport, Tehsil-Shahpur, Distt-Kangra
25.
Indore
Plot No. 1, Industrial Area, Rangwasa, RAU, Indore
26.
Bhopal
23/4, 23/5, Sector D, Govindpura, Industrial Area, J.K. Road, Bhopal
27.
Jabalpur
Plot No. 90, Industrial Area, Richai, Jabalpur
28.
Gwalior 
Kedarpur – Shivpuri Link Road, Gwalior
29.
Raipur
47/3, Bhanpuri Industrial Area, Raipur
30.
Bilaspur 
Plot No. 12, 13 & 14, Sirgitti, Bilaspur
31.
Mohali
C 178, Phase, 8B, Near Jaspal Bhatti Film School, Industrial Area, Mohali
32.
*Siliguri 
3rd mile, in front of Sona Petrol Pump, Sevak Road, Siliguri
33.
**Bhopal 
Jagran Bhawan, 33 Press Complex, M.P. Nagar, Bhopal
34.
**Rewa 
Jagran Bhawan, Gandhi Nagar, Urrahat, Rewa
	
* Printing of newspaper has been outsourced.
	
** Owned by Companies in which the Company has shareholding with 50% voting rights. 
15.	 DISCLOSURE 
OF 
COMPLIANCE 
WITH 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS:
The Company has complied with corporate governance 
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and 46 and 
Para C, D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations.
The requisite Certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company, Adesh Tandon & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, confirming compliance with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under 
the Listing Regulations is annexed hereto as Annexure- 
IV. The Company has also obtained an Annual Secretarial 
Compliance Report from the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company on compliance of all applicable SEBI 
Regulations and circulars / guidelines issued thereunder, 
as mandated by SEBI Circular CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 
dated February 08, 2019.
16.	 CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF 
CONDUCT:
I, Mahendra Mohan Gupta, Chairman and Managing 
Director, do hereby confirm that the Company has 
obtained from all the members of the Board and Senior 
Management Personnel, affirmation that they have 
complied with the Code of Conduct for the financial year 
2022-23, as laid down by the Company in compliance 
with the requirements of regulation 26 (3) of Listing 
regulations.
Place: Kanpur 	
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Date: May 30, 2023 	
Chairman and Managing Director
Jagran Prakashan Limited
130
Report on Corporate Governance
ANNEXURE-I
In terms of the requirement of the Listing Regulation, the Board has identified the skills/expertise/competencies fundamental for 
the effective functioning of the Company, which are currently available with the Board and the names of directors who possess 
such skills/expertise/competence as at March 31, 2023.
In the table below, specific areas of focus or expertise of individual Board members have been highlighted.
S. 
No. 
Skills / Expertise / Competence 
Mahendra 
Mohan Gupta 
Sanjay  
Gupta 
Shailesh  
Gupta
Sandeep 
Gupta
Sunil  
Gupta
Dhirendra 
Mohan Gupta 
(A) 
Media industry knowledge 
/ experience, covering 
knowledge of sector, broad 
public policy direction, and 
understanding of government 
legislation /legislative process
√
√
√
√
√
√
(B) 
Technical Skills / Experience:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Accounting
√
 
 
 
√
√
2. 
Finance
√
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Law
√
 
 
 
 
√
4. 
Editorial experience
√
√
 
√
√
√
5. 
Marketing / Advertising 
experience
√
√
√
 
 
√
6. 
Information technology
 
√
 
√
√
 
7. 
Public relations
 
√
√
√
√
√
8. 
Experience in developing 
and implementing risk 
management systems
√
√
√
√
 
 
9. 
MD / Senior Management 
experience
√
√
√
√
√
√
10. Strategy development and 
implementation
√
√
√
√
√
√
11. Investment
√
 
 
 
 
 
12.
Corporate Governance
√
√
 
 
√
 
(C)
Behavioral Competencies
Team Player / collaborative, Ability and willingness to challenge and probe, Common sense 
and sound judgement, Integrity and high ethical standards, Mentoring abilities, Interpersonal 
relations, Listening skills, Verbal communication skills, Understanding of effective decision-
making processes and Willingness and ability to devote time and energy to the role 
S. 
No. 
Skills / Expertise / Competence 
Devendra 
Mohan Gupta 
Shailendra 
Mohan Gupta 
Satish 
Chandra 
Mishra 
Anuj Puri 
Dilip Cherian
Divya Karani
(A) 
Media industry knowledge 
/ experience, covering 
knowledge of sector, broad 
public policy direction, and 
understanding of government 
legislation /legislative process
 
 
√
√
√
√
(B) 
Technical Skills / Experience:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Accounting
√
 
 
√
 
 
2. 
Finance
√
 
 
√
√
 
3. 
Law
 
 
√
 
 
 
4. 
Editorial experience
 
 
√
 
√
 
5. 
Marketing / Advertising 
experience
 
 
 
 
√
√
6. 
Information technology
√
 
√
 
√
 
7. 
Public relations
√
√
 
 
√
√
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
131
Annual Report   2022-23
S. 
No. 
Skills / Expertise / Competence 
Devendra 
Mohan Gupta 
Shailendra 
Mohan Gupta 
Satish 
Chandra 
Mishra 
Anuj Puri 
Dilip Cherian
Divya Karani
8. 
Experience in developing 
and implementing risk 
management systems
 
 
 
√
√
 
9. 
MD / Senior Management 
experience
√
√
√
√
√
√
10. Strategy development and 
implementation
√
√
√
√
√
√
11. Investment
√
 
 
√
 
 
12. Corporate Governance
√
 
 
 
√
 
(C)
Behavioral Competencies
Team Player / collaborative, Ability and willingness to challenge and probe, Common 
sense and sound judgement, Integrity and high ethical standards, Mentoring abilities, 
Interpersonal relations, Listening skills, Verbal communication skills, Understanding of 
effective decision-making processes and Willingness and ability to devote time and energy 
to the role 
S. 
No. 
Skills / Expertise / Competence 
Jayant Davar 
Ravi Sardana 
Shailendra 
Swarup 
Shashidhar 
Sinha 
Vikram 
Sakhuja 
Vijay Tandon 
(A) 
Media industry knowledge 
/ experience, covering 
knowledge of sector, broad 
public policy direction, and 
understanding of government 
legislation /legislative process
 
√
√
√
√
√
(B) 
Technical Skills / Experience:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Accounting
√
√
 
 
 
√
2. 
Finance
√
√
 
 
 
√
3. 
Law
 
√
√
 
 
 
4. 
Editorial experience
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Marketing / Advertising 
experience
 
 
 
√
√
 
6. 
Information technology
√
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Public relations
√
√
 
√
 
 
8. 
Experience in developing 
and implementing risk 
management systems
 
 
 
 
 
√
9. 
MD / Senior Management 
experience
√
√
 
√
√
 
10. Strategy development and 
implementation
√
√
 
√
√
 
11. Investment
√
√
 
 
 
 
12. Corporate Governance
√
√
√
 
 
√
(C)
Behavioral Competencies
Team Player / collaborative, Ability and willingness to challenge and probe, Common sense 
and sound judgement, Integrity and high ethical standards, Mentoring abilities, Interpersonal 
relations, Listening skills, Verbal communication skills, Understanding of effective decision-
making processes and Willingness and ability to devote time and energy to the role 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
132
Report on Corporate Governance
ANNEXURE-II
CERTIFICATION UNDER REGULATION 17 (8) OF SEBI  
(LISTING OBLIGATION AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
Place: Kanpur
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Amit Jaiswal
Date: 30th May, 2023
Chairman and Managing Director
Chief Financial Officer
The Board of Directors,
Jagran Prakashan Limited,
Jagran Building,
2, Sarvodaya Nagar,
Kanpur – 208005 
Re.: Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2023 Certification by CMD and CFO.
We, Mahendra Mohan Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director and Amit Jaiswal, Chief Financial Officer have reviewed financial 
statements and the cash flow statement of Jagran Prakashan Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended March 31, 2023 and to 
the best of our knowledge and belief hereby certify that:
1.	
Financial Statements do not contain any materially untrue statements or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading.
2.	
Financial Statements present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting 
standards, applicable laws and regulations.
3.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
4.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of the internal control systems of the Company and have disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee 
those deficiencies, of which we are aware, in the design or operation of the internal control systems and that we have taken 
the required steps to rectify these deficiencies.
5.	
We further certify that: -
	
a)	
there have been no significant changes in internal control during this period.
	
b)	
there have been no significant changes in accounting policies.
	
c)	
there have been no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, 
of the management or an employee having significant role in the Company’s internal control systems over financial 
reporting.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
133
Annual Report   2022-23
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]
To,
The Members,
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar,
Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh – 208005
We have examined the relevant registers, records and disclosures received from the Directors of Jagran Prakashan Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) having CIN: L22219UP1975PLC004147 and having its registered office at Jagran 
Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur-208005, produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, 
in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) 
status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its Officers, 
We hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ended on March 
31, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. 
No.
Name of Director
DIN
Latest Date of Appointment/Re-
appointment at current designation
1.
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
00020451
01/10/2021
2.
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta
01057827
01/10/2021
3.
Sanjay Gupta
00028734
01/10/2021
4.
Shailesh Gupta
00192466
01/10/2021
5.
Sunil Gupta
00317228
29/08/2022
6.
Sandeep Gupta
00038410
30/05/2022
7.
Satish Chandra Mishra
06643245
29/08/2022
8.
Devendra Mohan Gupta
00226837
23/09/2020
9.
Shailendra Mohan Gupta
00327249
24/09/2021
10.
Anuj Puri
00048386
27/09/2019
11.
Dilip Cherian
00322763
27/09/2019
12.
Divya Rupchand Karani
01829747
13/11/2019
13.
Jayant Davar
00100801
27/09/2019
14.
Ravi Sardana
06938773
27/09/2019
15.
Shailendra Swarup
00167799
27/09/2019
16.
Shashidhar Sinha
00953796
27/09/2019
17.
Vijay Tandon
00156305
27/09/2019
18.
Vikram Sakhuja
00398420
23/09/2020
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the Management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This Certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For ADESH TANDON & ASSOCIATES
Company Secretaries
Peer Reviewed Unit: 741/2020
UDIN: F002253E000406701
(Adesh Tandon)
Proprietor
Place: Kanpur 	
FCS No. 2253
Date: May 30, 2023 	
C. P. No.1121
ANNEXURE-III
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
Jagran Prakashan Limited
134
Report on Corporate Governance
To,
The Members,
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar,
Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh – 208005
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Jagran Prakashan Limited (“the Company”), 
for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023 as per Regulations 17 to 27 and Clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation 2 of 
Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. The Management’s 
responsibility includes the implementation of the Rules and Regulations and maintenance of the internal controls and procedures 
to comply with the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations.
OUR RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is limited to examining the procedure and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring 
compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and explanations given to us and representation made by the Directors and 
the Management, we certify that the Company has complied with all the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in 
Regulation 17 to 27 and Clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation 2 of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, as applicable, during the financial year ended on March 31, 2023.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
RESTRICTIONS ON USE
This certificate is issued solely for the purpose of complying with the aforesaid Regulations and may not be suitable for any other 
purpose.
For ADESH TANDON & ASSOCIATES
Company Secretaries
Peer Reviewed Unit: 741/2020
UDIN: F002253E000406756
(Adesh Tandon)
Proprietor
Place: Kanpur 	
FCS No. 2253
Date: May 30, 2023 	
C. P. No.1121
ANNEXURE-IV
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
135
Annual Report   2022-23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements, which may 
be identified by their use of words like ‘plans’, ‘expects’, 
‘will’, ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘projects’, ‘estimates’ 
or other words of similar import. All statements that address 
expectations or projections about the future, including but 
not limited to statements about the Company’s strategy for 
growth, product development, market position, expenditure, 
and financial results, are forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements are based on certain assumptions and 
expectations of future events. The Company cannot guarantee 
that these assumptions and expectations are accurate or will 
be realised. The Company’s actual results, performance or 
achievements could thus differ materially from those projected 
in any such forward-looking statements. The Company 
assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify or revise 
any forward-looking statements, based on any subsequent 
developments, information or events.
Overview of Indian economy
Indian economy is one of the bright spots offering opportunities 
across the board. As per world bank report, India is best placed 
amongst major emerging economies to recover fully from 
pandemic shock and capitalise on available opportunities.
The financial year began with worsening geo-political 
conditions causing uncertainties and disruption in supply 
chain but India successfully managed to contain its impact on 
economy by controlling inflation and ensuring supplies to its 
citizens with minimum disruption. While India, on foundation 
of strong economic fundamentals, has shown remarkable 
resilience to the disturbances, monetary tightening and all 
sorts of challenges that emerged and are emerging, there are 
areas of concern which pose challenge to the desirable growth 
in economy.
We hail India’s economy becoming 5th largest economy and 
country’s population surpassing China’s population which is 
young and therefore suggests that India has huge untapped 
potential. However, per capita income which is true reflection 
of economic wellness of citizens continues to be low primarily 
because job opportunities are either stagnant or are falling 
while population is increasing.
Despite targeted incentivisation of manufacturing of items of 
preference and infrastructure spending, unemployment rate 
remains worrisome and is not falling. In fact, according to 
certain estimates, even if India attains most optimistic growth 
of around 7%, unemployment is expected to increase only. 
Much more focus in the direction of ensuring employment 
linked growth and a healthy balancing between man driven 
and capital driven growth is needed. India is different and 
cannot copy growth model of advanced economies where 
there are less number of job aspirants and much higher per 
capita income.
The consistent low income with no sign of higher than inflation 
increase, job losses and lack of job opportunities have started 
hurting the consumption at a time when we were expecting first 
to come out of pandemic effect and then to accelerate growth 
to level needed for wellbeing of the citizens. Due to uncertainty 
around consumption, private capex too is not picking up. This 
does not augur well for sustaining current growth rate, leave 
alone improving it at least in foreseeable future.
While consumption in general is not growing enough, upper 
middle income households continue to shop and travel at 
will opening their wallets to any price for desired goods and 
services. As a result, demand for luxury goods, services and 
real estate is comparatively higher than pre pandemic times.
On the back of strong fundamentals and government’s 
initiatives, India will remain fastest growing economy and its 
economic growth is expected to be in the range of 6-6.5 per 
cent in current fiscal.
Indian Media and Entertainment (M&E) Industry
Indian media and entertainment industry (M&E) is one of the 
fastest growing M&E in the world. As per E&Y–FICCI report, 
it is likely to grow at a CAGR of 10.5% to reach ₹2.8 trillion 
in calendar year 2025. It grew 20% in 2022 to reach ₹2.1 
trillion (US$26.2 billion), 10% above its pre-pandemic levels 
in 2019. The growth rate continues to be more than the GDP 
growth rate but its share in total GDP was still much lower than 
developed large markets like the US, Japan, and China, which 
are between 0.6% and 1%. This shows high potential linked to 
increase in per capita income.
India M&E is diverse, blessed with over 30 prominent 
languages used across the country. The flourishing M&E 
industry has recorded immense growth since it established 
itself as a prominent participant in the country’s economy, 
Television, film, print and radio dominating until a few years ago 
at the back of reasonably strong growth in economy. Covid-19 
led disruption caused significant drop in media consumption 
especially for contact-based media segments like print, film, 
out of home advertising, event & activation businesses during 
the pandemic but provided an impetus to growth to digital 
media.
After Covid-19 restrictions eased and the mobility returned, 
all those media platforms which lost started recovering and 
are on track to recover fully in couple of years provided 
there is revival of consumption which currently is in stress. 
Post pandemic, growth in digital media has rationalised from 
exceptionally robust growth witnessed during pandemic 
but is expected to be in high teens in near future. The ever-
increasing reach, internet literacy in rural areas and regional 
language offer opportunity for long term sustainable healthy 
double-digit growth. However, Indian Digital Media has not 
yet embarked upon a business model which aims at profitable 
growth and not merely expanding the user base, if it has to 
realise its potential and meet the expectations. Here, the key 
is to control personnel cost sooner than later to avoid situation 
of large scale retrenchments which is being currently faced by 
tech giants all over the world including India.
Traditional media advertisement revenue grew by 14% over 
previous year and was above pre-pandemic level, yet its share 
slipped to 62% of industry’s revenues due to phenomenal rise 
of digital media revenue which was more than twice of its pre-
pandemic revenues. Digital media surpassed the television 
and became the largest segment in terms of advertisement 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
136
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
revenue, followed by television at second and resurgent print 
media at third position.
Cost rationalisation without compromising with quality has 
immensely helped the industry in more than one way which 
augurs well for future growth and reward to stakeholders. Most 
significant benefit that accrued to the industry was change 
in approach of doing business and focus on identification 
of areas of optimisation of cost and importance of cash and 
profits. Fast adaption to changed approach was remarkable 
and enabled some of the operators to report profit even in the 
middle of pandemic and that too with the reduced revenues.
The current major challenge the industry faces is slowdown 
in consumption which directly impacts its advertisement 
revenues. We hope and trust that with inflation trending lower 
and infrastructure spend increasing, consumption should 
improve in next 6-9 months.
Print Media Industry
Calendar year (CY) 2022 witnessed continued recovery for 
the print media recording double digit growth over CY2021 
and reached around 85% of pre-pandemic revenues of `296 
billion in CY2019 (Source: FICCI–E&Y Report). Exceptionally 
high newsprint cost, persistent high inflation in general and 
continued stress on revenue have adversely impacted the 
profitability for nearly three years now.
Newsprint price has since softened and is expected to be 
lower by about 25% next fiscal. Additionally, general inflation 
is also cooling. These savings could be utilised to pursue need 
based increase in circulation to sustain advertisement revenue 
as well as improve profits.
While digital news usage has increased, there is no evidence 
that the people have stopped reading newspapers. Readers 
looking for credibility of content are now willing to pay increased 
cover pries and such readers matter to the advertisers much 
more than those who are price sensitive. If circulation is 
still a bit lower than FY 2020, there are many reasons for it 
ranging from stopping dumping of copies and rationalisation 
of circulation to forego unproductive circulation, to consistent 
increase in cover prices.
According to the Pitch Madison Advertising Outlook Report 
2023, Clothing Fashion Jewellery, HH Durables, Telecom, 
BFSI, Retail, Real Estate, and new-age companies emerged 
as the largest contributors to the growth. The share of print in 
the overall advertising expenditure was 21% as per Adex which 
is highest in the world. Hindi publications garnered a massive 
35% volumes, with English contributing 27%, followed by other 
regional languages.
As per E&Y–FICCI report, Circulation revenues grew by 5% 
in calendar year 2022. Revenue growth was contributed 
by improvement in per copy realisation as well as copies in 
circulation. Print media companies are consistently focusing 
on improving their per copy realisation across their major 
publications, which places them in a position to minimise the 
impact of high newsprint prices.
Strategic cost optimisation measures by print helped in 
delivering strong operating profits and cash from operations. 
Publishers have realised that increase in cover prices is the only 
way forward to meet pandemic like challenges and exorbitant 
increase in newsprint prices and reducing its dependence on 
advertisement revenue which is largely dependent on factors 
beyond the control of the industry.
Digital news consumption will continue to increase and for 
credible content consumers will continue to chase print. 
Credible content has to be provided by print and digital has to 
deliver/distribute the same. If both recognise their respective 
role in this content distribution chain, both will benefit.
Radio Industry
With outbreak of the pandemic, the radio industry equipped 
itself to constantly reinvent and search for new avenues for 
revenues. Integration of digital in radio offering was one such 
highly effective innovation. Following the trend of CY 2021 and 
2022, radio companies continued to offer more and more ROI 
led opportunities to their clients resulting in continued addition 
of new clients to the base. Hyperlocal content, solution-
oriented approach and digital integration were key to record 
high double digit growth in revenue and ad volume. Radio 
industry has crossed once again revenue of `2,000 Crores 
in calendar year 2022 registering a robust growth of 29% in 
revenues and 25% in ad. volumes. However, revenues and 
yields are still lower by 34% and 20% respectively than those 
in 2019 but the gap is closing. (Source: FICCI –E&Y Report)
Currently, India has more than 1,200 operational radio stations, 
including over 300 community radio stations. As per September 
2022 TRAI report, there are 388 operational private FM radio 
channels in 113 cities run by 36 private FM radio operators. 
Advertisers across Tier II and Tier III markets look at radio 
as a cost effective medium to deliver their message to the 
listeners and are embracing the medium. Those who have 
strong presence in these towns as against those who have 
multiple frequencies in single large town will benefit. This is 
nothing unusual and is a global pattern as Radio is globally 
recognised as local and not national medium given its limited 
frequency reach.
Besides, Radio Shows and other non-FCT offerings, industry’s 
use of RJ-led social media is likely to grow exceptionally in 
times to come. RJ-led influencer marketing is here to stay and 
become one of the significant contributors to revenue. With 
radio influencer-brand collaborations, radio’s increasing role in 
creation of content and communication will help brands exploit 
their true potential.
Globally, in countries like USA the size of the radio industry 
is about $13 billion while in India it hovers around $0.3 billion 
demonstrating the tremendous growth potential available in 
India for the medium.
Digital media
India has currently more than 700 million active internet 
users and is recognised worldwide as a Mobile first market. 
During and post pandemic, traditional media companies also 
accelerated the digital transformation of their news operations 
and are therefore now much better prepared to face any 
disruptive contingent situation. ComScore data show that 
online news had a reach of 466 million in CY 2022 with the 
potential of increase by more than 50% by 2025. Majority of 
the digital news consumption is now in regional languages – as 
high as 95%. This indicates the potential what regional news 
portals hold to monetise. We therefore continue to expect that 
monetisation of digital news which currently is negligible will 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
137
Annual Report   2022-23
become meaningful in times to come like any other advance 
economy country.
In young country like India, habit formation as first step to 
monetisation seems to have happened and as next step 
consumers have to learn to pay for the content which is 
dependent on affordability and willingness to pay. For this 
to materialise, operators also have to focus on quality and 
credibility and curbing the practice of supply of content free 
of charges. In any media business, there has to be a shift 
in approach to monetise content some time for sustainable 
growth once critical audience base is achieved.
Two major announcements made by the Finance Minister in 
the Union Budget 2022 namely, Broadband expansion and 
5G auction will accelerate the growth as well as quality of 
delivery which augurs well for the industry. With 5G roll out, 
new technologies like ChatGPT, XR, Metaverse, AR/VR and 
video content can be used and consumed more effectively 
which will draw additional revenues for the platform.
Digital has emerged as popular transactional tool for not 
only Work Delivery and Media & Entertainment but also for 
Grocery, Utilities, Education, Upskilling, Governance, Health 
and Medical care. Its contribution in meeting the challenge 
of mass vaccination in a vast country like India is remarkably 
outstanding and unforgettable.
Social media and online video remain the strongest platforms 
and are consistently evolving adding offerings of consumers’ 
liking. Consumers are therefore spending more time on these 
platforms, resulting in the high growth of advertising spends on 
digital media. As India’s content consumption increased online, 
advertisers also followed their audiences.
In 2022, FMCG and e-commerce were top 2 advertisers 
with their respective share of 38% and 30% respectively. 
Concentration of revenue is not healthy for sustaining high 
growth in long term and therefore the industry must constantly 
work to reduce its dependence on a few categories by having 
increase in share of other categories in total pie. E-commerce 
sector dependent on fresh capital to keep their business 
running is in unprecedented stress due to lack of interest of 
investors in providing more capital without ensuring clear path 
to profitability and may therefore not remain as aggressive as 
they have been hitherto while spending on advertisement. 
Similarly, FMCG sector is not witnessing the expected growth. 
This is risk to short term high growth in revenues.
According to the E&Y-FICCI report, advertisement spend on 
digital media grew at 30% in CY 2022 to `499 billion and 
became the largest media segment in terms of ad revenue 
pushing television to number 2 position.
Video has highest share followed by Social Media in the total 
digital revenue pie. This trend is likely to continue.
As per E&Y-FICCI report, the digital media is expected to grow 
at a CAGR of 15% over the next three years to reach ₹862 
billion by CY 2025.
On the news and information front, online news audience grew 
to over 466 million in CY 2022, which is approx. 66% of internet 
users. News companies have continued to increase their 
focus on regional languages to target a larger demography 
and increase engagement. News aggregators contributed to 
a high app-based audience, while traditional news companies 
generated a high web-based audience.
Out-of-home (OOH)
The OOH media industry, being the contact based media 
segment was badly hit by the pandemic but has recovered 
strongly after lifting of the pandemic led restrictions. In CY 
2022, its revenue was ₹37 billion recording a growth of 
86% over previous year and reaching around 94% of CY 
2019 revenue levels. The revenues generated by untracked 
unorganised OOH media such as wall paintings, billboards, 
ambient media, storefronts, proxy advertising, etc. are not 
included in the aforesaid value which if added will increase its 
size meaningfully. The top five categories namely real estate 
and construction, organised retail, FMCG, consumer services 
and media contributed 64% of OOH spending and 60% of 
growth.
As a highly visible medium, OOH media is preferred to reach 
large mobile audiences. In India, OOH media companies have 
also been able to leverage advances in digital technology to 
reach even greater numbers of people. Digital signage can 
display targeted messages on screens located in busy public 
spaces, allowing advertisers to tailor their messages to specific 
audiences.
With the increasing demand from advertisers, OOH media 
companies are constantly innovating to provide new and more 
effective solutions to meet the needs of their customers. This 
includes the use of automated tracking systems, which allows 
advertisers to monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns in 
real-time and make such adjustments as necessary. In addition 
to serving traditional advertisers, OOH media companies in 
India are also exploring new avenues for growth. For instance, 
mobile display networks enable advertisers to display ads on 
private vehicles, allowing them to reach people on the move.
The OOH media sector is poised for growth, with revenues 
expected to reach ₹53 billion by CY 2025. It is estimated that 
the sector will regain its pre-pandemic revenue run rate in the 
first half of CY 2023.
Event & Activation
Event and Activation segment was worse hit by the pandemic 
but started recovering steadily after lifting of the pandemic led 
restrictions. In CY 2022, it was the fastest growing segment 
recording a growth of 129% over previous year; albeit on a 
very low base. The industry is experiencing sustainable growth 
owing to various factors such as increasing competition in the 
market, the rise of digital media, and the need for brands to 
differentiate themselves in a crowded market. Brands are 
looking to engage with consumers in a more meaningful way 
and experiential marketing is proving to be an effective tool 
for achieving this.
Brand activation campaigns are particularly important as they 
provide one on one interaction with the brand and first-hand 
experience including look and feel of product. This is unique 
proposition which no other segment offers and establishes 
connect with the audiences. It also provides valuable insights 
into what the audience thinks about the brand which enables 
brand owner to take corrective action.
Overall, the Indian brand activation industry is poised for 
continued growth in the coming years driven by the increasing 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
138
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
demand for experiential marketing, the growth of digital media, 
multiple mediums and multiple choices and the government's 
focus on promoting entrepreneurship in the country.
The Company, its Subsidiaries and Associates 
(collectively referred to as Group)
The Group comprises the Company, its two subsidiaries and 
three associates. Wholly-owned Subsidiary, Midday Infomedia 
Limited (“MIL” / “Midday”) is a publisher of English daily Mid-
day, Gujarati daily Mid-day Gujarati and India's largest read 
Urdu daily Inquilab. MIL also publishes Sunday Mid-day and 
a weekly Urdu tabloid, Taleemi. Its operations are primarily 
in Mumbai. The other subsidiary Music Broadcast Limited 
(“MBL” / “Radio City”) is listed at National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited and operates FM radio in the 
brand name of Radio City from 39 stations across 12 states. 
The Company’s Associates viz, X-Pert Publicity Private Limited 
(“X-Pert”) and Leet OOH Media Private Limited (“Leet”) are in 
the outdoor business and are not significant in relation to the 
Group’s operations. The Company’s another associate, MMI 
Online Limited (“MMI”) is managing and marketing Group’s 
digital offerings, owns and manages its popular web portal 
Onlymyhealth.com and fact checking website Vishwas.com. 
MMI too is not significant in relation to Group’s size of business 
but its association is significant owing to its key role in our 
digital business.
The Group performed satisfactorily during the year which 
continued to be difficult and full of uncertainties. All businesses 
of the company reported strong growth in revenues with some 
of the business reporting exceptionally high growth during 
the year over the previous year. Outdoor, Event and Digital 
recorded more than pre-pandemic revenues but print and 
radio businesses are still behind despite recording double 
digit growth. Profitability of the print business was considerably 
impaired by abnormally high newsprint price during the year 
but the price has now started softening and is expected to 
come down by about 25% in fiscal 2023-24 itself from peak 
prices in 2022-23. It will help increase profit.
While, as stated above, all businesses have performed 
satisfactorily, special attention is drawn to Outdoor and Event 
& Activation businesses which are currently small in size in 
relation to the Company but they are going to become material 
in times to come. In continuation of previous year, this year 
too, the revenues of Outdoor and Event businesses grew 
by 47% and 100% respectively and operating profit grew by 
148% and 197% respectively with improved margins. Both 
these businesses are constantly increasing their share in total 
pie and creating value for the stakeholders which is not yet 
captured in market capitalisation of the Company. Both these 
business are self-dependent for funds required for meeting 
increased working capital requirements due to increased scale 
of operations and for inorganic growth. We are hopeful that 
they would continue to do so unless there is an opportunity 
for larger investments.
Circulation revenue increased by 6% over previous year 
primarily on account of improved per copy realisation for almost 
all print brands. Circulation as well as circulation revenue were 
still lower than the pre-pandemic times but it was on expected 
lines and as per plan drawn basis the market conditions which 
were not expected to be conducive for growth. Circulation 
for all brands was stable despite taking increase in cover 
price and incurring hardly any promotional expense to push 
the circulation. Dainik Jagran continues to maintain its market 
position and in certain cases, increased its lead over the 
closest competitor. It belies the belief that readers do not want 
to pay for content.
Advertisement revenue (print including digital) registered a 
growth of 12% from the previous year. Advertisement volumes 
increased in line with growth in advertisement revenue. 
However, it was lower than expected due to worse than 
expected market conditions which are expected to improve in 
second half of fiscal 2023-24 as inflation, which is responsible 
for subdued consumption, has started coming down and is 
expected to remain within acceptable range. Further, prevailing 
uncertainties may also reduce as the year goes which will 
boost sentiment and hence consumption.
The Group’s digital presence is strengthening year after year. 
Radio is leveraging its digital presence nicely. Our digital 
business is maintaining a strong position and news and current 
affairs properties of the Company under its arm Jagran New 
Media continue to be rated amongst the top 10 in news and 
information category with around 84 million unique users. 
Like newspaper, regional language is considered a long term 
growth driver even for Digital Our focus on regional languages 
places us in an advantageous position owing to our age old 
understanding of consumer behaviour and needs of users of 
regional language. Further, data based strategy to identify 
liking wise segments of audience, provide quality content of 
liking to each segment and improve user’s experience will 
remain our core strength and help in capitalising on huge 
untapped potential Our collaboration with Google, Meta, JIO 
& Amazon has enhanced our content discovery, distribution 
and syndication capabilities.
JNM’s monetisation strategy is around advertisement 
inventory revenue, syndication revenue, production house 
and subscription revenue. The profits for digital business were 
lower despite increase in revenue by 16% as the investment in 
the business continues.
MBL continues to recover its revenue lost in pandemic times. Its 
revenues grew by 18% over previous year, its operating profit 
more than doubled to `23 Crores and net profit was above 
`3 Crores as against loss of about `6 Crores in previous year. 
Even though radio has not recovered the lost revenue yet, 
they have turned into profit for the first time since pandemic 
outbreak. Radio being primarily fixed cost business model 
not needing any significant additional capital deployment in 
business for growth, its profits and cash generation will grow 
higher than the growth in revenues. As per E&Y FICCI Report, 
radio revenues in India will reach `2600 Crores by calendar 
year 2025 as against `2000 Crores estimated for calendar 
year 2022.
The growth of 18% in the operating revenue of MBL has been 
driven on the back of an increased focus on integrating radio 
with digital, credible RJ influencers and content syndication 
strategies. RJs are growing as influencers on social media as 
well, with some of them having large followers base. MBL is 
focussing on capitalising on this opportunity and achieved 
satisfactory success.
MBL’s focus on smaller markets, besides integration of its 
digital offerings, non-FCT opportunities and maintaining 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
139
Annual Report   2022-23
control over cost have all been instrumental in improving the 
business growth and the profitability. In terms of advertisement 
volume, it is near to pre-pandemic volume but the average 
advertisement rates continue to be low in comparison.
MBL’s Balance Sheet continues to be strong with comfortable 
liquidity of around `300 Crores with no debt and no material 
capital commitment.
The Scheme of MBL’s bonus issue of the non-convertible non-
cumulative redeemable preference shares (“NCRPS”) pending 
for over 2 years has since been implemented with allotment 
of shares and listing at NSE and BSE. It was first Scheme with 
unique features designed for the benefit of only minority 
shareholders which has always been core to heart of Group’s 
policies. It is noteworthy that promoter JPL was not entitled to 
any bonus share as per the Scheme.
Another Subsidiary MIL has registered robust growth in 
revenues catching up fast with its revenues in pre-pandemic 
times and turned into operating profit as well from significant 
operating loss. MIL grew its revenues by 41% and recorded 
operating profit of about `1 Crores as against loss of `9 Crores 
recorded in the previous year. MIL seems to have sailed 
successfully through its most difficult phase since its inception 
on the back of cost control measures and innovative marketing 
initiatives besides continued focus on digital offerings of 
content and its monetisation.
In order to overcome its dependence on holding company for 
liquidity, MIL worked on realisation of blocked capital wherever 
it was possible without compromising the growth prospects 
and accordingly sold off its immovable property at which 
printing press was situated and shifted its printing facility to a 
rented premise as rental is far lower than the treasury income 
that can be earned on sale proceeds of the property. The 
immovable property fetched nearly `46 Crores which resulted 
in one time exceptional gain of about `39 Crores.
Midday gained market share in advertisement volume as its 
legacy brands continue to command loyalty of the readers 
which is evidenced from the fact that despite increase in cover 
prices, circulation has remained stable.
The digital business of Midday strives to nurture a loyal 
community of online Readers by providing exclusive premium 
content which is fact checked. MIL also extends its extensive 
social media presence by leveraging the power of social media 
influencers including the ones from our newsrooms to further 
the reach of our brand and content.
Two associates, X-Pert and Leet are in outdoor business. X-Pert 
reported growth in operating revenues and profits whereas 
there was de-growth in case of Leet. Both the companies 
have positive net worth and sufficient liquidity to manage their 
operations.
MMI’s performance continues to be in line with the expectations 
and has reported operating loss of `1 Crores during the year. 
It has been managing the digital offerings of the Company 
efficiently in addition to managing its fact checking website 
www.vishvasnews.com and portal Onlymyhealth.com. MMI 
conducted an extensive training session on Fact Checking and 
News verification in the month of January 2023 for the officers 
of Indian Army, Navy and Air Force at the Indian Institute of 
Mass Communication (IIMC), and collaborated with Lec-dem 
on Use of Social Media in Information Warfare. Another digital 
property, Onlymyhealth.com offers health information and 
medical updates on healthy life ideas.
The Group’s balance sheet continues to be strong with strong 
liquidity of over `1,000 Crores with debt of around `350 
Crores despite payment of dividend and buyback of shares 
aggregating to `450 Crores during the year. CRISIL has 
reaffirmed its credit rating AA+ Stable for long and medium 
term, and A1+ for short term in respect of the Company, AA (-)/
stable for long term in respect of MIL and AA Stable for long 
term and A1+ Stable for short term in respect of MBL.
Awards and Recognitions
The Company is a recipient of awards and recognition by 
various national and international bodies and is proud to report 
that recognising Group’s leadership position and commitment 
in different businesses, various distinguished bodies have 
bestowed 142 Awards upon the Group during the year.
Brand
Award
No. of 
Awards
Dainik Jagran Global Media Awards, INMA
7
 
Asian Media Awards, WAN IFRA
1
 
Publisher Abbys, Goafest
4
 
Dainik Jagran Total
12
Radio City
ACEF Awards
25
 
New York Festivals
2
 
Media Abbys, Goafest
1
 
ACEF Global Customer 
Engagement Forum & Awards 
2022 
25
 
E4M Golden Mikes Radio 
Advertising Awards 2022 
21
 
Finalist certificates at New York 
Festival - Radio Awards 2022
4
 
India’s Best Company of the Year 
2022 Award by Berkshire Media
1
 
E4M Golden Mikes 2022
21
 
India Audio Summit & Awards 
2023 
2
 
Radio City Total
102
Dainik Jagran 
Inext
Global Media Awards, INMA
2
 
Asian Media Awards, WAN IFRA
2
 
Abbys, Goafest
1
 
Maddys
1
 
WAN IFRA Digital Media Awards
2
 
Dainik Jagran Inext Total
8
Midday
Global Media Awards, INMA
1
 
Talent Track Awards 2022 
1
 
Red Ink Award for Excellence in 
Indian Journalism
1
 
Midday Total
3
Jagran New 
Media
 IDMA Special Award 2022
1
 
WAN IFRA Digital Media Awards
1
 
Jagran New Media Total
2
Jagran Prakashan Limited
140
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Brand
Award
No. of 
Awards
Jagran 
Solutions
Experiential Marketing - 
Promotion / Activation of the Year 
for Sales Volume 
1
 
Best Product Launch Activation 
1
 
Best Road Show Activation 
1
 
Jagran Solutions Total
3
Jagran 
Production
Membership of International 
Color Quality Club 2022-2024 by 
WAN-IFRA.
1
 
AIFMP
1
 
Jagran Production Team Total
2
Nai Dunia
Global Media Awards, INMA
1
 
Nai Dunia Total
1
Jagran IT 
Team
CIO POWER LIST 2022
1
 
Dataquest Digital Leadership 
Awards
1
 
Technology Senate Awards 2022 
by Indian Express
1
 
INSIGHTS CXO AWARDS 2022 
1
 
CIO100 Awards 2022 by 
Foundry!
1
 
CIO Hall of Fame
1
 
Digital Genius Award 2022 "CIO 
CROWN"
1
 
TechCircle Business 
Transformation Award 2022
1
 
8th Innovative CIO Awards 2023 
-- CIO AXIS 
1
 
Jagran IT Team Total
9
JPL Total
 
142
Additionally, Google India published a Case Study on the IT 
Infrastructure migration titled ‘Jagran New Media: Leveraging 
Data to Grow Brand Love and Provide a Seamless News 
Experience for Readers’. The case study highlighted the 
migration of the organisation from monolithic applications 
and multiple On-Demand data centres to Google Cloud. This 
transition enhanced data infrastructure to ensure scalability of 
operations to power the digital operations with greater agility.
MAJOR RISKS AND CONCERNS:
The management regularly reviews business, operational, 
functional and reporting risks. It has put in place strategy and 
controls to mitigate these risks. The risks are identified and 
handled as an ongoing process. The management continues 
to work to make optimum use of technology to strengthen 
controls and minimise or eliminate human intervention in 
various processes that helps the organisation in mitigating 
the operational and reporting risks.
As on date, the management identifies following risks:-
Geopolitical disturbances:
As discussed in Section titled Indian Economy, Russia-
Ukraine conflict has disrupted supply chain which has started 
normalising. It has caused elevated inflation which will hurt the 
economic growth as it will reduce the purchasing power of the 
consumers who will avoid discretionary spend. It will adversely 
impact entire M&E industry and the Group may not be able to 
achieve growth in revenues and profits.
Management Response
The Group is mindful of the prevailing situation and continues 
to monitor the same closely so that required change in 
strategy can be made. It continues to exercise control over 
the cost and do everything else which is in its control. The 
Group successfully came out of unprecedented COVID crisis 
due to its agility in adapting to the changes necessitated by 
the uncertain environment and demonstrated resilience to 
adversities, thanks to its flexibility, adaptability, committed 
workforce, legacy of its brands, size of the businesses, business 
practices and the strategies which gives us confidence that the 
Group will meet the newly developed challenges, if any.
Please also refer to section 'Indian Economy’, ‘Media & 
Entertainment Industry’ and ‘Print Industry’ of this chapter.
Over dependence on advertisement revenue:
The Group derives about 60% of its total revenue from 
advertisement (print including digital). Shortfall in expected 
growth in revenue for any reason will disproportionately reduce 
the growth in profits or result in lower profits as advertisement 
revenue has high operating leverage.
Management Response
This risk is applicable to the entire advertisement industry but 
given our leadership position shortfall if any and its impact on 
financial health will be relatively less and this is what is clearly 
visible in numbers reported since outbreak of pandemic. In 
fact, even during peak of pandemic, the Group reported profits.
Having said that, there is no complacency and the management 
continues to work with client still more closely and build 
partnership that has helped and will immensely help in times 
like these. It was on account of this approach that the Group 
could get new pool of advertisers and partly compensate 
the loss of revenues from certain existing advertisers who 
were forced by the circumstances to cut their advertisement 
budget. We have seen new categories evolving and becoming 
a significant contributor to total revenues. This is likely to 
continue.
The management also keeps evaluating possibility of increasing 
the cover price as and when possible and more particularly at 
a time when advertisement revenue is under pressure. In any 
case, saving cost without compromising quality has become a 
priority for us and this is duly reflected even in the results for 
FY23. Further, with reduced cost base, continued control over 
fixed costs and improved per copy realisation, we are better 
placed to minimise the impact of shortfall if any, in the expected 
advertisement revenue.
Newsprint price fluctuation:
Newsprint as the primary raw material represents a significant 
portion of overall expenses. Any material upward movement in 
newsprint prices impairs the profitability significantly. Newsprint 
prices have surged to near USD $1,000 per tonne from USD 
$450 in 2019 because of spike in fuel and commodity prices 
as well as scarcity of newsprint.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
141
Annual Report   2022-23
Management Response
Increase in newsprint prices impacts us the same way as it 
impacts any commodity dependent industry. Our strategy is 
threefold to mitigate the impact (i) increasing the cover price 
of newspaper to pass on burden of increase to consumer 
without losing our market position ii) adjusting mix of newsprint 
consumed and (iii) to reduce consumption by optimisation of 
pages per copy and not increasing the circulation in the areas 
which do not matter to advertisers and prudently increasing 
circulation even in those areas that matter to advertisers 
looking at potential for advertisement revenue.
Having said that, the newsprint price has since started softening 
and is expected to come down by about 25% next fiscal from 
peak prices, which will result in significant improvement in 
profits.
Competition:
India’s print market is highly fragmented. There is stiff 
competition, which challenges the profit earning capacity of 
a print company. Similarly, other media platforms especially 
digital are also posing a threat.
Management Response
The management believes that the print media has its own 
inherent advantages like credibility, local content, easy and 
affordable accessibility etc. Circulation of fake news on other 
platforms has reemphasised the need of the newspaper in 
every strata of society and demography. There is still very 
low per capita spend on consumption of media as compared 
to global standard and therefore we believe that all media 
platforms have potential to grow, though growth rates will vary 
depending on the penetration and maturity of a media platform. 
This was amply demonstrated during as well as post pandemic 
when all media platforms including those which were believed 
to have no future, bounced back with vengeance and continue 
to sustain growth to reach pre pandemic level revenues in a 
hurry. This phase has cemented our belief that no medium is 
redundant and consumers need each of them, though all of 
us have to be more efficient and consumer friendly than ever 
before.
Dainik Jagran is the largest read newspaper and has been 
maintaining its market leadership position since 2003 without 
break. The strong market position, popularity of brand and 
richness of content enable us to increase our cover price 
in most of our markets. In fact, pandemic has brought the 
competitors together in a manner never experienced before. 
If this collaboration continues in future, every stakeholder will 
be the gainer.
Digital:
If the Group is unable to maintain its position and scale up 
its operations, it may not be able to attract planned revenue. 
Further, it may face fierce competition for revenue from local 
as well as international giants like Google and Facebook which 
have lion’s share in digital pie. Further, significant dependence 
on advertisement revenue from network owned by the global 
giants and inability to price the content may make the business 
model unsustainable.
Management Response
The Group’s digital strategy has seen positive momentum 
year after year and the results obtained (operational as well 
as financial) are in line with the management’s expectations. 
The digital impetus provided by the government is helping 
higher growth in tier-I and tier-II towns and rural India which 
gives the Group an edge over the competitors and make the 
Group’s digital offerings relevant for the consumers as well as 
giants like Google, which buy the content from players like us. 
Group’s feat on ground and vast network enable it to produce 
huge amount of original and credible local content which is 
unique and not available to others including these giants who 
are steadily but slowly agreeing to pay for content from print 
industry. Jagran digital properties continue to be amongst top 
10 (Source: Comscore April’23) in the country in the news and 
information category despite stiff competition. The Group’s 
endeavour to monetise content continues and it has brought 
some of its offerings under subscription.
The Group has diversified from news to segments such as 
health, women, education, entertainment and fact check 
in all the three formats namely text, audio and video. With 
content, data and technology being at the core of strategy, we 
continuously work to improve growth. Our strong partnerships 
with Google, Meta, JIO & Amazon will further strengthen our 
content discovery, distribution & syndication arm. We leverage 
the power of social media influencers including the ones from 
our newsrooms to further the reach of our brand and content.
We reiterate that we do not believe any media platform is 
substituting other and we also believe that they will complement 
each other in countries like India where there is no stagnation 
or saturation seen or expected in media consumption which is 
far lower than the consumption in large economies. Whatever 
was experienced during pandemic or is being experienced 
post it is exception and not an indicator for future.
Internal control systems and their adequacy
Adequate internal control has been put in place in all areas 
of operations. The role and responsibility of all managerial 
positions are established, monitored and controlled regularly. 
All transactions are authorised, timely recorded and reported 
truly and fairly.
To ensure adherence to the laid-down systems, apart from 
internal reporting and monitoring, the Company has put in 
place formal Internal Audit System commensurate with the 
size and nature of the business. Internal audit is conducted by 
one of the big four accounting firms who periodically submit 
their report to the audit committee, besides suggestions to the 
management for improvements in internal control including IT 
systems, optimisation of costs and efficiency improvement. 
They have also been mandated to ensure compliances with the 
suggestions that are agreed for implementation and report to 
the audit committee non-compliances if any. They also verify 
compliances with various applicable provisions of law.
The Group is fully committed to continually work in 
strengthening the systems and processes wherever possible 
so as to achieve the highest degree of transparency, efficiency 
and accuracy in reporting, monitoring and decision making 
and has done so during the year as well as part of an on-going 
exercise.
The repeated recognition year after year by the professional 
bodies of its capabilities in enterprise technology is a testimony 
to the Company’s focus on embracing and strengthening the 
technology to strengthen its controls and processes to ensure 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
142
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
optimum efficiency and transparency besides being in position to meet unforeseen challenges such as pandemic and resultant 
work from home culture which in absence of technology managed controls would have become completely unmanageable.
Segment performance
The Company did not have any reportable segment other than print in accordance with the requirements of IndAS-108 – 
‘Operating Segment Reporting’, notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standard) Rules, 2015.
Financial performance
The figures have been rounded off to nearest lakh of rupees.
(A) 	 The Company (Standalone)
	
Profit and Loss:
	
REVENUE ANALYSIS
(` in Lakhs- rounded off to nearest Lakhs)
2022-23
Percentage 
(In relation to 
Revenue from 
Operations)
2021-22
Percentage 
(In relation to Revenue 
from Operations)
Revenue from Operations
159,390
100.00
140,123
100.00
	
Revenue from operations:
Advertisement revenue accounted for 72.60% (previous year 71.97%) and Circulation revenue 25.17% (previous year 
26.10%%) of the total print and digital revenue, digital being an integral part of the print business. Advertisement revenue 
had a growth of 11% and circulation revenue grew by 6.2%. Digital, Outdoor and Event businesses reported growth of 16.1%, 
68.5% and 100% respectively. Overall growth in operating revenue was 13.8%.
It is satisfying that double digit growth was recorded during the year which continued to be difficult and full of uncertainties 
by various uncontrollable factors including but not limited to geopolitical disturbances.
Growth in advertisement revenue was volume driven but growth in circulation revenue was primarily due to improved per 
copy realisation.
For the view on industry and future expectations, please refer to the section ‘Indian Economy’, ‘Indian Media & Entertainment 
(M&E) Industry’, ‘Print Industry’ and Risks and Concerns.
	
EXPENDITURE AND PROFIT ANALYSIS
(` in Lakhs- rounded off to nearest Lakhs)
2022-23
Percentage 
(In relation to 
Revenue from 
Operations)
2021-22
Percentage 
(In relation to 
Revenue from 
Operations)
Cost of Raw Materials consumed*
 
53,933 
33.84%
 
40,858 
29.16%
Employee Benefits
 
29,785 
18.69%
 
28,816 
20.56%
Expenditure towards CSR 
activities
 
586 
0.37%
 
581 
0.41%
Net impairment losses on financial 
assets
2,239
1.40%
2,520 
1.80%
Other Expenses
 
42,698 
26.79%
 
31,666 
22.60%
Total
 
129,241 
81.08%
 
104,441 
74.54%
Operating Profit
 
30,149 
18.92%
 
35,682 
25.46%
Depreciation and Amortisation
 
4,908 
3.08%
 
6,016 
4.29%
Net Finance Costs
 
(5,176)
-3.25%
 
(2,263)
-1.62%
Finance Costs
3,327 
 
2.09%
2,761 
 
1.97%
Less: Other Income
8,503 
 
5.33%
5,024 
 
3.59%
Exceptional Item
-
-
(564)
-0.40%
Impairment of investment in 
associates
560 
0.35%
-
-
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
29,857 
18.73%
32,493 
23.19%
Taxation
6,989 
4.38%
7,659 
5.47%
Profit After Tax (PAT)
22,868 
14.35%
24,834 
17.72%
* Includes increase/decrease in stock, which is insignificant.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143
Annual Report   2022-23
	
Cost of Raw Materials consumed
Cost of Raw Materials increased by 32%. Raw Material 
comprises newsprint and ink. Steep increase in this cost 
was mainly due to higher newsprint prices.
	
Employee Benefit
Employee cost increased by 3.4% in spite of annual 
increments granted to employees primarily due to 
reduction in employee strength in print business as a 
result of continued exercise to optimise efficiency. Further, 
Employee Benefits percentage in relation to revenue from 
operations reduced due to higher increase in operating 
revenues.
	
Expenditure towards CSR activities
Expenditure towards CSR activities was same as in 
previous year because 2% of three years’ average profit 
was unchanged due to lower average profits in last three 
years. Please refer to the Board Report for the details.
	
Net impairment losses on financial assets
Provision for government debts was a major contributory 
in net impairment losses on financial assets as recovery is 
not yet coming on expected lines .Net impairment losses 
on financial assets decreased by 11% primarily due to 
write offs of old receivables as per the Company's policy.
	
Other Expenses
Other expenses represent production, direct expenses 
relating to businesses other than print, bad debts 
and provisions, administrative, selling and marketing 
expenses. Some of these like, direct expenses relating to 
other businesses viz. outdoor, event /activation and digital 
are variable, some like power and fuel and stores are semi 
variable and remaining expenses like promotion/publicity, 
freight on newspaper distribution, communication cost 
and repairs are largely fixed in nature and do not change 
with the change in scale of operation unless the change 
in scale is material. Fixed expenses include expenses 
which are controllable in nature.
Management closely monitors these expenses and 
constantly endeavours to rationalise and even cut these 
expenses, if the circumstances warrant. However, while 
applying austerity measures, care is taken that long term 
business interest is not compromised. Control over these 
expenses has played a major role in satisfactory profits 
despite operating revenues still remaining below pre-
pandemic levels.
Other expenses increased by 35% primarily due to 
increase in direct expenses of Digital, Outdoor and Event 
businesses in line with the significant increase in scale 
of operations, increase in production related expenses 
like stores and spares was due to increase in volume 
of printing as well as inflation and increase in other 
expenses partly due to inflation, partly due to increased 
level of operations and balance owing to relaxation in 
certain discretionary spend like promotion and publicity 
which could not have been help back longer This also 
included activity expenses which generated gross margin 
of about 20 – 25%.
Increase in direct expenses of Digital, Outdoor and Event 
business alone has contributed 21% increase in total 
increase of 35%.
We will continue to ensure that the cost savings that 
accrued to us due to control measures adopted during 
pandemic are not squandered with growth returning and 
are efficiently used to increase profits.
	
Operating Profit:
Operating profit was lower due to high newsprint price 
and as a result of above factors.
	
Depreciation and Amortisation:
Depreciation is provided as per Company’s policies as 
detailed in the financial statements. On most of the assets, 
depreciation is provided as per the written down value 
method, as against the straight line method adopted 
by the peers as the company believes this method 
represents a realistic pattern of consumption of these 
assets over their useful life. As a result, the depreciation 
charge to profit and loss remains significantly higher in 
the initial years but goes down with the passage of time 
and helps in difficult times such as these.
There is decrease of 18.4% in the current year which is 
partly due to WDV method of depreciation and partly 
because there was hardly any addition to fixed assets.
Income tax expenses decreased by 8.7% as compared to 
the previous year as a result of decrease in profit before 
tax by 8.1%.
Finance Cost has increased by 20.5% mainly due 
to increase in interest and finance charges on lease 
liabilities. This cost mainly includes the interest expense 
incurred on borrowings of NCDs of `250 Crores which 
were issued in April 2020 to create liquidity buffer to 
meet any contingent fund requirement emerging from 
pandemic. Out of `250 Crores, amount of `175 Crores 
has since been repaid which will reduce interest in fiscal 
2023-24.
	
Other Income:
Other income increased by 69.2%. This primarily 
comprises treasury income, miscellaneous income and 
profit on sale of assets. The substantial increase in other 
income was due to profit on sale of surplus property of 
`29 Crores, additional investments made out of surplus 
funds and improved returns achieved through change in 
investment strategy from investing in mutual funds alone 
to fixed income bonds/ FDRs.
	
Exceptional Item:
This represents reversal of provision for expected 
shortfall in recovery of our fire claim which has since been 
fully received.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
144
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
	
Profit after Tax
Profit after Tax decreased by 7.9% as a result of above 
factors.
(ii) 	 Balance Sheet 
 (` in Lakhs)
2022-23
2021-22
Total Equity
136,146 
166,198 
Total Non-current Liabilities
22,899 
39,819 
Total Current Liabilities
62,809 
31,693 
Total Equity and Liabilities:
221,854 
237,710 
Total Non-current Assets
126,770 
165,996 
Total Current Assets
95,084 
71,714 
Total Assets:
221,854 
237,710 
In order to improve return on capital, the Group’s 
endeavour is twofold. Not only it strives to improve profits 
even amidst adversities, it also simultaneously strives to 
reduce capital employed and return the surplus to the 
shareholders. As a result, capital employed was reduced 
by nearly `160 Crores or by nearly 7% despite increased 
scale of operations.
Total Equity comprises of Equity Capital, Reserves, 
Retained earnings and Equity component i.e. the 
contribution from the promoter company in form of interest 
rate concession on the non-convertible debentures 
subscribed by it in the past. The Equity Capital and 
Reserves have undergone change due to buyback of 
4.4 Crores equity shares at an average price of `75 per 
share and Retained Earnings have changed due to the 
profit for the year.
Total Non-Current Liabilities represent long term 
borrowings, leave encashment obligations, gratuity, 
lease liabilities and deferred tax liabilities. Lease liabilities 
represent future rent payable in respect of long term 
rented properties occupied for offices etc. Lease liability 
marginally decreased. It changed due to renewal of lease 
on expiry of existing lease and taking new premises on 
lease. Liability for employees benefit obligations as well 
as deferred tax liabilities were more or less same as last 
year.
These liabilities decreased mainly due to reclassification 
in borrowing on account of shifting of repayment of NCDs 
of `175 Crores from non-current to current liabilities, 
being amount due within a year.
Total Current Liabilities represent short term borrowings, 
trade payables, other current liabilities including current 
tax liability, employee benefit obligations and financial 
liabilities. Trade payables and other liabilities mainly 
represent the liability for material, unpaid expenses, 
interest accrued, but not due and security deposits 
from newspaper agents and statutory liabilities, such as 
deduction of provident fund from the employees and TDS. 
The Company has been regular in depositing statutory 
dues as well as paying its other liabilities on due dates.
These liabilities have increased primarily due to 
reclassification of borrowing of `175 Crores from non-
current to current on account of repayments falling due 
in next one year. Higher other financial liabilities and 
trade payables are due to higher scale of operations and 
provisions for tax on buyback of shares.
Total Non-Current Assets comprise fixed assets, 
Goodwill, right of use assets, investments with maturity 
exceeding one year, investment in subsidiaries and 
associates, investment properties, security deposits, 
unbilled revenue and other current assets realisable / 
expected to be realised after one year. In the current 
year, there was no significant addition to fixed assets and 
investment properties of significant value were disposed 
of. Non-current investments were redeemed to fund 
buyback.
‘Right-of-use assets’ represents the present value of 
rented properties accounted for in accordance with IndAS 
116 applicable with effect from 1st April 2020. The present 
value is discounted value of rent payable till expiry of 
lease taking into consideration the interim increases if 
any. Please refer to the discussions on lease liabilities 
as well.
Total Current Assets represent investments with maturity 
of less than one year, trade receivables, financial assets 
including insurance claim receivable, and inventories 
besides short term advances, current assets and cash 
and bank balances. Total value of these assets has 
increased primarily on account of increase in value of 
current investment, bonds maturity within one year and 
inventories. Increase in current investment was mainly 
due to higher short term investments utilising the profits 
earned from business and increase in trade receivable is 
due to higher scale of business.
Increased efforts and focus on recovery helped recover 
significant amount of old debts resulting in lower provisions 
for bad and doubtful debts and trade receivables even 
though the scale of operations was higher. Payments 
from government especially state governments and their 
departments continue to be delayed.
Inventory was more or less same in spite of increase in 
price of newsprint, due to better inventory management.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
145
Annual Report   2022-23
(B) 	 CONSOLIDATED
	
(i) 	
Profit and Loss:
(` in Lakhs- rounded off to nearest Lakhs)
2022-23
Percentage 
(In relation to 
Revenue from 
Operations)
2021-22
Percentage 
(In relation to 
Revenue from 
Operations)
Revenue from Operations
 
185,617 
100.00%
 
161,595 
100.00%
Operating Cost
 
152,929 
82.39%
 
125,632 
77.74%
Operating Profit
 
32,688 
17.61%
 
35,963 
22.26%
Less: Depreciation and 
Amortisation
 
10,675 
5.75%
 
11,862 
7.34%
Net Finance Costs
 
(6,732)
-3.63%
 
(3,523)
-2.18%
Finance Costs
3,859 
 
2.08%
3,149 
 
1.95%
Less: Other Income
10,591 
 
5.71%
6,673 
 
4.13%
Add: Share of net profit of 
associates accounted for using 
the equity method
2 
0.00%
32 
0.02%
Exceptional Item
(3,868)
-2.08%
(564)
-0.35%
Impairment of goodwill and 
investment in associates
7,296 
3.93%
Profit Before Tax
25,319 
13.64%
28,221 
17.46%
Taxation
5,640 
3.04%
6,533 
4.04%
Profit After Tax (PAT)
19,679 
10.60%
21,688 
13.42%
Less/(Add): Share of Minority 
Interests in Profits / (Losses)
(298)
-0.16%
(573)
-0.35%
Add: Other comprehensive 
income
(396)
-0.21%
408 
0.25%
Total Comprehensive Income to 
Owners
19,581 
10.55%
22,668 
14.03%
	
(i) 	
Profit and Loss:
(` in Lakhs- rounded off to nearest Lakhs)
2022-23
2021-22
Total Equity
193,047 
235,175 
Total Non-current Liabilities
33,910 
44,931 
Total Current Liabilities
68,832 
37,384 
Total Equity and Liabilities:
295,789 
317,490 
Total Non-current Assets
181,151 
227,925 
Total Current Assets
114,638 
89,565 
Total Assets:
295,789 
317,490 
	
(iii) 	 Consolidated cash flow statement
	
	
The summary of cash flows is as follows:
(` in Lakhs- rounded off to nearest Lakhs)
2022-23
 (` in Lakhs 
rounded off to 
nearest Lakhs)
2021-22
 (` in Lakhs 
rounded off to 
nearest Lakhs)
(A)
Net Cash Surplus/(Deficit) from operating activities
27,150
32,204
(B)
Net Cash Surplus / (Deficit) from investing activities
24,911
(20,427)
(C)
Net Cash Surplus/(Deficit) from financing activities
(51,693)
(12,282)
(D)
Net Surplus/(Deficit) (other than surplus generated from operating 
activities) (B) + (C)
(26,782)
(32,709)
(E)
Net Increase/(Decrease) in cash and cash equivalent (A) + (D) 
368
(505)
Net cash surplus from operating activities was lower than the previous year by 15.7%. Group realised `16,017 Lakhs from sale 
of property, plant and equipment and investment properties. Company has utilized `45,321 Lakhs in buyback of equity shares 
and dividend payment to the shareholders. Cash profits were also deployed in working capital primarily due to increase in scale 
of operations. 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
146
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Please refer to the section titled as "the Company, its Subsidiaries and Associates" of this Chapter that lists out the 
entities that have been considered while compiling the consolidated financial statements and define the relationship 
of each entity with the Company.
In this Section, percentages have been rounded off to nearest number
	
Consolidated Profit and Loss
1)	
The contribution of subsidiaries Music Broadcast Limited and Midday Infomedia Limited in revenue, operating profit, 
profit before tax and profit after tax of the Group was as follows: -
(` in Lakhs- rounded off to nearest Lakhs)
Music Broadcast Ltd. (%)
Midday Infomedia Ltd. (%)
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
(i)
Revenue
11
11
4
3
(ii)
Operating profit
7
3
0.2
-3
(iii)
Profit before tax
2
-3
-1
-5
(iv)
Profit after tax
2
-3
15
-5
Note: The above figures are without eliminating intra group transaction which is insignificant and will not materially change the same.
2)	
Please refer to section titled “the Company, its Subsidiaries and Associates” for the discussions on performance of 
subsidiaries and associates.
	
	
Consolidated Balance Sheet
1.	
Total Equity have primarily decrease on 
account of buy back of equity shares and 
payment of dividend to the shareholders 
during the year by the Company in line with the 
Group’s policy of rewarding the shareholders. 
2.	
Total Non-current Liabilities have decreased 
primarily due to transfer of borrowing to current 
liability as the same are payable within the next 
financial year. Decrease are lower as the same 
is compensated by the increase in borrowing 
in one of our subsidiary on account of  issue of 
bonus preference shares. 
3.	
Total Current Liabilities have increased 
primarily on account of transfer of borrowing 
from non current to current as discussed above, 
regrouping of refund liability and recognition of 
liability on account of tax payable on buyback 
of shares. 
4.	
Total Non-current Assets have decreased 
primarily on account of sale of investment 
property, impairment of goodwill arised on 
consolidation of Radio business and transfer of 
non current investment to current investments. 
	
Total Non-current Assets also include goodwill 
of `27,126.63 Lakhs which has arisen mainly 
on consolidation and relates to the acquisition 
of Naidunia print business in the year 2011-
12 and radio business in the year 2015-16. 
The goodwill is tested for impairment at the 
end of every financial year. During the current 
year, impairment charge of `6,681.96 was 
recognised in the Radio CGU, considering 
the current market conditions and industry 
outlook. In addition to goodwill, there are other 
intangible assets as well. These intangible 
assets are computer software, brand, migration 
fees relating to radio business and part of 
consideration paid for acquisition of radio 
business that has been allocated to radio 
licences while consolidating the accounts. 
These intangible assets are being amortised 
on the basis of their useful lives. 
5.	
Total Current Assets have increased primarily 
due to transfer of investment from non current 
investment to current investment.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
In continuation of the previous year, there was 
healthy cash generation from operations in spite of 
lower profits primarily due to continued efforts to 
bring in efficiency in working capital management. 
The Group has liquidity of over `1,000 Crores 
including unutilised working capital limit as at 31st 
March 2023 which is sufficient to pursue organic 
and inorganic growth opportunities and meet 
contingency, if any. 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
147
Annual Report   2022-23
	
	
Calculation of Ratios of Standalone financials for the year ending March 31, 2023
	
	
Standalone:
S. 
no.
 
Ratios
 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022 Reason for variation of more than 25%
Ratio
Ratio  
1
Debtors turnover ratio 
4.56
4.14 -
2
Inventory turnover 
6.77
6.45 -
3
Interest coverage ratio 
9.06
13.13 Current year ratio are lower due to 
higher interest and lower EBIDITA
4
Current ratio 
1.51
2.26 Current year ratio are lower due to 
increase in current liabilities 
5
Debt-Equity ratio 
0.21
0.17 -
6
Operating Profit Margin% 
18.92
25.46 Current year margin are lower due 
to increase in newsprint cost in 
comparison to previous year 
7
Net Profit Margin % 
13.62
17.11 -
8
Return on net worth % 
16.80
14.94 -
	
	
Calculation of Ratios of Consolidated financials for the year ending March 31, 2023
	
	
Consolidated:
S. 
no.
 
Ratios
 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022 Reason for variation of more than 25%
Ratio
Ratio  
1
Debtors turnover ratio 
4.19
3.74 -
2
Inventory turnover 
6.56
6.38 -
3
Interest coverage ratio 
9.47
11.61 Current year ratio are lower as the 
interest are higher in comparison to 
previous year 
4
Current ratio 
1.67
2.40 Current year ratio are lower due to 
increase in liability during the year 
5
Debt-Equity ratio 
0.20
0.13 Current year ratio are higher due to 
increase in borrowing and decrease in 
net worth
6
Operating Profit Margin %
19.70
22.28 Current year ratio are lower due to 
lower margins 
7
Net Profit Margin % 
10.03
12.89 -
8
Return on net worth % 
10.19
9.22
	
	
Material development in Human Resources
Relationship with employees was cordial. Their contribution and commitment is commendable.
The Group continuously works to provide work environment that encourages free expression of opinion, decision 
making and responsible execution of the task and is committed to do so even in future.
There were 4,786 permanent employees in the Company as on March 31, 2023 as against 4,865 as on March 31, 2022.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
148
To the Members of Jagran Prakashan Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion 
1.	
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Jagran Prakashan Limited (“the Company”), 
which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2023, and the Standalone Statement of Profit 
and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the year then 
ended, and notes to the Standalone financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting policies 
and other explanatory information.
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
standalone financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act") in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company 
as at March 31, 2023, and total comprehensive income 
(comprising of profit and other comprehensive income), 
changes in equity and its cash flows for the year then 
ended.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are 
further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for 
the audit of the standalone financial statements” section 
of our report. We are independent of the Company in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the 
standalone financial statements under the provisions of 
the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters 
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the standalone financial statements as a whole and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined 
the matters described below to be the key audit matters 
to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Recoverability of trade receivables
(Refer Notes 1(l), 5(b) and 31 of the standalone 
financial statements)
The standalone financial statements of the 
Company includes trade receivable of `36,129.37 
Lakhs as at March 31, 2023, net of allowances for 
impairment amounting to `9,745.89 Lakhs.
Management estimated the level of expected 
losses, by assessing future cash flows for each 
group of trade receivables based on twelve 
month rolling historical credit loss experience by 
tenure and applying to the receivables held at 
year end. The impact of economic factors both 
current and future is considered in assessing 
the likelihood of recovery from customers. This 
matter was identified as a key audit matter due 
to the involvement of significant management 
judgement.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	
Obtained an understanding of the internal processes for evaluating the 
recoverability of trade receivables including collection process and the 
allowances for impaired trade receivables.
• 	 Tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of 
relevant internal controls relating to recoverability of trade receivables 
including collection process and the calculation of the allowance for 
such trade receivables.
• 	 Evaluated reasonableness of the method and assumptions and 
judgements used by the management with respect to recoverability of 
trade receivables.
• 	 Assessed the profile of trade receivables and the economic environment 
applicable to these debtors.
• 	 Evaluated the simplified approach applied by the Company to 
identify lifetime expected credit losses. In doing so, obtained the 
schedule of receivables ageing, enquired into aged balances and 
assessed management’s explanation for collectability. Also tested the 
management’s working for provision for expected credit losses.
• 	 Verified receipts from debtors subsequent to the financial year-end 
relating to trade receivable balances as at March 31, 2023 with bank 
statements and relevant underlying documentation for selected samples.
• 	 Reviewing the accuracy of management’s judgement by comparing 
historical provisions against actual write-off.
• 	 Evaluated the appropriateness of the presentation and disclosures made 
in the consolidated financial statements.
Based on the procedures as mentioned above management’s assessment 
regarding the recoverability of trade receivables appears to be reasonable.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
149
Standalone
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition as per Ind AS 115
(Refer Notes 1(d) and 15 of the standalone 
financial statements).
The Company’s revenue for the year ended March 
31,2023 is `159,390.34 Lakhs. The Company 
recognises revenue from sale of products and 
services in accordance with the accounting 
principles prescribed under Ind AS 115, Revenue 
from contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when the company 
satisfies a performance obligation by transferring 
control of the products or services being provided 
to the customer. The control in respect of revenue 
from advertisement is considered transferred 
when advertisement is published in the paper, 
revenue from newspapers and magazines when 
they are dispatched which coincides with transfer 
of control of products to the customer, revenue 
from services of outdoor activities is recognised 
as and when the control of products or service 
is transferred to the customer being the point 
advertisement is displayed and revenue from 
event management and activation services is 
recognised when the control of products or 
service is transferred to the customer being the 
point when, the event is completed.
Revenue is measured at the transaction price, 
which is consideration, received or receivable, net 
of trade discounts, volume rebates, and taxes or 
duties collected. 
We identified revenue recognition as a key audit 
matter as revenue is significant to the standalone 
financial statements and considering the extent of 
audit effort involved.
Our audit procedures included the following:
• 	 We evaluated the design and tested operating effectiveness of the 
relevant controls with respect to revenue recognition.
• 	 We assessed the appropriateness of the revenue recognition accounting 
policy in line with Ind AS 115.
• 	 We performed substantive testing of revenue transactions on a sample 
basis, recorded during the year by testing the underlying documents 
which included contracts with the customers, release orders, customer 
purchase orders and customer acknowledgments, as applicable.
• 	 We assessed the different types of performance obligations agreed 
by the Company with its customers to evaluate the timing of revenue 
recognition in respect of various revenue streams.
• 	 We tested, on a sample basis, specific revenue transactions recorded, 
before and after the financial year end date, by testing the underlying 
invoices and customer acknowledgements, as applicable.
• 	 We examined, on a sample basis, credit notes issued after the year 
end, wherever applicable to determine whether the revenue has been 
recognised in the appropriate financial period.
• 	 We have tested a sample of revenue adjustment manual journal entries 
recorded by the Company to identify unusual items, if any.
Based on the above procedures performed, no significant exception was 
noted by us in the revenue recognised by the Company during the year.
Assessment of impairment of investment in 
subsidiaries and associates
(Refer Notes 1(n),1(o) and 4 of the standalone 
financial statements) The Company’s investment 
in subsidiaries and associates.
As at March 31, 2023, the market capitalisation 
of Music Broadcast Limited (subsidiary of the 
Company) (MBL) was lower than its net assets 
value. This reduction in market capitalisation 
triggered the requirement to assess the carrying 
value of the investment in MBL for potential 
impairment.
Also, another subsidiary, Midday Infomedia 
Limited(MIL) has been in continuous operating 
losses indicating the requirement to assess 
the carrying value of the investment in MIL for 
potential impairment.
Additionally, the carrying value of investments 
of two of the associates of the Company, Leet 
OOH Media Private Limited(Leet) and MMI Online 
Limited (MMI), was more than Company’s share 
in the net assets of these associates  indicating 
potential impairment.
Our audit procedures included the following:
• 	 Understanding and evaluating the process and controls designed and 
implemented by the Management to assess the potential impairment of 
investments in subsidiaries and associates. 
• 	 Assessing appropriateness of determination of cash generating unit 
(CGU) in line with the requirements of Ind AS 36 Impairment of Assets 
considering the nature of the operations of MBL, MIL, Leet and MMI 
respectively.
• 	 Involvement of the auditor’s expert and Evaluation of the appropriateness 
of the key assumptions underlying the cash flow projections including 
growth and discount rates used within the discounted cash flow model 
with specific focus on forecast revenue compared to readily available 
market information and underlying macroeconomic factors.
• 	 Performing sensitivity analysis on the projections by varying key 
assumptions, within reasonably foreseeable range.
• 	 Comparison of carrying value of the net assets with the estimated cash 
flows determined by the management for entities respectively.
• 	 Evaluating the appropriateness of the Company’s accounting policies in 
respect of impairment assessment of the investments.
• 	 Assessing the adequacy of disclosures made in the financial statements.
Based on the above procedures performed, no significant exception was 
noted by us in the assessment of impairment of investment in subsidiaries 
and associates performed by the management.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
150
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The management has used discounted cash 
flow models to assess the value in use of its 
investments in the above-mentioned subsidiaries 
and associates which require use of significant 
judgement in respect of certain key inputs like 
determining an appropriate discount rate, future 
cash flows etc.
Based on the management’s assessment and 
future forecast of business conditions, the 
recoverable amount of these investments (except 
for MMI) are higher than their carrying value, and 
accordingly no impairment provision has been 
recognized in this regard.
In respect of MMI, the management has decided to 
impair the entire carrying value of the investment 
basis its analysis.
We considered this a key audit matter since 
significant judgement and management estimates 
were involved around impairment assessment.
Other Information
5.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for 
the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the annual report, but does 
not include the standalone financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the standalone 
financial statements does not cover the other information 
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. In connection with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, 
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of management and those charged with 
governance for the standalone financial statements
6.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these standalone financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, 
financial performance, changes in equity and cash flows 
of the Company in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of 
the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the standalone financial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
7.	
In preparing the standalone financial statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Company or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to 
do so. Those Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone 
financial statements
8.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these standalone financial 
statements.
9.	
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
151
Standalone
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control. 
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls. 
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management. 
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
10.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
11.	 We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
12.	 From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not 
be communicated in our report because the adverse 
consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Other Matter
13.	 The standalone financial statements of the Company for 
the year ended March 31, 2022, were audited by another 
firm of chartered accountants under the Act who, vide 
their report dated May 30, 2022, expressed an unmodified 
opinion on those standalone financial statements.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
14.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, 
we give in the “Annexure B” a statement on the matters 
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable.  
15.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
that: 
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit. 
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books . 
	
(c)	
The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the Standalone Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Standalone Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account .
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act. 
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2023, taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2023, from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act. 
	
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure A”. 
	
(g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us:  
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position in its 
standalone financial statements – Refer Note 
25 to the standalone financial statements.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
152
	
	
ii.	
The Company was not required to recognise 
a provision as at March 31,2023 under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, as it 
does not have any material foreseeable losses 
on long-term contract.  The Company did not 
have any derivative contracts as at March 
31,2023.
	
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company during the year. Refer Note 35 to the 
standalone financial statements.
	
	
iv.	
(a)	
The management has  represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the notes to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by 
the Company to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the 
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
(Refer Note 37(xiii) to the standalone 
financial statements);
     	 	
	
(b)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the notes to the standalone 
financial statements, no funds have 
been received by the Company from 
any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries (Refer Note 37(xiv) 
to the standalone financial statements); 
and
     	 	
	
(c)	
Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate 
in the circumstances, nothing has come to 
our notice that has caused us to believe 
that the representations under sub-
clause (a) and (b) contain any material 
misstatement.
     	 	
v.	
The dividend declared and paid during the year 
by the Company is in compliance with Section 
123 of the Act.
	
	
vi.	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), which 
provides for the feature of recording of audit 
trail (edit log) facility in the accounting software 
used by the Company for maintenance of books 
of account and related matters, is applicable 
for the Company only with effect from financial 
year beginning April 1, 2023, the reporting 
under clause (g) of Rule 11 is currently not 
applicable.
16.	 The Company has paid/ provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite approvals 
mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
                                                                                                     
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Partner
Membership Number: 096367
UDIN: 23096367BGYYHH2681                                                             
Place: Kanpur                                                                                   
Date: May 30, 2023  
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
153
Standalone
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 15(f) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Jagran Prakashan Limited on 
the standalone financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023.
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements under clause (i) of sub-
section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2023 
in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended on that 
date.
Management’s 
Responsibility 
for 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls
2.	
The Company’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements based on our audit. We 
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note and the Standards on Auditing deemed to be 
prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, 
both applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
and both issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the 
Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to standalone financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit 
of internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements included obtaining an understanding 
of internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls 
system with reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements
6.	
A company's internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company's internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements includes those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of standalone financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company's assets that could have a 
material effect on the standalone financial statements.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
154
Inherent limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements 
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls system with 
reference to standalone financial statements and such 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements were operating effectively as 
at March 31, 2023, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
                                                                                                     
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Partner
Membership Number: 096367
UDIN: 23096367BGYYHH2681                                                             
Place: Kanpur                                                                                   
Date: May 30, 2023   
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
155
Standalone
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 14 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Jagran Prakashan Limited on 
the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2023
i. 	
(a)	
(A) The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation, of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
 	
	
(B) The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
	
(b)	
The Property, Plant and Equipment are physically 
verified by the Management according to a phased 
programme designed to cover all the items over 
a period of three years which, in our opinion, 
is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets.  Pursuant 
to the programme, a portion of the Property, 
Plant and Equipment has been physically verified 
by the Management during the year and no 
material discrepancies have been noticed on such 
verification.
	
(c)	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other 
than properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed in 
favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 37(i),(ii),(iii) 
and (iv) to the financial statements, property, plant 
and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment 
property, are held in the name of the Company, 
except for the following:
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held 
- indicate 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being held in the name of 
the Company
Building 
located 
at 
2, 
Sarvodaya 
Nagar, Kanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh
94.33
Yogendra Mohan 
Gupta HUF,
Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta HUF,
Dhirendra Mohan 
Gupta HUF,
Devendra Mohan 
Gupta HUF,
Shailendra Mohan 
Gupta HUF,
Sanjay Gupta HUF,
Sandeep Gupta HUF
Yes
From July 
1975
Building has been constructed on land 
taken on lease by the Company vide 
agreement to lease (renewal) dated 
June 8, 2021.
Building 
located 
at Plot no. 23, Civil 
Lines, 
Gorakhpur, 
Uttar Pradesh
61.73
Smt. Saroja Gupta, 
Smt. Vijaya Gupta,
Smt. Raj Gupta,
Smt. Rajni Gupta
Yes
From July 
1975
Building has been constructed on land 
taken on lease by the Company vide 
agreement to lease (renewal) dated 
June 8, 2021.
Building located at 
Jagran office, Deval 
Chaur, 
Rampur 
Road, Haldwani
94.02
Sandeep Gupta
Yes
From July  
31, 2004
Building has been constructed on land 
taken on lease by the Company vide 
agreement to lease (renewal) dated 
June 8, 2021.
Building 
located 
at Plot No. 57 A-3, 
Meera Bai Marg, 
Lucknow, 
Uttar 
Pradesh
21.8
Mahendra Mohan 
Gupta,
Yogendra Mohan 
Gupta,
Devendra Mohan 
Gupta 
Yes
From 
September 
22, 1995 
Building has been constructed on 
land taken on lease by the Company 
vide Building Property Development 
Agreement dated September 22, 
1995.
Freehold 
land 
located at D-140, 
Saket, Meerut, Uttar 
Pradesh, measuring 
835.40 
square 
meter
6.3
Jagran Limited
No
From April 1, 
2000
The title deed is in the name of Jagran 
Limited, 
whose 
running 
business 
was taken over by Jagran Prakashan 
Limited on April 1, 2000 on lock, 
stock and barrel basis, pursuant to the 
business purchase agreement dated 
July 5, 2000.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
156
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held 
- indicate 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being held in the name of 
the Company
Building 
on 
freehold 
land 
located at D-140, 
Saket, Meerut, Uttar 
Pradesh, measuring 
835.40 
square 
meter
75.47
Jagran Limited
No
From April 1, 
2000
The title deed is in the name of Jagran 
Limited, 
whose 
running 
business 
was taken over by Jagran Prakashan 
Limited on April 1, 2000 on lock, 
stock and barrel basis, pursuant to the 
business purchase agreement dated 
July 5, 2000.
Freehold land and 
building 
located 
at Plot no.  918 to 
922, Municipal No. 
76/64, 
Industrial 
area, 
Saharanpur 
Road, 
Patel 
Nagar, 
Dehradun, 
measuring 1924.20 
square meter
429.69
Jagran Limited
No
From April 1, 
2000
Freehold 
land 
located at Shivpuri 
Link Road, Chirwai 
Naka, Ward - 59, 
Zone-13 
Gwalior, 
Madhya 
Pradesh, 
measuring 
1.045 
hectare
17.49
Naidunia News and 
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of Naidunia 
News and Network Private Limited. The 
name of this entity was later changed 
to Naidunia Media Private Limited. 
Subsequently, the name was changed 
to Naidunia Media Limited pursuant to 
change of name on conversion to a 
public limited Company on March 28, 
2012 as per the fresh certificate of 
incorporation issued by the Registrar 
of Companies, Madhya Pradesh. The 
print business of Naidunia Media 
Limited was demerged and transferred 
to Jagran Prakashan Limited under 
the scheme of arrangement under 
the Companies Act, 1956 with effect 
from the appointed date April 1, 2012, 
in accordance with the order dated 
January 16, 2013 of the Hon’ble High 
Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Building 
on 
freehold 
land 
located at Shivpuri 
Link Road, Chirwai 
Naka, Ward -59, 
Zone-13 
Gwalior, 
Madhya Pradesh
127.36
Naidunia News and 
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Building 
on 
leasehold 
land 
located 
at 
Plot 
No. 
51, 
Nagjhiri, 
Industrial 
Area, 
Dewas Road, Ujjain, 
measuring 10,000 
square feet
74.82
Naidunia Media 
Private Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of 
Naidunia 
Media 
Private 
Limited. 
Subsequently, the name was changed 
to Naidunia Media Limited pursuant to 
change of name on conversion to a 
public limited Company on March 28, 
2012 as per the fresh certificate of 
incorporation issued by the Registrar 
of Companies, Madhya Pradesh. The 
print business of Naidunia Media 
Limited was demerged and transferred 
to Jagran Prakashan Limited under 
the scheme of arrangement under 
the Companies Act, 1956 with effect 
from the appointed date April 1, 2012, 
in accordance with the order dated 
January 16, 2013 of the Hon’ble High 
Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
157
Standalone
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held 
- indicate 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being held in the name of 
the Company
Building 
on 
leasehold 
land 
located at Plot No. 
12, 13, 14 in front 
of BEC Fertilizer, 
Industrial 
Area, 
Sirgitti, 
Bilaspur, 
measuring 30,000 
square feet
102.56
Naidunia News and  
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of 
Naidunia News and Network Private 
Limited. The name of this entity was 
later changed to Naidunia Media 
Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia 
Media Limited pursuant to change 
of name on conversion to a public 
limited 
Company 
on 
March 
28, 
2012 as per the fresh certificate of 
incorporation issued by the Registrar 
of Companies, Madhya Pradesh. The 
print business of Naidunia Media 
Limited was demerged and transferred 
to Jagran Prakashan Limited under 
the scheme of arrangement under 
the Companies Act, 1956 with effect 
from the appointed date April 1, 2012, 
in accordance with the order dated 
January 16, 2013 of the Hon’ble High 
Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Building 
on 
leasehold 
land 
located at Plot No. 
23/4 
and 
23/5, 
Sector D, Industrial 
area, 
Govindpura, 
Bhopal, measuring 
45,000 square feet
126.1
Naidunia News and  
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Building 
on 
leasehold 
land 
located at Plot No. 
90, Industrial Estate, 
Richhai, 
Jabalpur, 
measuring 60,000 
square feet
110.2
Naidunia News and  
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Apartment 
No. 
C S 1 / 1 9 0 2 , 
C S 1 / 1 9 0 3 , 
CS1/1904 
and 
CM01/1904 
at 
19th 
floor, 
Tower 
CS01 and CM01, 
C a p e t o w n , 
Sector 74, Noida, 
measuring 
5,395 
square feet in total
275.96
Supertech Limited
No
From May 25, 
2017
Property agreement and possession 
letters were executed in the name of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited, however, 
the registration of the property has not 
been done.
Eco 
Village 
-1, 
Tower -G 1, Flat 
N o . - G 1 - 1 4 0 3 , 
Noida 
(West) 
measuring 
2364 
square feet
71.97
Supertech Limited
No
From March 
1, 2019
Property agreement and allotment 
letter were executed in the name of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited, however, 
the registration of the property has not 
been done.
Apartment 
No. 
1503-A, at 15th floor 
Prosperity 
Tower 
- B, Sikka Karmic 
Greens, 
Plot 
no. 
GH-1/C Sector-78, 
Noida, 
measuring 
4,350 square feet.
65.69
G. S. Promoters 
Private Limited
No
From 
December 
22, 2017
Property agreement and possession 
letter were executed in the name of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited, however, 
the registration of the property has not 
been done.
Supertech Eco Citi, 
Unit No. O-2001 
and 
O-2101 
located at GH-03, 
Sector-137, Noida 
measuring 
2590 
square feet in total
145.04
Investors Clinic 
Infratech Private 
Limited
No
From August 
29, 2017
Property agreement and possession 
letter were executed in the name of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited, however, 
the registration of the property has not 
been done.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
158
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held 
- indicate 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being held in the name of 
the Company
Amrapali Platinum, 
Flat No. E-2503, 
Floor - 25 Sector 
- 
119, 
Noida, 
measuring 
1000 
square feet.
44.82
Creative Thinks 
Media Private 
Limited
No
From April 
01, 2017
Property agreement and possession 
letter were executed in the name of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited, however, 
the registration of the property has not 
been done.
Amrapali 
Golf 
Homes, 
Flat 
No. 
B5-2005, 
GH-02, 
Sector 4, Greater 
Noida, 
measuring 
1425 square feet.
49.37
Amarapali group
No
From 
December 
15, 2022
Property agreement and possession 
letter were executed in the name of 
Jagran Prakashan Limited, however, 
the registration of the property has not 
been done.
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
1/1, Rajbandha 
Maidan, Raipur, 
measuring 10,000 
square feet
18.48
Naidunia Media 
Private Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of 
Naidunia Media Private Limited. 
Subsequently, the name was changed 
to Naidunia Media Limited pursuant 
to change of name on conversion to 
a public limited Company on March 
28, 2012 as per the fresh certificate of 
incorporation issued by the Registrar 
of Companies, Madhya Pradesh. The 
print business of Naidunia Media 
Limited was demerged and transferred 
to Jagran Prakashan Limited under 
the scheme of arrangement under 
the Companies Act, 1956 with effect 
from the appointed date April 1, 2012, 
in accordance with the order dated 
January 16, 2013 of the Hon’ble High 
Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Leasehold land 
located at Plot 
No. 51, Nagjhiri, 
Industrial Area, 
Dewas Road, 
Ujjain, measuring 
10,000 square feet
25.04
Naidunia Media 
Private Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
12, 13, 14. In front 
of BEC Fertilizer, 
Industrial Area, 
Sirgitti, Bilaspur, 
measuring 30,000 
square feet
3.08
Naidunia News and  
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
01, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of 
Naidunia News and Network Private 
Limited. The name of this entity was 
later changed to Naidunia Media 
Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia 
Media Limited pursuant to change 
of name on conversion to a public 
limited Company on March 28, 
2012 as per the fresh certificate of 
incorporation issued by the Registrar 
of Companies, Madhya Pradesh. The 
print business of Naidunia Media 
Limited was demerged and transferred 
to Jagran Prakashan Limited under 
the scheme of arrangement under 
the Companies Act, 1956 with effect 
from the appointed date April 1, 2012, 
in accordance with the order dated 
January 16, 2013 of the Hon’ble High 
Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Leasehold land 
located at Plot 
No. 23/4 & 23/5, 
Sector D, Industrial 
area, Govindpura, 
Bhopal, measuring 
45,000 square feet
15.54
Naidunia News and  
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
01, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Leasehold 
land located 
at Plot No. 90, 
Industrial estate, 
Richhai, Jabalpur, 
measuring 60,000 
square feet
1.35
Naidunia News and  
Network Private 
Limited
No
From April 
01, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
159
Standalone
Description of 
property
Gross 
carrying 
value
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, director 
or their relative or 
employee
Period held 
- indicate 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being held in the name of 
the Company
Freehold 
land 
located at Khasra 
no. 
208, 
Gram 
Sonakpur, 
Kanth 
Road, Moradabad, 
Uttar 
Pradesh, 
measuring 
1.00 
acre
7.34
Rohilkhand 
Publication  Private 
Limited
No
From January 
1, 2001, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of 
Rohilkhand Publication Private Limited 
which was subsequently amalgamated 
with the Jagran Prakashan Limited 
as per the scheme of amalgamation 
under the Companies Act, 1956 with 
effect from the appointed date January 
1, 2001, in accordance with the order 
dated April 24, 2002 of the Hon’ble 
High Court of Allahabad.
Building 
on 
freehold 
land 
located at Khasra 
no. 
208, 
Gram 
Sonakpur, 
Kanth 
Road, Moradabad, 
Uttar 
Pradesh, 
measuring 
1.00 
acre
161.33
Rohilkhand 
Publication  Private 
Limited
No
From January 
1, 2001, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Freehold 
land 
located at survey 
No. 
1195, 
Mahalgaon, Jhansi 
road 
colony, 
Gwalior, 
Madhya 
Pradesh, measuring 
the 15,750 square 
feet
347.85
Naidunia Media 
Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of 
Naidunia Media Limited. Subsequently, 
the print business of Naidunia Media 
Limited was demerged and transferred 
to  Jagran Prakashan Limited under 
the scheme of arrangement under 
the Companies Act, 1956 with effect 
from the appointed date April 1, 2012, 
in accordance with the order dated 
January 16, 2013 of the Hon’ble High 
Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Freehold land and 
Building located at 
Plot No. 21 bearing 
Property No. 629/1 
(adjoining shed No. 
14-B 
and 
20-B), 
Industrial 
Estate, 
Hisar, 
Haryana, 
measuring 1502.66 
square yards
12.2
Jagran Prakashan 
(Delhi) Private 
Limited
No
From January 
1, 2001, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan (Delhi) Private Limited which 
was subsequently amalgamated with 
Jagran Prakashan Limited as per the 
scheme of amalgamation under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from 
the appointed date January 1, 2001, in 
accordance with the order dated April 
24, 2002 of the Hon’ble High Court of 
Allahabad.
B u i l d i n g 
constructed 
on 
leasehold 
land 
located at Plot No. 
7P and Plot No. 8, 
Tatisilwai 
Phase 
1, Industrial area, 
Ranchi, measuring 
36,590.40 square 
feet in total
114.81
Land is owned by 
Ranchi Industrial 
Area Development 
Authority (RIADA)
No
From July 14, 
2012
The 
Company 
had 
constructed 
a 
building 
on 
leasehold 
land. 
Subsequently, there was a dispute 
between the Company and Ranchi 
Industrial Area Development Authority 
(RIADA) regarding the leasehold rights 
for the leasehold land and additional 
consideration of `44.93 Lakhs was 
demanded by RIADA in respect 
thereof. This litigation is pending 
adjudication at the Hon’ble High Court 
of Jharkhand at Ranchi. Based on the 
legal advice obtained by the Company, 
and in view of the present status of the 
case, the management believes that 
the Company has strong chances of 
success in the above-mentioned case.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
160
	
(d)	
The Company has chosen cost model for its Property, 
Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) 
and intangible assets. Consequently, the question 
of our commenting on whether the revaluation is 
based on the valuation by a Registered Valuer, or 
specifying the amount of change, if the change is 
10% or more in the aggregate of the net carrying 
value of each class of Property, Plant and Equipment 
(including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets 
does not arise.                      
	
(e)	
Based on the information and explanations furnished 
to us, no proceedings have been initiated on or are 
pending against the Company for holding benami 
property under the Prohibition of  Benami Property 
Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) 
(formerly the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules made thereunder, 
and therefore the question of our commenting on 
whether the Company has appropriately disclosed 
the details in its financial statements does not arise. 
ii. 	
(a)	
The physical verification of inventory,  has 
been conducted at reasonable intervals by the 
Management during the year and, in our opinion, 
the coverage and procedure of such verification by 
Management is appropriate. In respect of inventory 
lying with third parties, these have substantially been 
confirmed by them & for goods in-transit, the goods 
have been received subsequent to the year end. 
The discrepancies noticed on physical verification 
of inventory as compared to book records were not 
10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory.
	
(b) 	 During the year, the Company has been sanctioned 
working capital limits in excess of `5 Crores, in 
aggregate, from banks on the basis of security of 
current assets. The Company has filed quarterly 
returns or statements with such banks, which are 
in agreement with the unaudited books of account. 
(Also refer Note 37(vi) to the financial statements) 
iii.	
(a)	
The Company has made investments in one 
company, not granted secured/ unsecured loans 
to companies/firms/LLPs/other parties other than 
unsecured loan to 526 employees, stood guarantee 
for two companies, not provided security to 
companies/firms/LLPs/other parties.  The aggregate 
amount during the year, and balance outstanding at 
the balance sheet date with respect to such loans 
and guarantees to subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates and to parties other than subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates are as per the table 
given below:
Particulars
Guarantees 
(Amount in 
` Lakhs)
Loans
(Amount in 
` Lakhs)
Aggregate amount 
granted/ provided 
during the year
- Others (employees)
-
384.27
Balance outstanding as 
at balance sheet date 
in respect of the above 
case
- Subsidiaries
- Others (employees)
7,145.00
-
-
220.17
Also refer Note 5(c) and 28 to the standalone 
financial statements
	
(b)	
In respect of the aforesaid investments, guarantees 
and loans in nature of the loan, the terms and 
conditions under which such loans were granted/
investments were made/guarantees provided are 
not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
	
(c)	
In respect of the aforesaid loans, the schedule of 
repayment of principal and payment of interest has 
been stipulated, and the parties are repaying the 
principal amounts, as stipulated, and are also regular 
in payment of interest as applicable.
	
(d)	
In respect of the aforesaid loans, there is no amount 
which is overdue for more than ninety days.
	
(e)	
There were no loans which fell due during the year 
and were renewed/extended. Further, no fresh loans 
were granted to same parties  to settle the existing 
overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
	
(f) 	
There were no loans which were granted during the 
year, including to promoters/related parties. 
iv. 	 In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of Sections 185 and 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 in respect of the loans and investments made, 
and guarantees and security provided by it. 
v.	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts 
which are deemed to be deposits referred in Sections 73, 
74, 75 and 76 of the Act and the Rules framed there under 
to the extent notified. 
vi.        The Central Government of India has not specified the 
maintenance of cost records under sub-section (1) of 
Section 148 of the Act for any of the products of the 
Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
161
Standalone
vii.	 (a)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by 
us, in our opinion, the Company is generally regular 
in depositing undisputed statutory dues in respect of 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, goods 
and services tax, professional tax and income tax, 
though there has been a slight delay in a few cases, 
and is regular in depositing undisputed statutory 
dues, including duty of customs and labour welfare 
fund, as applicable, with the appropriate authorities.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined by 
us, there are no statutory dues of provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, goods and services tax, 
professional tax, duty of customs and labour welfare 
fund  which have not been deposited on account of 
any dispute. The particulars of other statutory dues 
referred to in sub-clause (a) as at March 31, 2023 
which have not been deposited on account of a 
dispute, are as follows: 
viii.	 According to the information and explanations given to us 
and the records of the Company examined by us, there 
are no transactions in the books of account that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the 
tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has 
not been recorded in the books of account. 
ix.	
(a)	
According to the records of the Company examined 
by us and the information and explanation given to 
us, the Company has not defaulted in repayment 
of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of 
interest to any lender during the year.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we 
report that the Company has not been declared 
Wilful Defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority. (Also 
refer Note 37(vii) to the financial statements)
	
(c)	
According to the records of the Company examined 
by us and the information and explanations given to 
us, the Company has not obtained any term loans.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on 
an overall examination of the financial statements 
of the Company, we report that no funds raised 
on short-term basis have been used for long-term 
purposes by the Company.  
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, we report that the 
Company has not taken any funds from any entity 
or person on account of or to meet the obligations 
of its subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures. 
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and procedures performed by us, we report that 
the Company has not raised loans during the year on 
the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint 
ventures or associate companies. 
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Amount (` Lakhs)
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Income Tax Act,
1961
Income Tax
89.64*
A.Y. 2018-19
Commissioner of 
Income Tax
(Appeals)
	
	
	
* Net of `22.41 Lakhs paid under protest.
x.	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any money by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
x.	
(b)	
The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or fully or 
partially or optionally convertible debentures during 
the year. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	
During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, we have neither 
come across any instance of material fraud by the 
Company or on the Company, noticed or reported 
during the year, nor have we been informed of any 
such case by the Management.  
xi.	
(b) 	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, a report under Section 
143(12) of the Act, in Form ADT-4, as prescribed 
under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 was not required to be filed with the 
Central Government. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xi.	
(c)	
During  the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, and as represented 
to us by the management, no whistle-blower 
complaints have been received during the year 
by the Company. Accordingly, the reporting under 
clause 3(xi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
162
xii.	 As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi 
Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the reporting under 
clause 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 The Company has entered into transactions with related 
parties in compliance with the provisions of Sections 
177 and 188 of the Act. The details of such related 
party transactions have been disclosed in the financial 
statements as required under Indian Accounting Standard 
24 “Related Party Disclosures” specified under Section 
133 of the Act.
xiv.	 (a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanation given to us, the Company has an internal 
audit system commensurate with the size and nature 
of its business. 
xiv.	 (b)	
The reports of the Internal Auditor for the period 
under audit have been considered by us.
xv.	 The Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected with 
him. Accordingly, the reporting on compliance with the 
provisions of Section 192 of the Act under clause 3(xv) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xvi)
(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company has not conducted non-banking 
financial / housing finance activities during the year. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(xvi)(b) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the 
Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, the reporting 
under clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(d)	
Based on the information and explanations provided 
by the management of the Company, the Group, as 
defined in Core Investment Companies (Reserve 
Bank) Directions 2016, does not have any CICs, 
which are part of the Group. We have not, however, 
separately evaluated whether the information 
provided by the management is accurate and 
complete. Accordingly, the reporting under clause 
3(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company. 
xvii.	 The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the 
financial year or in the immediately preceding financial 
year
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year and accordingly the reporting under 
clause (xviii) is not applicable.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of the financial ratios (Also refer Note 
37(xi) to the financial statements), ageing and expected 
dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of 
financial liabilities, other information accompanying 
the financial statements, our knowledge of the Board 
of Directors and management plans and based on our 
examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, 
nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to 
believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the 
date of the audit report that Company is not capable of 
meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet 
as and when they fall due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not 
an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. 
We further state that our reporting is based on the facts 
up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date 
will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall 
due.
xx.	 (a)	
In respect of other than ongoing projects, as at 
balance sheet date, the Company does not have 
any amount remaining unspent under Section 135(5) 
of the Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx)
(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
The Company has transferred the amount of 
Corporate Social Responsibility remaining unspent 
under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of the Act 
pursuant to ongoing project/(s) to a special account 
in compliance with the provision of sub-section (6) 
of Section 135 of the Act. (Also refer Note 22(b) to 
the financial statements)
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial 
Statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the 
said clause has been included in this report.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
                                                                                                     
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Partner
Membership Number: 096367
UDIN: 23096367BGYYHH2681                                                             
Place: Kanpur                                                                                   
Date: May 30, 2023  
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
163
Standalone
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
22,206.63
24,912.22
Right-of-use assets
3(b)
7,355.72
6,440.77
Capital work-in-progress
3(a)
156.89
221.90
Investment properties
3(c)
2,100.38
8,918.42
Goodwill
3(d)
22,937.29
22,937.29
Other intangible assets
3(d)
181.65
326.43
Investments in subsidiaries and associates
4
28,865.63
28,762.41
Financial assets
i.
Investments
5(a)
38,584.70
68,110.41
ii.
Loans
5(c)
-
-
iii.
Other financial assets
5(e)
2,045.83
2,639.04
Non-current tax assets (net)
6
984.39
1,054.23
Other non-current assets
7
1,350.69
1,672.89
Total non-current assets
126,769.80
165,996.01
Current assets
Inventories
8
8,382.20
8,023.42
Financial assets
i.
Investments
5(a)
38,727.56
11,583.57
ii.
Trade receivables
5(b)
36,129.37
33,785.99
iii.
Cash and cash equivalents
5(d)(i)
4,166.23
3,529.42
iv.
Bank balances other than (iii) above
5(d)(ii)
355.69
9,391.53
v.
Loans
5(c)
220.17
403.53
vi.
Other financial assets
5(e)
4,026.42
2,285.97
Other current assets
9
3,076.31
2,710.91
Total current assets
95,083.95
71,714.34
Total assets
221,853.75
237,710.35
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
10(a)
4,353.09
5,273.09
Other equity
Equity component of compound financial instrument
10(b)
945.87
945.87
Reserves and surplus
10(b)
130,847.49
1,59,978.99
Total equity
136,146.45
166,197.95
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
i.
Borrowings
11(a)
8,087.68
24,943.43
ii.
Lease liabilities
3(b)
4,340.65
4,499.70
Employee benefit obligations
12
1,373.11
1,351.20
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
13
9,097.35
9,024.21
Total non-current liabilities
22,898.79
39,818.54
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
i.
Borrowings
11(a)
19,240.02
1,164.06
ii.
Lease liabilities
3(b)
1,070.44
1,019.17
iii.
Trade payables
11(c)
(a) 	 total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
55.73
154.81
(b) 	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
14,406.25
11,515.50
iv.
Other financial liabilities
11(b)
10,841.10
13,123.25
Employee benefit obligations
12
960.10
539.93
Current tax liabilities (net)
13(b)
342.15
111.04
Other current liabilities
14
15,892.72
4,066.10
Total current liabilities
62,808.51
31,693.86
Total liabilities
85,707.30
71,512.40
Total equity and liabilities
221,853.75
237,710.35
The above standalone balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the standalone balance sheet referred to in our report of even date.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
Jagran Prakashan Limited
164
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations
15
159,390.34
140,123.40
Other income
16(a)
3,209.37
2,082.41
Other gains/(losses) - net
16(b)
5,293.22
2,941.90
Total income
167,892.93
145,147.71
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
17
53,928.85
40,858.64
Changes in inventories of finished goods
18
4.17
0.29
Employee benefits expense
19
29,785.25
28,815.67
Depreciation and amortisation expense
20
4,907.96
6,016.16
Impairment of investment in associates
4
559.95
-
Net impairment losses on financial assets
21
2,239.22
2,520.48
Other expenses
22
43,283.57
32,246.48
Finance costs
23
3,326.88
2,761.19
Total expenses
138,035.85
113,218.91
Profit before exceptional items and tax
29,857.08
31,928.80
Exceptional items
37
Insurance claim received/recoverable
-
(564.26)
Total exceptional items
-
(564.26)
Profit before tax
29,857.08
32,493.06
Income tax expense
24
-	
Current tax
6,771.39
8,430.65
-	
Deferred tax
217.39
(771.64)
Total tax expense
6,988.78
7,659.01
Profit for the year
22,868.30
24,834.05
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
-	
Equity instruments at FVTOCI derecognised/written off
-
590.00
-	
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations
(573.15)
(7.79)
-	
Income tax relating to these items
144.25
(134.34)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
(428.90)
447.87
Total comprehensive income for the year
22,439.40
25,281.92
Earnings per equity share:
(Nominal value per share `2 (Previous year: `2)
Basic earnings per share (in `)
27
8.71
9.39
Diluted earnings per share (in `)
8.71
9.39
The above standalone statement of profit and loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income) referred to in our report of even date.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
165
Standalone
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended March 
31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before income tax
29,857.08
32,493.06
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
20
4,907.96
6,016.16
Impairment of investment in associates
4
559.95
-
Interest income classified as investing cash flows
(3,092.20)
(2,007.34)
Finance costs
23
3,326.88
2,761.19
Net (gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
16(b)
(58.54)
(583.44)
Net (gain)/loss on disposal of investment property
16(b)
(2,919.21)
(63.61)
Net (gain)/loss on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or 
loss
16(b)
(1,064.63)
(1,751.90)
Net gain on sale of investments
16(b)
(1,145.35)
(391.50)
Lease liabilities no longer required written back
(3.09)
(65.35)
Equity instrument at FVTOCI derecognised /written off
-
590.00
Net impairment lossess on financials assets
21
2,239.22
2,520.48
Unwinding of discount on security deposits
16(a)
(115.41)
(74.37)
Dividend income from investments valued at fair value through profit or loss 
classified as investing cash flows
16(a)
(1.76)
(0.70)
Insurance claim
(18.63)
-
Exceptional items
-
(564.26)
Property, plant and equipment written off
22
22.03
13.35
Net unrealised foreign exchange (gains)/losses
(7.96)
19.88
Change in operating assets and liabilities
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables
(4,246.04)
(2,423.48)
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
(358.78)
(2,957.36)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables
2,790.78
3,534.61
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets
(1,519.68)
3,402.23
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-current assets
(34.70)
(1.48)
(Increase)/Decrease in other current assets
(396.23)
737.82
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities
(305.45)
162.10
Increase/(Decrease) in employee benefit obligations
(131.07)
(550.36)
Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities
3,658.55
(578.32)
Cash generated from operations
31,943.72
40,237.41
Income taxes paid (net)
(6,479.27)
(9,881.27)
Net cash inflow from operating activities
25,464.45
30,356.14
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment, investment property and right 
of use assets
(2,081.33)
(708.92)
Payment for purchase of intangible assets
-
(63.80)
Payment for purchase of investments
(70,530.75)
(48,216.73)
Investment in bank deposits
(35,058.39)
(11,233.60)
Payment for purchase of equity shares in subsidiary
(663.17)
(400.00)
Loans granted to employees during the year
(445.41)
(302.44)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
209.47
1,605.72
Advance received for sale of property, plant and equipment
1,000.00
-
Proceeds from sale of investment property
9,908.80
80.94
Proceeds from sale of investments
75,122.45
32,806.10
Repayment of loans from employees during the year
404.99
272.35
Repayment of loan from others
223.78
-
Intercorporate loan given to subsidiary
-
(200.00)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
166
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended March 
31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Maturity of bank deposits
44,182.24
5,427.84
Dividends received
1.76
0.70
Interest received
3,085.61
1,576.58
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities
25,360.05
(19,355.26)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds / (Repayment) of cash credit
(788.20)
954.09
Unpaid dividends tranferred to Investor Education and Protection Fund / 
payment of dividend of earlier years
-
(6.17)
Payment of lease liabilities
(1,211.66)
(1,072.46)
Buy-back of equity shares (including transaction cost)
(34,776.66)
(8,413.48)
Interest paid
(2,876.50)
(2,722.65)
Interim dividend paid
(10,544.40)
-
Net cash outflow from financing activities
(50,197.42)
(11,260.67)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
627.08
(259.79)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year
3,529.42
3,789.21
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
4,156.50
3,529.42
Non-cash financing and investing activities
- Acquisition of right-of-use assets
3(b)
1,801.41
4,358.72
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise the following:
Cash on hand
5(c)
146.82
145.30
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
5(c)
3,367.35
2,892.18
- in Book Overdraft
11(b)
(9.73)
-
- in fixed deposit (less than three months maturity)
5(c)
652.06
491.94
Balances per Statement of Cash Flows
4,156.50
3,529.42
The above standalone statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the standalone statement of cash flows referred to in our report of even date.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
167
Standalone
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
A. Equity share capital
 (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Notes
Amount
Balance at April 1, 2021
10(a)
 5,563.62 
Changes in equity share capital
10(a)
 (290.53)
Balance at March 31, 2022
10(a)
 5,273.09 
Changes in equity share capital
10(a)
 (920.00)
As at March 31, 2023
10(a)
 4,353.09 
B. Other equity [refer note 10(b)]
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments*
Capital reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Other 
reserves
Total other 
equity
Balance as at April 1, 2021
 945.87 
 14,391.22 
 1,074.62 
 127,807.88 
 (453.70)
 143,765.89 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24,834.05 
 - 
 24,834.05 
Other comprehensive loss for the 
year, net of income tax
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5.83)
 - 
 (5.83)
Equity instrument at FVOCI 
derecognised/written off
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 453.70 
 453.70 
Total comprehensive income for 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24,828.22 
 453.70 
 25,281.92 
Transactions with owners in 
their capacity as owners:
Buy-back of 14,526,773 equity 
shares (including transaction cost)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (8,122.95)
 - 
 (8,122.95)
Transfer from retained earnings 
to capital redemption reserve for 
buyback of 14,526,773 equity 
shares of `2/- each
 - 
 - 
 290.53 
 (290.53)
 - 
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2022
 945.87 
 14,391.22 
 1,365.15 
 144,222.62 
 - 
 160,924.86 
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments*
Capital reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Other 
reserves
Total other 
equity
Balance as at April 1, 2022
 945.87 
 14,391.22 
 1,365.15 
 144,222.62 
 - 
 160,924.86 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22,868.30 
 - 
 22,868.30 
Other comprehensive loss for the 
year, net of income tax
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (428.90)
 - 
 (428.90)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22,439.40 
 - 
 22,439.40 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
168
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments*
Capital reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Other 
reserves
Total other 
equity
Transactions with owners in 
their capacity as owners:
Buy-back of 46,000,000 equity 
shares(including transaction costs 
and tax on buyback)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (41,024.73)
 - 
 (41,024.73)
Transfer from retained earnings 
to capital redemption reserve for 
buyback of 46,000,000 equity 
shares of `2/- each
 - 
 - 
 920.00 
 (920.00)
 - 
 - 
Interim dividend paid during the 
year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (10,546.17)
 - 
 (10,546.17)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 945.87 
 14,391.22 
 2,285.15 
 114,171.12 
 - 
 131,793.36 
*Equity component of compound financial instruments is net of deferred tax as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022. [refer 
note 10(b)(i)].
The above standalone statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the standalone statement of changes in equity referred to in our report of even date.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
169
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Background
Jagran Prakashan Limited (“the Company” or “JPL” or 
“Company”) is a Company limited by shares, incorporated 
and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged primarily 
in printing and publication of newspapers and magazines in 
India. The other activities of the Company comprise outdoor 
advertising business, event management and activation 
services and digital business. The Company is a public limited 
company and its equity shares and non-convertible debentures 
are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock 
Exchange (NSE). The Company is having its registered office 
at Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur 208 005. The 
parent of the Company is Jagran Media Network Investment 
Private Limited.
Note 1: Summary of significant accounting policies
This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to 
all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
(a)	
Basis of preparation
	
(i)	
Compliance with Ind AS
The standalone financial statements comply in 
all material aspects with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) [Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other 
relevant provisions of the Act.
(ii) 	 Historical cost convention
The standalone financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:
	
certain financial assets and liabilities that are 
measured at fair value; and
	
defined benefit plans – plan assets measured 
at fair value
(iii) 	 New and amended standards adopted by the 
Company
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had vide notification 
dated March 23, 2022 notified Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022 
which amended certain accounting standards, and 
are effective April 1, 2022. These amendments did 
not have any impact on the amounts recognized in 
prior periods and are not expected to significantly 
affect the current or future periods.
(iv) 	 New and amended standards issued but not 
effective
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide notification 
dated March 31, 2023 notified Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 (the 
‘Rules’) which amends certain accounting standards, 
and are effective April 1, 2023.
The Rules predominantly amend Ind AS 12, Income 
taxes, and Ind AS 1, Presentation of financial 
statements. The other amendments to Ind AS 
notified by these rules are primarily in the nature of 
clarifications.
These amendments are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Company in the current or 
future reporting periods and on foreseeable future 
transactions. Specifically, no changes would be 
necessary as a consequence of amendments made 
to Ind AS 12 as the Company’s accounting policy 
already complies with the now mandatory treatment.
(b)	 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker(CODM). The board of directors assesses 
the financial performance and position of the Company 
and makes strategic decisions and has been identified as 
CODM. Refer Note XX to the financial statements.
(c) 	 Foreign currency translation
(i) 	
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the standalone financial statements 
are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The standalone financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), 
which is Jagran Prakashan Limited’s functional and 
presentation currency.
(ii) 	 Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at year end exchange rates are generally 
recognized in profit or loss.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in 
the statement of profit and loss on a net basis within 
other gains/(losses).
(d) 	 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable 
that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and 
the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of 
when the payment is being made. Revenue is measured 
based on the transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted for allowances, trade discounts, volume rebates, 
if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. 
Revenue excludes taxes collected from customers. The 
Company has concluded that it is the principal in all of its 
revenue arrangements since it is the primary obligor in all 
the revenue arrangements as it has pricing latitude and is 
also exposed to inventory and credit risks.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
170
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Goods and Service Tax (GST) is not received by the 
Company on its own account. Rather, it is tax collected 
on behalf of the government. Accordingly, it is excluded 
from revenue.
Contract asset represents the Company’s right to 
consideration in exchange for services that the 
Company has transferred to a customer when that right is 
conditioned on something other than the passage of time.
A contract liability is recognized if a payment is received 
or a payment is due (whichever is earlier) from a customer 
before the Company transfers the related goods or 
services and the Company is under an obligation to 
provide only the goods or services under the contract. 
Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue when the 
Company performs under the contract (i.e., transfers 
control of the related goods or services to the customer).
The Company recognizes a refund liability if the Company 
receives consideration from a customer and expects to 
refund some or all of that consideration to the customer. A 
refund liability is measured at the amount of consideration 
received (or receivable) for which the Company does not 
expect to be entitled (i.e. amounts not included in the 
transaction price).
The specific recognition criteria described below must 
also be met before revenue is recognized:
(i) 	
Advertisement revenue
Revenue from sale of advertisement space is 
recognized (net of estimated volume discounts), as 
and when the relevant advertisement is published. 
Revenue for all barter transactions is recognized at 
the time of actual performance of the contract to the 
extent of performance completed by either party 
against its part of contract and is with reference to 
non-barter transactions.
A receivable is recognized when the goods are 
delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(ii) 	 Sale of newspaper & publications, waste papers 
and others
Revenue from sale of publications is recognized 
(net of credits for unsold copies), as and when the 
newspapers and magazines are dispatched which 
coincides with transfer of control of goods to the 
customer.
Revenue from the sale of waste papers/scrap is 
recognized when the control is transferred to the 
buyer, usually on delivery of the waste papers/scrap.
A receivable is recognized when the goods are 
delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(iii) 	 Outdoor advertising
The Company provides dedicated advertising 
services that focuses on the consumers when 
they are outside of their homes through hoardings, 
billboards, retail signages etc. Revenue from outdoor 
activities is recognized as and when the control 
of service is transferred to the customer over the 
period advertisement is displayed.
A receivable is recognized when the services 
are delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(iv) 	 Event management and activation services
The Company offers end-to-end and experimental 
below the- line (BTL) marketing solutions such as 
product and brand promotion, events, conferences, 
exhibitions, public health programmes etc. Revenue 
from event management and activation services is 
recognized when the control of service is transferred 
to the customer over the period of the event.
A receivable is recognized when the services 
are delivered, as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(v) 	 Job work
Revenue from printing job work is recognized by 
reference to stage of completion of job work as 
per terms of agreement. Revenue from job work is 
measured based on the transaction price, which is 
the consideration.
A receivable is recognized when the services 
are delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(vi) 	 Financing components
The Company does not have any contracts where 
the period between the transfer of the promised 
goods or services to the customer and payment by 
the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, 
the Company does not adjust any of the transaction 
prices for the time value of money.
(e)	
Government grants
Grants from the government are recognized at their fair 
value where there is a reasonable assurance that the 
grant will be received and the Company will comply with 
all attached conditions.
171
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, 
plant and equipment are deducted in calculating the 
carrying amount of the asset. The grant is recognized 
in profit or loss over the life of a depreciable asset as a 
reduced depreciation expense.
(f)	
Income tax
Income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period’s taxable income based 
on the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 
attributable to temporary differences.
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current 
and deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, 
the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis 
of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
end of the reporting period. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to 
situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to 
interpretation and considers whether it is probable that a 
taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. 
The Company measures its tax balances either based on 
the most likely amount or the expected value, depending 
on which method provides a better prediction of the 
resolution of the uncertainty.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the standalone financial statements. However, 
deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from 
the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is 
also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of 
an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by 
the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply 
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or 
the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and where the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally 
enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on 
a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
(g)	 Leases
	
As a lessee
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially 
measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities 
include the net present value of the following lease 
payments:
•	
fixed payments (including in-substance fixed 
payments), less any lease incentives receivable
• 	
variable lease payment that are based on an index 
or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate 
as at the commencement date
• 	
amounts expected to be payable by the Company 
under residual value guarantees
• 	
the exercise price of a purchase option if the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option, and
• 	
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if 
the lease term reflects the Company exercising that 
option.
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain 
extension options are also included in the measurement 
of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be 
readily determined, which is generally the case for leases 
in the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate 
is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would 
have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an 
asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar 
economic environment with similar terms, security and 
conditions.
To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the 
Company:
• 	
where possible, uses recent third-party financing 
received by the individual lessee as a starting point, 
adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions 
since third party financing was received
• 	
uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free 
interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held 
by Jagran Prakashan Limited, which does not have 
recent third party financing
• 	
makes adjustments specific to the lease, e.g. term, 
country, currency and security.
If a readily observable amortising loan rate is available to 
the individual lessee (through recent financing or market 
data) which has a similar payment profile to the lease, then 
the Company entities use that rate as a starting point to 
determine the incremental borrowing rate.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
172
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Lease payments are allocated between principal and 
finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or 
loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability for each period.
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the 
following:
• 	
the amount of the initial measurement of lease 
liability
• 	
any lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives 
received
• 	
any initial direct costs
• 	
restoration costs.
Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the 
shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a 
straight-line basis. If the Company is reasonably certain 
to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is 
depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life.
Payments associated with short-term leases of equipment 
and all leases of low-value assets are recognized on a 
straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-
term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months 
or less.
	
As a lessor
Lease income from operating leases where the Company 
is a lessor is recognized in income on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. Initial direct costs incurred in 
obtaining an operating lease are added to the carrying 
amount of the underlying asset and recognized as 
expense over the lease term on the same basis as lease 
income. The respective leased assets are included in the 
balance sheet based on their nature.
(h) 	 Business combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account 
for all business combinations, regardless of whether 
equity instruments or other assets are acquired. The 
consideration transferred for the acquisition of a business 
comprises the
• 	
fair values of the assets transferred
• 	
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the 
acquired business
• 	
equity interests, if any
• 	
fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with 
limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values 
at the acquisition date. The Company recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair value or at 
the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the 
acquired entity’s net identifiable assets.
	
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
The excess of the:
• 	
consideration transferred
• 	
amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquired entity
• 	
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity 
interest in the acquired entity
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired 
is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts are less 
than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the 
business acquired, the difference is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity 
as capital reserve provided there is clear evidence of 
the underlying reasons for classifying the business 
combination as a bargain purchase. In other cases, the 
bargain purchase gain is recognised directly in equity as 
capital reserve.
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is 
deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted 
to their present value as at the date of exchange. The 
discount rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing 
rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could 
be obtained from an independent financier under 
comparable terms and conditions.
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a 
financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability 
are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes 
in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the 
acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously 
held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair 
value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses arising 
from such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss 
or other comprehensive income, as appropriate.
(i) 	
Impairment of non-financial assets
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that they might 
be impaired. Other assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair 
value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
173
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent 
of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets 
(cash-generating units or ‘CGU’). Non-financial assets 
other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are 
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the 
end of each reporting period.
(j) 	 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash 
flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, 
deposits held at call with financial institutions, other short-
term, highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. 
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet.
(k) 	 Other bank balances
Other bank balances comprises, term deposits with 
banks, which have original maturities of more than three 
months. Such assets are recognized and measured at 
amortised cost (including directly attributable transaction 
cost) using the effective interest method, less impairment 
losses, if any.
(l) 	
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for 
goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course 
of business and reflects Company’s unconditional right 
to consideration (that is, payment is due only on the 
passage of time). Trade receivables are recognized 
initially at the transaction price as they do not contain 
significant financing components. The Company holds 
the trade receivables with the objective of collecting 
the contractual cash flows and therefore measures 
them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less loss allowance.
(m) 	 Inventories
	
Raw materials and stores
Raw materials and stores are stated at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Cost of raw materials comprises 
cost of purchases. Cost of inventories also include all 
other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Costs are assigned to 
individual items of inventory on the basis of first-in first-out 
basis. Costs of purchased inventory are determined after 
deducting rebates and discounts.
(n) 	 Investments and other financial assets
	
(i) 	
Classification
The Company classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
• 	
those to be measured subsequently at fair 
value (either through other comprehensive 
income, or through profit or loss)
• 	
those to be measured at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the entity’s business model 
for managing the financial assets and the contractual 
terms of the cash flows.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will 
either be recorded in profit or loss or other comprehensive 
income. For investments in equity instruments that are 
not held for trading, this will depend on whether the 
Company has made an irrevocable election at the time 
of initial recognition to account for the equity investment 
at FVOCI.
The Company reclassifies debt investments when and 
only when its business model for managing those assets 
changes.
	
(ii) 	 Recognition
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets 
are recognized on trade-date, being the date on 
which the Company commits to purchase or sale 
the financial asset.
	
(iii)	 Measurement
At initial recognition, the Company measures a 
financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a 
financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, 
transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs 
of financial assets carried at fair value through profit 
or loss are expensed in profit or loss.
	
	
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Company’s business model for 
managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics 
of the asset. There are three measurement 
categories into which the Company classifies its 
debt instruments:
• 	
Amortised cost: Assets that are held for 
collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments 
of principal and interest are measured at 
amortised cost. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in other income 
using the effective interest rate method. 
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition 
is recognized directly in profit or loss and 
presented in other gains/(losses). Impairment 
losses are presented as separate line item in 
the statement of profit and loss.
• 	
Fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI): Assets that are held for 
collection of contractual cash flows and 
for selling the financial assets, where the 
assets’ cash flows represent solely payments 
of principal and interest, are measured at 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
174
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount 
are taken through Other Comprehensive 
Income (OCI), except for the recognition of 
impairment gains or losses, interest income 
and foreign exchange gains and losses which 
are recognized in profit and loss. When the 
financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognized in OCI is 
reclassified from equity to profit or loss and 
recognized in other gains/(losses). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included 
in other income using the effective interest 
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses are presented in other gains/(losses) 
and impairment expenses are presented as 
separate line item in statement of profit and 
loss.
• 	
Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that 
do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or 
FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss. A gain or loss on a debt investment that 
is subsequently measured at fair value through 
profit or loss is recognized in profit or loss and 
presented net within other gains/(losses) in 
the period in which it arises. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in other 
income.
Investments in mutual funds and equity instruments
Investment in mutual funds and equity instruments 
are classified as fair value through profit or loss as 
they are not held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets in order to collect 
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms 
of such assets do not give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal 
and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Where the Company’s management has elected 
to present fair value gains and losses on equity 
investments in other comprehensive income, there 
is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains 
and losses to the statement of profit and loss. The 
Company makes such election on an instrument-
by-instrument basis. The classification is made on 
initial recognition and is irrevocable. Dividends from 
such investments are recognized in profit or loss as 
other income when the Company’s right to receive 
payments is established.
Investment in bonds
Investment in bonds are financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market. These are classified as financial 
assets measured at amortised cost as they fulfill the 
following conditions:
•	
Such assets are held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets in order to 
collect contractual cash flows.
•	
The contractual terms of such assets give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
The Company recognises these assets on the date 
when they are originated and are initially measured 
at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction 
costs.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at 
fair value through profit or loss are recognized in 
other gain/ (losses) in the statement of profit and 
loss. Impairment losses (and reversal of impairment 
losses) on equity investments measured at FVOCI 
are not reported separately from other changes in 
fair value.
(iv) 	 Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis 
the expected credit losses associated with its 
assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI debt 
instruments. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk. Note XX details how the 
Company determines whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables only, the Company applies the 
simplified approach required by Ind AS 109, which 
requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized 
from initial recognition of the receivables.
(v) 	 Derecognition of financial assets
A financial asset is derecognized only when
• 	
the Company has transferred the rights to 
receive cash flows from the financial asset or
• 	
retains the contractual rights to receive the 
cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows 
to one or more recipients.
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the 
Company evaluates whether it has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset. In such cases, the financial 
asset is derecognized. Where the entity has not 
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset 
is not derecognized.
Where the entity has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership of the financial asset, the financial 
asset is derecognized if the Company has not 
retained control of the financial asset. Where the 
Company retains control of the financial asset, the 
asset is continued to be recognized to the extent of 
continuing involvement in the financial asset.
175
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(vi) 	 Income recognition
	
	
Interest income
Interest income from financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss is disclosed as interest income 
within other income. Interest income on financial 
assets at amortised cost and financial assets at 
FVOCI is calculated using the effective interest 
method is recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss as part of other income.
Interest income is calculated by applying the 
effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount 
of a financial asset except for financial assets that 
subsequently become credit-impaired.
Dividends
Dividends are received from financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss and at FVOCI. Dividends 
are recognized as other income in profit or loss when 
the right to receive payment is established.
(o)	
Investment in subsidiaries and associates
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company. 
Control exists when the Company has power over the 
entity, is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect 
those returns by using its power over the entity. Power is 
demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability 
to direct relevant activities, those which significantly 
affect the entity’s returns.
An associate is an entity over which the Company has 
significant influence. Significant influence is the power to 
participate in the financial and operating policy decisions 
of the investee but is not control or joint control of those 
policies.
Investments in subsidiaries and associates are carried at 
cost. Cost comprises price paid to acquire investment and 
directly attributable cost.
(p) Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there is a 
legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally 
enforceable right must not be contingent on future events 
and must be enforceable in the normal course of business 
and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of 
the Company or the counterparty.
(q) Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of 
property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost 
less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure 
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognized when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to 
continue with the carrying value of all of its property, 
plant and equipment measured as per the previous 
GAAP and use that carrying value as the deemed 
cost of the property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
Depreciation is calculated using the written-down 
value method to allocate the cost of the assets, net 
of their residual values, over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:
Particulars
Estimate of Useful life
Buildings (including 
investment properties)
30 years
Plant & machinery
15 years
Furniture & fixtures
10 years
Vehicles
8 years
Office equipments
5 years
Computers
3 years
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the 
shorter of their useful life or the lease term, unless 
the entity expects to use the assets beyond the 
lease term.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of 
each reporting period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down 
immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s 
carrying amount is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These 
are included in profit or loss within other gains/
(losses).
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date are classified as capital advances under 
non-current assets.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
176
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Capital work-in-progress excluding capital advances 
includes property, plant and equipment under 
construction and not ready for intended use as on 
balance sheet date.
(r) 	 Investment properties
Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for 
capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied 
by the Company, is classified as investment property. 
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, 
including related transaction costs and where applicable 
borrowing costs. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised 
to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the 
expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of 
the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. When 
part of an investment property is replaced, the carrying 
amount of the replaced part is derecognized.
Leasehold land included in investment properties is 
depreciated using the straight-line method over the lease 
term. Leasehold lands have a lease term ranging from 30 
to 99 years. The useful life has been determined based 
on lease term.
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to 
continue with the carrying value of all of its investment 
properties measured as per the previous GAAP and use 
that carrying value as the deemed cost of investment 
properties.
(s) 	 Intangible assets
	
(i) 	
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of business is 
recognised as intangible assets. Goodwill is not 
amortised but it is tested for impairment annually, 
or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that it might be impaired, 
and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity 
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to 
the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for 
the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is 
made to those cash-generating units or groups of 
cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which the goodwill 
arose. The units or groups of units are identified at 
the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for 
internal management purposes, which in our case 
are the operating segments.
(ii) 	 Title
Title “Dainik Jagran” is carried at historical cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
The Company amortises the title on a straight line 
basis over its estimated useful life of 27 years.
(iii) 	 Software
Computer software are stated at their cost of 
acquisition net of accumulated amortisation.
(iii) 	 Amortisation methods and periods
The Company amortises intangible assets with a 
finite useful life using the straight-line method over 
the following periods:
• 	
Title 27 years
• 	
Software ranging from 3 years to license period
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Company has elected to 
continue with the carrying value of all of intangible 
assets measured as per the previous GAAP and use 
that carrying value as the deemed cost of intangible 
assets.
(t) 	 Trade and other payables
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Company prior to the end of 
the financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are 
unsecured and are usually paid within due dates.Trade 
and other payables are presented as current liabilities 
unless payment is not due within 12 months after the 
reporting period. They are recognized initially at their 
fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
(u) 	 Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption 
amount is recognized in profit or loss over the period of 
the borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees 
paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognized 
as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is 
probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn 
down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-
down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it 
is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn 
down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity 
services and amortised over the period of the facility to 
which it relates.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when 
the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, 
cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying 
amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished 
or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, 
including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities 
assumed, is recognized in profit or loss as other gains/
(losses).
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the 
Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement 
of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting 
period. Where there is a breach of a material provision of 
177
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the 
reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes 
payable on demand on the reporting date, the entity does 
not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, 
after the reporting period and before the approval of the 
financial statements for issue, not to demand payment as 
a consequence of the breach.
(v) 	 Provisions
Provisions for legal claims, volume discounts and returns 
are recognized when the Company has a present legal 
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. Provisions are not recognized for future 
operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the 
likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a 
whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of 
an outflow with respect to any one item included in the 
same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting 
period. The discount rate used to determine the present 
value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the liability. The increase in the provision due 
to the passage of time is recognized as interest expense.
(w) 	 Employee benefits
	
(i) 	
Short-term obligations
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related service are 
recognized in respect of employees’ services up to 
the end of the reporting period and are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities 
are settled. The liabilities are presented as current 
employee benefit obligations in the balance sheet.
(ii) 	 Other long-term employee benefit obligations
The liabilities for earned leave that are not expected 
to be settled wholly within 12 months after the end 
of the period in which the employees render the 
related service. These obligations are therefore 
measured at the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided 
by employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The benefits 
are discounted using the appropriate market yields 
at the end of the reporting period that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
Remeasurements as a result of experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognized in profit or loss.
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the 
balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional 
right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after 
the reporting period, regardless of when the actual 
settlement is expected to occur.
(iii) 	 Post-employment obligations
The Company operates the following post-
employment schemes:
	
	
(a) 	 Defined benefit plans(gratuity)
	
	
(b) 	 Defined contribution plans such as provident 
fund.
Pension and gratuity obligations
The liability or asset recognized in the balance sheet 
in respect of defined benefit pension and gratuity 
plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less 
the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined 
benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. 
This cost is included in employee benefit expense 
in the statement of profit and loss.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognized in the period in which 
they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the balance 
sheet.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation resulting from plan amendments or 
curtailments are recognized immediately in profit or 
loss as past service cost.
Defined contribution plans
The Company pays provident fund contributions 
to publicly administered provident funds as per 
local regulations. The Company has no further 
payment obligations once the contributions have 
been paid. The contributions are accounted for as 
defined contribution plans and the contributions are 
recognized as employee benefit expense when they 
are due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an 
asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
178
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(x) 	 Contributed equity
	
Equity shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new 
shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net 
of tax, from the proceeds.
(y) 	 Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the 
reporting period.
(z) 	 Earnings per share
	
(i) 	
Basic earnings per share
	
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
• 	
the profit attributable to owners of the Company
• 	
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the financial year.
The Company does not have any dilutive potential 
equity shares.
(aa) 	Rounding of amounts
All amounts disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements and notes have been rounded off to the 
nearest lakhs upto two decimal places as per the 
requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
Note 2: Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of standalone financial statements requires 
the use of accounting estimates which, by definition, will 
seldom equal the actual results. Management also needs to 
exercise judgement in applying the Company’s accounting 
policies.
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items which 
are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and 
assumptions turning out to be different than those originally 
assessed. Detailed information about each of these estimates 
and judgements is included in relevant notes together with 
information about the basis of calculation for each affected line 
item in the standalone financial statements.
Critical estimates and judgements
The areas involving critical estimates or judgements are:
•	
estimated goodwill impairment – see note 3(d)
•	
estimation of defined benefit obligation – see note 12
•	
impairment of trade receivables – see note 5(b) and 31
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. They are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that may have a financial impact 
on the Company and that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances.
179
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
Standalone
Note 3(a): Property, plant and equipment
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Buildings 
constructed on 
leasehold land 
[refer note (a)]
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
machinery
Furniture 
and fixtures
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Computers
Total
Capital 
work-in-
progress
Year ended March 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
2,150.26
9,157.96
8,285.63
2,180.85
40,418.55
1,308.92
3,029.85
1,267.33
3,096.25
70,895.60
196.67
Additions during the year
-
-
-
189.73
75.52
18.42
128.39
36.82
206.35
655.23
367.07
Disposals/adjustments
(831.84)
(200.17)
-
-
(261.01)
(2.17)
(133.83)
(3.75)
(2.75)
(1,435.52)
-
Capitalised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(341.84)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
1,318.42
8,957.79
8,285.63
2,370.58
40,233.06
1,325.17
3,024.41
1,300.40
3,299.85
70,115.31
221.90
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
-
4,104.84
3,062.49
1,243.30
25,920.16
883.52
2,301.40
1,025.61
2,549.70
41,091.02
-
Depreciation charge for the 
year
-
596.38
366.26
258.45
2,615.57
106.04
220.35
86.95
261.96
4,511.96
-
Disposals/adjustments
-
(82.48)
-
-
(193.20)
(1.97)
(116.72)
(3.26)
(2.26)
(399.89)
-
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
-
4,618.74
3,428.75
1,501.75
28,342.53
987.59
2,405.03
1,109.30
2,809.40
45,203.09
-
Net carrying amount
1,318.42
4,339.05
4,856.88
868.83
11,890.53
337.58
619.38
191.10
490.45
24,912.22
221.90
Year ended March 31, 2023
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
1,318.42
8,957.79
8,285.63
2,370.58
40,233.06
1,325.17
3,024.41
1,300.40
3,299.85
70,115.31
221.90
Additions during the year
-
41.54
-
-
299.08
19.09
418.68
116.51
311.88
1,206.78
174.59
Disposals/adjustments
-
(30.79)
-
(284.38)
(317.91)
(82.86)
(136.51)
(6.93)
(7.72)
(867.10)
-
Capitalised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(239.60)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
1,318.42
8,968.54
8,285.63
2,086.20
40,214.23
1,261.40
3,306.58
1,409.98
3,604.01
70,454.99
156.89
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Jagran Prakashan Limited
180
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Buildings 
constructed on 
leasehold land 
[refer note (a)]
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
machinery
Furniture 
and fixtures
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Computers
Total
Capital 
work-in-
progress
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
-
4,618.74
3,428.75
1,501.75
28,342.53
987.59
2,405.03
1,109.30
2,809.40
45,203.09
-
Depreciation charge for the 
year
-
403.76
449.51
213.48
2,050.22
84.05
222.48
97.26
210.03
3,730.79
-
Disposals/adjustments
-
(19.03)
19.43
(283.43)
(201.53)
(70.27)
(123.52)
(8.09)
0.92
(685.52)
-
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
-
5,003.47
3,897.69
1,431.80
30,191.22
1,001.37
2,503.99
1,198.47
3,020.35
48,248.36
-
Net carrying amount
1,318.42
3,965.07
4,387.94
654.40
10,023.01
260.03
802.59
211.51
583.66
22,206.63
156.89
Notes:
(a) 	 Includes buildings constructed on the rented premises/on plot of land taken on lease from the directors/their relatives and the properties belonging to an entity, whose running 
business was taken over by the Company on April 1, 2000 on lock, stock and barrel basis.
(b) 	 Refer note 26(a) for contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
(c) 	 Carrying value of property, plant and equipment charged as security by the Company as at March 31, 2023 is `16,460.72 (As at March 31, 2022: `15,517.00).
(d) 	 Refer note 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii) and 11(a)(iv) for assets charged as security by the Company.
(e) 	 Refer note 37(i), 37(iii) and 37(iv) in respect of title deeds of immovable properties not in the name of the Company.
(f) 	
The Company has not revalued any property plant and equipment during the current or the previous year.
Capital work-in-progress(CWIP)
Ageing of CWIP:
Particulars
Amounts in capital work-in-progress for year ended March 31, 2023
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 156.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 156.89 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 156.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 156.89 
Particulars
Amounts in capital work-in-progress for year ended March 31, 2022
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 70.13 
 - 
 110.23 
 41.54 
 221.90 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 70.13 
 - 
 110.23 
 41.54 
 221.90 
Note:
There is no capital-work-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
Note 3(a): Property, plant and equipment (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
181
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(b): Right-of-use assets
(i)
Amount recognised in balance sheet
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Right-of-use assets
Buildings/Warehouses
 5,267.63 
 4,904.06 
Computer server
 - 
 13.37 
Leasehold land
 2,088.09 
 1,523.34 
Total
 7,355.72 
 6,440.77 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Lease liabilities
Current
 1,070.44 
 1,019.17 
Non-current
 4,340.65 
 4,499.70 
Total
 5,411.09 
 5,518.87 
Additions to the right-of-use assets during the current financial year were `1,801.41 (March 31, 2022: `4,358.72).
(ii)	
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
	
The Statement of Profit or Loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Depreciation charge on right-of-use assets
Buildings/Warehouses
 835.74 
 1,267.36 
Computer server
 13.37 
 16.05 
Leasehold land
 35.00 
 29.08 
Total
 884.11 
 1,312.49 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Interest expense (included in finance costs) (included in Note No.20)
 882.45 
 275.79 
Expenses relating to short term leases (included in other expenses)
 7.73 
 27.46 
Total
 890.18 
 303.25 
The total cash outflow for leases (including finance cost) for the year ended March 31, 2023 were `1,704.13 (March 31, 
2022: `1,348.25).
(iii)	 Variable lease payments
The Company does not have any leases with variable lease payments.
(iv)	 Extension and termination options
Extension and termination options are included in a number of property leases across the Company. These are used to 
maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Company's operations. The majority of extension 
and termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the respective lessor.
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to 
exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination options) 
are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).
Jagran Prakashan Limited
182
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
For leases of buildings, the following factors are normally the most relevant:
• 	
If there are significant penalties to terminate (or not extend), the Company is typically reasonably certain to extend (or 
not terminate).
• 	
If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Company is typically reasonably 
certain to extend (or not terminate).
• 	
Otherwise, the Company considers other factors including historical lease durations and the costs and business 
disruption required to replace the leased asset.
Most extension options in building/office leases have not been included in the lease liability, because the Company could 
not replace the assets without significant cost or business disruption.
The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Company becomes obliged to exercise 
(or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only revised if a significant event or a significant change in 
circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, and that is within the control of the lessee.
(v)	
Residual value guarantees
	
There are no residual value guarantees in the lease contracts.
	
Notes:
(a)	
Carrying value of leasehold land charged as security by the Company as at March 31, 2023 is `1,151.30 (As at March 
31, 2022: `1,171.45).
(b)	
Refer note 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii) and 11(a)(iv) for assets charged as security by the Company.
(c) 	 Refer note 37(ii) in respect of title deeds of immovable properties not in the name of the Company.
(d)	
The Company has not revalued any right-of-use assets during the current or the previous year.
Note 3(c): Investment properties
Particulars
Amount
Year ended March 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
9,228.03
Additions
-
Disposals
(72.02)
Closing gross carrying amount
9,156.01
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated depreciation
214.60
Depreciation charged during the year
43.98
Disposals
(20.99)
Closing accumulated depreciation
237.59
Net carrying amount
8,918.42
Year ended March 31, 2023
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
9,156.01
Additions
311.21
Disposals
(7,062.04)
Closing gross carrying amount
2,405.18
Note 3(b): Right-of-use assets (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
183
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Amount
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated depreciation
237.59
Depreciation charged during the year
139.66
Disposals
(72.45)
Closing accumulated depreciation
304.80
Net carrying amount
2,100.38
Notes:
(a)	
Carrying value of investment property charged as security by the Company as at March 31, 2023 is `1,399.59 (As at March 
31, 2022: `1,435.7).
(b)	
Refer note 11(a)(i), 11(a)(ii) and 11(a)(iv) for assets charged as security by the Company.
(c) 	 Refer note 37(i) in respect of title deeds of immovable property not in the name of the Company.
(i)	
Amounts recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment properties
 2,919.21 
 63.61 
Rental income from investment properties
 2.20 
 2.04 
Direct operating expenses from investment properties that generated rental 
income
 - 
 (0.13)
Direct operating expenses from investment properties that did not generate 
rental income
 (15.75)
 (17.00)
Profit from investment properties before depreciation
 2,905.66 
 48.52 
Depreciation
 (139.66)
 (43.98)
Profit from investment properties
 2,766.00 
 4.54 
(ii)	
Contractual obligations
The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, 
construct or develop investment properties.
(iii)	 Fair value
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment properties
 13,903.81 
 26,941.58 
	
Estimation of fair value
The fair values of the Company's investment properties have been determined by S.S. Dash & Associates, who is a registered 
valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. The fair value was derived 
using the market comparable approach based on recent market prices without any significant adjustments being made to 
the market observable data (fair value hierarchy is Level 2).
Details of the Company’s investment properties located in India and information about the fair value hierarchy as at March, 
31 2023 and March 31, 2022 are as follows:
Particulars
Level 2
Level 3
Fair value as at 
March 31, 2023
Residential units 
 860.99 
 - 
 860.99 
Land
 12,362.77 
 - 
 12,362.77 
Commercial units
 680.05 
 - 
 680.05 
Total
 13,903.81 
 - 
 13,903.81 
Note 3(c): Investment properties (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
184
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(c): Investment properties (Contd.)
Particulars
Level 2
Level 3
Fair value as at 
March 31, 2022
Residential units 
 577.51 
 - 
 577.51 
Land
 11,739.84 
 - 
 11,739.84 
Commercial units
 14,624.23 
 - 
 14,624.23 
Total
 26,941.58 
 - 
 26,941.58 
Note 3(d) : Goodwill and other intangible assets (acquired)
Particulars
Goodwill 
[refer note (a)]
Other intangible assets
Total other 
intangible assets
Title - Dainik Jagran 
[refer note (b)]
Computer software 
[refer note (c)]
Year ended March 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
22,937.29
566.67
1,254.89
1,821.56
Additions during the year
-
-
63.80
63.80
Closing gross carrying amount
22,937.29
566.67
1,318.69
1,885.36
Accumulated amortisation
Opening accumulated depreciation
-
377.76
1,033.44
1,411.20
Amortisation charge for the year
-
62.96
84.77
147.73
Closing accumulated amortisation
-
440.72
1,118.21
1,558.93
Closing net carrying amount
22,937.29
125.95
200.48
326.43
Year ended March 31, 2023
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
22,937.29
566.67
1,318.69
1,885.36
Additions during the year
-
-
-
-
Disposal during the year
-
-
(27.45)
(27.45)
Closing gross carrying amount
22,937.29
566.67
1,291.24
1,857.91
Accumulated amortisation
Opening accumulated depreciation
-
440.72
1,118.21
1,558.93
Amortisation charge for the year
-
62.96
90.44
153.40
Disposal during the year
-
-
(36.07)
(36.07)
Closing accumulated amortisation
-
503.68
1,172.58
1,676.26
Closing net carrying amount
22,937.29
62.99
118.66
181.65
Notes:
(a)	
Impairment test for goodwill:
Goodwill acquired during the previous years represents the difference between the cost of investment in certain businesses, 
acquired pursuant to the Composite Scheme of Arrangement approved by Hon'ble High Courts of Mumbai and Allahabad 
and the net assets and liabilities acquired by the Company.
The Company is engaged primarily in the business of printing and publication of newspapers and magazines in India. 
The other activities of the Company include outdoor advertising business, event management and activation and digital 
businesses. The management evaluates performance of the Company as a single unit. Therefore the carrying value of 
goodwill is tested for impairment at the Company level, which has been identified as the CGU.
The recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value in use, exceeds net the asset value 
of the Company including goodwill. Based on the Company's market capitalisation of `157,908.17 as of March 31,2023, no 
impairment of goodwill is deemed necessary.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
185
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
Significant estimate: Key assumptions
The Company tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual basis. The Company has been identified 
as the CGU. The carrying value of goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the net assets of the Company(including 
goodwill) with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount has been determined to be the market capitalisation less 
cost to sell.
(b)	
Title- "Dainik Jagran" was purchased in year 1996-97 from Jagran Publications at a cost of `1,700. The Company amortises 
the title on a straight line basis over estimated useful life of 27 years.
(c)	
Computer software licenses are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. These costs are amortised using the straight-
line method over their estimated useful lives of three years to license period.
(d)	
The Company had not revalued any of its intangible assets during the current or the previous year.
(e)	
The Company did not have any intangible assets under development during the year ended on March 31, 2023 (March 31, 
2022: ` Nil).
Note 4: Investments in subsidiaries and associates
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
I.	 SUBSIDIARIES
	
(a)	 Investment in equity shares (fully paid-up) (carried at cost)
	
      Quoted
255,989,649 shares of `2 each [March 31, 2022: 253,074,137 shares of `2 
each] held in Music Broadcast Limited [refer note (c) below]
 19,615.46 
 18,952.29 
	
      Unquoted
29,870,327 [March 31, 2022: 29,870,327] shares of `10 each held in Midday 
Infomedia Limited [refer note (b) below]
 5,800.44 
 5,800.44 
	
(b) 	Investment in equity component of subsidiaries 
	
	
Unquoted
	
	
Midday Infomedia Limited [refer note (a) below]
 2,810.00 
 2,810.00 
II. 	 ASSOCIATES
	
(a) 	Investment in equity shares (fully paid-up) (carried at cost)
	
	
Unquoted
160,762 [March 31, 2022: 160,762] shares of `10 each held in Leet OOH 
Media Private Limited
577.50
577.50
39,200 [March 31, 2022: 39,200] shares of `10 each held in X-Pert Publicity 
Private Limited
62.23
62.23
2,195,500 [March 31, 2022:21,95,500] shares of `10 each held in MMI Online 
Limited [Net of provision aggregating to `559.95 (March 31, 2022: ` Nil)]
-
559.95
Total non-current investments
 28,865.63 
 28,762.41 
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 19,615.46 
 18,952.29 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 27,749.28 
 65,293.13 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 9,810.12 
 9,810.12 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 559.95 
 - 
Notes:
(a) 	 (i) 	
The Company had invested `1,000.00 in 200 number of Optionally Convertible Debentures ("OCDs") of `5 Lakhs each 
having zero coupon rate in it's subsidiary Midday Infomedia Limited on March 27, 2014 which were redeemable on 
March 26, 2021. Midday has redeemed the said OCDs on March 22, 2016 and the final payment was received by the 
Company. The said OCDs were issued on zero coupon rate and therefore the same had been valued by discounting 
the future cash flows to the present value based on market rate for a comparable instrument and the amount of `150.00 
was accounted for as a equity component of investment.
Note 3(d) : Goodwill and other intangible assets (acquired) (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
186
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 4: Investments in subsidiaries and associates (Contd.)
(ii)	
The Company had invested `2,500.00 in 10,000,000, 22.5% Non convertible cumulative redeemable preference 
shares of `10 each in Midday Infomedia Limited on July 6, 2010. Midday had converted the said preference share into 
equity shares of `10 each on August 14, 2015 and since no return was received on the preference shares, the same 
was valued by discounting the future cash flows to the present value and the amount of `2,660.00 was accounted for 
as equity component of the investment.
(b)	
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company has subscribed to equity shares of Midday Infomedia Limited (MIL) 
amounting to `400.00 on a right issue basis. MIL allotted 2,000,000 equity shares of face value of `10 each @ `20 per share 
(including securities premium amounting of `200.00).
(c)	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company had acquired 2,915,512 equity shares for `663.17 of its subsidiary 
"Music Broadcast Limited- (MBL)" from the open market. Pursuant to this, the Company's share holding increased from 73.21% 
to 74.05% as on March 31, 2023.
Note 5: Financial assets
5(a): Non-current investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in equity instruments (fully paid-up)
Quoted
(i)	 Others
35,128 [March 31, 2022: 35,128] shares of `2 each held in ICICI 
Bank Limited
308.16
256.54
1,100 [March 31, 2022: 1,100] shares of `10 each held in Bank of 
India Limited
0.82
0.50
500 [March 31, 2022: 500] shares of `2 each held in HT Media 
Limited
0.07
0.17
125 [March 31, 2022: NIL] shares of `2 each held in Digicontent 
Limited
0.02
-
Unquoted
(i)	 Others
100,000 [March 31, 2022: 100,000] shares of `10 each held in Jagran 
Publications Private Limited [Note (a) below] [Net of provision aggregating 
to `10 (March 31, 2022: `10)]*
-
-
5,000 [March 31, 2022: 5,000 ] shares of `10 each held in Jagran 
Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited [Note (b) below] [Net of provision 
aggregating to `0.50 (March 31, 2022: `0.50)]**
-
-
150 [March 31, 2022: 150] shares of `100 each held in United News 
of India
0.10
0.10
282 [March 31, 2022: 282] shares of `100 each held in The Press Trust 
of India Limited
0.28
0.28
100,100 [March 31, 2022: 100,100] shares of `10 each held in the 
Digital News Publishers Association
10.01
10.01
Total (equity instruments)
A
319.46
267.60
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
187
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in mutual funds and alternate investment funds
Quoted
Investment in mutual funds [refer note 5(a)(i)]
12,566.04
42,139.89
Unquoted
Investment in alternate investment funds [refer note 5(a)(ii)]
386.85
99.98
Total (mutual funds and alternate investment funds)
B
12,952.89
42,239.87
Investment in bonds and debentures (measured at amortised cost)#
Quoted
300 [March 31, 2022: 300] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 7.74% 
State Bank of India perpetual bonds (Series 1) (ISIN No. INE062A08249)
3,064.15
3,064.15
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.50% Bank 
of Baroda perpetual bonds (series XIII) (ISIN No. INE028A08224)
501.22
501.22
200 [March 31, 2022: 200] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.50% 
Bank of Baroda perpetual bonds (series XIV) (ISIN No. INE028A08232)
2,060.60
2,060.60
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.15% Bank 
of Baroda perpetual bonds (series XV) (ISIN No. INE028A08240)
503.15
503.15
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 6.83% 
Housing Development Finance Corporation limited NCD (series Y-005) 
(ISIN No. INE001A07SW3)
984.20
984.20
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 10.15% 
UPPCL BONDS (series II-sub series G) (ISIN No. INE540P07335)
515.69
515.69
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.97% UPPCL 
(series III-D) NCD 15/02/2024 (ISIN No. INE540P07079)
-
517.50
200,000 [March 31, 2022: 350,000] bonds of `1,000 each held 8.20% 
India Grid Trust NCD (option v) 06/05/2031 (ISIN No. INE219X07264)
2,076.59
3,637.06
150 [March 31, 2022: 150] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.70% 
LIC Housing Finance Limited NCD (Series 2) 19/03/2031 (ISIN No. 
INE115A08377)
1,558.79
1,558.79
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.25% 
Punjab National Bank Bonds NCD (Series XXII) 14/10/2030 (ISIN No. 
INE160A08167)
502.61
502.61
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 9.75% 
UPPCL NCD (Series I 2017-18- Sub Series H) 20/10/2026 (ISIN No. 
INE540P07251)
516.58
516.58
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.70% 
LIC Housing Finance NCD (Tranche 382) 23/03/2029 (ISIN No. 
INE115A07OB4)
1,106.68
1,106.68
10 [March 31, 2022: 10] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.28% SBI Global 
Factors Limited NCD (Series -10) 28/07/2031 (ISIN No. INE912E08AE7)
1,021.95
1,021.95
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.95% L&T 
Infrastructure Finance Co. Ltd. 28/07/2025 (ISIN No. INE691I07ER4)
1,040.36
1,040.36
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 6.88% 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 24/09/2031 (ISIN 
No. INE001A07TB5)
993.91
993.91
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a): Non-current investments (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
188
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.02% Bajaj 
Finance Corporation Limited 18/04/2031 (ISIN No. INE296A07RS9)
994.42
994.42
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.10% HDFC 
Ltd. 12/11/2031 (ISIN No. INE001A07TF6)
1,006.60
1,006.60
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.80% REC 
Limited 14/05/2029 (ISIN No. INE020B08BS3)
1,098.18
1,098.18
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 6.44% HDFC 
Bank 27/09/2028 (ISIN No. INE040A08401)
985.61
985.61
100 [March 31, 2022: 100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.05% HDFC 
Limited 01/12/2031 (ISIN No. INE001A07TG4)
990.43
990.43
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held Assem 
Infrastructure Finance Limited MLD 15-12-23 (ISIN No. INE0AD507051)
-
501.57
50 [March 31, 2022: 50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held Assem 
Infrastructure Finance Limited MLD 17-10-24 (ISIN No. INE0AD507069)
501.68
501.68
8 [March 31, 2022: Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.55% SBI LTD 
PREP,CALL DATE 14 DEC 2026 (ISIN No. INE062A08306)
787.96
-
100 [March 31, 2022: Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.65% TATA 
CAPITAL FINANCIAL SERV LTD 29 APRIL 2032 (ISIN No. INE306N07MQ4)
1,002.94
-
5 [March 31, 2022: Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.95% BOB 
PREP CALL DATE 26 NOV 2026 (ISIN No. INE028A08265)
498.05
-
Total (Investments in bonds and debentures)
C
24,312.35
24,602.94
Investments 
in 
corporate 
fixed 
deposits 
(measured at amortised cost)
Unquoted
6.05% ICICI Home Finance Company Limited fixed deposits
500.00
500.00
6.30% ICICI Home Finance Company Limited fixed deposits
500.00
500.00
Total (corporate fixed deposits)
D
1,000.00
1,000.00
Total non-current investments
A+B+C+D
38,584.70
68,110.41
*(a) Represents 40% paid-up capital of the Company carrying 50% voting rights
**(b) Represents 50% paid-up capital of the Company carrying 50% voting rights
(c) Other disclosures :
    Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 37,187.46 
 67,000.04 
   Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 37,187.46 
 67,000.04 
   Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 1,397.24 
 1,110.37 
   Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 10.50 
 10.50 
#Investments in bonds and debentures made during the year, represent debt instruments which are carried at amortised cost 
and impairment is recognised basis the expected credit losses, which amounts to NIL as at March 31, 2023 (NIL as at March 31, 
2022). The reduced market value as at the balance sheet date does not impact the carrying amount of such investments as they 
are being held to maturity.
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a): Non-current investments (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
189
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
5(a): Current investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in mutual funds
Quoted
Investment in mutual funds [refer note 5(a)(iii)]
35,706.84
8,593.57
Total (mutual funds)
A
35,706.84
8,593.57
Investment in bonds and debentures (measured at amortised cost)#
Quoted
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.97% UPPCL 
(series III-D) NCD 15/02/2024 (ISIN No. INE540P07079)
517.50
-
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held Assem 
Infrastructure Finance Limited MLD 15-12-23 (ISIN No. INE0AD507051)
501.57
-
100 [March 31, 2022:Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 6.55%NHB 
APR 2023 (ISIN No. INE557F08FI7)
1,001.65
-
Total (Investments in bonds and debentures)
B
2,020.72
-
Investments in corporate fixed deposits (measured at amortised 
cost)
Unquoted
7.5% LIC Housing Finance Limited -1 year fixed deposits
-
1,990.00
5.75% LIC Housing Finance Limited -3 year fixed deposits
1,000.00
1,000.00
Total (corporate fixed deposits)
C
1,000.00
2,990.00
Total current investments
A+B+C
38,727.56
11,583.57
Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof
37,727.56
8,593.57
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
1,000.00
2,990.00
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
-
-
5 (a)(i) Details of investments in mutual fund units
Non-current:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund- Direct- Growth
-
-
10,68,875
974.87
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund- Growth-Regular 
Plan
10,26,778
969.17
27,99,608
2,524.96
Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Regular-
Growth
-
-
1,82,641
542.00
Aditya Birla Sunlife Nifty SDL Plus PSU Bond Sep 2026 
60:40 index Fund -Direct Growth
49,99,150
524.31
49,99,150
508.73
Aditya Birla Sunlife Arbitrage Fund- Direct- Growth
-
-
44,00,259
1,001.24
Aditya Birla Sunlife Savings Fund- Direct- Growth
-
-
2,24,616
1,000.24
Aditya Birla Sunlife Low Duration Fund- Growth
1,42,869
802.85
Franklin India Short term Income Plan-Retail Plan-
Segregated Portfolio-2 (10.90% Vodafone-Idea Ltd. 02-
09-2023)
20,174
25.35
36,374
31.96
Franklin India Short term Income Plan-Retail Plan-Direct-
Segregated Portfolio-2 (10.90% Vodafone Idea Ltd. 02-
09-2023)
3,359
3.31
4,502
4.18
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
-
-
17,93,204
1,127.20
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Regular Growth
-
-
36,39,484
2,171.54
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
190
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
L&T Ultra Short Term Fund-Direct -Growth
-
-
1,374,755
500.28
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
10,107,926
2,676.72
HDFC Short Term Debt Fund- Direct Plan Growth
-
-
2,074,508
544.00
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
-
-
2,033,430
531.40
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
-
-
6,556,969
1,612.12
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Growth
-
-
8,942,887
2,116.00
ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Direct-Growth
-
-
4,033,195
1,085.75
ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage Fund-Direct-Growth
-
-
3,786,266
2,050.64
IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
2,643,077
539.00
IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Regular-Growth
-
-
2,679,307
536.00
IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -Growth
-
-
3,333,700
524.54
IDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
3,369,717
540.51
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Regular-Growth
-
-
3,652,111
1,928.12
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
1,998,617
1,085.00
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
48,241
1,511.32
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
-
-
17,315
525.00
Kotak Bond Short Term Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
2,334,391
1,066.72
Kotak Bond Short Term Fund- Growth
-
-
3,673,129
1,564.29
Kotak Balanced Advantage Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
6,674,788
1,004.02
Kotak Equity Arbitrage Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
3,161,687
1,001.27
Kotak Money Market Fund- Direct-Growth
-
-
13,809
499.97
Kotak Nifty SDL APR 2027 top 12 Equal Weight Index 
Fund- Direct-G
10,296,874
1,067.56
-
-
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
970,502
485.84
2,076,884
992.10
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Direct Growth
-
-
1,074,349
532.00
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Growth Plan Growth 
Option
-
-
4,987,235
2,134.35
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Direct Growth Plan Growth 
Option
-
-
3,550,888
1,616.64
Nippon India Banking & PSU Debt Fund -Growth Plan
-
-
3,202,227
539.73
Nippon India Money Market Fund-Direct-Growth
-
-
29,844
999.95
Nippon India ETF Nifty SDL Apr 2026 Top 20 Equal 
Weight Index- Fund
2,000,000
2,237.00
-
-
Nippon India Overnight Fund- Direct-Growth
249,737
300.60
-
-
Axis Money Market Fund -Direct Plan-Growth
-
-
130,226
1,499.93
Edelweiss Balanced Advantage Fund-Direct-Growth
-
-
1,276,423
495.64
Edelweiss Nifty PSU Bond Plus SDL Apr 2026-50:50 
Index Fund Direct-Growth
9,577,882
1,060.30
-
-
BHARAT Bond FOF - April 2031 - Regular Plan Growth
11,216,137
1,249.94
-
-
BHARAT Bond FOF - April 2030 - Regular Plan Growth
9,990,469
1,249.94
-
-
Axis Nifty AAA Bond Plus SDL ETF - 2026 Maturity 50:50 
Index Fund
10,000,000
1,089.00
-
-
DSP Overnight Fund-Direct-Growth
41,704
500.72
-
-
Invesco India Overnight Fund- Direct-Growth
44,145
500.07
-
-
Mirae Asset Overnight Fund-Direct-Growth
43,514
500.08
-
-
Total (A)
60,623,294
12,566.04
107,986,614
42,139.89
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
191
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
5 (a) (ii) Details of investments in alternate investment funds
Non-current:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
ICICI Prudential Corporate Credit Opportunities Fund-AIF -I
 3,63,850 
 386.85 
 99,995 
 99.98 
Total (A)
 3,63,850 
 386.85 
 99,995 
 99.98 
5 (a) (iii) Details of investments in mutual fund units
Current:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 66,764 
 2,187.36 
 57,317 
 1,795.68 
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth
 1,998,617 
 1,136.67 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Regular Growth
 3,652,111 
 2,011.56 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Bond Short Term Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 2,334,391 
 1,114.05 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Bond Short Term Bond Fund-Growth
 3,673,129 
 1,620.44 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 17,315 
 547.40 
 - 
 - 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund-Growth Regular 
Plan        
 3,582,178 
 3,381.20 
 1,809,348 
 1,631.84 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund- Direct- Growth
 1,068,875 
 1,021.90 
 677,387 
 617.81 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-
Growth
 192,843 
 614.38 
 192,843 
 586.87 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Regular-
Growth
182,641 
 564.97 
 - 
 - 
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 127,153 
 79.93 
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Regular Growth
 - 
 - 
 886,572 
 528.98 
IDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 7,703,543 
 1,235.66 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
 6,556,969 
 1,706.63 
 4,980,625 
 1,224.55 
ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Direct-Growth
 4,033,195 
 1,149.29 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Growth
 8,942,887 
 2,233.24 
 - 
 - 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 10,107,926 
 2,791.74 
 2,673,256 
 707.92 
HDFC Short Term Debt Fund- Direct Plan Growth
 2,074,508 
 570.35 
 - 
 - 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 2,033,430 
 552.69 
 - 
 - 
Franklin India Short term Income  Fund-Retail-Regular 
Growth 
 2,447 
 120.99 
 3,451 
 162.62 
Franklin India Short term Income  Fund-Retail-Direct 
Growth 
 347 
 17.22 
 459 
 21.71 
Bandhan Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth 
(Formerly known as IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- 
Direct-Growth)
 2,643,077 
 564.37 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Banking & PSU Debt Fund- REG-Growth 
(Formerly known as IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- 
Regular-Growth)
 2,679,307 
 559.69 
 - 
 - 
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
192
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth (Formerly 
known as IDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth)
 7,052,009 
 1,170.79 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund-Growth  (Formerly known 
as IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -Growth)
 3,333,700 
 541.29 
 - 
 - 
HSBC Corporate Bond Fund regular growth (Formerly 
Known as L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Growth)
 4,526,055 
 2,785.47 
 - 
 - 
HSBC Corporate Bond Fund direct growth (Formerly 
known as L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Direct-Growth)
 1,793,204 
 1,166.62 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Banking & Psu Debt Fund -Growth Plan
 3,202,227 
 560.39 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Direct Growth Plan Growth 
Option
 3,550,888 
 1,689.66 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Growth Plan Growth 
Option
 4,987,235 
 2,212.75 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 1,106,382 
 553.86 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Direct Growth
 1,074,349 
 559.87 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 86,469,006 
 35,706.84 
 19,111,954 
 8,593.57 
Note 5(b): Trade receivables	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables from contract with customers – related parties (refer note 29(c))
 126.89 
 452.55 
Trade receivables from contract with customers – non-related parties
 45,748.37 
 44,097.34 
Less: Provision for doubtful debts 
 (9,745.89)
 (10,763.90)
Total receivables
 36,129.37 
 33,785.99 
Current portion
 36,129.37 
 33,785.99 
Break-up of security details
Trade receivables considered good – secured
 2,105.98 
 2,028.41 
Trade receivables considered good – unsecured
 43,769.28 
 42,521.48 
Trade receivables which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Trade receivables – credit impaired
 - 
 - 
Total
 45,875.26 
 44,549.89 
Less: Provision for doubtful debts 
 (9,745.89)
 (10,763.90)
Total trade receivables
 36,129.37 
 33,785.99 
Current portion
 36,129.37 
 33,785.99 
Non-current portion
 - 
 - 
(i)	 Carrying value of trade receivables pledged as security by the Company [Also 
refer note 11(c)]
 36,129.37 
 33,785.99 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
193
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Significant estimate: Impairment provision on financial assets
Please refer Note 31 for details of significant estimate
Ageing of trade receivables:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2023
Not due
Less than 6 
months
6 months to 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
(i)	 Undisputed trade 
receivables
 - considered good
14,539.88
11,683.38
4,241.01
4,182.70
2,838.08
6,438.21
43,923.26
 - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 - credit impaired
(ii)	 Disputed trade 
receivables
 - considered good
-
-
-
-
-
1,952.00
1,952.00
 - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 - credit impaired
Total
14,539.88
11,683.38
4,241.01
4,182.70
2,838.08
8,390.21
45,875.26
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2022
Not due
 Less than 6 
months 
 6 months to 
1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 
years 
Total
(i)	 Undisputed trade 
receivables
 - considered good
 11,295.67 
 16,066.78 
 2,732.29 
 3,351.45 
 2,794.65 
 6,357.05  42,597.89 
 - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - credit impaired
(ii)	 Disputed trade 
receivables
 - considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,952.00 
 1,952.00 
 - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - credit impaired
Total
 11,295.67  16,066.78 
 2,732.29 
 3,351.45 
 2,794.65 
 8,309.05  44,549.89 
Note 5(c): Loans
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
 Current 
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Non-current 
Loan to wholly owned subsidiary*
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
Loan to employees
 225.52 
 - 
 212.52 
 - 
 225.52 
 - 
 412.52 
 - 
Less: Loss allowance
 (5.35)
 - 
 (8.99)
 - 
Total loans
 220.17 
 - 
 403.53 
 - 
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
194
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Break-up of security details
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Loans considered good – secured
 - 
 - 
Loans considered good – unsecured
 220.17 
 403.53 
Loans which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Loans – credit impaired
 5.35 
 8.99 
Total
 225.52 
 412.52 
Less: Loss allowance
 (5.35)
 (8.99)
Total loans
 220.17 
 403.53 
* During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Company had granted a loan of `200.00 to its wholly owned subsidiary, Midday 
Infomedia Limited,for its working capital requirement which was paid by them during the year. (refer note 28(a)(i))
Details of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to wholly owned subsidiary as at March 31, 2023:
Particulars
 Amount 
Outstanding 
 Percentage to the 
total loans and 
advances in the 
nature of loans 
Amount repayable on demand
-  Wholly owned subsidairy
 - 
 - 
Details of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to wholly owned subsidiary as at March 31, 2022:
Particulars
 Amount Outstanding 
 Percentage to the 
total loans and 
advances in the 
nature of loans 
Amount repayable on demand
-  Wholly owned subsidairy
 200.00 
48.48%
Note 5(d)(i): Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balances with banks
 - in current accounts [refer note (b) below]
 3,367.35 
 2,892.18 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
 652.06 
 491.94 
Cash on hand
 146.82 
 145.30 
Total
 4,166.23 
 3,529.42 
Notes:
(a) 	 There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and 
prior periods.
(b) 	 The above balance includes balances of two current accounts, amounting to `3.73 as at March 31, 2023 (`3.79 as at March 
31, 2022) which are not held in the name of the Company. They are held in the name of Crystal Sound and Music Private 
Limited and Spectrum Broadcast Holdings Private Limited which were amalgamated into Jagran Prakashan Limited w.e.f. 
January 01, 2016.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
195
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Note 5(d)(ii): Other bank balances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less than twelve 
months
 261.29 
 9,240.37 
Unpaid dividend accounts
 22.16 
 20.39 
Fixed deposits held as margin money [refer note (a) below]
 72.24 
 130.77 
Total 
 355.69 
 9,391.53 
Notes:
(a) 	 These deposits are subject to lien with the bankers and government authorities.
Note 5(e): Other financial assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
 Current 
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Non-current 
(i) 	 Security deposits:
 	
- Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  	 - Unsecured, considered good
 1,413.09 
 1,862.03 
 486.02 
 1,977.65 
  	 - Doubtful
 - 
 324.66 
 - 
 324.63 
Total
 1,413.09 
 2,186.69 
 486.02 
 2,302.28 
Less : Loss allowance
 - 
 (324.66)
 - 
 (324.63)
Total
 1,413.09 
 1,862.03 
 486.02 
 1,977.65 
(ii) 	 Others:
	
- Deposits with original maturity of more than twelve 
months
 373.42 
 2.06 
 - 
 557.08 
	
- Fixed deposits held as margin money  [refer note (a) 
below]
 25.41 
 122.28 
 - 
 52.33 
	
- Interest accrued on fixed deposits and corporate 
deposits
 30.33 
 59.46 
 64.05 
 51.98 
(iii) 	Interest accrued on bonds and debentures
 890.58 
 - 
 857.75 
 - 
(iv) 	Unbilled revenue [refer note (b) below]
 1,332.19 
 - 
 873.73 
 - 
Less: Loss allowances
 (57.23)
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v)	 Insurance claim receivable
 18.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi)	 Interest receivable on loan to wholly owned 
subsidiary
 - 
 - 
 4.42 
 - 
Total other financial assets
 4,026.42 
 2,045.83 
 2,285.97 
 2,639.04 
(a) 	 These deposits are subject to lien with the bankers and government authorities.
(b) 	 The Company classifies the right to consideration in exchange for deliverables as either receivable or as unbilled revenue 
(i.e. contract assets). Performance obligation satisfied by the Company against which neither the bill has been raised nor 
the consideration has been received is recorded as 'unbilled revenue' and is classified as a financial asset. Any amount 
previously recognised as a contract asset is reclassified to trade receivables at the point at which the right to consideration 
becomes unconditional, as only the passage of time is required before payment is due and invoice is raised to the customer. 
Unbilled revenue is tested for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 109 similar to trade receivables.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Jagran Prakashan Limited
196
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Detail of unbilled revenue:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i)	
Advertisement revenue
Opening balance
 363.63 
 397.63 
Add : Revenue recognised during the year
 711.67 
 363.63 
Less : Invoiced during the year
 (363.63)
 (397.63)
Closing balance
 711.67 
 363.63 
(ii)	
Outdoor advertising
Opening balance
 509.28 
 279.98 
Add : Revenue recognised during the year
 563.98 
 509.28 
Less : Invoiced during the year
 (509.28)
 (279.98)
Closing balance
 563.98 
 509.28 
(iii)	 Event management and activation services
Opening balance
 0.82 
 9.80 
Add : Revenue recognised during the year
 56.54 
 0.82 
Less : Invoiced during the year
 (0.82)
 (9.80)
Closing balance
 56.54 
 0.82 
Total of unbilled revenue
 1,332.19 
 873.73 
Note 6: Non-current tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of year
 1,054.23 
 693.41 
Add: Taxes paid/(refunds) during the year [net]
 3.98 
 22.41 
Add: Excess provision relating to earlier year written back
 - 
 338.41 
Less: Tax expense relating to earlier years
 (73.82)
 - 
Balance as at the end of year
 984.39 
 1,054.23 
Note 7: Other non - current assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capital advances
 1,162.66 
 1,165.42 
Prepaid expenses
 188.03 
 507.47 
Balances with statutory/government authorities
 - Considered good
 - Considered doubtful
 41.16 
 41.16 
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (41.16)
 (41.16)
Advances to others:
 - Considered good
 - Considered doubtful
 527.72 
 170.00 
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (527.72)
 (170.00)
Advances to employees:
 - Considered good
 - Considered doubtful
 0.23 
 2.84 
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (0.23)
 (2.84)
Total other non - current assets
 1,350.69 
 1,672.89 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
197
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 8: Inventories
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Raw materials [includes in transit of `4081.51 (March 31, 2022: `1761.98]
 8,146.68 
 7,777.76 
Finished goods (magazines and books)
 - 
 4.17 
Stores and spares
 235.52 
 241.49 
Total inventories
 8,382.20 
 8,023.42 
(i)	
Carrying value of inventories pledged as security by the Company
	
[Also refer note 11(a)]
 8,382.20 
 8,023.42 
Note 9: Other current assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Prepaid expenses
 893.75 
 838.81 
Balances with statutory/government authorities
 - Considered good
 629.41 
 173.17 
Advances to others:
 - Considered good
 1,400.83 
 1,546.40 
Advances to related parties [refer note 29]
 126.54 
 76.51 
Advances to employees
 25.78 
 76.02 
Total other current assets
 3,076.31 
 2,710.91 
Note 10: Equity share capital and other equity
10(a): Equity share capital
Authorised equity share capital
Particulars
Number of shares
Amount
As at April 1, 2021
 375,000,000 
 7,500.00 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 375,000,000 
 7,500.00 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 375,000,000 
 7,500.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
217,654,272 (March 31, 2022: 263,654,272) equity shares of `2 each
 4,353.09 
 5,273.09 
(i)	
Movement in equity share capital
Particulars
Number of shares
Equity share capital 
(par value)
As at April 1, 2021
 278,181,045 
 5,563.62 
Less: Equity Shares bought back
 (14,526,773)
 (290.53)
As at March 31, 2022
 263,654,272 
 5,273.09 
Less: Equity Shares bought back
 (46,000,000)
 (920.00)
As at March 31, 2023
 217,654,272 
 4,353.09 
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
Equity shares have a par value of `2. They entitle the holder to participate in dividends, and to share in the 
proceeds of winding up the Company in proportion to the number of and amounts paid on the shares held. 
Every holder of equity shares present at a meeting in person or by proxy is entitled to one vote, and upon a poll each share is 
entitled to one vote.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
198
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(ii) Shares of the Company held by holding Company
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited  
(Ultimate holding Company)
 147,931,155 
 180,765,897 
(iii) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number of 
shares
% holding
Number of 
shares
% holding
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited
 147,931,155 
67.97%
 180,765,897 
68.56%
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
 20,697,117 
9.51%
 25,357,596 
9.62%
(iv) 	 Details of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023:
S. 
No.
Name of the Promoter
No. of shares
% of total number 
of shares
% of change during 
the year
Promoter
1
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited
 147,931,155 
 67.97 
 (0.59)
2
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta      
 269,078 
 0.12 
 0.02 
3
Mahendra Mohan Gupta   
 125,359 
 0.06 
 0.01 
4
Sanjay Gupta         
 53,000 
 0.02 
 - 
Promoter Group
 - 
 - 
1
VRSM Enterprises LLP
 509,848 
 0.23 
 0.04 
2
Shailendra Mohan Gupta   
 383,600 
 0.18 
 0.03 
3
Sameer Gupta                    
 159,856 
 0.07 
 0.01 
4
Vijaya Gupta                 
 156,000 
 0.07 
 0.01 
5
Tarun Gupta          
 134,200 
 0.06 
 0.01 
6
Devendra Mohan Gupta        
 117,890 
 0.05 
 0.01 
7
Sunil Gupta      
 100,000 
 0.05 
 0.01 
8
Devesh Gupta              
 100,000 
 0.05 
 0.02 
9
Sandeep  Gupta         
 68,336 
 0.03 
 - 
10
Rajni Gupta 
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
11
Siddhartha Gupta                    
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
12
Bharat Gupta        
 18,488 
 0.01 
 - 
13
Rahul Gupta           
 8,268 
 - 
 - 
Total
 150,177,478 
 68.99 
Details of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022:
S. 
No.
Name of the Promoter
No. of shares % of total number of 
shares
% of change during 
the year
Promoter
1
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited
 180,765,897 
 68.56 
 3.60 
2
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta      
 259,078 
 0.10 
 0.01 
3
Mahendra Mohan Gupta   
 125,359 
 0.05 
 - 
4
Sanjay Gupta         
 53,000 
 0.02 
 - 
Note 10: Equity share capital and other equity (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
199
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
S. 
No.
Name of the Promoter
No. of shares % of total number of 
shares
% of change during 
the year
Promoter Group
1
VRSM Enterprises LLP
 509,848 
 0.19 
 0.01 
2
Shailendra Mohan Gupta   
 383,600 
 0.15 
 0.01 
3
Sameer Gupta                    
 159,856 
 0.06 
 - 
4
Vijaya Gupta                 
 156,000 
 0.06 
 100.00 
5
Tarun Gupta          
 121,200 
 0.05 
 0.01 
6
Devendra Mohan Gupta        
 117,890 
 0.04 
 - 
7
Sunil Gupta      
 100,000 
 0.04 
 - 
8
Devesh Gupta              
 90,000 
 0.03 
 - 
9
Sandeep  Gupta         
 68,336 
 0.03 
 0.01 
10
Rajni Gupta 
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
11
Siddhartha Gupta                    
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
12
Bharat Gupta        
 18,488 
 0.01 
 - 
13
Rahul Gupta           
 8,268 
 - 
 - 
Total
 182,979,220 
 69.41 
(v)	
Shares bought back
During the current year, the Board of Directors of Jagran Prakashan Limited in their meeting held on November 4, 2022 had 
proposed buyback of 46,000,000 equity shares at a price of `75 per share aggregating to `34,500, as per the clause (xi) of 
the Schedule I to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 as amended (“the Buyback 
Regulations”) and Section 68 and Section 70 of the Companies Act 2013. The shareholder's resolution was passed on December 
17, 2022 by way of postal ballot. Pursuant to this, the Company has bought back a total of 46,00,000 fully paid-up equity shares 
of face value of `2 each at an aggregate amount of `34,500.00 during the year ended March 31, 2023 from all eligible equity 
shareholders of the Company (including the promoters, the Promoter Group and Persons in Control of the Company)) (excluding 
transaction cost) through the "tender offer" process at at price of `75 pr share. The equity shares bought back have been fully 
extinguished on March 29, 2023 end and the paid-up equity share capital of the Company has been reduced to that extent. 
As a result of the aforesaid buyback, an aggregate amount of `920.00 has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve 
representing the face value of equity share capital bought back.
Note 10(b) : Other equity
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity component of compound financial instrument
 945.87 
 945.87 
Capital reserve
 14,391.22 
 14,391.22 
Capital redemption reserve
 2,285.15 
 1,365.15 
Retained earnings
 114,171.12 
 144,222.62 
Other reserves
 - 
 - 
Total other equity
 131,793.36 
 160,924.86 
Movement of reserves:
(i)	
Equity component of compound financial instrument	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year (refer note (a))
 945.87 
 945.87 
Balance as at the end of the year
 945.87 
 945.87 
(a)	
The Company had issued 9,500 unsecured non-convertible redeemable debentures (NCDs) on July 21, 2011 to the holding 
Company which were redeemable on July 21, 2016 at a premium of 6.5% per annum  payable at the time of redemption. 
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company had redeemed 6,600 NCDs and extended the redemption date of 
the remaining NCDs to July 21, 2018 with the consent of the debenture holders.  The Company redeemed remaining NCDs 
during the year ended March 31, 2017.
Note 10: Equity share capital and other equity (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
200
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
The above NCDs had carried a premium @ 6.5% per annum which was lower than the prevailing interest rate for a comparable 
financial instrument. Accordingly, NCDs had been fair valued by discounting all the future cash flows to the present value 
based on prevailing market interest rate for a comparable instrument, the difference being equity contribution by the ultimate 
holding Company.	 	
	
	
(ii)	
Capital reserve
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year	
 14,391.22 
 14,391.22 
Balance as at the end of the year
 14,391.22 
 14,391.22 
The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
(iii)	 Capital redemption reserve
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 1,365.15 
 1,074.62 
Add: Transfer to capital redemption reserve from retained earnings
 920.00 
 290.53 
Balance as at the end of the year
 2,285.15 
 1,365.15 
(iv)	 Retained earnings
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Opening balance
 144,222.62 
 127,807.88 
Add/(Less):
Net profit for the year
 22,868.30 
 24,834.05 
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligation, net of tax
 (428.90)
 (5.83)
Transfer to capital redemption reserve from retained earnings
 (920.00)
 (290.53)
Amount utilised in buy-back of equity shares(including transaction costs and tax on 
buyback) [refer note 10(a)]
 (41,024.73)
 (8,122.95)
Interim Dividend paid during the year
 (10,546.17)
 - 
Closing balance
 114,171.12
144,222.62
The amount that can be distributed by the Company as dividends to its equity shareholders is determined based on requirements 
of Companies Act, 2013. Refer Note 32(b) for details of equity dividend declared.
(v)	
Other reserves
Particulars
 FVTOCI - Equity 
investments 
 Total other 
reserves 
As at April 1, 2021 (net of tax)
 (453.70)
 (453.70)
Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments
 590.00 
 590.00 
Deferred tax on above
 (136.30)
 (136.30)
As at March 31, 2022
 - 
 - 
Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax on above
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
Till year ended March 31,2021, the Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity 
securities in other comprehensive income as these are strategic in nature and are not held for trading. These changes are 
accumulated within the FVTOCI equity investments reserve within equity. The Company transfers amounts from this reserve to 
retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are derecognised.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
201
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 11: Financial liabilities
11(a): Non - current borrowings
Particulars
Maturity date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/
interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Secured
1,000 (March 31, 2022: 1000) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.35% JPL 2023 of `10,00,000 each 
April 21, 2023
 refer note 
(i) and (iii) 
 8.35% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis 
 10,788.19 
 10,769.83 
1,500 (March 31, 2022: 1500) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.45% JPL 2024 of `10,00,000 each
April 27, 2023, 
April 26, 2024
 refer note 
(ii) and (iii) 
 8.45% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis 
 16,163.66 
 16,140.06 
Total
 26,951.85 
 26,909.89 
Less: Current maturities of long term debt 
[included in current borrowings]
 16,897.71 
 - 
Less: Interest accrued [included in current 
borrowings]
 1,966.46 
 1,966.46 
Non-current borrowings (as per balance sheet)
 8,087.68 
 24,943.43 
Notes:
During the financial year 2020-21, the Company has issued 2,500 rated, secured, senior, listed, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
(“NCDs”) of the face value of `10.00 Lakhs each, aggregating to `25,000.00 through two different issues on a private placement basis as 
follows:
(i)	
The first issue comprised 1,000 NCDs (ISIN Number: INE199G07040) of `10.00 Lakhs each aggregating `10,000.00 @ 8.35% p.a which 
were allotted on April 21, 2020. The NCDs are secured (for outstanding amount and interest accrued thereon) by way of a first ranking 
pari passu charge with `15,000.00 debenture holders, over a mortgaged property situated at Chennai and exclusive charge on certain 
identified immovable properties. For calculating the security cover, the said immovable properties are considered at their market value. 
A security cover of at-least 1.5 times of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon is to be maintained during the tenure of these 
NCDs and these are redeemable after three years from the date of allotment. The interest is to be paid annually and for the first year it 
was paid on the due date of April 22, 2021. The security cover based on market valuation of the said immovable properties carried out 
by independent valuers on various dates between October 2021 and March 2023 exceeded 1.5 times of the value of the issue amount 
of NCDs and interest thereon. Based on such valuation reports, management is of the view that the security cover as at March 31, 2023 
exceeded 1.5 times of the value of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon. The charge with respect to the security has been 
created within the due date. During the year ended March 31, 2021, proceeds amounting to `6,000.00 were utilised towards working 
capital requirement and the balance `4,000.00 which were parked in fixed deposits as at March 31, 2021 pending deployment, were 
applied by the Company towards working capital requirements during the year ended March 31, 2022. The debentures are listed on 
BSE Limited. Refer note 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) for details of immovable properties charged as security. These debentures were fully redeemed 
subsequent to the year end on April 21, 2023.
(ii) 	 The second issue comprised 1,500 NCDs (ISIN Number: INE199G07057) of `10.00 Lakhs each aggregating `15,000.00 @ 8.45% p.a. 
which were allotted on April 27, 2020. The NCDs are secured (for outstanding amount and interest accrued thereon) by first charge 
ranking pari-passu with Central Bank of India, Gumti No. 5, Kanpur by way of equitable mortgage over certain specified immoveable 
properties and by way of hypothecation and/or mortgage on the moveable fixed assets of the Company. The above charge is to secure 
existing/future working capital facility of `19,900.00 extended by Central Bank of India. Additionally, a separate first ranking pari passu 
charge was created over a mortgaged property situated at Chennai with `10,000.00 debenture holders. The security cover based on 
the security mentioned above shall not fall below 1.5 times of the outstanding NCDs and interest thereon during the holding period of 
debentures. 50% of the NCDs are redeemable at the end of third year and the balance 50% are redeemable at the end of fourth year 
from the date of allotment. The interest is to be paid annually and for the first year it was paid on the due date of April 27, 2021. The 
security cover based on market valuation of the said immovable properties valuation of which was carried out by independent valuers 
on various dates between October 2021 and March 2023 and the book value of moveable fixed assets, exceeded 1.5 times of the value 
of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon. Based on such valuation reports of the said immovable properties and considering 
the book value of moveable fixed assets, management is of the view that the security cover as at March 31, 2023 exceeded 1.5 times 
of the value of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon. The charge with respect to the security has been created within the due 
date. The entire proceeds were utilised for working capital requirements. The debentures are listed on NSE Limited. Refer note 3(a), 3(b) 
and 3(c) for details of immovable properties charged as security. These debentures were redeemed to the extent of 50% subsequent 
to the year end on April 27, 2023.
(iii) 	 The Company has undertaken that the Promoter Group shall hold at least 60% equity shareholding in the Company, directly or indirectly, 
and exercise management control till the tenor of the NCDs.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
202
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 11: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
11(a): Current borrowings
Particulars
Maturity date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/
interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Secured
Cash credit facility availed from Central Bank of 
India [refer note (i) and (iii) below]*
 375.86 
 1,164.06 
Current maturities of long term borrowings
1,000 (March 31, 2022: 1000) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.35% JPL 2023 of `10,00,000 each 
April 21, 2023
 refer note 
(i) and ( iii) 
8.35% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis
 10,788.19 
 - 
1,500 (March 31, 2022: 1500) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.45% JPL 2024 of `10,00,000 each
April 27, 2023, 
April 26, 2024
 refer note 
(ii) and ( iii) 
8.45% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis
 8,075.97 
 - 
Total current borrowings
 19,240.02 
 1,164.06 
*Repayable on demand
Notes:
(iv)	 Cash credit facility taken by the Company is secured by first charge by way of hypothecation on current assets, books debts, 
inventories and other receivables both present and future and by first charge ranking pari-passu with `15,000.00 debenture 
holders by way of equitable mortgage over certain specified immoveable properties and by way of hypothecation and/or 
mortgage on the moveable fixed assets of the Company including plant and machinery. Refer note 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) for 
details of immovable properties charged as security.
(v)	
Current rate of interest on cash credit facility availed from Central Bank of India ranges from 7.25% p.a. to 8.15% p.a.
Net debt reconciliation
This section sets out an analysis of net debt and the movement in the net debt for each of the periods presented:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Cash and cash equivalents
 4,156.50 
 3,417.65 
Borrowings
 (27,327.70)
 (28,073.95)
Lease Liabilities
 (5,411.09)
 (5,518.87)
Net debt
 (28,582.29)
 (30,175.17)
Particulars
Cash and bank 
overdraft
 Lease 
Liabilities 
Borrowings
Total
Net debt as at April 1, 2021
 3,786.17 
 (2,589.23)
 (25,111.11)
 (23,914.17)
Cash flows
 (368.52)
 1,072.46 
 (954.49)
 (250.55)
New leases
 (4,067.45)
 (4,067.45)
Lease concessions
 65.35 
 65.35 
Interest expense
 (275.79)
 (2,304.20)
 (2,579.99)
Interest paid
 275.79 
 2,446.86 
 2,722.65 
Other non-cash movements
 - 
  -  Acquisitions/disposals
 (1,966.46)
 (1,966.46)
  -  Fair value adjustments
 (184.55)
 (184.55)
Net debt as at March 31, 2022
 3,417.65 
 (5,518.87)
 (28,073.95)
 (30,175.17)
Cash flows
 738.85 
 1,109.25 
 788.20 
 2,636.30 
New leases
 (614.50)
 (614.50)
Interest expense
 (882.45)
 (2,241.00)
 (3,123.45)
Interest paid
 492.39 
 2,384.11 
 2,876.50 
Other non-cash movements
  -  Acquisitions/disposals
 3.09 
 - 
 3.09 
  -  Fair value adjustments
 (185.06)
 (185.06)
Net debt as at March 31, 2023
 4,156.50 
 (5,411.09)
 (27,327.70)
 (28,582.29)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
203
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 11(b): Other financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Current
Interest accrued on non convertible debentures [refer note 11(a)]
 - 
 1,966.46 
Interest accrued on
 - dues of MSME vendors
 40.86 
 30.31 
 - others
 201.24 
 202.17 
Security deposit received from agents, staff and others
 8,498.25 
 8,320.41 
Unpaid dividend (not due for credit to Investor Education and Protection Fund)
 22.16 
 20.39 
Capital creditors
 38.77 
 70.13 
Book overdraft
 9.73 
 111.77 
Employee benefits payable
- Payable to related parties [refer note 29]
 139.27 
 138.78 
- Payable to others
 1,833.00 
 2,192.93 
Other creditors
 57.82 
 69.90 
Total other current financial liabilities
 10,841.10 
 13,123.25 
Note 11(c): Trade payables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Current
(i) 	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises [refer note 
(a) below]
 55.73 
 154.81 
(ii) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
- 	
Payable to related parties [refer note 29]
 518.10 
 106.94 
- 	
Payable to others
 13,888.15 
 11,408.56 
Total trade payables
 14,461.98 
 11,670.31 
Ageing of trade payables:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2023
Not Due
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
Total
(i) 	 Undisputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 55.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 55.73 
  -  Others
 3,499.65 
 10,425.62 
 198.12 
 168.55 
 114.31 
 14,406.25 
(ii) 	Disputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  -  Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,499.65 
 10,481.35 
 198.12 
 168.55 
 114.31 
 14,461.98 
Note 11: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
204
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2022
Not Due
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
Total
(i) 	 Undisputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 154.27 
 0.02 
 0.39 
 0.13 
 154.81 
  -  Others
 3,169.75 
 7,684.61 
 343.98 
 156.23 
 160.93 
 11,515.50 
(ii)	 Disputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  -  Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total trade payables
 3,169.75 
 7,838.88 
 344.00 
 156.62 
 161.06 
 11,670.31 
Notes:
(a) 	 Additional disclosure as per Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006
	
Dues to micro and small enterprises
The Company has certain dues to suppliers registered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(‘MSMED Act’). The disclosures pursuant to the said MSMED Act are as follows:
S. 
No.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(i)
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and 
remaining unpaid as at year end
 55.73 
154.81
(ii)
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining 
unpaid as at year end
 40.86 
30.31
(iii)
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, 
beyond the appointed day during the year
 736.62 
 744.90 
(iv)
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers 
registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the 
year
 - 
 - 
(v)
Interest paid, under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered 
under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED 
Act, for payments already made
 9.87 
 7.28 
(vii)
Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
 30.31 
 25.30 
Note: Dues to micro, small and medium enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified 
on the basis of information collected by the management.
Note 11: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
205
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 12: Employee benefit obligations
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Current
Non-current
Total
Current
Non-current
Total
Leave obligations (i)
 223.71 
 1,373.11 
 1,596.82 
 190.02 
 1,224.25 
 1,414.27 
Gratuity (ii)
 736.39 
 - 
 736.39 
 349.91 
 126.95 
 476.86 
Total Employee benefit obligations
 960.10 
 1,373.11 
 2,333.21 
 539.93 
 1,351.20 
 1,891.13 
(A) 	 Leave obligations
The leave obligations cover the Company’s liability for earned leave which are classified as other long-term benefits.
The amount of the provision of `223.71 (March 31, 2022: `190.02) is presented as current, since the Company does not have 
an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company 
does not expect all employees to avail the full amount of accrued leave or require payment for such leave within the next 
12 months.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Leave obligations not expected to be settled within the next 12 months
 1,373.11 
 1,224.25 
(B)	 Defined contribution plans:
The Company also has certain defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees 
at the rate 12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund administered 
by the Government. The obligation of the Company is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual 
nor any constructive obligation. The expense recognised during the period towards defined contribution plan is `2,266.37 
(March 31, 2022: `2,057.84).
(C)	 Post-employment obligations
	
Defined benefit plans - Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination 
is the employees' last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number 
of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to fund managed by the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India.
(i)	
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet and the movements in the net defined benefit obligation over the year are as 
follows:
Particulars
 Present value of 
obligation 
 Fair value of plan 
assets 
 Total 
April 1, 2021
 5,854.74 
 (4,840.40)
 1,014.34 
Current service cost
 556.09 
 - 
 556.09 
Interest expense/(income)
 411.00 
 (339.79)
 71.21 
Total amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 967.09 
 (339.79)
 627.30 
Remeasurements
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
interest expense/(income)
 - 
 (27.59)
 (27.59)
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions
 (207.76)
 - 
 (207.76)
Experience (gains)/losses
 243.14 
 - 
 243.14 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 35.38 
 (27.59)
 7.79 
Employer contributions
 - 
 (1,172.57)
 (1,172.57)
Benefit payments
 547.83 
 (547.83)
 - 
March 31, 2022
 6,309.38 
 (5,832.52)
 476.86 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
206
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Present value 
of obligation 
 Fair value 
of plan assets 
 Total 
April 1, 2022
 6,309.38 
 (5,832.52)
 476.86 
Current service cost
 626.31 
 - 
 626.31 
Interest expense/(income)
 466.26 
 (431.02)
 35.24 
Total amount recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
 1,092.57 
 (431.02)
 661.55 
Remeasurements
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
interest expense/income
 - 
 9.20 
 9.20 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions
 191.45 
 - 
 191.45 
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions
 53.32 
 - 
 53.32 
Experience (gains)/losses
 319.18 
 - 
 319.18 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 563.95 
 9.20 
 573.15 
Employer contributions
 - 
 (975.17)
 (975.17)
Benefit payments
 569.03 
 (569.03)
 - 
March 31, 2023
 7,396.87 
 (6,660.48)
 736.39 
(ii)	
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Present value of funded obligations
7396.87
6309.38
Fair value of plan assets
 (6,660.48)
 (5,832.52)
Deficit of funded plans
 736.39 
 476.86 
(iii) 	 The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Discount rate
7.30%
7.39%
Salary growth rate
5.00%
5.00%
Mortality rate
Indian assured lives 
mortality (2012-14)
Indian assured lives 
mortality (2012-14)
Employee turnover / Attrition rate
18 to 30 years
10.00%
4.00%
30 to 45 years
6.00%
3.00%
Above 45 years
4.00%
1.00%
(iv) 	 Sensitivity analysis
	
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(a) 	 Defined benefit obligation - discount rate +100 basis points
 (490.80)
 (513.27)
(b) 	 Defined benefit obligation - discount rate -100 basis points
 550.71 
 586.31 
(c) 	 Defined benefit obligation - salary escalation rate +100 basis points
 557.87 
 594.54 
(d) 	 Defined benefit obligation - salary escalation rate -100 basis points
 (505.49)
 (528.91)
The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In 
practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity 
of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit 
obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied while 
calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet. The methods and types of assumptions used in 
preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior period.
Note 12: Employee benefit obligations (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
207
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(v) 	 The major categories of plans assets are as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Funds managed by insurer*
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
	
*Plan assets are held with Life Insurance Corporation of India and breakup thereof has not been provided by them.
(vi) 	 Risk exposure
Through its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed 
below:
Interest rate risk: The plan exposes the Company to fall in the interest rates. A fall in the interest rates will result in an 
increase in the ultimate cost of providing the above benefit and will thus result in an increase in the value of liability (as 
shown in financial statements).
Salary escalation risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated with the assumption of salary 
increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan participants from the 
rate of increase in salary used to determine the present value of obligation will have a bearing on the plan's liability.
Demographic risk: The Company has used certain mortality and attrition assumption in valuation of the liabilty. The Company 
is exposed to the risk of the actual experience turning out to be worse.
Regulatory risk: Gratuity benefit is paid in accordance with the requirements of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (as 
amended from time to time). There is a risk of change in regulation requiring higher gratuity payouts.
Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the Company is not able to meet the short-term gratuity payouts. This may arise due to 
non-availability of enough cash/cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid assets not being sold in time.
Asset liability mismatching or market risk: The duration of the liability is longer comapred to duration of assets, exposing 
the Company to market risk for volatilities/fall in interest etc.
Investment risk: The probability or likelihood of occurrence of losses relative to the expected return on any particular 
investment.
(vii)	 Defined benefit liability and employer contributions
The Company aims to eliminate the deficit in defined benefit gratuity plan. Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis. 
The Company considers that the contribution set at the last valuation date is sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the period 
and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase significantly.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plan for the year ending March 31, 2023 are `1,444.00 (March 31, 
2022: `500.00).
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 9.26 years (March 31, 2022: 12.58 years). The expected 
maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Less than a year
 797.20 
 368.52 
Between 1 - 2 years
 845.03 
 477.91 
Between 2 - 5 years
 3,289.90 
 2,154.52 
Over 5 years
 8,074.93 
 6,195.70 
Note 12: Employee benefit obligations (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
208
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 13: Deferred tax liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to:
Deferred tax liabilities (DTL)
a) 	
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets ,investment property and 
Right of use assets
 5,814.02 
 5,486.78 
b) 	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 1,099.53 
 855.95 
Other items:
c) 	
Difference between book income and tax income due to different methods of 
accounting (Net)
 2,538.21 
 2,819.31 
Total deferred tax liabilities
 9,451.76 
 9,162.04 
Deferred tax assets (DTA)
d) 	 Impairment of investment in associates
 128.12 
 - 
e) 	 Allowance for doubtful advances and security deposits allowable under the 
Income-tax Act, 1961 on actual write off
 226.29 
 137.83 
Total deferred tax assets
 354.41 
 137.83 
Total deferred tax liabilities (Net)
 9,097.35 
 9,024.21 
Movements in deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets
Particulars
Property, plant and 
equipment and 
intangible assets
Financial assets at 
fair value through 
profit or loss
Financial assets 
at FVTOCI
Other items
Total
At April 1, 2021 [DTL/(DTA)]
 4,034.98 
 408.82 
 (134.99)
 5,352.70 
 9,661.51 
Charged/(credited)
   - to profit or loss
 1,451.80 
 447.13 
 - 
 (2,670.57)
 (771.64)
   - to other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 134.99 
 (0.65)
 134.34 
At March 31, 2022 [DTL/(DTA)]
 5,486.78 
 855.95 
 - 
 2,681.48 
 9,024.21 
Charged/(credited)
   - to profit or loss
 327.24 
 243.58 
 - 
 (353.43)
 217.39 
   - to other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (144.25)
 (144.25)
At March 31, 2023 [DTL/(DTA)]
 5,814.02 
 1,099.53 
 - 
 2,183.80 
 9,097.35 
Note 13 (b): Current tax liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Opening balance
 111.04 
 1,207.84 
Add: Current tax payable for the year
 6,723.05 
 8,769.90 
Less: Taxes paid
 (6,380.90)
 (8,658.86)
Less: Taxes paid for previous year
 (94.19)
 (1,200.00)
Less: Liability written back during the year
 (16.85)
 (7.84)
Closing balance
 342.15 
 111.04 
Note 14: Other current liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Unearned revenue [refer note (a) below]
 948.77 
 1,042.64 
Advance from customers
 2,846.80 
 1,626.05 
Statutory dues payable
 656.66 
 612.69 
Refund liabilities [refer note (b) below]
 3,438.23 
 - 
Liability towards CSR expense payable
 834.19 
 784.72 
Provision for tax on buy-back of shares
 7,168.07 
 - 
Total other current liabilities
 15,892.72 
 4,066.10 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
209
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 14: Other current liabilities (Contd.)
Notes:
(a) 	 The Company recognises unearned revenue (i.e. contract liabilities) for consideration received before the Company transfers 
the control of goods or services to the customer and it is classified as other current liabilities.
(b) 	 Refund liabilities are recognised for incentive payable to customers and estimated liability of credit notes issued to 
customers.	
Detail of unearned revenue:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i) 	 Advertisement revenue
Opening balance
 957.39 
 417.89 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
 (957.39)
 (417.89)
Add: Invoiced during the year but not recognised as revenue
 911.87 
 957.39 
Closing balance
 911.87 
 957.39 
(ii) 	Outdoor advertising
Opening balance
 85.25 
 74.01 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
 (85.25)
 (74.01)
Add: Invoiced during the year but not recognised as revenue
 17.55 
 85.25 
Closing balance
 17.55 
 85.25 
(iii)  Event management and activation services
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
Add: Invoiced during the year but not recognised as revenue
 19.35 
Closing balance
 19.35 
 - 
Total of unearned revenue
 948.77 
 1,042.64 
Note 15: Revenue from operations
Particulars
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from contracts with customers
- Sale of products and services
(a) 	 Advertisement revenue
 104,214.02 
 93,850.38 
(b) 	 Newspapers
 36,099.44 
 34,002.20 
(c) 	 Magazines, books and others
 30.35 
 29.87 
(d) 	 Outdoor advertising
 10,056.70 
 6,830.91 
(e) 	 Event management and activation services
 5,783.35 
 2,882.19 
Other operating revenue
- Job work
 1,555.28 
 1,285.68 
- Others
 1,651.20 
 1,242.17 
Total revenue from operations
 159,390.34 
 140,123.40 
(i)	
The Company derives its revenue from contracts with customers for the transfer of goods and services over time and at a 
point in time in a manner in which the Company transfers the control of goods and services to customers. The Company 
is engaged mainly in the business of printing and publication of newspaper and magazines in India. The other activities of 
the Company comprise outdoor advertising business, event management and activation business and job work and other 
operating activity. The Board of Directors of the Company, which has been identified as being the chief operating decision 
maker (CODM), evaluates the Company's performance, allocates resources based on the analysis of the various performance 
indicators of the Company as a single unit. Therefore no information has been disclosed in accordance with the requirements 
of Ind AS 108- 'Operating Segment Reporting'.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
210
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
March 31, 2022
A.
Performance obligation satisfied at a point in time
Advertisement revenue
 1,04,214.02 
 93,850.38 
Sale of newspapers and magazines
 36,129.79 
 34,032.07 
Job work charges and other operating revenue
 3,206.48 
 2,527.85 
B.
Performance obligation satisfied over period of time
Outdoor advertising
 10,056.70 
 6,830.91 
Event management and activation services
 5,783.35 
 2,882.19 
Total
 1,59,390.34 
 1,40,123.40 
(ii)	
The following table shows unsatisfied performance obligation  as at year end : 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Advertisement revenue
 911.87 
 957.39 
Outdoor advertising
 17.55 
 85.25 
Event management and activation services
 19.35 
 - 
Total
 948.77 
 1,042.64 
The Company has applied practical expedient in Ind AS 115 and has accordingly not disclosed information about remaining 
performance obligations which are part of the contracts that have original expected duration of one year or less and where the 
Company has a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of 
the entity's performance obligation completed to date.
(iii)	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract price:
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
a) 	 Advertisement revenue
Contract price
105,436.90
95,234.11
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
(1,222.88)
(1,383.73)
Total
104,214.02
93,850.38
b) 	 Sale of newspapers, magazines, books and others
Contract price
36,188.62
34,062.69
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
(58.83)
(30.62)
Total
36,129.79
34,032.07
c) 	 Outdoor advertising
Contract price
10,141.54
6,900.14
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
(84.84)
(69.23)
Total
10,056.70
6,830.91
d) 	 Event management and activation services
Contract price
5,783.35
2,882.19
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
-
-
Total
5,783.35
2,882.19
e) 	 Job work and other operating revenue
Contract price
3,206.48
2,527.85
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
-
-
Total
3,206.48
2,527.85
Total (a to e)
159,390.34
140,123.40
Note 15: Revenue from operations (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
211
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 16: Other income and other gains/(losses)
(a)	
Other income
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Interest income
  - On fixed deposits (at amortised cost)
 992.63 
 828.86 
  - On bonds (at amortised cost)
 2,070.64 
 1,142.70 
  - Others
 28.93 
 35.78 
Dividend income from investments mandatorily measured at fair value through 
profit or loss
 1.76 
 0.70 
Unwinding of discount on security deposits
 115.41 
 74.37 
Total other income
 3,209.37 
 2,082.41 
(b) 	 Other gains/(losses)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Net gain/(loss) on financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 1,064.63 
 1,751.90 
Net gain on sale of investments
 1,145.35 
 391.50 
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
 58.54 
 583.44 
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment property
 2,919.21 
 63.61 
Net foreign exchange gains/(losses)
 (371.32)
 (111.56)
Miscellaneous income
 476.81 
 263.01 
Total other gains/(losses)
 5,293.22 
 2,941.90 
Note 17: Cost of materials consumed
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Raw materials at the beginning of the year
 7,777.76 
 4,885.95 
Add: Purchases
 54,297.77 
 43,750.45 
Less: Raw materials at the end of the year
 (8,146.68)
 (7,777.76)
Total cost of materials consumed  [refer note (a) below]
 53,928.85 
 40,858.64 
(a)	 Items of raw materials consumed
Newsprint
 51,234.44 
 38,546.70 
Printing ink
 2,694.41 
 2,311.94 
Total cost of materials consumed
 53,928.85 
 40,858.64 
Note 18: Changes in inventories of finished goods
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Stock of finished goods at the beginning of the year
 4.17 
 4.46 
Stock of finished goods at the end of the year
 - 
 4.17 
Total changes in inventories of finished goods
 4.17 
 0.29 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
212
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 19: Employee benefits expense
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Salaries, wages and bonus
 25,872.63 
 25,329.68 
Contribution to employees provident and other funds [refer note 12]
 2,266.36 
 2,057.84 
Gratuity [refer note 12]
 661.55 
 627.30 
Leave compensation
 336.89 
 169.05 
Staff welfare expenses
 647.82 
 631.80 
Total employee benefits expense
 29,785.25 
 28,815.67 
Note 19.1
The Indian Parliament has approved the Code on Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contributions by the Company 
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social 
Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020, and invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under consideration by the Ministry. 
The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. The Company will give appropriate 
impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the 
financial impact are published.
Note 20: Depreciation and amortisation expense
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment [refer note 3(a)]
 3,730.79 
 4,511.96 
Depreciation of right-of -use assets [refer note 3(b)]
 884.11 
 1,312.49 
Depreciation of investment properties [refer note 3(c)]
 139.66 
 43.98 
Amortisation of intangible assets [refer note 3(d)]
 153.40 
 147.73 
Total depreciation and amortisation expense
 4,907.96 
 6,016.16 
Note 21: Impairment losses on financial assets
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables, loans and advances and security 
deposits (net of write back)*
 2,208.40 
 2,474.65 
Doubtful advance written off*
 30.82 
 45.83 
Total Net impairment losses on financial assets
 2,239.22 
 2,520.48 
* includes write offs as per the Company's policy. However, the Company continues to have legal recourse available to it to 
recover the amount so written off and continues to pursue the recovery.
Note 22: Other expenses
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Consumption of stores and spares
 4,441.46 
 3,733.43 
Repairs and maintenance
  -  Building
 834.15 
 501.67 
  -  Plant and machinery 
 1,748.57 
 1,368.29 
  -  Others
 616.48 
 527.10 
News collection and contribution 
 449.10 
 416.07 
Composing, printing and binding 
 166.04 
 155.86 
Power and fuel
 2,534.36 
 2,533.78 
Freight and cartage
 248.64 
 160.94 
Direct expenses:
  -  Out of home advertising 
 7,971.04 
 5,527.68 
  -  Event and activation business
 4,891.14 
 2,304.72 
  -  Digital 
 4,568.67 
 2,806.03 
  -  Activity expense
 2,692.16 
 - 
Rates and taxes
 80.33 
 153.85 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
213
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Rent 
 (85.51)
 10.56 
Carriage and distribution 
 2,664.21 
 2,502.20 
Travelling and conveyance 
 1,427.01 
 1,228.39 
Communication 
 455.21 
 438.73 
Promotion and publicity expenses
 2,852.58 
 2,711.13 
Field expenses
 1,099.33 
 1,087.61 
Insurance
 271.79 
 377.00 
Donation
 0.73 
 8.05 
Payment to auditors [refer note (a) below]
 137.93 
 126.14 
Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility activities [refer note (b) below]
 586.08 
 580.90 
Property, plant and equipment written off
 22.03 
 13.35 
Equity instrument at FVTPL written off
 - 
 202.31 
Provision for impairment in respect of above instruments
 - 
 (202.31)
Equity instrument at FVTOCI derecognised /written off
 - 
 590.00 
Miscellaneous expenses
 2,610.04 
 2,383.00 
Total other expenses
 43,283.57 
 32,246.48 
(a)	
Payment to auditors $
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
As auditor:
  Audit fees
 122.50 
 120.00 
In other capacities:
  Certification fees
 11.66 
 5.00 
  Re-imbursement of expenses
 3.77 
 1.14 
Total payments to auditors
 137.93 
 126.14 
$ Net of GST input credit, as applicable.
(b)	 Corporate social responsibility expenditure
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Promoting health care including preventive health care and sanitation, 
including public outreach campaigns on COVID-19 awareness and / or 
vaccination
 586.08 
 580.90 
Total
 586.08 
 580.90 
Amount required to be spent by the Company during the year (Refer note (i) 
below)
 550.00 
 552.00 
Interest earned on amount held as deposits with bank (Refer note (i) below)
 36.08 
 28.90 
Total required to be spent
 586.08 
 580.90 
Amount spent during the year:
(i)  Construction / acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
Sub-total (i)
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	On purposes other than (i) above
Amount spent during the year for promoting health care including preventive 
health care and sanitation, including public outreach campaigns on COVID-19 
awareness and / or vaccination:
In respect of current year obligation
 - 
 - 
In respect of previous year obligation (Refer note (ii) below)
 536.61 
 458.18 
Sub-total (ii)
 536.61 
 458.18 
Total Spent (i) and (ii)
 536.61 
 458.18 
Note 22: Other expenses (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
214
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
(c)
Shortfall at the end of the year
 586.08 
 552.00 
(d)
Total of previous year shortfall
250.55
 203.82 
(e)
Reason for shortfall
 Refer note (ii) below  Refer note (ii) below 
(f)
Details of related party transactions (Refer note (iv) below)
 349.16 
 240.30 
(g)
Liability against contractual obligations for CSR
 - 
 - 
(h)
Where a provision is made with respect to a liability incurred by entering into 
a contractual obligation, the movements in the provision
 Not applicable 
 Not applicable 
(i)	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company has transferred `550.00 to Unspent CSR account maintained with Yes 
Bank Limited. Further, amount of `36.08 pertaining to interest earned during the financial year ended March 31, 2023 on 
the unspent CSR account relating to the year ended March 31, 2022 is in a separate unspent CSR bank account maintained 
with Yes Bank Limited.
(ii) 	 During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company has spent an amount of `266.46 and `247.05 for the financial years 
2021-22 and 2020-21 respectively towards the unspent amount 0f `552.00 and `250.72 for the financial years 2021-22 and 
2020-21 respectively. The balance amount is in a separate unspent CSR bank account maintained with Yes Bank Limited. 
The CSR expenditure for the year ended March 31, 2023 of `536.61 (March 31, 2022: `458.18) is towards promoting health 
care including preventive health care and sanitation, including public outreach campaigns on COVID-19 awareness and / 
or vaccination.
(iii)	 Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company had deposited an amount of `550.00 in a separate bank 
account maintained with Yes Bank Limited.
(iv)	 The details of related party transactions as per Ind AS 24 (also refer note 29(B)(I)(9)) in relation to CSR expenditure are as 
follows:
Name of the related party
Relationship as per Ind 
AS 24
Amount for the year 
ended March 31, 2023
Amount for the year 
ended March 31, 2022
Midday Infomedia Limited
Subsidary
 35.70 
 12.25 
Music Broadcast Limited
Subsidary
 106.86 
 99.26 
Subtotal (a)
 142.56 
 111.51 
Name of the related party
Relationship as per Ind 
AS 24
Amount for the year 
ended March 31, 2023
Amount for the year 
ended March 31, 2022
MMI Online Limited
Associate
 120.00 
 51.84 
Xpert Publicity Private Limited
Associate
 86.60 
 76.95 
Subtotal (b)
 206.60 
 128.79 
Grand Total (a+b)
 349.16 
 240.30 
	
Details of ongoing projects under 135(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
Balance as on April 1, 2022
 Amount 
required to be 
spent during the 
year 
 Amount spent during the year 
 Balance as on March 31, 2023 
With the 
Company
In separate CSR 
unspent account
From the 
Company's Bank 
account
From the 
separate CSR 
unspent account
 With the 
Company 
 In separate 
CSR unspent 
account 
 784.72 
 586.08 
 536.61 
 834.19 
Balance as on April 1, 2021
 Amount 
required to be 
spent during the 
year 
 Amount spent during the year 
 Balance as on March 31, 2022 
With the 
Company
In separate CSR 
unspent account
From the 
Company's Bank 
account
From the 
separate CSR 
unspent account
 With the 
Company 
 In separate CSR 
unspent account 
 662.00 
 580.90 
 458.18 
 - 
 784.72 
Note 22: Other expenses (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
215
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 22: Other expenses (Contd.)
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act in respect of other than ongoing projects
Balance as on  
April 1, 2022
Amount deposited in 
Specified Fund of 
Schedule VII of the Act 
within 6 months
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
Balance as on  
March 31, 2023
-
-
-
-
-
Balance as on  
April 1, 2021
Amount deposited in 
Specified Fund of 
Schedule VII of the Act 
within 6 months
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
Balance as on  
March 31, 2022
-
-
-
-
-
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act
Balance excess spent as at April 
1, 2022
Amount required to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
 Balance as on March 31, 2023 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Balance excess spent as at April 
1, 2021
Amount required to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
 Balance as on March 31, 2022 
-
-
-
-
Note 23: Finance costs
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Interest and finance charges on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or 
loss
 2,240.75 
 2,304.20 
Interest and finance charges on lease liabilities
 882.45 
 275.79 
Interest expense on security deposits/others
 203.68 
 179.78 
Other borrowing costs
 - 
 1.42 
Total finance costs
 3,326.88 
 2,761.19 
Note 24: Income tax expense
This note provides an analysis of the Company’s income tax expense, and amounts that are recognised directly in equity and how 
the tax expense is affected by non-assessable and non-deductible items. It also explains significant estimates made in relation 
to Company's tax positions.
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
(a)  Income tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year
 6,714.42 
 8,741.00 
Adjustments for current tax of prior periods
 73.82 
 - 
Less: Excess provision relating to prior years written back
 (16.85)
 (310.35)
Total current tax expense
A
 6,771.39 
 8,430.65 
Deferred tax
(Decrease)/Increase in deferred tax liabilities
 217.39 
 (771.64)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)
B
 217.39 
 (771.64)
Income tax expense
A+B
 6,988.78 
 7,659.01 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
216
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(b)	 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate:
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Profit before tax
 29,857.08 
 32,493.06 
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (2021-22: 25.168%)
(Current Year: Base rate 22% + 10% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)
(Previous year: Base rate 22% + 10% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)
 7,514.43 
 8,177.85 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable 
income:
- Saving due to indexation benefit on investment properties
 (46.22)
 (69.00)
- in respect of earlier year tax liability
 - 
 - 
- Disallowance of corporate social responsibility paid (net)
 147.50 
 146.20 
- Amortisation of intangibles
 15.85 
 15.85 
- Depreciation charged on leasehold land
 8.81 
 10.04 
- Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 (14.73)
 (67.17)
-Profit on sale of investment property
 (608.44)
 - 
- Profit on sale of long-term investments (difference in tax rates applicable on long-
term capital gain and effective tax rate)
 - 
 (49.04)
- Saving due to indexation benefit on investment in mutual funds
 - 
 (468.35)
- Other items
 (28.42)
 (37.37)
Income tax expense
 6,988.78 
 7,659.01 
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable 
income. Given the complexities of contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions 
made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustment to tax income and expense already recorded.
Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely 
timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies. Refer note 6 and note 13 for further details.
Note 25: Contingent liabilities
(i)	
In respect of various pending labour and defamation cases: In view of large number of cases, it is impracticable to disclose 
the details of each case. Further, the amount of most of these is either not quantifiable or cannot be reliably estimated.
(ii)	
Demand of `112.00 (As at March 31, 2022: `112.00) received from Collector (Stamp) regarding stamp duty payable on 
amalgamation of subsidiary companies with Jagran Prakashan Limited in the year 2002, which has been stayed by the 
Hon’ble High Court.
(iii)	 Stamp duty on immovable assets acquired from print business of Naidunia Media Limited which are yet to be transferred in 
the name of the Company is estimated to be `211.00 (As at March 31, 2022: `211.00).
Note 26: Commitments
(a)	
Capital commitments
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Estimated amount of contracts on capital account pending to be executed
[Net of advances `1,162.65 (As at March 31, 2022: `1,165.42)]
 179.87 
 425.14 
Total
 179.87 
 425.14 
(b)	 Other commitments
(i)	
Commitment (net of recoverable) towards sites hired for display of advertisement: `11,955.28 (Previous year: `10,183.12).
(ii) 	 The Company had given a letter of support to its subsidary Company, Midday Infomedia Limited, for commitment of 
investment upto `2,500.00 out of which investment of `2,000.00 has been made by way of subscription to equity share 
capital of Midday Infomedia Limited upto March 31, 2022.
Note 24: Income tax expense (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
217
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 27: Earnings per share
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Net profit as per Statement of Profit and Loss (` in Lakhs)
 22,868.30 
 24,834.05 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
 262,646,053 
 264,400,029 
Basic earnings per share of face value of `2 each (in Rupees)
 8.71 
 9.39 
Diluted earnings per share of face value of `2 each (in Rupees)
 8.71 
 9.39 
Note 28: (a) Details of loans, guarantees and investments under section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013
(i) 	
Details of loans given:
S. 
No.
Name of the party
Date of 
disbursement
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Purpose of loan
1
Midday Infomedia Limited
30-Nov-21
 - 
 200.00 
Working capital 
assistance
(ii)	
The Company had given continuing guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,500.00 to HDFC Bank Limited, on behalf of 
Music Broadcast Limited (subsidiary) towards bank guarantee extended by HDFC Bank Limited, Kanjur Marg, Mumbai branch 
to the subsidiary. The outstanding value of bank guarantee as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `2,166.28 (As at March 31, 
2022: `2,166.28).
(iii) 	 The Company has given a corporate guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,145.00 to ICICI Bank Limited for its wholly 
owned subsidiary Midday Infomedia Limited (subsidiary) in relation to the outstanding term loan. The term loan outstanding 
in respect thereof as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `936.98 (March 31, 2022 amounted to `1,326.10).
(iv) 	 Details of investment as at March 31, 2023: Refer note 4 and 5 (a)
(b) 	 The shares held in Jagran Publications Private Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited are not transferable 
to a third party (i.e. persons and body corporate not belonging to U.P. group, defined to be lineal descendants of late 
Mr. P.C. Gupta and Company in which not less than 51% shareholding is owned and controlled by their family members) 
without complying with certain conditions as contained in the Articles of Association of these two companies.
(c) 	 Pending ongoing disputes and lack of control, these associates are not considered in the consolidated financial 
statements of JPL and the investments made in Jagran Publications Private Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private 
Limited are recorded as investments in these financial statements [refer note 5(a)].
(d) 	 Details as required under Regulation 53(f) read with Para A of Schedule VI of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements), 2015 of loans, advances and investments:
Particulars
Outstanding 
as at 
March 31, 2023
Maximum amount 
due at any time 
during the year 
ended March 31, 
2023
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2022
Maximum amount 
due at any time 
during the year 
ended March 31, 
2022
i. 	
Midday Infomedia 
Limited
 Nil 
 200.00 
 200.00 
 200.00 
ii. 	
Jagran Prakashan 
(MPC) Private Limited
 Nil 
 - 
 - 
 - 
iii. 	 Jagran Publications 
Private Limited
 Nil 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 200.00 
 200.00 
 200.00 
The Company had hitherto, without prejudice to its legal rights had fully provided for, receivables amounting to 
`1,568.31 and `130.03 due from Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited and Jagran Publications Private Limited 
respectively. However, given the inordinate delay in resolution of the disputes and the inevitable uncertainty inherent 
in the adjudication process, the Company had in the previous year written off the debts owed to it by Jagran Publication 
Private Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited. Based on legal advice received by the Company, such 
write offs do not adversely impact the Company's legal position in respect of its disputes with these companies and its 
shareholders. The Company will continue to vigorously protect all its legal rights in respect of the investments including 
financial exposure in Jagran Publication Private Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited, without in any 
manner being constricted by such write off [Also refer note 29(B)(II)(1)].
Jagran Prakashan Limited
218
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 29: Related party disclosure
A.	
List of related parties and their relationship
(a)  Holding Company
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Jagran Media Network 
Investment Private 
Limited
 Holding
India
67.97%
68.56%
(b)  Subsidiaries
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Midday Infomedia 
Limited
Subsidiary
India
100.00%
100.00%
Music Broadcast 
Limited
Subsidiary
India
74.05%
73.21%
(c)  Associates
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Leet OOH Media 
Private Limited
Associate
India
48.84%
48.84%
X-pert Publicity Private 
Limited
Associate
India
39.20%
39.20%
MMI Online Limited 
Associate
India
44.92%
44.92%
(d) Other investments
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Jagran Publications 
Private Limited *
[refer note 28(b) to 
28(d)]
India
40.00%
40.00%
Jagran Prakashan 
(MPC) Private Limited**
[refer note 28(b) to 
28(d)]
India
50.00%
50.00%
*Represents 40% paid-up capital of the Company carrying 50% voting rights.
**Represents 50% paid-up capital of the Company carrying 50% voting rights.
(e)	
Entities incorporated in India over which Key Management Personnel exercises significant influence
	
Lakshmi Consultants Private Limited
	
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
	
Jagmini Micro Knit Private Limited
	
Rave@Moti Entertainment Private Limited
	
Rave Real Estate Private Limited
	
V R S M Enterprises LLP  
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
219
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(f)	
Key Management Personnel (KMP), relatives and other related entities
	
(i)	
Key Management Personnel
Mahendra Mohan Gupta (Chairman and Managing Director)
Sanjay Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Sunil Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Shailesh Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Satish Chandra Mishra (Whole-time Director)
Sandeep Gupta (Whole-time Director w.e.f. May 30, 2022)
Devendra Mohan Gupta (Non-Executive Director)
Shailendra Mohan Gupta (Non-Executive Director)
Anuj Puri (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Shashidhar Sinha (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Vijay Tandon (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Shailendra Swarup (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Divya Karani (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Dilip Cherian (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Jayant Davar (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Ravi Sardana (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Vikram Sakhuja (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Amit Jaiswal (Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer)
	
(ii) 	 Relatives of Key Management Personnel and their related entities
Sameer Gupta (Brother of Whole-time Director)
Devesh Gupta (Son of Whole-time Director)
Tarun Gupta (Son of Whole-time Director)
Saroja Gupta (Mother of Whole-time Director)
Vijaya Gupta (Mother of Whole-time Director)
Pramila Gupta Estates (Estate of Late wife of Chairman and Managing Director )
Madhu Gupta (Wife of Whole-time Director)
Pragati Gupta (Wife of Whole-time Director)
Ruchi Gupta (Wife of Whole-time Director)
Bharat Gupta (Son of Non-Executive  Director)
Rajni Gupta (Wife of Non-Executive Director)
Raj Gupta (Wife of Non-Executive Director)
Narendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Sanjay Gupta HUF
Sandeep Gupta HUF
Mahendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Shailesh Gupta HUF
Yogendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Sunil Gupta HUF
Sameer Gupta HUF
Shailendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Devendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Devesh Gupta HUF
Tarun Gupta HUF
Bharat Gupta HUF
Rahul Gupta HUF
Siddhartha Gupta HUF
Note: Related parties listed in (e) and (f)(ii) are those with whom the Company had transactions during the current or previous year.
Note 29: Related party disclosure (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
220
B.	
Related party transactions
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Subsidiaries
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises over which 
Key Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
I.
Transactions with related parties
(1)
Revenue from advertisement, 
events, out of home and job 
work
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
20.32
31.49
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
20.32
31.49
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
137.65
80.15
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
137.65
80.15
Rave Real Estate Private Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
7.25
-
-
-
7.25
-
MMI Online Limited
-
11.05
14.73
-
11.05
14.73
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.12
0.07
-
-
0.12
0.07
-
-
157.97
111.64
11.05
14.73
-
-
7.37
0.07
-
-
176.39
126.44
(2)
Advertisement revenue share 
income
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
172.02
88.23
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
172.02
88.23
 - 
 - 
 172.02 
 88.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 172.02 
 88.23 
(3)
Advertisement revenue share 
expense
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
570.24
194.65
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
570.24
194.65
MMI Online Limited
-
-
-
-
584.88
304.16
-
-
-
-
-
-
584.88
304.16
 - 
 - 
 570.24 
 194.65 
 584.88 
 304.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,155.12 
 498.81 
(4)
Rent received
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
60.16
49.19
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
60.16
49.19
 - 
 - 
 60.16 
 49.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.16 
 49.19 
(5)
Interest income
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
4.07
4.91
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4.07
4.91
 - 
 - 
 4.07 
 4.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.07 
 4.91 
(6)
Newsprint advance given
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
48.43
297.60
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
48.43
297.60
 - 
 - 
 48.43 
 297.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.43 
 297.60 
(7)
Newsprint repayment received
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
-
82.13
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
82.13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 82.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 82.13 
(8)
Key management personnel 
compensation
Short tem employee benefits
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Related party disclosure (Contd.)
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Standalone
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
221
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Subsidiaries
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises over which 
Key Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
- Key management personnel
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,391.31
1,578.71
1,391.31
1,578.71
- Relatives
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
574.19
683.53
574.19
683.53
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-
1,965.50
2,262.24
1,965.50
2,262.24
(9)
Receiving of services
Lakshmi Consultants Private 
Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
185.58
168.00
-
-
185.58
168.00
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
-
-
-
-
33.11
52.69
-
-
-
-
-
-
33.11
52.69
MMI Online Limited
-
-
-
-
3,107.18
1,697.81
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,107.18
1,697.81
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
186.05
187.08
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
186.05
187.08
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
50.70
25.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50.70
25.00
X-Pert Publicity Private Limited
-
-
-
-
104.60
90.45
-
-
-
-
-
-
104.60
90.45
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11.89
5.02
-
-
11.89
5.02
 - 
 - 
 236.75 
 212.08 
 3,244.89 
 1,840.95 
 - 
 - 
 197.47 
 173.02 
 - 
 - 
 3,679.11 
 2,226.05 
(10)
Rent paid
VRSM Enterprises LLP
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
220.53
204.77
-
-
220.53
204.77
Midday Infomedia Limited
45.60
17.10
45.60
17.10
Music Broadcast Limited
5.87
5.87
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
203.67
196.58
203.67
196.58
 - 
 - 
 51.47 
 17.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 220.53 
 204.77 
 203.67 
 196.58 
 475.67 
 418.45 
(11)
Sitting fee
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
53.25
33.25
53.25
33.25
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 53.25 
 33.25 
 53.25 
 33.25 
(12)
Expenses reimbursement 
received
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
-
31.49
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31.49
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
41.36
38.53
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
41.36
38.53
MMI Online Limited
-
-
-
-
446.97
377.13
-
-
-
-
-
-
446.97
377.13
 - 
 - 
 41.36 
 70.02 
 446.97 
 377.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 488.33 
 447.15 
(13)
Expenses reimbursement paid
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
392.32
367.98
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
392.32
367.98
MMI Online Limited
-
-
-
-
90.48
131.73
-
-
-
-
-
-
90.48
131.73
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
3.50
0.33
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.50
0.33
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Related party disclosure (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
222
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Subsidiaries
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises over which 
Key Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
 - 
 - 
 395.82 
 368.31 
 90.48 
 131.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 486.30 
 500.04 
(14)
Sale of Spares
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
0.19
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.19
-
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.19 
 - 
(15)
Sale of property, plant and 
equipment
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
-
3.02
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.02
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
-
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.02 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3.02 
(16)
Purchase of goods
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
-
2.14
2.14
-
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
-
12.85
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12.85
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 12.85 
(17)
Loan given
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
-
200.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
200.00
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
(18)
Loan repayment received
Midday Infomedia Limited
200.00
200.00
-
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
(19)
Investment in equity shares 
(refer note 7 below)
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
400.00
-
400.00
 - 
 - 
 - 
 400.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 400.00 
(20)
Security deposit repayment 
received
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
160.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
160.00
-
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 - 
II.
Outstanding balances at year 
end
(1)
Investments
Midday Infomedia Limited - Equity 
shares
5,800.44
5,800.44
5,800.44
5,800.44
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Related party disclosure (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
223
Standalone
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Subsidiaries
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises over which 
Key Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
Music Broadcast Limited - Equity 
shares
19,615.46
18,952.29
19,615.46
18,952.29
Midday Infomedia Limited - 
Investment in equity component
2,810.00
2,810.00
2,810.00
2,810.00
X-Pert Publicity Private Limited- 
Equity shares
-
-
62.23
62.23
-
-
-
-
62.23
62.23
Leet OOH Media Private Limited- 
Equity shares
-
-
577.50
577.50
-
-
-
-
577.50
577.50
MMI Online Limited- Equity shares
-
-
559.95
559.95
-
-
-
-
559.95
559.95
Jagran Publications Private 
Limited- Equity shares
-
-
10.00
10.00
-
-
-
-
10.00
10.00
Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private 
Limited- Equity shares
-
-
0.50
0.50
-
-
-
-
0.50
0.50
Less: Provision for impairment in 
value of investments
-
-
(559.95)
-
(10.50)
(10.50)
-
-
-
-
(570.45)
(10.50)
-
-
28,225.90
27,562.73
639.73
1,199.68
-
-
-
-
-
-
28,865.63
28,762.41
(2)
Trade receivables
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
117.72
452.55
-
-
-
-
117.72
452.55
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2.19
-
-
-
2.19
-
 - 
 - 
 117.72 
 452.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 119.91 
 452.55 
(3)
Loans and advances (assets)
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
124.95
76.51
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
124.95
76.51
Midday Infomedia Limited loan 
(including interest receivable)
-
-
-
204.42
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
204.42
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1.60
-
-
-
1.60
-
 - 
 - 
 124.95 
 280.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 126.55 
 280.93 
(4)
Security deposits given
VRSM Enterprises LLP
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
165.00
165.00
-
-
165.00
165.00
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
160.00
-
-
-
160.00
Pramila Gupta Estates
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
Madhu Gupta
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
341.75
341.75
341.75
341.75
 - 
 - 
 - 
 160.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 165.00 
 165.00 
 441.75 
 441.75 
 606.75 
 766.75 
(5)
Security deposits received
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
50.00
50.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50.00
50.00
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Related party disclosure (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
224
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Subsidiaries
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises over which 
Key Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
 - 
 - 
 50.00 
 50.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 50.00 
 50.00 
(6)
Trade payables and other 
current liability
Midday Infomedia Limited
-
-
254.81
60.92
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
254.81
60.92
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
-
-
-
-
0.86
0.89
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.86
0.89
MMI Online Limited
-
-
-
-
206.75
0.65
-
-
-
-
-
-
206.75
0.65
Music Broadcast Limited
-
-
18.60
44.48
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
18.60
44.48
Lakshmi Consultants Pvt. Ltd.
27.94
27.94
-
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
2.14
2.14
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.02
-
139.27
138.78
139.29
138.78
 - 
 - 
 273.41 
 105.40 
 207.61 
 1.54 
 - 
 - 
 30.10 
 - 
 139.27 
 138.78 
 650.39 
 245.72 
Notes
(1)	
The sales, purchases and other transactions with related parties are at arm's length. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest free (except the interest bearing loans) are settled vide 
receipts / payments, except barter balances, which are settled on receipt/ provision of services. For the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to 
amounts owed by related parties (March 31, 2022: ` Nil). This assessment is undertaken for each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related 
party operates.
(2)	
Commitments
(a) 	
The Company had given continuing guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,500.00 to HDFC Bank Limited, on behalf of Music Broadcast Limited(subsidiary) towards bank guarantee extended by HDFC 
Bank Limited, Kanjur Marg, Mumbai branch to the subsidiary. The outstanding value of bank guarantee as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `2,166.28 (As at March 31, 2022: `2,166.28).
(b) 	
During the current year, the Company has issued a letter of comfort to Standard Chartered Bank for sanction of working capital facility for an amount not exceeding `800.00 for its wholly owned subsidiary 
Midday Infomedia Limited. The amount availed in respect thereof as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `250.75 (As at March 31, 2022: `100.02)
(c) 	
The Company has given a corporate guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,145.00 to ICICI Bank Limited for its wholly owned subsidiary Midday Infomedia Limited (subsidiary) in relation to the outstanding 
term loan. The term loan outstanding in respect thereof as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `936.98 (March 31, 2022 amounted to `1,326.10).
(3)	
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited ("Ultimate Holding Company") has given an undertaking to the Company to make good any shortfall in recovery of an advance of `475.00 given to Shakumbari 
Straw Product Limited.
(4)	
The Company has undertaken that the Promoter Group shall hold at least 60% equity shareholding in the Company, directly or indirectly, and exercise management control till the tenor of the NCDs.
(5)	
The remuneration to key managerial personnel and their relatives does not include the provision made for gratuity and leave benefits, as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole.
(6)	
Refer note 22(b) for details of CSR expenditure in relation to receiving of services through related parties.
(7)	
The Company had given a letter of support to its subsidary Company, Midday Infomedia Limited, for commitment of investment upto `2,500.00 out of which investment of `2,000.00 has been made by way of 
subscription to equity share capital of Midday Infomedia Limited upto March 31, 2022.
(8)	
The figures exclude GST, as applicable.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 29: Related party disclosure (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
225
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 30: Fair value measurements
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
FVTPL
FVTOCI Amortised cost 
FVTPL
FVTOCI Amortised cost 
Financial assets
Investments
- Equity instruments
 319.46 
 - 
 - 
 267.60 
 - 
 - 
- Bonds and debentures
 - 
 - 
 26,333.07 
 - 
 - 
 24,602.94 
- Corporate fixed deposits
 - 
 - 
 2,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 3,990.00 
- Mutual funds and alternate 
investement fund
 48,659.73 
 - 
 - 
 50,833.44 
 - 
 - 
Trade receivables
 - 
 - 
 36,129.37 
 - 
 - 
 33,785.99 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 4,166.23 
 - 
 - 
 3,529.42 
Other bank balances
 - 
 - 
 355.69 
 - 
 - 
 9,391.53 
Loans (including interest receivable)
 - 
 - 
 220.17 
 - 
 - 
 407.95 
Security deposits
 - 
 - 
 3,275.12 
 - 
 - 
 2,463.67 
Insurance claim recoverable
 - 
 - 
 18.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Fixed deposits (including interest)
 - 
 - 
 612.96 
 - 
 - 
 725.44 
Interest accrued on bonds and 
debentures
 - 
 - 
 890.58 
 - 
 - 
 857.75 
Unbilled revenue
 - 
 - 
 1,274.96 
 - 
 - 
 873.73 
Total financial assets
48,979.19 
 - 
 75,276.78 
51,101.04 
 - 
 80,628.42 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (including interest accrued)
 - 
 - 
 27,327.70 
 - 
 - 
 28,073.95 
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 14,461.98 
 - 
 - 
 11,670.31 
Lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 5,411.09 
 - 
 - 
 5,518.87 
Security deposits (including interest 
accrued on security deposits received)
 - 
 - 
 8,699.49 
 - 
 - 
 8,522.58 
Unpaid dividend
 - 
 - 
 22.16 
 - 
 - 
 20.39 
Other payables
 - 
 - 
 2,119.45 
 - 
 - 
 2,613.82 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 58,041.87 
 - 
 - 
 56,419.92 
(i) Fair value hierarchy
The following table summarises the financial instruments at fair value by valuation methods. The different levels have been 
defined as follows:
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes listed equity instruments 
and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments which are traded in the stock exchanges is valued 
using the closing price as at the reporting date. The mutual funds are valued using the closing net asset value.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This 
is the case for investment in certain private equity funds and unlisted equity instruments.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
226
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 30: Fair value measurements (Contd.)
Financial assets measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Level 1
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVTPL:
Listed equity investments
309.07
-
309.07
 257.21 
 - 
 257.21 
Unlisted equity investments
-
10.39
10.39
 - 
 10.39 
 10.39 
Mutual funds and alternative 
investment fund
48,272.88
386.85
48,659.73
 50,733.46 
 99.98 
 50,833.44 
Total financial assets
48,581.95
397.24
48,979.19
 50,990.67 
 110.37 
 51,101.04 
The Company’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the reporting 
period. There are no transfers between levels 1 and 3 during the year.
(ii) Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Financial assets in level 1 category includes investment in listed equity instruments and investment in mutual funds, where the 
fair values for equity instruments have been determined based on quoted market price and fair values for mutual funds have 
been determined based on closing net asset value.
Financial assets in level 3 category includes investment in private equity fund and unlisted equity instruments. In the case of 
investment in alternate investment+ fund, the fair values have been determined based on the net asset value. Investment in 
unlisted equity instruments is not usually traded in the market and considering the best information available, cost of investment 
is considered as fair value of the investments.
The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost are considered to be approximate to their fair 
values due to their short-term nature.
(iii) Valuation processes
The finance department of the Company includes Chief General Manager (Finance) who performs the valuation of financial assets 
and liabilities required for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 values. The Chief General Manager (Finance) reports 
directly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
Note 31: Financial risk management
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company's board 
of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk management framework.
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk.
Risk
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, trade 
receivables, financial assets 
measured at amortised cost and 
fair value through profit or loss
Ageing analysis Credit ratings
Diversification of bank deposits, 
credit limits and letters of credit 
Investment guidelines for debt 
investments
Liquidity risk
Borrowings and other liabilities
Rolling cash flow forecasts
Availability of committed credit 
lines and borrowing facilities
Market risk – foreign 
exchange
Recognised financial assets and 
liabilities not denominated in 
Indian rupee (INR)
Cash flow forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Insignificant foreign currency 
exposure
Market risk – interest 
rate
Borrowings at variable rates
Periodical monitoring with 
respect to market conditions
Replacing high cost borrowings 
with low cost borrowings from 
time to time
Market risk – security 
prices
Investments in equity securities
Observing market prices, 
operations and Cash flows and 
market reports
Portfolio diversification
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
227
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
The Company’s risk management is predominantly controlled by a treasury department under policies approved by the board 
of directors. Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Company’s operating units. 
The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as foreign 
exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
Risk management is carried out under policies approved by the Board of Directors which provides principles for overall risk 
management.
(A) 	 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company's receivables from customers and deposits and investments 
in the financial institutions. The carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure.
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make contractual payments as per agreed terms. This definition 
of default is determined by considering the business environment in which entity operates and other macro-economic 
factors.
Assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. The Company writes off debtors when they fail 
to make contractual payment greater than 5 years past due.
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase 
in credit risk the Company compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date with the risk of 
default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking information.
For banks and financial institutions, risk is managed by accepting only independently rated parties with a minimum rating 
of ‘A’.
The Company’s investments in debt instruments are considered to be low risk investments. The credit ratings of the 
investments are monitored for credit deterioration.
	
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation by the counter party resulting in financial loss. The maximum exposure 
to the credit risk at the reporting date is primarily from trade receivable amounting to `9,803.12, `10,763.90 as at March 
31, 2023, March 31, 2022 , respectively. The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk of its customer 
base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate. The Company has a credit risk 
management policy in place to limit credit losses due to non-performance of financial counterparties and customers. The 
Company monitors its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis at various levels. Outstanding customer receivables are 
regularly monitored. The Company closely monitors the acceptable financial counterparty credit ratings and credit limits 
and revise where required in line with the market circumstances.
Due to the geographical spread and the diversity of the Company's customers, the Company is not subject to any significant 
concentration of credit risks at Balance Sheet date.
On account of adoption of Ind AS 109, the Company uses a simplified approach (lifetime expected credit loss model) for the 
purpose of computation of expected credit loss for trade receivables.
The Company calculates expected credit loss on its trade receivables using 'allowance matrix'.
Significant estimates: The impairment provisions for financial assets disclosed above are based on assumptions about risk 
of default and expected loss rates. The Company uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs 
to the impairment calculation, based on the Company’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking 
estimates at the end of each reporting period. For trade receivables only, the Company applies the simplified approach 
permitted by Ind AS 109, “Financial Instruments”, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial 
recognition of the receivables.
Management judgment is required for assessing the recoverability of trade receivables and the valuation of the allowances 
for impairment of trade receivables. The Company makes impairment allowance for trade receivables based on an 
assessment of the recoverability of trade receivables. Allowances are applied to trade receivables where events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the balances may not be collectible. The impairment allowance is estimated by management 
Note 31: Financial risk management (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
228
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
based on historical experience and current economic environment, The Company assesses the expected credit losses by 
calibrating historical experience with forward-looking estimates. This may include information regarding the industry in which 
debtors are operating, historical and post year-end payment records, as well as creditworthiness of debtors.
	
Cash & cash equivalents and bank deposits
Credit risk related to cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits is managed by only accepting highly rated banks and 
diversifying bank deposits accounts in different banks across the country.
	
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost includes security deposits and others. Credit risk related to these other 
financial assets is managed by monitoring the recoverability of such amounts continuously.The Company’s investments in 
debt instruments are considered to be low risk investments. The credit ratings of the investments are monitored for credit 
deterioration.
(B) 	 Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding 
to meet obligations when due. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company’s liquidity position and cash and cash 
equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows. 	
	
(i) 	
Financing arrangements
	
The Company had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Floating rate
Expiring within one year (cash credit from Central Bank of India)
- Fund based
 12,124.14 
 13,735.94 
- Non fund based
 4,545.53 
 4,024.78 
Expiring within one year (Non fund based from Yes Bank Limited)
 1,618.11 
 1,746.77 
Short term loan from Deutsche Bank AG 
 - 
 10,000.00 
Total
 18,287.78 
 29,507.49 
	
(ii) 	 Maturities of financial liabilities
	
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross 
and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
	
	
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities
Particulars
Less than 1 
year
Between 1 and 
2 years
Between 2 and 
5 years
Above 5 Years
Total
March 31, 2023
Non-derivatives
Borrowings including interest
 19,827.70 
 7,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 27,327.70 
Trade payables
 14,461.98 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,461.98 
Lease liabilities
 1,494.19 
 1,101.95 
 2,293.56 
 2,394.85 
 7,284.55 
Other financial liabilities
 10,841.10 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10,841.10 
Total non-derivative liabilities
 46,624.97 
 8,601.95 
 2,293.56 
 2,394.85 
 59,915.33 
Particulars
Less than 1 
year
Between 1 and 
2 years
Between 2 and 
5 years
Above 5 Years
Total
March 31, 2022
Non-derivatives
Borrowings including interest
 3,130.52 
 17,500.00 
 7,500.00 
 - 
 28,130.52 
Trade payables
 11,670.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,670.31 
Lease liabilities
 1,433.63 
 1,168.95 
 2,418.51 
 3,041.82 
 8,062.91 
Other financial liabilities
 11,156.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,156.79 
Total non-derivative liabilities
 27,391.25 
 18,668.95 
 9,918.51 
 3,041.82 
 59,020.53 
Note 31: Financial risk management (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
229
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 31: Financial risk management (Contd.)
(C) 	 Market risk
	
(i) 	
Foreign currency risk
The Company operates in India and is not materially exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency 
transactions. The Company generally deals in USD for newsprint purchases from outside India. Foreign exchange risk 
arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not 
the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is monitored and measured in a volatile currency environment through 
dependable forecasts by the external resources and is addressed by exiting from the exposure in material cases.
	
	
(a) 	 Foreign currency risk exposure:
	
	
	
The Company's exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period expressed in INR, is as follows
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
USD
USD
Financial assets
Trade receivables
 253.80 
418.34
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 3,823.67 
 2,175.59 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk
 3,569.87 
 1,757.25 
Note: The exposure is not considered to be significant and hence sensitivity disclosure has not been made.
	
(ii) 	 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Company's main interest rate risk arises from borrowings with variable rates, which exposes the Company to cash 
flow interest rate risk. During March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the Company's borrowings at variable rate were 
denominated in INR.
The Company's fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk 
as defined in Ind AS 107 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures), since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash 
flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
	
	
(a) 	 Interest rate risk exposure
	
	
	
The exposure of the Company's borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Variable rate borrowings
 375.86 
 1,164.06 
Fixed rate borrowings
 26,951.84 
 24,943.43 
Total borrowings 
 27,327.70 
 26,107.49 
	
	
	
Weighted average rate of borrowings as at March 31, 2023 ranges from 7.25% p.a. to 8.45% p.a.
	
	
	
Note: The exposure is not considered to be significant and hence sensitivity disclosure has not been made.
	
(iii) 	 Price risk
	
	
The Company does not have significant equity investments that are publicly traded. The Company does not have 
significant non-listed equity securities that are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future 
values of the investment securities. The Company manages its investment in unquoted securities by monitoring the 
cash flow measures.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
230
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Credit Risk
Expected credit loss for trade receivables and unbilled revenue as at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Unbilled
Not Due
Less than 6 
Months
6 Months - 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Gross carrying amount - 
trade receivables
-
14,539.88
11,683.38
4,241.01
4,182.70
2,838.08
8,390.21
45,875.26
Gross carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
1,332.19
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,332.19
Expected credit loss rate
4.30%
4.23%
4.23%
31.17%
34.43%
52.22%
52.36%
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- trade receivables
-
614.77
493.99
1,321.73
1,440.20
1,482.15
4,393.05
9,745.89
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- unbilled revenue
57.23
-
-
-
-
-
-
57.23
Net carrying amount - 
trade receivables
-
13,925.11
11,189.39
2,919.28
2,742.50
1,355.93
3,997.16
36,129.37
Net carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
1,274.96
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,274.96
Expected credit loss for trade receivables and unbilled revenue as at March 31, 2022
Particulars
Unbilled
Not Due
Less than 6 
Months
6 Months - 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Gross carrying amount - 
trade receivables
-
11,295.67
16,066.78
2,732.29
3,351.45
2,794.65
8,309.05
44,549.89
Gross carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
873.73
-
-
-
-
-
-
873.73
Expected credit loss rate
0.00%
4.79%
1.27%
5.44%
14.25%
38.78%
100.00%
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- trade receivables
-
540.91
204.09
148.65
477.55
1,083.65
8,309.05
10,763.90
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- unbilled revenue
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net carrying amount - 
trade receivables
- 10,754.76 15,862.69
2,583.64
2,873.90
1,711.00
- 33,785.99
Net carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
873.73
-
-
-
-
-
-
873.73
Reconciliation of loss allowance on trade receivables and unbilled revenue
Particulars
Unbilled 
Revenue
Trade 
receivables
Loss allowance on April 1, 2021
 - 
 10,521.43 
Changes in loss allowance (net of bad debts)
 - 
 242.47 
Loss allowance on March 31, 2022
 - 
 10,763.90 
Changes in loss allowance (net of bad debts)
 57.23 
 (1,018.01)
Loss allowance on March 31, 2023
 57.23 
 9,745.89 
Note 31: Financial risk management (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
231
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 32: Capital management	
(a)	
Risk management
	
The Company's objective when managing capital are to:
- Safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for the shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders, and
- Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. There were no changes made in the 
objective, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022. 
Consistent with others in the industry, the Company monitors capital on the basis of the following gearing ratio:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Net Debt
 28,572.56 
 28,096.94 
Total equity
 1,36,146.45 
 1,66,197.95 
Net debt to equity ratio
 0.21 
 0.17 
	
The Company has complied with the debt covenants as per the terms of the borrowing facilities throughout the reporting 
period.
(b) 	 Dividend
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity shares
Interim dividend for the year ended March 31, 2023: `4.00  (March 31, 2022: 
Nil) per fully paid share
 (10,546.17)
 - 
Note 33: The Company is engaged primarily in the business of printing and publication of newspaper and magazines in India. 
The other activities of the Company comprise outdoor advertising business, event management and activation business and 
digital businesses. The Board of Directors of the Company, which has been identified as being the chief operating decision maker 
(CODM), evaluates the Company's performance, allocates resources based on the analysis of the various performance indicators 
of the Company as a single unit. Therefore there is no reportable segment for the Company, in accordance with the requirements 
of Ind AS 108- 'Operating Segment Reporting', notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standard) Rules, 2015.
The Company does not have transactions of more than 10% of total revenue from a single external customer.
Note 34: The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
Note 35: There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Company.
Note 36: There was an incident of fire at a rented warehouse of the Company on November 6, 2020 which had resulted in 
destruction of inventory of raw materials (newsprint) valued at `3,754.06. During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Company 
had received the full and final payment of `3,438.28 from the insurance Company for the aforesaid insurance claim. Accordingly, 
`564.26 being the difference between `3,438.28 and insurance claim receivable recorded in the books, had been recognised 
and included as part of "Exceptional items" in the Statement for the year ended March 31, 2022.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
232
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building located 
at 2, Sarvodaya 
Nagar, Kanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh
94.33 
(Refer Note 1)      
50.19 
(Refer Note 1)        
Yogendra Mohan Gupta HUF,
Mahendra Mohan Gupta HUF,
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta HUF,
Devendra Mohan Gupta HUF,
Shailendra Mohan Gupta HUF,
Sanjay Gupta HUF,
Sandeep Gupta HUF 
(Refer Note 2)
Yes
From July 1975 
(Refer Note 3)
Building has been constructed on land taken 
on lease by the Company vide agreement to 
lease (renewal) dated June 8, 2021.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building located 
at Plot no. 23, Civil 
Lines, Gorakhpur, 
Uttar Pradesh
61.73 
(Refer Note 1)     
30.54 
(Refer Note 1)        
Smt. Saroja Gupta, 
Smt. Vijaya Gupta,
Smt. Raj Gupta,
Smt. Rajni Gupta 
(Refer Note 2)
Yes
From July 1975 
(Refer Note 3)
Building has been constructed on land taken 
on lease by the Company vide agreement to 
lease (renewal) dated June 8, 2021.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building located at 
Jagran office, Deval 
Chaur, Rampur Road, 
Haldwani
94.02 
(Refer Note 1)      
52.37 
(Refer Note 1)       
Sandeep Gupta 
(Refer Note 2)
Yes
From July  31, 
2004 
(Refer Note 3)
Building has been constructed on land taken 
on lease by the Company vide agreement to 
lease (renewal) dated June 8, 2021.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building located 
at Plot No. 57 A-3, 
Meera Bai Marg, 
Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh
21.80  
(Refer Note 1)
12.87  
(Refer Note 1)
Mahendra Mohan Gupta,
Yogendra Mohan Gupta,
Devendra Mohan Gupta  
(Refer Note 2)
Yes
From September 
22, 1995 (Refer 
Note 3)
Building has been constructed on land taken 
on lease by the Company vide Building 
Property Development Agreement dated 
September 22, 1995.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information
(i) 	
With respect to immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the Company) disclosed in the financial 
statements included in property, plant and equipment and investment property, the title deeds of such immovable properties are held in the name of the Company as at March 31, 2023, except for 
the following:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
233
Standalone
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Freehold land
Freehold land 
located at D-140, 
Saket, Meerut, Uttar 
Pradesh, measuring 
835.40 square meter
6.30
6.30
Jagran Limited
No
From April 1, 
2000 
(Refer Note 3)
The title deed is in the name of Jagran Limited, 
whose running business was taken over by 
Jagran Prakashan Limited on April 1, 2000 
on lock, stock and barrel basis, pursuant to 
the business purchase agreement dated July 
5, 2000.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings
Building on freehold 
land located at 
D-140, Saket, Meerut, 
Uttar Pradesh, 
measuring 835.40 
square meter
75.47 
(Refer Note 1)
35.61 
(Refer Note 1)
Jagran Limited
No
From April 1, 
2000 
(Refer Note 3)
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings
Freehold land and 
building located 
at Plot no.  918 to 
922, Municipal No. 
76/64, Industrial 
area, Saharanpur 
Road, Patel Nagar, 
Dehradun, measuring 
1924.20 square 
meter
429.69 
(Refer Note 1)      
193.85 
(Refer Note 1)      
Jagran Limited
No
From April 1, 
2000 
(Refer Note 3)
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Freehold land
Freehold land 
located at Shivpuri 
Link Road, Chirwai 
Naka, Ward - 59, 
Zone-13 Gwalior, 
Madhya Pradesh, 
measuring 1.045 
hectare 
17.49
17.49
Naidunia News and Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of Naidunia 
News and Network Private Limited. The name 
of this entity was later changed to Naidunia 
Media Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia Media Limited 
pursuant to change of name on conversion to 
a public limited Company on March 28, 2012 
as per the fresh certificate of incorporation 
issued by the Registrar of Companies, 
Madhya Pradesh. The print business of 
Naidunia Media Limited was demerged and 
transferred to Jagran Prakashan Limited 
under the scheme of arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from the 
appointed date April 1, 2012, in accordance 
with the order dated January 16, 2013 of the 
Hon’ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings
Building on freehold 
land located at 
Shivpuri Link Road, 
Chirwai Naka, Ward 
-59, Zone-13 Gwalior, 
Madhya Pradesh
127.36 
(Refer Note 1)      
31.69 
(Refer Note 1)      
Naidunia News and Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
234
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building on leasehold 
land located at Plot 
No. 51, Nagjhiri, 
Industrial Area, 
Dewas Road, Ujjain, 
measuring 10,000 
square feet
74.82 
(Refer Note 1)         
33.63 
(Refer Note 1)         
Naidunia Media Private 
Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of Naidunia 
Media Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia Media Limited 
pursuant to change of name on conversion to 
a public limited Company on March 28, 2012 
as per the fresh certificate of incorporation 
issued by the Registrar of Companies, 
Madhya Pradesh. The print business of 
Naidunia Media Limited was demerged and 
transferred to Jagran Prakashan Limited 
under the scheme of arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from the 
appointed date April 1, 2012, in accordance 
with the order dated January 16, 2013 of the 
Hon’ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building on leasehold 
land located at Plot 
No. 12, 13, 14 in front 
of BEC Fertilizer, 
Industrial Area, 
Sirgitti, Bilaspur, 
measuring 30,000 
square feet
102.56 
(Refer Note 1)        
42.64 
(Refer Note 1)         
Naidunia News and Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of Naidunia 
News and Network Private Limited. The name 
of this entity was later changed to Naidunia 
Media Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia Media Limited 
pursuant to change of name on conversion to 
a public limited Company on March 28, 2012 
as per the fresh certificate of incorporation 
issued by the Registrar of Companies, 
Madhya Pradesh. The print business of 
Naidunia Media Limited was demerged and 
transferred to Jagran Prakashan Limited 
under the scheme of arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from the 
appointed date April 1, 2012, in accordance 
with the order dated January 16, 2013 of the 
Hon’ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building on leasehold 
land located at Plot 
No. 23/4 and 23/5, 
Sector D, Industrial 
area, Govindpura, 
Bhopal, measuring 
45,000 square feet
126.10 
(Refer Note 1)        
52.71 
(Refer Note 1)        
Naidunia News and Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building on leasehold 
land located at Plot 
No. 90, Industrial 
Estate, Richhai, 
Jabalpur, measuring 
60,000 square feet
110.20 
(Refer Note 1)       
44.72 
(Refer Note 1)        
Naidunia News and Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
235
Standalone
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(c): Investment 
property 
Apartment No. 
CS1/1902, CS1/1903, 
CS1/1904 and 
CM01/1904 at 
19th floor, Tower 
CS01 and CM01, 
Capetown, Sector 
74, Noida, measuring 
5,395 square feet in 
total
275.96
153.94
Supertech Limited 
No
From May 25, 
2017
Property agreement and possession letters 
were executed in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited, however, the registration 
of the property has not been done.
Note 3(c): Investment 
property 
Eco Village -1, 
Tower -G 1, Flat 
No.-G1-1403, Noida 
(West) measuring 
2364 square feet 
71.97
47.88
Supertech Limited 
No
From March 1, 
2019
Property agreement and allotment letter 
were executed in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited, however, the registration 
of the property has not been done.
Note 3(c): Investment 
property 
Apartment No. 
1503-A, at 15th floor 
Prosperity Tower - B, 
Sikka Karmic Greens, 
Plot no. GH-1/C 
Sector-78, Noida, 
measuring 4,350 
square feet.
65.69
38.83
G. S. Promoters Private 
Limited 
No
From December 
22, 2017
Property agreement and possession letter 
were executed in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited, however, the registration 
of the property has not been done.
Note 3(c): Investment 
property 
Supertech Eco Citi, 
Unit No. O-2001 and 
O-2101 located at 
GH-03, Sector-137, 
Noida measuring 
2590 square feet in 
total
145.04
83.11
Investors Clinic Infratech 
Private Limited
No
From August 29, 
2017
Property agreement and possession letter 
were executed in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited, however, the registration 
of the property has not been done.
Note 3(c): Investment 
property 
Amrapali Platinum, 
Flat No. E-2503, Floor 
- 25 Sector - 119, 
Noida, measuring 
1000 square feet.
44.82
 24.62 
Creative Thinks Media Private 
Limited
No
From April 01, 
2017
Property agreement and possession letter 
were executed in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited, however, the registration 
of the property has not been done.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
236
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(c): Investment 
property 
Amrapali Golf 
Homes, Flat No. B5-
2005, GH-02, Sector 
4, Greater Noida, 
measuring 1425 
square feet.
49.37
 48.00 
Amarapali Group
No
From December 
15, 2022
Property agreement and possession letter 
were executed in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan Limited, however, the registration 
of the property has not been done.
Note 1: Includes additions (net of deletions) from the date of execution of the conveyance deed/indenture/sale deed/ lease agreement, upto the year ended March 31, 2023.
Note 2: The particulars noted regarding the details of “held in the name of” are as per the corresponding agreement to lease / Building Property Development Agreement for the respective immovable 
property.
Note 3: The particulars noted regarding the details of “Period held” are as certified by the management of the Company.
(ii) 	 In respect of immovable properties that have been taken on lease (where the Company is the lessee) and disclosed in the financial statements as right-of-use assets as at the 
balance sheet date, the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the Company, except immovable properties as mentioned below:
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(b): Right-of-use 
assets - Leasehold land
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
1/1, Rajbandha 
Maidan, Raipur, 
measuring 10,000 
square feet
18.48
16.72
Naidunia Media Private 
Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of Naidunia 
Media Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia Media Limited 
pursuant to change of name on conversion to 
a public limited Company on March 28, 2012 
as per the fresh certificate of incorporation 
issued by the Registrar of Companies, 
Madhya Pradesh. The print business of 
Naidunia Media Limited was demerged and 
transferred to Jagran Prakashan Limited 
under the scheme of arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from the 
appointed date April 1, 2012, in accordance 
with the order dated January 16, 2013 of the 
Hon’ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Note 3(b): Right-of-use 
assets - Leasehold land
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
51, Nagjhiri, Industrial 
Area, Dewas Road, 
Ujjain, measuring 
10,000 square feet
25.04
17.24
Naidunia Media Private 
Limited
No
From April 1, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
237
Standalone
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(b): Right-of-use 
assets - Leasehold land
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
12, 13, 14. In front 
of BEC Fertilizer, 
Industrial Area, 
Sirgitti, Bilaspur, 
measuring 30,000 
square feet
3.08
2.81
Naidunia News and  Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 01, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The lease deed is in the name of Naidunia 
News and Network Private Limited. The name 
of this entity was later changed to Naidunia 
Media Private Limited. Subsequently, the 
name was changed to Naidunia Media Limited 
pursuant to change of name on conversion to 
a public limited Company on March 28, 2012 
as per the fresh certificate of incorporation 
issued by the Registrar of Companies, 
Madhya Pradesh. The print business of 
Naidunia Media Limited was demerged and 
transferred to Jagran Prakashan Limited 
under the scheme of arrangement under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from the 
appointed date April 1, 2012, in accordance 
with the order dated January 16, 2013 of the 
Hon’ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
Note 3(b): Right-of-use 
assets - Leasehold land
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
23/4 & 23/5, Sector 
D, Industrial area, 
Govindpura, Bhopal, 
measuring 45,000 
square feet
15.54
9.77
Naidunia News and  Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 01, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Note 3(b): Right-of-use 
assets - Leasehold land
Leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
90, Industrial estate, 
Richhai, Jabalpur, 
measuring 60,000 
square feet
1.35
0.88
Naidunia News and  Network 
Private Limited
No
From April 01, 
2012, appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
238
(iii)	 Immovable properties of land and buildings whose title deeds have been pledged as security for cash credit facility and issuance of non-convertible debentures are held in the 
name of the Company except for the following:
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Freehold land
Freehold land 
located at Khasra 
no. 208, Gram 
Sonakpur, Kanth 
Road, Moradabad, 
Uttar Pradesh, 
measuring 1.00 
acre 
7.34
7.34
Rohilkhand Publication  
Private Limited
No
From January 
1, 2001, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of 
Rohilkhand Publication Private Limited 
which was subsequently amalgamated 
with the Jagran Prakashan Limited as per 
the scheme of amalgamation under the 
Companies Act, 1956 with effect from 
the appointed date January 1, 2001, in 
accordance with the order dated April 
24, 2002 of the Hon’ble High Court of 
Allahabad.
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings
Building on 
freehold land 
located at Khasra 
no. 208, Gram 
Sonakpur, Kanth 
Road, Moradabad, 
Uttar Pradesh, 
measuring 1.00 
acre
161.33 
(Refer Note 4)
85.13 
(Refer Note 4)
Rohilkhand Publication  
Private Limited
No
From January 
1, 2001, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Freehold land
Freehold land 
located at 
survey No. 1195, 
Mahalgaon, 
Jhansi road 
colony, Gwalior, 
Madhya Pradesh, 
measuring the 
15,750 square feet
347.85
347.85
Naidunia Media Limited
No
From April 
1, 2012, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of Naidunia 
Media Limited. Subsequently, the print 
business of Naidunia Media Limited was 
demerged and transferred to Jagran 
Prakashan Limited under the scheme of 
arrangement under the Companies Act, 
1956 with effect from the appointed 
date April 1, 2012, in accordance with 
the order dated January 16, 2013 of the 
Hon’ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
239
Standalone
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings
Freehold land and 
Building located at 
Plot No. 21 bearing 
Property No. 629/1 
(adjoining shed No. 
14-B and 20-B), 
Industrial Estate, 
Hisar, Haryana, 
measuring 1502.66 
square yards
12.20 
(Refer Note 4)     
7.02 
(Refer Note 4)     
Jagran Prakashan (Delhi) 
Private Limited
No
From January 
1, 2001, 
appointed 
date as per 
the approved 
scheme
The title deed is in the name of Jagran 
Prakashan (Delhi) Private Limited which was 
subsequently amalgamated with Jagran 
Prakashan Limited as per the scheme of 
amalgamation under the Companies Act, 
1956 with effect from the appointed date 
January 1, 2001, in accordance with the 
order dated April 24, 2002 of the Hon’ble 
High Court of Allahabad.
Note 4: Includes additions (net of deletions) from the date of execution of the conveyance deed/indenture/sale deed/ lease agreement, upto the year ended March 31, 2023.
(iv) 	 With respect to immovable properties disclosed in the financial statements included in property, plant and equipment where title is under dispute, the details are as given below:
Relevant line item in 
the Balance Sheet
Description of 
property
As at the Balance sheet date
Held in the name of
Whether 
promoter, 
director or 
their relative 
or  employee
Period held 
Reason for not being held in name of 
Company
Gross carrying  
value in the 
financial 
statements
Carrying value 
in the financial 
statements
Note 3(a) : Property, 
plant and equipment - 
Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land
Building 
constructed on 
leasehold land 
located at Plot No. 
7P and Plot No. 8, 
Tatisilwai Phase 
1, Industrial area, 
Ranchi, measuring 
36,590.40 square 
feet in total
114.81 
(Refer Note 5)     
51.66 
(Refer Note 5)     
Land is owned by 
Ranchi Industrial Area 
Development Authority 
(RIADA)
No
From July 14, 
2012 
(Refer Note 6)
The Company had constructed a building 
on leasehold land. Subsequently, there 
was a dispute between the Company 
and Ranchi Industrial Area Development 
Authority (RIADA) regarding the 
leasehold rights for the leasehold land 
and additional consideration of `44.93 
Lakhs was demanded by RIADA in 
respect thereof. This litigation is pending 
adjudication at the Hon’ble High Court 
of Jharkhand at Ranchi. Based on the 
legal advice obtained by the Company, 
and in view of the present status of the 
case, the management believes that the 
Company has strong chances of success 
in the above-mentioned case.
Note 5: Includes additions (net of deletions) from the date of execution of the conveyance deed/indenture/sale deed/ lease agreement, upto the year ended March 31, 2023.
Note 6: The particulars noted regarding the details of “Period held” are as certified by the management of the Company.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
240
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
(v) 	 The Company does not have any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and 
rules made thereunder and there is no pending proceeding against the Company.
(vi)	 The Company has been sanctioned a working capital limit from a bank of `17,500.00 (which included `12,500.00 relating to 
cash credit facility limit and `5,000.00 relating to non fund based facility limit) during the year and the borrowing outstanding 
in respect thereof as at March 31, 2023 amounted to `375.86 relating to the cash credit facility and utilisation of `454.47 
relating to the non fund based facility. The quarterly returns / statements of current assets filed by the Company with the 
bank were in agreement with the books of account for the year ended March 31, 2023.
(vii)	 The Company has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or any lender as defined under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India.
(viii)	 Relationship with struck off companies:
Name of Struck off 
Company
Nature of 
transactions
Transactions 
during the 
year March 31, 
2023*
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as 
at March 31, 
2023 
Transactions 
during the 
year March 31, 
2022*
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as at 
March 31, 2022 
Relationship 
with the Struck 
off Company 
Virtualimage Media & 
Entertainment Private 
Limited
Receivables
 (0.18)
 1.39 
 0.02 
 1.57 Not applicable
I-Abroad Education & 
Immigration Services 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.65 
 - 
 0.65 Not applicable
Flyking Education Private 
Limited    
Receivables
 - 
 0.15 
 0.25 
 0.15 Not applicable
Manavta Technology 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 9.36 
 - 
 9.36 Not applicable
Ghar Sansar Trademart 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - Not applicable
CIIS Educational Services 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
 0.13 Not applicable
Adwave Publicity & Media 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 20.06 
 - 
 20.06 Not applicable
Siddiqui Buildcon Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.23 
 - 
 0.23 Not applicable
PP Operation & 
Maintenance Services 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 0.02 Not applicable
Shubh Life Realty 
Developers Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.76 
 - 
 0.76 Not applicable
Path-Right Consultancy 
Private Limited
Receivables
 (0.15)
 2.33 
 0.01 
 2.48 Not applicable
Vissar Infotech Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.09 
 - 
 0.09 Not applicable
Shidhibhumi Developers 
& Associates Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 - 
 0.50 
 - Not applicable
Amplitudes Advertising & 
Mktg Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 15.48 
 1.42 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Lintas India Limited
Receivables
 25.02 
 2.28 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Central Coalfields Ltd
Receivables
 1.16 
 1.16 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Prachi Media Consultants 
Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 3.18 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
241
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of Struck off 
Company
Nature of 
transactions
Transactions 
during the 
year March 31, 
2023*
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as 
at March 31, 
2023 
Transactions 
during the 
year March 31, 
2022*
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as at 
March 31, 2022 
Relationship 
with the Struck 
off Company 
Shaheez Pharmaceuticals 
Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 0.68 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Unnatti Advertising Pvt.
Ltd.
Receivables
 3.32 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Touchstone Advertising 
Pvt.Ltd.
Receivables
 0.66 
 0.01 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Sigma Edu Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 0.08 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Homoeocare
Receivables
 0.06 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Visrap Media Private 
Limited
Receivables
 2.20 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Span Communications 
Pvt.Ltd
Receivables
 69.28 
 23.09 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Preeyadarshani Homes 
Pvt. Ltd.
Receivables
 1.12 
 1.02 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Pathshala
Receivables
 0.47 
 (0.03)
 - 
 - Not applicable
The National Credit Co-
Oper. Society Ltd
Receivables
 0.16 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Appliq Airways Academy 
Pvt. Ltd.
Receivables
 - 
 0.61 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Jagannath Edibles Pvt. 
Ltd.
Receivables
 - 
 0.09 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Bhagalpur City 
Developers Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 - 
 3.80 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Nvu Retail International  
Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 0.66 
 0.66 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Asha Audio & 
Communication Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 14.43 
 2.16 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Injectoplast Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 2.10 
 2.10 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Beautex Advertising 
Media Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 213.86 
 41.55 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Abs Township Pvt.Ltd
Receivables
 6.80 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Nams Resort Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 0.34 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Bhushan India Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.98 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Sandalee Real Estates Pr 
& Dev Pvt. Ltd.
Receivables
 1.85 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
*Transactions include billing and credit notes / debit notes issued during the year.
(ix)	 There is no charge or satisfaction pending to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) beyond the statutory period.
(x)	
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
242
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
(xi)	 Ratios
Particulars 
 Numerator 
 Denominator 
 As at 
March 31, 
2023 
 As at March 
31, 2022  Variance % 
 Reason for 
variances 
exceeding 25% 
Current Ratio
Current assets
Current liabilities
 1.51 
 2.26 
-33%
Refer note xi(a)
Debt-Equity 
Ratio
Debt 
(Non current 
borrowings+Current 
borrowings + lease 
liability-Cash and cash 
equivalents)
Net worth [Shareholder 
fund-Debit balance 
of Profit and Loss- 
Miscellaneous deferred 
revenue expenditure 
(not written off)]
 0.21 
 0.17 
24%
Not applicable
Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio
Earnings available for 
debt service (EBITDA*-
current tax+/-Minimum 
alternate tax credit)
*Profit before tax-
Other income+interest 
expense+depreciation 
and amortisation 
expense+impairment of 
investment in associates
Debt service 
(interest+principal 
repayment of 
debt+lease payment)
 5.15 
 7.26 
-29%
Refer note xi(b)
Return on Equity
Profit after tax
Average shareholder's 
Equity
15.13%
15.74%
-4%
Not applicable
Inventory 
turnover ratio
Cost of material 
consumed
Average Inventory of 
raw material [(Opening 
inventories+Closing 
inventories)/2]
 6.77 
 6.45 
5%
Not applicable
Trade 
receivables 
turnover ratio
Revenue from 
operations
Average trade 
receivables 
[(Opening trade 
receivables+Closing 
trade receivables)/2]
 4.56 
 4.14 
10%
Not applicable
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Net credit purchases
Average trade payables  
[(Opening trade 
payables+Closing trade 
payables)/2]
 5.79 
 5.88 
-2%
Not applicable
Net Capital 
turnover ratio
Revenue from 
operations
Working Capital (current 
assets-current liabilities)
 4.94 
 3.50 
41%
Refer note xi(c)
Net profit ratio
Profit after Tax
Total income
13.62%
17.11%
-20%
Not applicable
Return on 
Capital 
employed 
Earning before interest 
and tax
Capital employed 
(tangible net worth + 
total debt (including 
lease liability) + net 
deferred tax liability)
21.43%
18.90%
13%
Not applicable
Return on 
investment
Earnings before interest 
and tax
Closing or average total 
assets [(Opening total 
assets+Closing total 
assets)/2]
14.44%
15.29%
-6%
Not applicable
xi(a)	The variance is on account of increase in the current borrowings due to increase in the current maturities of long term debt
xi(b)  The variance is on account of decrease in EBITDA in current year as compared to the previous year.
xi(c) 	The variance is on account of increase in the current borrowings due to increase in the current maturities of long term debt
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
243
Standalone
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 37: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
(xii)	 There is no scheme of arrangement in terms of section 230 to 237 of the Companies Act, 2013 during the year ended March 
31, 2023.
(xiii)	The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) any funds to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provided any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(xiv) 	The Company has not received any funds from any persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provided any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(xv) 	The Company had granted a loan of `200.00 during the previous year to its wholly owned subsidiary, Midday Infomedia 
Limited, which was paid by them fully during the current year.
Type of Borrower
Amount of loan or 
advance in the 
nature of loan 
outstanding as at March 
31, 2023
Percentage to the total 
loans and advances in 
the nature of loans
Amount of loan or 
advance in the 
nature of loan 
outstanding as at March 
31, 2022
Percentage to the total 
loans and advances in 
the nature of loans
Subsidiary
0.00
0.00%
200.00
48.48%
(xvi)	The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during year ended March 31, 2023.
(xvii)	The Company did not have any transaction which had not been recorded in the books of account that had been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey 
or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
(xviii)	The Company has utilised the borrowings availed from bank for the specific purpose for which it was taken as at March 31, 
2023.
(xix)	The Company has chosen cost model for its Property, Plant and Equipment, Intangible Assets, Right to use Assets and 
Investment Properties, the question of revaluation does not arise.
Note 38: The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on May 30, 2023.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
Jagran Prakashan Limited
244
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of  Jagran Prakashan Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Jagran Prakashan Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred 
to as “the Group”) and its associate companies (refer Note 
1(b) to the attached consolidated financial statements), 
which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2023 , and the Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income) 
, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year 
then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter 
referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements give the information 
required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in 
the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group and its associate companies as at March 31, 
2023, and consolidated total comprehensive income 
(comprising of profit and other comprehensive income), 
consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated cash 
flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the audit 
of the consolidated financial statements” section of our 
report. We are independent of the Group and its associate 
companies in accordance with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in India in terms of the Code of Ethics issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and 
the relevant provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence 
we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by 
the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in 
sub-paragraph 17 of the Other Matters section below, 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
4.	
We draw your attention to Note 41 to the consolidated 
financial statements which describes the accounting 
treatment of the Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative 
Redeemable Preference Shares (“NCRPS”) amounting to 
`8,969.60 Lakhs issued to the non-promoter shareholders 
of the Music Broadcast Limited by way of bonus pursuant 
to a Scheme of Arrangement (“the Scheme”) between 
the Music Broadcast Limited(a subsidiary) and its 
shareholders, as approved by the National Company Law 
Tribunal (NCLT) vide its order dated December 23, 2022. 
As described in the aforesaid note, the NCRPS have 
been accounted for in accordance with the accounting 
treatment prescribed in the NCLT approved Scheme. Our 
opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
5.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.  
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Recoverability of trade receivables
(Refer Notes 1(m), 5(b) and 31 of the consolidated financial 
statements)
The consolidated financial statements of the Company 
includes trade receivable of `45,327.56 Lakhs as at March 
31, 2023, net of allowances for impairment amounting to 
`12,673.50 Lakhs.
Management of Holding Company estimated the level of 
expected losses, by assessing future cash flows for each 
group of trade receivables based on twelve month rolling 
historical credit loss experience by tenure and applying to 
the receivables held at year end. The impact of economic 
factors both current and future is considered in assessing 
the likelihood of recovery from customers. This matter was 
identified as a key audit matter due to the involvement of 
significant management judgement.
Our audit procedures included the following:
• 	
Obtained an understanding of the internal processes 
for evaluating the recoverability of trade receivables 
including collection process and the allowances for 
impaired trade receivables.
• 	
Tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of relevant internal controls relating to 
recoverability of trade receivables including collection 
process and the calculation of the allowance for such 
trade receivables.
• 	
Evaluated reasonableness of the method and 
assumptions and judgements used by the management 
with respect to recoverability of trade receivables.
• 	
Assessed the profile of trade receivables and the 
economic environment applicable to these debtors.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
245
Consolidated
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
• 	
Evaluated the simplified approach applied by the 
Holding Company to identify lifetime expected 
credit losses. In doing so, obtained the schedule of 
receivables ageing, enquired into aged balances and 
assessed management’s explanation for collectability. 
Also tested the management’s working for provision for 
expected credit losses.
• 	
Reviewing the accuracy of management’s judgement 
by comparing historical provisions against actual write-
off.
• 	
Verified receipts from debtors subsequent to the 
financial year-end relating to trade receivable balances 
as at March 31, 2023 with bank statements and relevant 
underlying documentation for selected samples.
• 	
Evaluated the appropriateness of the presentation 
and disclosures made in the consolidated financial 
statements.
Based on the procedures as mentioned above management’s 
assessment regarding the recoverability of trade receivables 
appears to be reasonable.
Revenue recognition as per Ind AS 115
(Refer Notes 1(e) and 16 of the consolidated financial 
statements)
The Group’s revenue for the year ended March 31,2023 is 
`185,617.45 Lakhs. The Group recognises revenue from sale 
of products and services in accordance with the accounting 
principles prescribed under Ind AS 115, Revenue from 
contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when the group satisfies a performance 
obligation by transferring control of the products or services 
being provided to the customer. The control in respect of 
revenue from advertisement is considered transferred when 
advertisement is published in the newspaper, revenue from 
newspapers and magazines when they are dispatched which 
coincides with transfer of control of products to the customer, 
revenue from services of outdoor activities is recognised as 
and when the control of products or service is transferred 
to the customer being the point advertisement is displayed 
and revenue from event management and activation services 
is recognised when the control of products or service is 
transferred to the customer being the point when, the event 
is completed.
Revenue is measured at the transaction price, which is 
consideration, received or receivable, net of trade discounts, 
volume rebates, and taxes or duties collected.
We identified revenue recognition as a key audit matter as 
revenue is significant to the consolidated financial statements 
and considering the extent of audit effort involved.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	
We evaluated the design and tested operating 
effectiveness of the relevant controls with respect to 
revenue recognition.
•	
We assessed the appropriateness of the revenue 
recognition accounting policy in line with Ind AS 115.
•	
We performed substantive testing of revenue 
transactions on a sample basis, recorded during the year 
by testing the underlying documents which included 
contracts with the customers, release orders, customer 
purchase orders and customer acknowledgments, as 
applicable.
•	
We assessed the different types of performance 
obligations agreed by the Group with its customers to 
evaluate the timing of revenue recognition in respect 
of various revenue streams.
•	
We tested, on a sample basis, specific revenue 
transactions recorded, before and after the financial 
year end date, by testing the underlying invoices and 
customer acknowledgements, as applicable.
•	
We examined, on a sample basis, credit notes issued 
after the year end, wherever applicable to determine 
whether the revenue has been recognised in the 
appropriate financial period.
•	
We have tested a sample of revenue adjustment manual 
journal entries recorded by the Holding Company to 
identify unusual items, if any.
Based on the above procedures performed, no significant 
exception was noted by us in the revenue recognised by the 
Group during the year.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
246
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of impairment of Subsidiary’s share in net 
assets and Investment in associates in the consolidated 
financial statements under Ind AS 36
(Refer Notes 1(i), 1(j) and 4 of the consolidated financial 
statements)
As at March 31, 2023, the market capitalisation of Music 
Broadcast Limited (subsidiary of the Company) (MBL) 
was lower than its net assets and goodwill value in the 
consolidated financial statements. This reduction in market 
capitalization triggered the requirement to assess the group’s 
share of net assets and goodwill attributable to MBL.
Also, another subsidiary, Midday Infomedia Limited(MIL) has 
been in continuous operating losses which indicates the 
requirement to assess the group’s share of net assets and 
goodwill attributable to MIL.
Additionally, the carrying value of investments of two of 
the associates of the Group, Leet OOH Media Private 
Limited(Leet) and MMI Online Limited (MMI), was more than 
the carrying value of the investment in the consolidated 
financial statements, indicating potential impairment.
The management has used discounted cash flow models to 
assess the value in use of above-mentioned subsidiaries’ 
share of net assets and investments in associates, which 
require judgement in respect of certain key inputs like 
determining an appropriate discount rate, future cash flows 
etc.
Based on the management’s assessment and future 
forecast of business conditions, the recoverable amount of 
the investment in MIL and Leet is higher than the carrying 
value, and accordingly no impairment provision has been 
recognized in this regard.
In respect of MBL, the management decided to impair the 
entire carrying value of goodwill attributable to radio segment 
basis its analysis.
In respect of MMI, the management decided to impair the 
entire carrying value of the investment basis its analysis.
We considered this a key audit matter, because of the 
significant judgement and management estimates involved 
around impairment assessment.
Our audit procedures included the following:
• 	
Understanding and evaluating the process and controls 
designed and implemented by the Management to 
assess the potential impairment of subsidiary’s share 
in net assets and investment in associates.
• 	
Assessing appropriateness of determination of cash 
generating unit (CGU) in line with the requirements 
of Ind AS 36 Impairment of Assets considering the 
nature of the operations of MBL, MIL, Leet and MMI 
respectively.
• 	
Involvement of the auditor’s expert and Evaluation of 
the appropriateness of the key assumptions underlying 
the cash flow projections including growth and discount 
rates used within the discounted cash flow model with 
specific focus on forecast revenue compared to readily 
available market information and underlying macro-
economic factors.
• 	
Performing sensitivity analysis on the projections by 
varying key assumptions, within reasonably foreseeable 
range.
• 	
Comparison of carrying value of the net assets and 
Goodwill (Wherever applicable) with the estimated 
cash flows determined by the management for entities 
respectively.
• 	
Evaluating the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies in respect of impairment 
assessment of subsidiary’s share in net assets and 
investment in associates.
• 	
Assessing the adequacy of disclosures made in the 
financial statements.
Based on the above procedures performed, no significant 
exception was noted by us in the assessment of impairment 
of subsidiary’s share in net assets and associates performed 
by the management.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
247
Consolidated
6.	
The following Key Audit Matters were included in the audit report dated May 23, 2023, containing an unmodified audit 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements of Music Broadcast Limited, a subsidiary of the Holding Company issued 
by us as under:
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
I)	
 Assessment of carrying amount of deferred tax 
balances
(Refer Notes 1(g),6(a) and 25 of the consolidated 
financial statements)
Pursuant to the enactment of the Finance Act, 2019 and 
the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2019, announcing 
key changes to corporate tax rates in the Income-tax 
Act, 1961, the management carried out an assessment 
to consider the implications of the amendments 
providing an option to pay tax at a concessional rate, 
subject to compliance with conditions prescribed 
therein, specifically surrender of specified deductions/ 
incentives. Based on the management’s assessment, 
projections of future taxable profits and the impact on 
carrying amount of deferred tax balances, including 
Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) credit, the Company has 
estimated to adopt the lower rate of tax in a future 
year after utilising the available MAT credit balance. 
The deferred tax balances have, accordingly, been 
measured as at March 31, 2023.
We considered this as a key audit matter because of 
the significance of the amount involved, significant 
judgments involved in estimation of future taxable 
profits, the period over which MAT credit would be 
utilised and the expected year of adoption of the 
concessional tax rate.
Our procedures in relation to the management’s assessment 
of carrying value of deferred tax balances included the 
following:
•	
Understanding and evaluation of the process 
and controls designed and implemented by the 
management in relation to ‘Income Taxes’ and testing 
their operating effectiveness.
•	
Evaluating the Company’s accounting policy in respect 
of recognising deferred tax assets/ liabilities, including 
MAT credit.
•	
Evaluating the management’s assessment of availing 
benefits and exemptions under the Income-tax laws.
•	
Assessing appropriateness of the tax rate applied to 
future taxable profits in light of current tax laws and 
substantively enacted tax rates.
•	
With the involvement of our experts, evaluating the 
management’s assessment on the availability of future 
taxable profits to support measurement of deferred tax 
balances as at the year-end.
•	
Assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions 
underlying the management’s forecasts of future 
profits by comparing with the historical results and 
the approved business plans in light of the relevant 
economic and industry indicators.
•	
Performing sensitivity analyses on the projected taxable 
profits by varying key assumptions, within reasonable 
range.
•	
Assessing the adequacy of disclosures [notes 1(o), 
12 and 20] in the standalone financial statements for 
deferred tax, MAT credit and the basis of management 
estimates.
Based on the above procedures performed, the 
management’s assessment of carrying amount of deferred 
tax balances was considered to be reasonable.
ii)	
Assessment of recoverability of trade receivables
(Refer Notes 1(m), 5(b) and 31 of the consolidated 
financial statements)
The Company recognises provision against trade 
receivables based on expected credit loss (ECL) 
model as per Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’.
The ECL is computed by the Company based on 
historical credit loss experience, specific reviews of 
customer accounts as well as experience with such 
customers, current economic and business conditions.
Our procedures in relation to the management’s assessment 
of recoverability of trade receivables included the following:
• 	
Obtaining an understanding of the process and testing 
the design, implementation and operating effectiveness 
of relevant internal controls for evaluating the 
recoverability of trade receivables including collection 
process and the methodology for determining the 
allowances for impaired trade receivables.
•	
Evaluating reasonableness of the method and 
assumptions and judgements used by the management 
with respect to recoverability of trade receivables, 
including assessment of the profile of trade receivables, 
financial condition of the counterparty, probability of 
default, loss given default, expected future cash flows 
and the economic environment applicable to these 
debtors.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
248
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The recoverability of trade receivables and the 
valuation of the allowances for ECL against trade 
receivables has been considered a key audit matter 
due to the judgement involved in determining the 
provision which requires evaluation of various factors 
such as the financial condition of the counterparty, 
probability of default, loss given default, expected 
future cash flows and other related factors, and 
also considering the significant balance of the trade 
receivables as at the year-end.
•	
Evaluating the simplified approach applied by the 
Company to identify lifetime ECL. In doing so, obtained 
the schedule of receivables aging, inquired into aged 
balances and assessed management’s explanation 
for collectability. Also tested the management’s 
computation of the provision for ECL.
• 	
Comparing receipts subsequent to the financial year-
end relating to trade receivable balances as at March 
31, 2023 with bank statements and relevant underlying 
documentation for selected samples.
• 	
Evaluating the presentation and disclosure of the trade 
receivable balances and the related allowances in the 
financial statements.
Based on the above procedures performed, the 
management’s assessment of recoverability of trade 
receivables was considered to be reasonable.
iii)	
Assessment of impairment of Property, plant and 
equipment, Right-of-use assets and Intangible 
assets (including under development)
(Refer Notes 1(i), 1(j), 3(d) and 4 of the consolidated 
financial statements)
The Company carries its Property, Plant and 
Equipment, Right-of-use assets and Intangible assets 
(including under development) (hereinafter referred 
to as “non-financial assets”) at cost less accumulated 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses.
As at March 31, 2023, the carrying amount of 
Company’s net assets exceeded its market 
capitalisation. This reduction in market capitalisation 
triggered the requirement for the Company to assess 
the carrying amount of non-financial assets for 
potential impairment.
The management has used the discounted cash flow 
model to assess the value in use of the non-financial 
assets, which requires judgement in respect of certain 
key inputs like determining an appropriate discount 
rate, future cash flows, etc. Based on the management’s 
assessment and forecast of business conditions, the 
recoverable amount of the non-financial assets is 
higher than their carrying amount, and accordingly 
the management has concluded that no provision for 
impairment needs to be recorded.
We considered this as a key audit matter because of 
the significant judgement and management estimates 
involved around impairment assessment. 
Our procedures in relation to the management’s assessment 
of impairment of non-financial assets included the following:
•	
Understanding and evaluation of the process 
and controls designed and implemented by the 
management to assess the potential impairment of non-
financial assets and testing the operating effectiveness 
of the controls.
•	
Evaluating the appropriateness of the Company’s 
accounting policy in respect of impairment assessment 
of non-financial assets.
•	
Assessing appropriateness of determination of cash 
generating unit (CGU) in line with the requirements of 
Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ considering the nature 
of the Company’s operations.
•	
With the involvement of auditor’s experts, evaluating 
the appropriateness of key assumptions underlying the 
cash flow projections including growth and discount 
rates used within the discounted cash flow model 
with specific focus on forecast revenue compared to 
readily available market information and underlying 
macroeconomic factors.
•	
Performing sensitivity analysis on the projections by 
varying key assumptions, within a reasonable range.
•	
Comparing the carrying amount of the net assets with 
the estimated discounted cash flows determined by the 
management.
•	
Assessing the adequacy of disclosures made in the 
financial statements.
Based on the above procedures performed, the results of 
management’s assessment of impairment of non-financial 
assets were considered to be consistent with the outcome 
of our procedures. 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
249
Consolidated
Other Information
7.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the annual report but does 
not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements does not cover the other information 
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, 
based on the work we have performed and the reports of 
the other auditors as furnished to us (Refer paragraph 17 
below), we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that 
fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with 
Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
8.	
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated 
financial statements in term of the requirements of the 
Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated 
financial position, consolidated financial performance and 
consolidated cash flows, and changes in equity of the 
Group including its associate companies in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act. The respective Board of 
Directors of the companies included in the Group and of 
its associate companies are responsible for maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of 
the consolidated financial statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for 
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as 
aforesaid.
9.	
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associate companies are 
responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of 
its associate companies to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management either intends to liquidate the Group or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do 
so.
10.	 The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its associate companies 
are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of the Group and of its associate companies.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
11.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit 
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a 
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial 
statements.
12.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether 
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit 
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from 
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding 
company has adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates and related disclosures made by 
management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group and its associate companies to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
250
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group and its associate companies to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group and its 
associate companies to express an opinion on 
the consolidated financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of such entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are 
the independent auditors. For the other entities 
included in the consolidated financial statements, 
which have been audited by other auditors, such 
other auditors remain responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audits carried 
out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion.
13.	 We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, 
the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
14.	 We also provide those charged with governance 
with a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
15.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that were 
of most significance in the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these 
matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in 
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
Other Matters
16.	 The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the 
year ended March 31, 2022, were audited by another firm 
of chartered accountants under the Act who, vide their 
report dated May 30, 2022, expressed an unmodified 
opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
17.	 We did not audit the financial statements of one 
subsidiary whose financial statements reflect total assets 
of `13,414.15 Lakhs and net assets of `8,866.81 Lakhs as 
at March 31, 2023, total revenue of `6,762.75 Lakhs, total 
comprehensive income (comprising of profit and other 
comprehensive income) of `3,030.17 Lakhs and net cash 
flows amounting to `(136.90) Lakhs for the year ended 
on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements. The consolidated financial statements also 
include the Group’s share of total comprehensive income 
(comprising of profit and other comprehensive income) 
of `4.04 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2023 as 
considered in the consolidated financial statements, in 
respect of three associate companies whose financial 
statements have not been audited by us. These financial 
statements have been audited by other auditors whose 
reports have been furnished to us by the Management, 
and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
insofar as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these subsidiary and associate 
companies and our report in terms of sub-section (3) 
of Section 143 of the Act including report on Other 
Information insofar as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiary 
and associate companies, is based solely on the reports 
of the other auditors.
18.	 Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters 
with respect to our reliance on the work done and the 
reports of the other auditors and the financial statements 
certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
19.	 As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO 2020”), issued by 
the Central Government of India in terms of sub-section 
(11) of Section 143 of the Act, we report that there are 
no qualifications or adverse remarks included by the 
respective auditors in their CARO 2020 reports issued 
in respect of the standalone financial statements of the 
companies which are included in these Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
20.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the 
extent applicable, that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
251
Consolidated
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
(c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are 
in agreement with the relevant books of account and 
records maintained for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements.
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company as on 
March 31, 2023 taken on record by the Board of 
Directors of the Holding Company and the reports 
of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies 
and associate companies incorporated in India, 
none of the directors of the Group companies 
and its associate companies incorporated in India 
is disqualified as on March 31, 2023 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) 
of the Act.
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Group and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in “Annexure A”.
(g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact, if any, of pending litigations on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group 
and its associate companies– Refer Note 26 
to the consolidated financial statements.
ii.	
The Group and its associate companies were 
not required to recognise a provision as at 
March 31,2023 under the applicable law or 
accounting standards, as it does not have 
any material foreseeable losses on long-term 
contract. The Group and its associates did not 
have any derivative contracts as at March 31, 
2023.
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary companies 
and associate companies incorporated in India 
during the year.
	
iv.	
(a) 	 The respective Managements of the Company, 
its subsidiaries and associates which are 
companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under 
the Act have represented to us and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries and associates 
respectively that, to the best of their knowledge 
and belief, as disclosed in the notes to the 
accounts, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Company or 
any of such subsidiaries and associates to or 
in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company or any of 
such subsidiaries and associates (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries.
	
	
(b) 	 The respective Managements of the Company, 
its subsidiaries and associates which are 
companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to us and 
the other auditors of such subsidiaries and 
associates respectively that, to the best of 
their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in 
the notes to the accounts, no funds (which are 
material either individually or in the aggregate) 
have been received by the Company or any 
of such subsidiaries and associates from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Company or any of such subsidiaries and 
associates shall, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(c) 	 Based on the audit procedures, that has been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, performed by us and those 
performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries and 
associates which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act, nothing has come to 
our or other auditor’s notice that has caused 
us or the other auditors to believe that the 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
252
representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
Rule 11(e) contain any material misstatement.
v. 	
The dividend declared and paid during the 
year by the Holding Company, its subsidiary 
companies and associate companies is in 
compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi. 	 As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 (as amended), which 
provides for the feature of recording of audit 
trail (edit log) facility in the accounting software 
used by the Group, associate companies for 
maintenance of books of account and related 
matters, is applicable for the Company only 
with effect from financial year beginning April 
1, 2023, the reporting under clause (g) of Rule 
11 is currently not applicable.
21.	 The Group and its associate companies have paid/ 
provided for managerial remuneration in accordance with 
the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of 
Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. 
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
                                                                                                     
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Partner
Membership Number: 096367
UDIN: 23096367BGYYHI3983                                                             
Place: Kanpur                                                                                   
Date: May 30, 2023  
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
253
Consolidated
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 20(f) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Jagran Prakashan 
Limited on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Act
1.	
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the Company as of and for 
the year ended March 31,2023, we have audited the 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of Jagran Prakashan Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) and 
its subsidiary companies and its associate companies 
which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date. 
Reporting under clause (i) of sub section 3 of Section 
143 of the Act in respect of the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements is 
not applicable to one associate namely  X-pert Publicity 
Private Limited, pursuant to MCA notification GSR 583(E) 
dated June 13, 2017.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
2.	
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies and its associate 
companies to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub 
section 3 of Section 143 of the Act in respect of the 
adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements is applicable, which 
are companies incorporated in India, are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to 
the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of 
its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and 
errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing 
deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls, both applicable to an audit 
of internal financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. 
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to consolidated financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements included obtaining an understanding 
of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements, assessing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on 
the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the 
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms 
of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph 
below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Holding Company’s internal 
financial controls system with reference to consolidated 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements
6.	
A company's internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company's internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements includes those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance 
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company's assets that could have a 
material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
254
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not 
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements to future periods are subject to 
the risk that the internal financial control with reference 
to consolidated financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 
may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, the Holding Company, its subsidiary 
companies and its associate companies which are 
companies incorporated in India, have, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls system 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2023, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by 
the Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by 
the ICAI.
Other Matters
9.	
Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements insofar as it relates to one subsidiary company 
and two associate companies, which are companies 
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding 
reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in 
India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
                                                                                                     
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Partner
Membership Number: 096367
UDIN: 23096367BGYYHI3983                                                             
Place: Kanpur                                                                                   
Date: May 30, 2023 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
255
Consolidated
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT MARCH 31, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 3(a)
 34,742.09 
 38,205.47 
Right-of-use assets
 3(b)
 9,184.88 
 8,439.68 
Capital work-in-progress
 3(a)
 162.34 
 227.35 
Investment properties
 3(c)
 2,100.38 
 8,918.42 
Goodwill
 3(d)
 27,126.63 
 33,808.59 
Other intangible assets
 3(d)
 33,671.35 
 37,575.35 
Intangible assets under development
 23.54 
 - 
Investments in associates
4
 649.67 
 1,259.56 
Financial assets
i.
Investments
5(a)
 60,505.41 
 87,343.72 
ii.
Loans
5(c)
 - 
 - 
iii.
Other financial assets
5(e)
 6,820.96 
 5,028.77 
Deferred tax assets (net)
6(a)
 2,809.20 
 3,287.68 
Non-current tax assets (net)
6(b)
 1,713.95 
 1,829.48 
Other non-current assets
7
 1,640.81 
 2,001.28 
Total non-current assets
 181,151.21 
 227,925.35 
Current assets
Inventories
8
 9,098.52 
 8,209.78 
Financial assets
i.
Investments
5(a)
 40,886.02 
 14,259.77 
ii.
Trade receivables
5(b)
 45,327.56 
 43,168.51 
iii.
Cash and cash equivalents
5(d)(i)
 4,861.15 
 4,482.40 
iv.
Bank balances other than (iii) above
5(d)(ii)
 739.51 
 11,546.94 
v.
Loans
5(c)
 226.12 
 207.61 
vi.
Other financial assets
5(e)
 7,814.90 
 2,754.34 
Other current assets
9
 5,501.66 
 4,753.01 
Assets classified as held for sale
10
 182.49 
 182.49 
Total current assets
 114,637.93 
 89,564.85 
Total assets
 295,789.14 
 317,490.20 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
11(a)
 4,353.09 
 5,273.09 
Other equity
Equity component of compound financial instrument
11(b)
 945.87 
 945.87 
Reserves and surplus
11(b)
 169,430.94 
 207,523.48 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
 174,729.90 
 213,742.44 
Non-controlling interests [refer note 34(b)]
 18,317.38 
 21,432.52 
Total equity
 193,047.28 
 235,174.96 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
i.
Borrowings
12(a)
 17,006.29 
 25,878.99 
ii.
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 5,787.42 
 5,845.23 
Employee benefit obligations
13
 1,892.25 
 1,850.58 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
14(a)
 9,223.93 
 11,356.34 
Total non-current liabilities
 33,909.89 
 44,931.14 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
i.
Borrowings
12(a)
 19,881.31 
 1,816.76 
ii.
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 1,667.41 
 1,618.60 
iii.
Trade payables
12(c)
(a) 	 total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 119.91 
 255.81 
(b) 	 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 16,698.64 
 13,685.45 
iv.
Other financial liabilities
12(b)
 11,472.61 
 13,689.27 
Employee benefit obligations
13
 1,121.51 
 658.58 
Current tax liabilities (net)
14(b)
 518.16 
 111.04 
Other current liabilities
15
 17,352.42 
 5,548.59 
Total current liabilities
 68,831.97 
 37,384.10 
Total liabilities
 102,741.86 
 82,315.24 
Total equity and liabilities
 295,789.14 
 317,490.20 
The above consolidated balance sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the consolidated balance sheet referred to in our report of even date.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
Jagran Prakashan Limited
256
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from operations
16
 185,617.45 
 161,595.11 
Other income 
17(a)
 5,009.87 
 3,378.24 
Other gains/(losses) - net
17(b)
 5,581.24 
 3,294.39 
Total income
 196,208.56 
 168,267.74 
Expenses
License fees
 1,943.30 
 1,910.00 
Cost of materials consumed
18
 55,182.63 
 41,854.12 
Changes in inventories of finished goods
19
 4.17 
 0.29 
Employee benefits expense
20
 38,851.83 
 36,995.74 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
21
 10,675.15 
 11,862.48 
Impairment of goodwill and investment in associates
 7,295.90 
 - 
Net impairment losses on financial assets
22
 2,613.46 
 3,229.10 
Other expenses
23
 54,334.31 
 41,642.73 
Finance costs
24
 3,859.33 
 3,149.19 
Total expenses
 174,760.08 
 140,643.65 
Profit before exceptional items and share of net profits of associates accounted 
for using equity method and tax
 21,448.48 
 27,624.09 
Exceptional items
Insurance claim received / recoverable
40
 - 
 (564.26)
Gain on transfer/sale of leasehold land and related assets (net)
44
 (3,868.28)
 - 
Total exceptional items
 (3,868.28)
 (564.26)
Profit before share of net profits of associates accounted for using equity 
method and tax
 25,316.76 
 28,188.35 
Share of net profit of associates accounted for using the equity method
 2.24 
 32.43 
Profit before tax
 25,319.00 
 28,220.78 
Income tax expense 
25
-	
Current tax
 7,162.72 
 8,430.65 
-	
Deferred tax
 (1,522.40)
 (1,897.43)
Total tax expense
 5,640.32 
 6,533.22 
Profit for the year
 19,678.68 
 21,687.56 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) net of income tax
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
-	
Equity instrument at FVTOCI derecognised/written off
 - 
 590.00 
- 	
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations
 (528.87)
 (72.88)
- 	
Share of other comprehensive income of associates accounted for using the 
equity method
 1.81 
 6.31 
- 	
Income tax relating to these items
 131.53 
 (115.34)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax
 (395.53)
 408.09 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 19,283.15 
 22,095.65 
Profit attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
 19,984.01 
 22,247.72 
  Non-controlling interest
 (305.33)
 (560.16)
 19,678.68 
 21,687.56 
Other comprehensive income attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
 (402.84)
 420.69 
  Non-controlling interest
 7.31 
 (12.60)
 (395.53)
 408.09 
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
  Owners of the Company
 19,581.17 
 22,668.41 
  Non-controlling interest
 (298.02)
 (572.76)
 19,283.15 
 22,095.65 
Earnings per equity share:
(Nominal value per share `2 (Previous year: `2)
(1) 	 Basic earnings per share
28
 7.61 
 8.41 
(2) 	 Diluted earnings per share
 7.61 
 8.41 
The above consolidated statement of profit and loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income) referred to in our report of even date.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
257
Consolidated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended March 
31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before income tax
 25,319.00 
 28,220.78 
Adjustments for:
Liabilities no longer required written-back
17(b)
 (20.82)
 (2.93)
Depreciation and amortisation expense
21
 10,675.15 
 11,862.48 
Impairment of goodwill and investment in associates
 7,295.90 
 - 
Interest income classified as investing cash flows
 (4,835.97)
 (3,250.98)
Finance costs
24
 3,859.33 
 3,149.19 
Net (gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
17(b)
 (4,059.73)
 (590.66)
Net (gain)/loss on disposal of investment property
17(b)
 (2,919.21)
 (63.61)
Net (gain)/loss on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or 
loss
17(b)
 (1,129.85)
 (1,774.57)
Net gain on sale of investments
17(b)
 (1,299.44)
 (757.47)
Lease liabilities no longer required written back
 (3.09)
 (102.82)
Equity instrument at FVTOCI derecognised /written off
 - 
 760.00 
Reversal of allowance of impairment loss
 - 
 (170.00)
Impairment (gain)/loss of investment properties
 - 
 (9.99)
Net impairment losses on financial assets
22
 2,613.46 
 3,229.10 
Unwinding of discount on security deposits
17(a)
 (172.14)
 (126.56)
Dividend income from investments valued at fair value through profit or loss 
classified as investing cash flows
17(a)
 (1.76)
 (0.70)
Insurance claim 
 (18.63)
 - 
Exceptional items
 - 
 (564.26)
Share of net profit of associates accounted for using the equity method
 (2.24)
 (32.43)
Property, plant and equipment written off
23
 22.03 
 13.35 
Net unrealised foreign exchange (gains)/losses 
 (11.01)
 19.91 
Change in operating assets and liabilities
(Increase)/Decrease in trade receivables
(4324.13)
 (3,215.23)
(Increase)/Decrease in inventories
 (888.74)
 (2,854.14)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade payables
 2,900.28 
 4,371.46 
(Increase)/Decrease in other financial assets 
 (1,809.02)
 3,462.30 
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-current assets
4.21
 44.89 
(Increase)/Decrease in other current assets
 (779.48)
 1,057.06 
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial liabilities 
 (226.35)
 231.44 
Increase/(Decrease) in employee benefit obligations
 (24.27)
 (448.43)
Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities
 3,635.76 
 (414.07)
Cash generated from operations
 33,799.24 
 42,043.11 
Income taxes paid (net)
 (6,648.90)
 (9,839.11)
Net cash inflow from operating activities
 27,150.34 
 32,204.00 
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment, investment property and 
right-of-use assets
 (3,273.72)
 (1,014.99)
Payments for purchase of intangible assets
 (43.93)
 (92.77)
Payments for purchase of investments
 (80,912.45)
 (74,350.53)
Investment in bank deposits
 (38,244.09)
 (12,140.01)
Payment for purchase of equity shares in subsidiary
 (663.17)
 - 
Loans granted to employees during the year
 (445.41)
 (302.44)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 5,107.76 
 1,614.90 
Advance received for sale of property, plant and equipment
 1,000.00 
 - 
Proceeds from sale of investment property
 9,908.80 
 107.77 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
258
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
Year ended March 
31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Proceeds from sale of investments
 83,553.80 
 57,990.25 
Repayment of loans from employees during the year
404.99
 262.70 
Repayment of loan from others
 21.91 
 - 
Maturity of bank deposits
 43,706.32 
 5,125.26 
Dividends received
 1.76 
 0.70 
Interest received
 4,788.66 
 2,372.66 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities
 24,911.23 
 (20,426.50)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds / (repayment) of cash credit
 (788.20)
 954.09 
Proceeds of overdraft facility from Standard Chartered Bank
 150.73 
 100.02 
Repayment of term loan to ICICI Bank Limited
 (389.12)
 (388.78)
Proceeds / (repayment) of overdraft facility
 (162.14)
 162.14 
Unpaid dividends tranferred to Investor Education and Protection Fund / 
payment of dividend of earlier years 
 - 
 (6.17)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,889.59)
 (1,551.12)
Buy- back of equity shares (including transaction cost)
 (34,776.66)
 (8,413.48)
Issue expenses on issue of preference shares
 (78.11)
 - 
Interest paid
 (3,215.68)
 (3,139.30)
Interim dividend paid
 (10,544.40)
 - 
Net cash outflow from financing activities
 (51,693.17)
 (12,282.60)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 368.40 
 (505.10)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year
 4,482.40 
 4,987.50 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
 4,850.80 
 4,482.40 
Non-cash financing and investing activities
- Acquisition of right-of-use assets
3(b)
 2,604.26 
 4,476.86 
Cash and cash equivalents as per above comprise of the following:
Cash on hand
 146.89 
 145.39 
Cheques in Hand
 47.05 
 168.15 
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
 4,014.10 
 3,669.89 
- in book overdraft
 (10.35)
 - 
- in fixed deposit (less than three months maturity)
 653.11 
 498.97 
Balances per Statement of Cash Flows
 4,850.80 
 4,482.40 
* refer note 37(a)
The above consolidated statement of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the consolidated statement of cash flows referred to in our report of even date.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
259
Consolidated
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
A. Equity share capital
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
Particulars
Notes
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2021
11(a)
 5,563.62 
Changes in equity share capital
11(a)
 (290.53)
Balance at March 31, 2022
11(a)
 5,273.09 
Changes in equity share capital
11(a)
 (920.00)
As at March 31, 2023
11(a)
 4,353.09 
B. Other equity [refer note 11(b)]
Particulars
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments*
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Other 
reserves
Attributable to 
owners of the 
Company
Non 
controlling 
interest
Total other 
equity
Balance as at April 1, 2021
945.87
2,934.11
1,249.13
29,631.69
4,908.50
154,878.28
(580.91)
193,966.67
22,005.28
215,971.95
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
-
22,247.72
-
22,247.72
(560.16)
21,687.56
Other comprehensive loss for the year, 
net of income tax
(33.01)
(33.01)
(12.60)
(45.61)
Equity instrument at FVOCI 
derecognised/written off
453.70
453.70
453.70
Total comprehensive income /(loss) for 
the year
-
-
-
-
-
22,214.71
453.70
22,668.41
(572.76)
22,095.65
Transfer of Fair Value Change (Net 
of deferred tax) of equity instruments 
derecognised / written off
-
-
-
-
-
(127.21)
127.21
-
-
-
Deferred tax on equity instruments 
derecognised/written off 
(42.78)
(42.78)
(42.78)
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Buy-back of 14,526,773 equity shares 
(including transaction cost)
-
-
-
-
-
(8,122.95)
-
(8,122.95)
-
(8,122.95)
Transfer from retained earnings to capital 
redemption reserve for buyback of 
14,526,773 equity shares of `2/- each
-
-
290.53
-
-
(290.53)
-
-
-
-
Balance as at March 31, 2022
945.87
2,934.11
1,539.66
29,631.69
4,908.50
168,509.52
-
208,469.35
21,432.52
229,901.87
Jagran Prakashan Limited
260
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
Particulars
Equity 
component 
of compound 
financial 
instruments*
Capital 
reserve
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Other 
reserves
Attributable to 
owners of the 
Company
Non 
controlling 
interest
Total other 
equity
Balance as at April 1, 2022
945.87
2,934.11
1,539.66 29,631.69
4,908.50
168,509.52
-
208,469.35 21,432.52
229,901.87
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
-
19,984.01
-
19,984.01
(305.33)
19,678.68
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of 
income tax
-
-
-
-
-
(402.84)
-
(402.84)
7.31
(395.53)
Total comprehensive income /(loss) for the 
year
-
-
-
-
-
19,581.17
-
19,581.17
(298.02)
19,283.15
Utilised for issue of bonus preference shares
(1,376.13)
(117.66)
(6,762.97)
(8,256.76)
(8,256.76)
Transfer to capital redemption reserve pursuant 
to issue of Bonus NCRPS
-
-
896.96
-
(896.96)
-
-
-
-
-
Transactions with owners in their capacity as 
owners:
Buy-back of 46,000,000 equity shares(including 
transaction costs and tax on buyback)
-
-
-
-
-
(41,024.73)
-
(41,024.73)
-
(41,024.73)
Transfer from retained earnings to capital 
redemption reserve for buyback of 46,000,000 
equity shares of `2/- each
-
-
920.00
-
-
(920.00)
-
-
-
-
Interim dividend paid during the year
-
-
-
-
-
(10,546.17)
(10,546.17)
(10,546.17)
Change in non-controlling interest on purchase 
of shares in subsidiary
-
-
-
-
-
2,153.95
-
2,153.95
(2,817.12)
(663.17)
Balance as at March 31, 2023
945.87
2,934.11
3,356.62 28,255.56
3,893.88
130,990.77
-
170,376.81 18,317.38
188,694.19
*Equity component of compound financial instruments is net of deferred tax as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 [refer note 11(b)(i)].
The above consolidated statement of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
This is the consolidated statement of changes in equity referred to in our report of even date.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay
Mahendra Mohan Gupta
Sunil Gupta
Partner
Chairman and Managing Director
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)
DIN: 00020451
DIN: 00317228
Amit Jaiswal
Chief Financial Officer and
Company Secretary
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur
Place: Kanpur
Date: May 30, 2023
Date: May 30, 2023
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated) 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
261
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Background
Jagran Prakashan Limited (“the Company” or “JPL” or 
“Parent” or “Holding Company”) is a company limited by 
shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company 
and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”) and 
associates are engaged primarily in printing and publication 
of newspapers and magazines in India and operating private 
FM radio stations through the brand “Radio City”. The other 
activities of the Company comprise outdoor advertising 
business, event management and activation services and 
digital business. The Company is a public limited company 
and its equity shares and non-convertible debentures are 
listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock 
Exchange (NSE). The Company is having its registered office 
at Jagran Building, 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur 208 005. The 
parent of the Company is Jagran Media Network Investment 
Private Limited.
Note 1: Summary of significant accounting policies
This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial 
statements. These policies have been consistently applied to 
all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. The financial 
statements are for the Group consisting of Jagran Prakashan 
Limited (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries.
(a)	
Basis of preparation
	
(i) 	
Compliance with Ind AS
The consolidated financial statements comply in 
all material aspects with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) [Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other 
relevant provisions of the Act.
	
(ii) 	 Historical cost convention
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:
• 	
certain financial assets and liabilities that are 
measured at fair value;
• 	
assets held for sale – measured at fair value 
less cost to sell; and
• 	
defined benefit plans – plan assets measured 
at fair value
	
(iii) 	 New and amended standards adopted by the 
Group
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs had vide notification 
dated 23 March 2022 notified Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022 
which amended certain accounting standards, and 
are effective 1 April 2022. These amendments did 
not have any impact on the amounts recognized in 
prior periods and are not expected to significantly 
affect the current or future periods.
(iv)	 New and amended standards issued but not 
effective
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has vide notification 
dated 31 March 2023 notified Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 (the 
‘Rules’) which amends certain accounting standards, 
and are effective 1 April 2023.
The Rules predominantly amend Ind AS 12, Income 
taxes, and Ind AS 1, Presentation of financial 
statements. The other amendments to Ind AS 
notified by these rules are primarily in the nature of 
clarifications.
These amendments are not expected to have 
a material impact on the Group in the current or 
future reporting periods and on foreseeable future 
transactions. Specifically, no changes would be 
necessary as a consequence of amendments 
made to Ind AS 12 as the Group’s accounting policy 
already complies with the now mandatory treatment.
(b) 	 Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
	
(i) 	
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group 
has control. The Group controls an entity where 
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to 
account for business combinations by the Group.
The Group combines the financial statements of 
the parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding 
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income 
and expenses. Intercompany transactions, balances 
and unrealised gains on transactions between 
Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the transferred asset. 
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group.
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of 
subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and balance sheet respectively.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
262
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The subsidiaries considered in the consolidated financial statements are:
Name of the subsidiary
Country of incorporation
Ownership interest
Financial year ends on
Music Broadcast Limited(‘MBL’)
India
74.05%
March 31,2023
Midday Infomedia Limited(‘MIL’)
India
100.00%
March 31,2023
	
(ii) 	 Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally 
the case where the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted 
for using the equity method of accounting (see (iii) below), after initially being recognized at cost.
The associates considered in the consolidated financial statements are:
Name of the subsidiary
Country of incorporation
Ownership interest
Financial year ends on
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
India
48.84%
March 31,2023
X-Pert Publicity Private Limited
India
39.20%
March 31,2023
MMI Online Limited
India
44.92%
March 31,2023
	
(iii)	 Equity method
Under the equity method of accounting, the 
investments are initially recognized at cost and 
adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share 
of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the 
investee in profit and loss, and the Group’s share 
of other comprehensive income of the investee in 
other comprehensive income.
Where the Group’s share of losses in an equity-
accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest 
in the entity, including any other unsecured long-
term receivables, the Group does not recognise 
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the other entity.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group 
and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in these entities. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Accounting policies of equity accounted investees 
have been changed where necessary to ensure 
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The carrying amount of equity accounted 
investments are tested for impairment in accordance 
with the policy described in note 1(j) below.
(iv) 	 Changes in ownership interests
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling 
interests that do not result in a loss of control as 
transactions with equity owners of the Group. A 
change in ownership interest results in an adjustment 
between the carrying amounts of the controlling 
and non-controlling interests to reflect their relative 
interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between 
the amount of the adjustment to non-controlling 
interests and any consideration paid or received is 
recognized within equity (see note 34).
When the Group ceases to consolidate or equity 
account for an investment because of a loss of 
control, joint control or significant influence, any 
retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair 
value with the change in carrying amount recognized 
in profit or loss. This fair value becomes the initial 
carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently 
accounting for the retained interest as an associate 
or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously 
recognized in other comprehensive income in 
respect of that entity are accounted for as if the 
Group had directly disposed of the related assets 
or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously 
recognized in other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to profit or loss.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but 
significant influence is retained, only a proportionate 
share of the amounts previously recognized in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or 
loss where appropriate.
(c) 	 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker.
The board of directors of Jagran Prakashan Limited has 
appointed a strategic steering committee which assesses 
the financial performance and position of the Group, and 
makes strategic decisions. The steering committee, which 
has been identified as being the chief operating decision 
maker, consists of the chief executive officer, the chief 
financial officer and the manager for corporate planning. 
See note 31 for segment information presented.
(d)	 Foreign currency translation
	
(i) 	
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the standalone financial statements 
of each of the Group’s entities are measured using 
the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). 
The consolidated financial statements are presented 
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
263
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
in Indian rupee (`), which is Jagran Prakashan 
Limited’s functional and presentation currency.
(ii)	
Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies at year end exchange rates are generally 
recognized in profit or loss.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in 
the statement of profit and loss on a net basis within 
other gains/(losses).
(e) 	 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable 
that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the 
revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when 
the payment is being made. Revenue is measured based 
on the transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted for allowances, trade discounts, volume rebates, 
if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. 
Revenue excludes taxes collected from customers. The 
Group has concluded that it is the principal in all of its 
revenue arrangements since it is the primary obligor in all 
the revenue arrangements as it has pricing latitude and is 
also exposed to inventory and credit risks.
Goods and Service Tax (GST) is not received by the Group 
on its own account. Rather, it is tax collected on behalf of 
the government. Accordingly, it is excluded from revenue.
Contract asset represents the Group’s right to 
consideration in exchange for services that the Group has 
transferred to a customer when that right is conditioned 
on something other than the passage of time.
A contract liability is recognized if a payment is received 
or a payment is due (whichever is earlier) from a customer 
before the Group transfers the related goods or services 
and the Group is under an obligation to provide only the 
goods or services under the contract. Contract liabilities 
are recognized as revenue when the Group performs 
under the contract (i.e., transfers control of the related 
goods or services to the customer).
The Group recognizes a refund liability if the Group 
receives consideration from a customer and expects to 
refund some or all of that consideration to the customer. A 
refund liability is measured at the amount of consideration 
received (or receivable) for which the Group does not 
expect to be entitled (i.e. amounts not included in the 
transaction price).
The specific recognition criteria described below must 
also be met before revenue is recognized:
(i)	
Advertisement revenue
Revenue from sale of advertisement space is 
recognized (net of estimated volume discounts), as 
and when the relevant advertisement is published. 
Revenue from all barter transactions is recognized at 
the time of actual performance of the contract to the 
extent of performance is completed by either party 
against its part of contract and is with reference to 
non-barter transactions.
Revenue is recognized when the advertisements 
are aired on radio, based on the price specified in 
the contract, net of the estimated volume discounts 
and goods and services tax billed to the customers. 
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and 
provide for variable consideration, and the revenue 
is only recognized to the extent that it is highly 
probable that a significant reversal in the revenue 
will not occur. The validity of assumptions used 
to estimate variable consideration is reassessed 
annually.
A receivable is recognized when the goods are 
delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(ii)	
Sale of newspaper & publications, waste papers 
and others
Revenue from sale of publications is recognized 
(net of credits for unsold copies), as and when the 
newspapers and magazines are dispatched which 
coincides with transfer of control of goods to the 
customer.
Revenue from the sale of waste papers/scrap is 
recognized when the control is transferred to the 
buyer, usually on delivery of the waste papers/scrap.
A receivable is recognized when the goods are 
delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(iii) 	 Outdoor advertising
The Group provides dedicated advertising services 
that focuses on the consumers when they are 
outside of their homes through hoardings, billboards, 
retail signages etc. Revenue from outdoor activities 
is recognized as and when the control of service 
is transferred to the customer over the period 
advertisement is displayed.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
264
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A receivable is recognized when the services 
are delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(iv) 	 Event management and activation services
The Group offers end-to-end and experimental 
below the- line (BTL) marketing solutions such as 
product and brand promotion, events, conferences, 
exhibitions, public health programmes etc. Revenue 
from event management and activation services is 
recognized when the control of service is transferred 
to the customer over the period of the event.
A receivable is recognized when the services 
are delivered, as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(v)	
Job work
Revenue from printing job work is recognized by 
reference to stage of completion of job work as 
per terms of agreement. Revenue from job work is 
measured based on the transaction price, which is 
the consideration.
A receivable is recognized when the services 
are delivered as this is the point in time that the 
consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is 
due.
(vi) 	 Financing components
The Group does not have any contracts where the 
period between the transfer of the promised goods 
or services to the customer and payment by the 
customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the 
Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices 
for the time value of money.
(f) 	 Government grants
Grants from the government are recognized at their fair 
value where there is a reasonable assurance that the 
grant will be received and the Group will comply with all 
attached conditions.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, 
plant and equipment are deducted in calculating the 
carrying amount of the asset. The grant is recognized 
in profit or loss over the life of a depreciable asset as a 
reduced depreciation expense.
(g)	 Income tax
Income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period’s taxable income based 
on the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 
attributable to temporary differences and to unused tax 
losses.
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and 
deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also 
recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in 
equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the 
tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in 
tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulation is subject to interpretation and considers whether it 
is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax 
treatment. The Group measures its tax balances either based 
on the most likely amount or the expected value, depending 
on which method provides a better prediction of the resolution 
of the uncertainty.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in 
the consolidated financial statements. Deferred income tax 
is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). Deferred income 
tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting 
period and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability 
is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary 
differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that 
future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those 
temporary differences and losses.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of 
investments in subsidiaries and associates where the Group 
is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences and it is probable that the differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are not recognized for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax bases of 
investments in subsidiaries and associates where it is not 
probable that the differences will reverse in the foreseeable 
future and taxable profit will not be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is 
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and 
liabilities and where the deferred tax balances relate to the 
same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities 
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
265
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to 
offset and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise 
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(h) 	 Leases
	
As a lessee
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially 
measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities 
include the net present value of the following lease 
payments:
• 	
fixed payments (including in-substance fixed 
payments), less any lease incentives receivable
• 	
variable lease payment that are based on an index 
or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate 
as at the commencement date
• 	
amounts expected to be payable by the Group 
under residual value guarantees
• 	
the exercise price of a purchase option if the Group 
is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and
• 	
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if 
the lease term reflects the Group exercising that 
option.
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain 
extension options are also included in the measurement 
of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be 
readily determined, which is generally the case for leases 
in the Group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is 
used, being the rate that the individual lessee would 
have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an 
asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar 
economic environment with similar terms, security and 
conditions.
To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Group:
• 	
where possible, uses recent third-party financing 
received by the individual lessee as a starting point, 
adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions 
since third party financing was received
• 	
uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free 
interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held 
by Jagran Prakashan Limited, which does not have 
recent third party financing
• 	
makes adjustments specific to the lease, e.g. term, 
country, currency and security.
If a readily observable amortising loan rate is available to 
the individual lessee (through recent financing or market 
data) which has a similar payment profile to the lease, 
then the Group entities use that rate as a starting point 
to determine the incremental borrowing rate.
Lease payments are allocated between principal and 
finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or 
loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability for each period.
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are 
recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the 
condition that triggers those payments occurs.
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the 
following:
• 	
the amount of the initial measurement of lease 
liability
• 	
any lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives 
received
• 	
any initial direct costs
• 	
restoration costs.
Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the 
shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on 
a straight-line basis. If the Group is reasonably certain 
to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is 
depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life.
Payments associated with short-term leases of equipment 
and all leases of low-value assets are recognized on a 
straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-
term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months 
or less.
	
As a lessor
Lease income from operating leases where the Group is a 
lessor is recognized in income on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term. Initial direct costs incurred in obtaining 
an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of 
the underlying asset and recognized as expense over 
the lease term on the same basis as lease income. The 
respective leased assets are included in the balance 
sheet based on their nature.
(i) 	
Business combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account 
for all business combinations, regardless of whether 
equity instruments or other assets are acquired. The 
consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary comprises the
• 	
fair values of the assets transferred
• 	
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the 
acquired business
• 	
equity interests issued by the Group
• 	
fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
266
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with 
limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values 
at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair value or at 
the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the 
acquired entity’s net identifiable assets.
	
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
	
The excess of the:
• 	
consideration transferred
• 	
amount of any non-controlling interest in the 
acquired entity
• 	
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity 
interest in the acquired entity
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired 
is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts are less 
than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the 
business acquired, the difference is recognized in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity 
as capital reserve provided there is clear evidence of 
the underlying reasons for classifying the business 
combination as a bargain purchase. In other cases, the 
bargain purchase gain is recognized directly in equity as 
capital reserve.
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is 
deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted 
to their present value as at the date of exchange. The 
discount rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing 
rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could 
be obtained from an independent financier under 
comparable terms and conditions.
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a 
financial liability. Amounts classified as a financial liability 
are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes 
in fair value recognized in profit or loss.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the 
acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously 
held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair 
value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses arising 
from such remeasurement are recognized in profit or loss 
or other comprehensive income, as appropriate.
(j)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that they might 
be impaired. Other assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair 
value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are Grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent 
of the cash inflows from other assets or Groups of assets 
(cash-generating units or ‘CGU’). Non-financial assets 
other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are 
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the 
end of each reporting period.
(k) 	 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of cash 
flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, 
deposits held at call with financial institutions, other short-
term, highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less that are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts. 
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet.
(l) 	
Other bank balances
Other bank balances comprises, term deposits with 
banks, which have original maturities of more than three 
months. Such assets are recognized and measured at 
amortised cost (including directly attributable transaction 
cost) using the effective interest method, less impairment 
losses, if any.
(m) 	 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers 
for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary 
course of business and reflects Group’s unconditional 
right to consideration (that is, payment is due only on 
the passage of time). Trade receivables are recognized 
initially at the transaction price as they do not contain 
significant financing components. The Group holds the 
trade receivables with the objective of collecting the 
contractual cash flows and therefore measures them 
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less loss allowance.
(n) 	 Inventories
	
Raw materials and stores
Raw materials and stores are stated at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Cost of raw materials comprises 
cost of purchases. Cost of inventories also include all 
other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Costs are assigned to 
individual items of inventory on the basis of first-in first-out 
basis. Costs of purchased inventory are determined after 
deducting rebates and discounts.
(o) 	 Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through a 
sale transaction rather than through continuing use and a 
sale is considered highly probable. They are measured at 
the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, 
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
267
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
assets arising from employee benefits, financial assets 
and contractual rights under insurance contracts, which 
are specifically exempt from this requirement.
An impairment loss is recognized for any initial or 
subsequent write-down of the asset to fair value less 
costs to sell. A gain is recognized for any subsequent 
increases in fair value less costs to sell of an asset, but not 
in excess of any cumulative impairment loss previously 
recognized. A gain or loss not previously recognized by 
the date of the sale of the non-current asset is recognized 
at the date of de-recognition.
Non-current assets are not depreciated or amortised 
while they are classified as held for sale.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are 
presented separately from the other assets in the balance 
sheet.
(p) 	 Investments and other financial assets
	
(i) 	
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
• 	
those to be measured subsequently at fair 
value (either through other comprehensive 
income, or through profit or loss)
• 	
those to be measured at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the entity’s business 
model for managing the financial assets and the 
contractual terms of the cash flows.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and 
losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or 
other comprehensive income. For investments in 
equity instruments that are not held for trading, this 
will depend on whether the Group has made an 
irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition 
to account for the equity investment at FVOCI.
The Group reclassifies debt investments when and 
only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
(ii)	
Recognition
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets 
are recognized on trade-date, being the date on 
which the Group commits to purchase or sale the 
financial asset.
(iii) 	 Measurement
At initial recognition, the Group measures a 
financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a 
financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, 
transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs 
of financial assets carried at fair value through profit 
or loss are expensed in profit or loss.
	
	
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Group’s business model for 
managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics 
of the asset. There are three measurement 
categories into which the Group classifies its debt 
instruments:
• 	
Amortised cost: Assets that are held for 
collection of contractual cash flows where 
those cash flows represent solely payments 
of principal and interest are measured at 
amortised cost. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in Other Income 
using the effective interest rate method. 
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition 
is recognized directly in profit or loss and 
presented in other gains/(losses). Impairment 
losses are presented as separate line item in 
the statement of profit and loss.
• 	
Fair value through other comprehensive 
income (FVOCI): Assets that are held for 
collection of contractual cash flows and for 
selling the financial assets, where the assets’ 
cash flows represent solely payments of 
principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. 
Movements in the carrying amount are taken 
through OCI, except for the recognition of 
impairment gains or losses, interest income 
and foreign exchange gains and losses which 
are recognized in profit and loss. When the 
financial asset is derecognized, the cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognized in OCI is 
reclassified from equity to profit or loss and 
recognized in other gains/(losses). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included 
in other income using the effective interest 
rate method. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses are presented in other gains/(losses) 
and impairment expenses are presented as 
separate line item in statement of profit and 
loss.
• 	
Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that 
do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or 
FVOCI are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss. A gain or loss on a debt investment that 
is subsequently measured at fair value through 
profit or loss is recognized in profit or loss and 
presented net within other gains/(losses) in 
the period in which it arises. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in other 
income.
	
	
Investments in mutual funds and equity 
instruments
Investment in mutual funds and equity instruments 
are classified as fair value through profit or loss as 
they are not held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold assets in order to collect 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
268
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
contractual cash flows and the contractual terms 
of such assets do not give rise on specified dates 
to cash flows that are solely payments of principal 
and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Where the Group’s management has elected 
to present fair value gains and losses on equity 
investments in other comprehensive income, there 
is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains 
and losses to the statement of profit and loss. The 
Group makes such election on an instrument-by-
instrument basis. The classification is made on initial 
recognition and is irrevocable. Dividends from such 
investments are recognized in profit or loss as other 
income when the Group’s right to receive payments 
is established.
Investment in bonds
Investment in bonds are financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in 
an active market. These are classified as financial 
assets measured at amortised cost as they fulfill the 
following conditions:
•	
Such assets are held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets in order to 
collect contractual cash flows.
•	
The contractual terms of such assets give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding.
The Group recognises these assets on the date 
when they are originated and are initially measured 
at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction 
costs.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at 
fair value through profit or loss are recognized in 
other gain/ (losses) in the statement of profit and 
loss. Impairment losses (and reversal of impairment 
losses) on equity investments measured at FVOCI 
are not reported separately from other changes in 
fair value.
(iv)	 Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis 
the expected credit losses associated with its 
assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI debt 
instruments. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk. Note XX details how the 
Group determines whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables only, the Group applies the 
simplified approach required by Ind AS 109, which 
requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized 
from initial recognition of the receivables.
(v)	
Derecognition of financial assets
	
	
A financial asset is derecognized only when
• 	
the Group has transferred the rights to receive 
cash flows from the financial asset or
• 	
retains the contractual rights to receive the 
cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows 
to one or more recipients.
Where the entity has transferred an asset, the Group 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. 
In such cases, the financial asset is derecognized. 
Where the entity has not transferred substantially all 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, 
the financial asset is not derecognized.
Where the entity has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset is 
derecognized if the Group has not retained control of 
the financial asset. Where the Group retains control 
of the financial asset, the asset is continued to be 
recognized to the extent of continuing involvement 
in the financial asset.
(vi)	 Income recognition
	
	
Interest income
Interest income from financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss is disclosed as interest income 
within other income. Interest income on financial 
assets at amortised cost and financial assets at 
FVOCI is calculated using the effective interest 
method is recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss as part of other income.
Interest income is calculated by applying the 
effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount 
of a financial asset except for financial assets that 
subsequently become credit-impaired.
	
	
Dividends
Dividends are received from financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss and at FVOCI. Dividends 
are recognized as other income in profit or loss when 
the right to receive payment is established.
(q)	 Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis 
or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal 
course of business and in the event of default, insolvency 
or bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparty.
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
269
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(r) 	 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of 
property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost 
less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure 
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognized when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
	
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to continue 
with the carrying value of all of its property, plant and 
equipment measured as per the previous GAAP and use 
that carrying value as the deemed cost of the property, 
plant and equipment.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
	
Print Business:
Depreciation is calculated using the written-down value 
method to allocate the cost of the assets, net of their 
residual values, over their estimated useful lives as 
follows:
Particulars
Estimate of Useful life
Buildings (including investment 
properties)
30 years
Plant & machinery
15 years
Furniture & fixtures
10 years
Vehicles
8 years
Office equipments
5 years
Computers
3 years
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the 
shorter of their useful life or the lease term, unless the 
entity expects to use the assets beyond the lease term.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method 
to allocate the cost of the assets, net of their residual 
values, over their estimated useful lives as follows:
	
Radio Business:
Leasehold improvements included in furniture and 
fixtures, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the 
total period of lease including renewals, or useful life, 
whichever is shorter.
The property, plant and equipment are depreciated 
on pro-rata basis on a straight-line method over the 
estimated useful lives of the assets which are as follows:
Nature of asset
Useful life (in years)
Buildings 
 60 *
Towers, antenna and 
transmitters (included in Plant 
and Machinery)
13
Furniture and fixtures 
5-10
Studio equipment (included in 
Plant and Machinery)
3-15
Vehicles
8
Office equipment
3-15
Computers
3-6
* further adjusted for life already expired at the time of 
acquisition
The useful lives of the assets are as prescribed in Schedule 
II to the Companies Act, 2013, except for furniture and 
fixtures, studio equipment and office equipment, which 
have been determined based on technical evaluation 
done by the management which are lower than those 
specified by Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, in 
order to reflect the actual usage of the assets.
The residual values are not more than 5% of the original 
cost of the asset. The assets’ residual values and useful 
lives are reviewed, and adjusted, if appropriate, at the end 
of each reporting period.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, 
and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by 
comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are 
included in profit or loss within other gains/(losses).
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment outstanding at each balance sheet date 
are classified as capital advances under non-current 
assets.
Capital work-in-progress excluding capital advances 
includes property, plant and equipment under construction 
and not ready for intended use as on balance sheet date.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
270
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(s) 	 Investment properties
Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for 
capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by 
the Group, is classified as investment property. Investment 
property is measured initially at its cost, including related 
transaction costs and where applicable borrowing costs. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s 
carrying amount only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the expenditure 
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance 
costs are expensed when incurred. When part of an 
investment property is replaced, the carrying amount of 
the replaced part is derecognized.
Leasehold land included in investment properties is 
depreciated using the straight-line method over the lease 
term. Leasehold lands have a lease term ranging from 30 
to 99 years. The useful life has been determined based 
on lease term.
	
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to continue 
with the carrying value of all of its investment properties 
measured as per the previous GAAP and use that carrying 
value as the deemed cost of investment properties.
(t) 	 Intangible assets
	
(i) 	
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is recognised 
as intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised but it 
is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
it might be impaired, and is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses 
on the disposal of an entity include the carrying 
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for 
the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is 
made to those cash-generating units or Groups of 
cash-generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which the goodwill 
arose. The units or Groups of units are identified at 
the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for 
internal management purposes, which in our case 
are the operating segments.
	
(ii)	
Title
Title “Dainik Jagran” is carried at historical cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
The Group amortises the title on a straight line basis 
over its estimated useful life of 27 years.
	
(iii) 	 Software and website cost
Computer software and website costs are stated 
at their cost of acquisition net of accumulated 
amortisation.
(iv) 	 One-time entry fees and migration fees
One-time entry fees capitalised is being amortised 
on a straight-line basis over a period of fifteen 
years, being the period of license, from the date of 
operationalisation of the respective stations.
The migration fee capitalised is being amortised with 
effect from April 1, 2015, on a straight-line basis over 
a period of fifteen years, being the period of license.
(v) 	 Amortisation methods and periods
The Group amortises intangible assets with a finite 
useful life using the straight-line method over the 
following periods:
	
• 	
Title 27 years
	
• 	
Software ranging from 3 years to license period
	
• 	
Website cost 3 years
	
• 	
One-time entry fees and migration fees 15 years
	
	
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Group has elected to 
continue with the carrying value of all of intangible 
assets measured as per the previous GAAP and use 
that carrying value as the deemed cost of intangible 
assets.
(u) 	 Trade and other payables
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services 
provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year 
which are unpaid. The amounts are unsecured and are 
usually paid within due dates. Trade and other payables 
are presented as current liabilities unless payment is not 
due within 12 months after the reporting period. They are 
recognized initially at their fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method.
(v) 	 Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption 
amount is recognized in profit or loss over the period of 
the borrowings using the effective interest method. Fees 
paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognized 
as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is 
probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn 
down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-
down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it 
is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn 
down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity 
services and amortised over the period of the facility to 
which it relates.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when 
the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, 
cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying 
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
271
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished 
or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, 
including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities 
assumed, is recognized in profit or loss as other gains/
(losses).
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the 
Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement 
of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting 
period. Where there is a breach of a material provision of 
a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the 
reporting period with the effect that the liability becomes 
payable on demand on the reporting date, the entity does 
not classify the liability as current, if the lender agreed, 
after the reporting period and before the approval of the 
financial statements for issue, not to demand payment as 
a consequence of the breach.
(w) 	 Provisions
Provisions for legal claims, volume discounts and returns 
are recognized when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. Provisions are not recognized for future 
operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the 
likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is 
determined by considering the class of obligations as a 
whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of 
an outflow with respect to any one item included in the 
same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting 
period. The discount rate used to determine the present 
value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the liability. The increase in the provision due 
to the passage of time is recognized as interest expense.
(y) 	 Employee benefits
(i) 	
Short-term obligations
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related service are 
recognized in respect of employees’ services up to 
the end of the reporting period and are measured at 
the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities 
are settled. The liabilities are presented as current 
employee benefit obligations in the balance sheet.
(ii) 	 Other long-term employee benefit obligations
The liabilities for earned leave that are not expected 
to be settled wholly within 12 months after the end 
of the period in which the employees render the 
related service. These obligations are therefore 
measured as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided 
by employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The benefits 
are discounted using the appropriate market yields 
at the end of the reporting period that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
Remeasurements as a result of experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognized in profit or loss.
The obligations are presented as current liabilities 
in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an 
unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period, regardless 
of when the actual settlement is expected to occur.
(iii) 	 Post-employment obligations
The Group operates the following post-employment 
schemes:
	
(a) 	 Defined benefit plans(gratuity)
	
(b) 	 Defined contribution plans such as provident 
fund.
	
	
Pension and gratuity obligations
The liability or asset recognized in the balance sheet 
in respect of defined benefit pension and gratuity 
plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less 
the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows by reference to market yields at the 
end of the reporting period on government bonds 
that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined 
benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. 
This cost is included in employee benefit expense 
in the statement of profit and loss.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognized in the period in which 
they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. 
They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the balance 
sheet.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation resulting from plan amendments or 
curtailments are recognized immediately in profit or 
loss as past service cost.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
272
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	
Defined contribution plans
The Group pays provident fund contributions to 
publicly administered provident funds as per local 
regulations. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are accounted for as defined 
contribution plans and the contributions are 
recognized as employee benefit expense when they 
are due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an 
asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction 
in the future payments is available.
(w) 	 Contributed equity
	
Equity shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new 
shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net 
of tax, from the proceeds.
(x) 	 Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the 
reporting period.
(y) 	 Earnings per share
	
(i) 	
Basic earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
• 	
the profit attributable to owners of the Group
• 	
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the financial year, 
adjusted for bonus elements in equity shares 
issued during the year and excluding treasury 
shares (see note 40).
The Group does not have any dilutive potential 
equity shares.
(z) 	 Rounding of amounts
All amounts disclosed in the consolidated financial 
statements and notes have been rounded off to the 
nearest lakhs upto two decimal places as per the 
requirement of Schedule III, unless otherwise stated.
Note 2: Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires 
the use of accounting estimates which, by definition, will seldom 
equal the actual results. Management also needs to exercise 
judgement in applying the Group’s accounting policies.
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, and of items which 
are more likely to be materially adjusted due to estimates and 
assumptions turning out to be different than those originally 
assessed. Detailed information about each of these estimates 
and judgements is included in relevant notes together with 
information about the basis of calculation for each affected line 
item in the standalone financial statements.
Critical estimates and judgements
The areas involving critical estimates or judgements are:
•	
estimated goodwill impairment – see note 3(d)
•	
estimation of defined benefit obligation – see note 12
•	
impairment of trade receivables – see note 5(b) and 31
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. They are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that may have a financial impact 
on the Company and that are believed to be reasonable under 
the circumstances.
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
273
Note 3(a): Property, plant and equipment
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Buildings 
constructed on 
leasehold land 
[refer note (a)]
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
machinery
Furniture 
and fixture
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Computers
Total
Capital 
work-in-
progress
Year ended March 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
2,152.12
15,573.30
10,482.73
2,451.07
49,873.24
3,074.31
3,165.18
2,550.62
4,394.92
93,717.49
189.86
Additions during the year
-
42.75
-
189.73
272.74
19.73
139.85
85.09
288.18
1,038.07
457.98
Disposals/adjustment
(831.84)
(200.17)
-
-
(288.75)
(2.61)
(137.01)
(5.73)
(6.80)
(1,472.91)
-
Capitalised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(420.49)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
1,320.28
15,415.88
10,482.73
2,640.80
49,857.23
3,091.43
3,168.02
2,629.98
4,676.30
93,282.65
227.35
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
-
5,141.48
3,062.49
1,504.10
30,452.31
1,649.04
2,411.94
1,685.47
3,655.70
49,562.53
-
Depreciation charge for the 
year
-
941.77
366.26
267.86
3,258.74
289.83
227.84
219.68
377.99
5,949.97
-
Disposals/adjustment
-
(82.48)
-
-
(221.71)
(2.41)
(119.90)
(5.24)
(3.58)
(435.32)
-
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
-
6,000.77
3,428.75
1,771.96
33,489.34
1,936.46
2,519.88
1,899.91
4,030.11
55,077.18
-
Net carrying amount
1,320.28
9,415.11
7,053.98
868.84
16,367.89
1,154.97
648.14
730.07
646.19
38,205.47
227.35
Year ended March 31, 2023
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
1,320.28
15,415.88
10,482.73
2,640.80
49,857.23
3,091.43
3,168.02
2,629.98
4,676.30
93,282.65
227.35
Additions during the year
-
41.54
-
171.71
865.19
149.81
467.82
234.92
456.23
2,387.22
174.59
Disposals/adjustment
-
(1,782.29)
-
(284.38)
(1,255.88)
(99.38)
(186.01)
(43.32)
(61.96)
(3,713.22)
Capitalised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(239.60)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
1,320.28 13,675.13
10,482.73
2,528.13
49,466.54
3,141.86
3,449.83
2,821.58
5,070.57
91,956.65
162.34
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Jagran Prakashan Limited
274
(All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Freehold 
land
Buildings
Buildings 
constructed on 
leasehold land 
[refer note (a)]
Leasehold 
improvements
Plant and 
machinery
Furniture 
and fixture
Vehicles
Office 
equipment
Computers
Total
Capital 
work-in-
progress
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
-
6,000.77
3,428.75
1,771.96
33,489.34
1,936.46
2,519.88
1,899.91
4,030.11
55,077.18
-
Depreciation charge for the 
year
-
718.69
449.51
216.74
2,663.60
255.30
231.55
213.58
330.91
5,079.88
-
Disposals/adjustment
-
(1,318.56)
19.43
(283.43)
(1,008.80)
(84.95)
(171.33)
(44.19)
(50.67)
(2,942.50)
-
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
-
5,400.90
3,897.69
1,705.27
35,144.14
2,106.81
2,580.10
2,069.30
4,310.35
57,214.56
-
Net carrying amount
1,320.28
8,274.23
6,585.04
822.86
14,322.40
1,035.05
869.73
752.28
760.22
34,742.09
162.34
Notes:
(a) 	 Includes buildings constructed on the rented premises/on plot of land taken on lease from the directors/their relatives and the properties belonging to an entity, whose running 
business was taken over by the Group on April 1, 2000 on lock, stock and barrel basis.
(b) 	 Refer note 27(a) for contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
(c) 	 Carrying value of property, plant and equipment charged as security as at March 31, 2023 is `19,727.39 (As at March 31, 2022: `19,476.24).
(d) 	 Refer note 12(a)(i), 12(a)(ii), 12(a)(iv) and 12(a)(v) for assets charged as security by the Group.
(e) 	 The Group has not revalued any property plant and equipment during the current or the previous year.
Capital work-in-progress(CWIP)
Ageing of CWIP:
Particulars
Amounts in capital work-in-progress for year ended March 31, 2023
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 162.34 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 162.34 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total
 162.34 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 162.34 
Particulars
Amounts in capital work-in-progress for year ended March 31, 2022
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Total
Projects in progress
 75.58 
 -   
 110.23 
 41.54 
 227.35 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total
 75.58 
 -   
 110.23 
 41.54 
 227.35 
Note:
There is no capital-work-progress, whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 3(a): Property, plant and equipment (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
275
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(b): Right-of-use assets
(i)
Amount recognised in balance sheet
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Right-of-use assets
Buildings/Warehouses
 7,096.79 
 6,612.68 
Computer server
 - 
 13.37 
Leasehold land
 2,088.09 
 1,813.63 
Total
 9,184.88 
 8,439.68 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Lease liabilities
Current
 1,667.41 
 1,618.60 
Non-current
 5,787.42 
 5,845.23 
Total
 7,454.83 
 7,463.83 
	
Additions to the right-of-use assets during the current financial year were `2,604.26 (March 31, 2022: `4,476.86).
(ii)	
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
	
The Statement of Profit or Loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Depreciation charge on right-of-use assets
Buildings/Warehouses
 1,471.47 
 1,857.72 
Computer server
 13.37 
 16.05 
Leasehold land
 37.77 
 32.83 
Total
 1,522.61 
 1,906.60 
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Interest expense (included in finance costs) (included in Note No.21)
 1,060.18 
 469.98 
Expenses relating to short term leases (included in other expenses)
 34.24 
 7.49 
Total
 1,094.42 
 477.47 
The total cash outflow for leases (including finance cost) for the year ended March 31, 2023 were `2,486.31 (March 31, 
2022: `2,021.10).
(iii)	 Variable lease payments
The Company does not have any leases with variable lease payments.
(iv)	 Extension and termination options
Extension and termination options are included in a number of property leases across the Group. These are used to maximise 
operational flexibility in terms of managing the assets used in the Company's operations. The majority of extension and 
termination options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the respective lessor.
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to 
exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination options) 
are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).
Jagran Prakashan Limited
276
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
For leases of buildings, the following factors are normally the most relevant:
• 	
If there are significant penalties to terminate (or not extend), the Group is typically reasonably certain to extend (or not 
terminate).
• 	
If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Group is typically reasonably 
certain to extend (or not terminate).
• 	
Otherwise, the Group considers other factors including historical lease durations and the costs and business disruption 
required to replace the leased asset.
Most extension options in building/office leases have not been included in the lease liability, because the Group could not 
replace the assets without significant cost or business disruption.
The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Group becomes obliged to exercise 
(or not exercise) it. The assessment of reasonable certainty is only revised if a significant event or a significant change in 
circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, and that is within the control of the lessee.
(v)	
Residual value guarantees
	
There are no residual value guarantees in the lease contracts.
	
Notes:
(a)	
Carrying value of leasehold land charged as security as at March 31, 2023 is `1,151.30 (As at March 31, 2022: 
`1,171.45).
(b)	
Refer note 12(a)(i), 12(a)(ii), 12(a)(iv) and 12(c)(v) for assets charged as security by the Group.
(c)	
The Group has not revalued any right-of-use assets during the current or the previous year.
Note 3(c): Investment properties
Particulars
Amount
Year ended March 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 9,228.03 
Additions
 - 
Disposals
 (72.02)
Closing gross carrying amount
 9,156.01 
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated depreciation
 214.60 
Depreciation charged during the year
 43.98 
Disposals
 (20.99)
Closing accumulated depreciation
 237.59 
Net carrying amount 
 8,918.42 
Year ended March 31, 2023
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 9,156.01 
Additions
 311.21 
Disposals
 (7,062.04)
Closing gross carrying amount
 2,405.18 
Note 3(b): Right-of-use assets (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
277
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Amount
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated depreciation
 237.59 
Depreciation charged during the year
 139.66 
Disposals
 (72.45)
Closing accumulated depreciation
 304.80 
Closing net carrying amount  
 2,100.38 
Notes:
(a)	
Carrying value of investment property charged  as security as at March 31, 2023 is `1,399.59 (As at March 31, 2022: 
`1,435.70).
(b)	
Refer note 12(a)(i), 12(a)(ii), 12(a)(iv) and 12(a)(v) for assets charged as security by the Group. 
(i)	
Amounts recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment properties
 2,919.21 
 63.61 
Rental income from investment properties
 2.20 
 2.04 
Direct operating expenses from investment properties that generated rental 
income
 - 
 (0.13)
Direct operating expenses from investment properties that did not generate 
rental income
 (15.75)
 (17.00)
Profit from investment properties before depreciation
 2,905.66 
 48.52 
Depreciation
 (139.66)
 (43.98)
Profit from investment properties
 2,766.00 
 4.54 
(ii)	
Contractual obligations
The Group has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, 
construct or develop investment properties.
(iii)	 Fair value
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment properties
 13,903.81 
 26,817.86 
	
Estimation of fair value
The fair values of the Group's investment properties have been determined by S.S. Dash & Associates, who is a registered 
valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. The fair value was derived 
using the market comparable approach based on recent market prices without any significant adjustments being made to 
the market observable data (fair value hierarchy is Level 2).
Details of the Company’s investment properties located in India and information about the fair value hierarchy as at March 
31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 are as follows:
Particulars
Level 2
Level 3
Fair value as at 
March 31, 2023
Residential units 
 860.99 
 - 
 860.99 
Land
 12,362.77 
 - 
 12,362.77 
Commercial units
 680.05 
 - 
 680.05 
Total
 13,903.81 
 - 
 13,903.81 
Note 3(c): Investment properties (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
278
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 3(c): Investment properties (Contd.)
Particulars
Level 2
Level 3
Fair value as at 
March 31, 2022
Residential units 
 640.99 
 - 
 640.99 
Land
 11,739.84 
 - 
 11,739.84 
Commercial units
 14,437.03 
 - 
 14,437.03 
Total
 26,817.86 
 - 
 26,817.86 
Note 3(d) : Goodwill and other intangible assets (acquired)
Particulars
Goodwill 
[refer note 
(a)]
Other intangible assets
Total other 
intangible 
assets
Title - 
Dainik 
Jagran 
[refer note 
(b)]
Computer 
software 
[refer note 
(c)]
One time 
entry/
migration 
fees [refer 
note (e)]
Brand 
[refer note 
(d)]
Radio 
license 
Year ended March 31, 2022
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 33,808.59 
 566.67 
 1,629.59 
 30,433.77 
 6,357.00 
 25,308.00 
 64,295.03 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
 92.77 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 92.77 
Disposals during the year
 - 
 - 
 (14.47)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (14.47)
Closing gross carrying amount
 33,808.59 
 566.67  1,707.89  30,433.77 
 6,357.00  25,308.00  64,373.33 
Accumulated amortisation
Opening accumulated 
amortisation
 - 
 377.76 
 1,425.84 
 11,124.69 
 - 
 9,922.23 
 22,850.52 
Amortisation charge for the year
 - 
 62.96 
 139.77 
 2,049.88 
 - 
 1,709.32 
 3,961.93 
Disposal during the year
 - 
 - 
 (14.47)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (14.47)
Closing accumulated 
amortisation 
 - 
 440.72  1,551.14  13,174.57 
 -  11,631.55  26,797.98 
Closing net carrying amount
 33,808.59 
 125.95 
 156.75  17,259.20 
 6,357.00  13,676.45  37,575.35 
Year ended March 31, 2023
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 33,808.59 
 566.67 
 1,707.89 
 30,433.77 
 6,357.00 
 25,308.00 
 64,373.33 
Additions during the year
 - 
 - 
 20.39 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.39 
Disposals during the year
 - 
 - 
 (27.45)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (27.45)
Closing gross carrying amount
 33,808.59 
 566.67  1,700.83  30,433.77 
 6,357.00  25,308.00  64,366.27 
Accumulated amortisation
Opening accumulated 
amortisation
 - 
 440.72 
 1,551.14 
 13,174.57 
 - 
 11,631.55 
 26,797.98 
Impaired during the year
 6,681.96 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Amortisation charge for the year
 - 
 62.96 
 110.83 
 2,049.89 
 - 
 1,709.32 
 3,933.00 
Disposal during the year
 - 
 - 
 (36.06)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (36.06)
Closing accumulated 
amortisation 
 6,681.96 
 503.68  1,625.91  15,224.46 
 -  13,340.87  30,694.92 
Closing net carrying amount
 27,126.63 
 62.99 
 74.92  15,209.31 
 6,357.00  11,967.13  33,671.35 
Notes:
(a)	
Impairment test for goodwill:
Goodwill represents excess of consideration paid over the net assets acquired. This is monitored by the management at the 
level of CGU and is tested annually for impairment. The goodwill appearing in the balance sheet relates to the acquisition 
of radio business. The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on annual basis. For the current year, 
the recoverable amount of the radio business CGU was determined based on value-in-use calculations, which require the 
use of assumptions. The calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management 
covering the period of radio license. These growth rates are consistent with forecasts included in industry reports specific 
to the industry in which the CGU operates.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
279
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
The following table sets out the key assumptions for the impairment testing of goodwill:
March 31, 2023
Key assumptions
Sales (% annual growth rate)
24.83%-15.84%
Operating costs (% annual growth rate)
9.4%-15.2%
Discount rate
15.03%
Management has determined the values assigned to each of the above key assumptions as follows:
Assumption
Approach used to determine values
Sales
Average annual growth rate over the forecast period; based on past performance and 
management’s expectations of market development.
Operating costs
Management forecasts these costs based on the current structure of the business, adjusting for 
inflationary increases but not reflecting any future restructurings or cost saving measures. The 
percentage disclosed above are the average operating costs increase for the forecast period.
Pre tax discount rate
The discount rates are calculated as the weighted average cost of capital, taking account of 
country-specific risks of the CGU and based on external capital market information. The cost 
of equity included in the determination reflects the return expected by investors. The cost of 
borrowing is derived from the long-term financing terms of comparable companies in the 
peer group.
The impairment charge of 6,681.96 was recognised in the radio CGU, considering the current market conditions and industry 
outlook.
As at March 31, 2022, the recoverable amount of radio CGU was computed based on the market capitalisation of MBL 
of `89,186.89, which exceeded the carrying amount of its net assets. The Group’s share of its investment in MBL was 
significantly higher than the carrying value of goodwill and therefore no impairment was recognised.
(b)	 Title - "Dainik Jagran" was purchased in year 1996-97 from Jagran Publications at a cost of `1,700. The Group amortises 
the title on a straight line basis over estimated useful life of 27 years.
(c)	
Computer software licenses are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. These costs are amortised using the straight-
line method over their estimated useful lives of three years to license period.
(d)	 The useful life of brand is considered to be indefinite as the expected period of benefit from the use of brand cannot be 
reasonably estimated.
(e)	
During the financial year ended March 31, 2016, under Phase III auction of licenses, the Group had paid `22,101 for 20 
existing FM stations and `6,257 for acquiring 11 new FM stations. These licenses allow the Group to operate FM radio 
stations for a period of 15 years commencing from April 1, 2015. Amount paid for 11 new stations had been capitalised as 
and when these stations started their operations and are being amortised over the remaining license period.
(f)	
The Group had not revalued any of its intangible assets during the current or previous year.
(g)	 The Group did not have any intangbile assets under development during the year ended on March 31, 2023 (March 31, 
2022: ` Nil)
	
Details of assets material to the Group's financial statements
Description of assets 
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Carrying amount and remaining useful life :
Carrying 
amount
Average 
remaining useful 
life (In years)
Carrying 
amount
Average 
remaining useful 
life (In years)
Stations acquired under Composite scheme of arrangement
 737.63 
 7.00 
 843.02 
 8.00 
Stations acquired under Phase III 
 4,157.79 
 8.70 
 4,628.89 
 9.70 
Existing stations renewed under Phase III
 10,313.86 
 7.00 
 11,787.26 
 8.00 
Total
 15,209.28 
 17,259.17 
Note 3(d) : Goodwill and other intangible assets (acquired) (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
280
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 4: Investments in associates
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
I. 	 Non-current investments accounted using equity method
	
Unquoted
160,762 [March 31, 2022: 160,762] shares of `10 each held in Leet OOH 
Media Private Limited
571.38
552.51
39,200 [March 31, 2022: 39,200] shares of `10 each held in X-Pert Publicity 
Private Limited
78.29
67.32
2,195,500 [March 31, 2022: 21,95,500] shares of `10 each held in MMI Online 
Limited [Net of provision aggregating to `613.94 (March 31, 2022: ` Nil)]
-
639.73
	
Total
 649.67 
 1,259.56 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 649.67 
 1,259.56 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 613.94 
 - 
Notes:
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
Note 5: Financial assets
5(a) Non-current investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in equity instruments (fully paid-up)
Quoted
35,128 [March 31, 2022: 35,128] shares of `2 each held in ICICI 
Bank Limited
 308.16 
 256.54 
1,100 [March 31, 2022: 1,100] shares of `10 each held in Bank of 
India Limited
 0.82 
 0.50 
500 [March 31, 2022: 500] shares of `2 each held in HT Media 
Limited
 0.07 
 0.17 
125 [March 31, 2022: 125] shares of `2 each held in Digicontent 
Limited
 0.02 
 - 
Unquoted
100,000 [March 31, 2022: 100,000] shares of `10 each held in 
Jagran Publications Private Limited [Note (a) below] [Net of provision 
aggregating to `10 (March 31, 2022: `10)]*
 - 
 - 
5,000 [March 31, 2022: 5,000] shares of `10 each held in Jagran 
Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited [Note (b) below] [Net of provision 
aggregating to `0.50 (March 31, 2022: `0.50)]**
 - 
 - 
150 [March 31, 2022:150] shares of `100 each held in United News 
of India
 0.10 
 0.10 
332 [March 31, 2022: 332] shares of `100 each held in The Press 
Trust of India Limited
 0.33 
 0.33 
100,100 [March 31, 2022:100,100] shares of `10 each held in the 
Digital News Publishers Association
 10.01 
 10.01 
22,727 (March 31, 2022: 22,727) Equity Shares of `10 each held 
in Micro Secure Solutions Limited [Net of impairment aggregating to 
`102.27]
 - 
 - 
9260 (March 31, 2022: 9,260) Equity Shares of `10 each held in 
Micro Retail Limited [Net of impairment aggregating to `50.93]
 - 
 - 
Total (equity instruments)
A
 319.51 
 267.65 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
281
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a): Non-current investments (Contd.)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in mutual funds and alternate investment funds
Quoted
Investment in mutual funds [refer note 5(a)(i) below]
 12,566.02 
 42,139.88 
Unquoted
Investment in alternate investment funds [refer note 5(a)(ii)]
 713.86 
 199.98 
Total (mutual funds and alternate investment funds)
B
 13,279.88 
 42,339.86 
Investment in bonds and debentures (measured at amortised cost)#
Quoted
300 [March 31, 2022:300] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 
7.74% State Bank of India perpetual bonds (Series 1) (ISIN No. 
INE062A08249)
 3,064.15 
 3,064.15 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.50% 
Bank of Baroda perpetual bonds (series XIII) (ISIN No. INE028A08224)
 501.22 
 501.22 
200 [March 31, 2022-:200] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 
8.50% Bank of Baroda perpetual bonds (series XIV) (ISIN No. 
INE028A08232)
 2,060.60 
 2,060.60 
150 [March 31, 2022:150] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.15% 
Bank of Baroda perpetual bonds (series XV) (ISIN No. INE028A08240)
 1,508.57 
 1,508.57 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 6.83% 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited NCD (series 
Y-005) (ISIN No. INE001A07SW3)
 984.20 
 984.20 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 10.15% 
UPPCL BONDS (series 11-sub series G) (ISIN No. INE540P07335)
 515.69 
 515.69 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.97% 
UPPCL(series III-D) NCD 15/02/2024 (ISIN No. INE540P07079)
 - 
 517.50 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.70% 
Bank of Baroda perpetual bonds ((ISIN No. INE028A08174))
 1,025.10 
 1,025.10 
200 [March 31, 2022:200] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 8.50% 
State Bank of India perpetual bonds (ISIN No. INE062A08223)
 2,069.63 
 2,069.63 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held in 7.73% 
State Bank of India perpetual bonds (ISIN No. INE062A08272)
 1,019.72 
 1,019.72 
150 [March 31, 2022:150] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.70% 
LIC Housing Finance Limited NCD (Series 2) 19/03/2031 (ISIN No. 
INE115A08377)
 1,558.79 
 1,558.79 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.25% 
Punjab National Bank Bonds NCD (Series XXII) 14/10/2030 (ISIN No. 
INE160A08167)
502.61
 502.61 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 9.75% 
UPPCL NCD (Series I 2017-18- Sub Series H) 20/10/2026 (ISIN No. 
INE540P07251)
516.58
 516.58 
550.000 [March 31, 2022:550,000] bonds of `10,00 each held 8.20% 
India Grid Trust NCD(option v) 06/05/2031 (ISIN No. INE219X07264)
4124.12
 5,721.77 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.70% 
LIC Housing Finance NCD (Tranche 382) 23/03/2029 (ISIN No. 
INE115A07OB4)
1106.68
 1,106.68 
10 [March 31, 2022:10] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.28% 
SBI Global Factors Limited NCD (Series -10) 28/07/2031 (ISIN No. 
INE912E08AE7)
1021.95
 1,021.95 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
282
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a): Non-current investments (Contd.)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.95% L&T 
Infrastructure Finance Co. Ltd. 28/07/2025 (ISIN No. INE691I07ER4)
1040.36
 1,040.36 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 6.88% 
Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited 24/09/2031 
(ISIN No. INE001A07TB5)
993.91
 993.91 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 
7.02% Bajaj Finance Corporation Limited 18/04/2031 (ISIN No. 
INE296A07RS9)
994.42
 994.42 
10 [March 31, 2022:10] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.10% 
HDFC Ltd. 12/11/2031 (ISIN No. INE001A07TF6)
 1,006.60 
 1,006.60 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.80% 
REC Limited 14/05/2029 (ISIN No. INE020B08BS3)
1098.18
 1,098.18 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 6.44% 
HDFC Bank 27/09/2028 (ISIN No. INE040A08401)
985.61
 985.61 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.05% 
HDFC Limited 01/12/2031 (ISIN No. INE001A07TG4)
990.43
 990.43 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 
Assem Infrastructure Finance Limited MLD 15-12-23 (ISIN No. 
INE0AD507051)
 - 
 501.57 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 
Assem Infrastructure Finance Limited MLD 17-10-24 (ISIN No. 
INE0AD507069)
 501.68 
 501.68 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] 9.75% U.P. Power Corporation Limited (ISIN 
No. INE540P07244)
 514.30 
 513.19 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] 9.75% U.P. Power Corporation Limited (ISIN 
No. INE540P07251)
 515.26 
 514.81 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] 8.99% Bank of Baroda Perpetual Bond 
(ISIN code INE028A08182 )
 1,025.60 
 1,037.17 
10 [March 31, 2022:10] 7.72% State Bank of India Perpetual Bond 
(ISIN No. INE062A08280)
 1,005.80 
 1,006.77 
12 [March 31, 2022:12] 7.72% State Bank of India Perpetual Bond 
(ISIN No. INE062A08298)
 1,208.47 
 1,208.47 
330 [March 31, 2022:330] 7.70% LIC Housing Finance Limited (ISIN 
No. INE115A08377)
 3,429.27 
 3,441.20 
200 [March 31, 2022:200] 6.88% HDFC Limited (ISIN No. 
INE001A07TB5)
 1,986.41 
 1,985.04 
100 [March 31, 2022:100] 6.65% Food Corporation of India (ISIN No. 
INE861G08076)
 977.55 
 977.55 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] 8.95% IDFC Bank Ltd (ISIN No. INE092T08527)
 522.39 
 527.08 
25 [March 31, 2022:25] 8.67% IDFC Bank Ltd (ISIN No. INE092T08BS4)
 256.23 
 259.05 
20 [March 31, 2022:20] 8.70% IDFC Bank Ltd (ISIN No. INE092T08BU0 )
 207.46 
 208.32 
25[March 31, 2022:25] 7.05% LIC Housing Finance Limited (ISIN No. 
INE115A08369 )
 250.04 
 250.04 
8 [March 31, 2022:Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.55% SBI 
LTD Prep,Call Date 14 Dec 2026 (ISIN No. INE062A08306)
 787.96 
 - 
100 [March 31, 2022:Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.65% Tata 
Capital Financial Serv LTD 29 April 2032 (ISIN No. INE306N07MQ4)
 1,002.94 
 - 
5 [March 31, 2022:Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 7.95% BOB 
Prep Call Date 26 NOV 2026 (ISIN No. INE028A08265)
 498.05 
 - 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
283
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
100 (March 31, 2022: Nil) units of `10,00,000 each held in 8.00% Bank 
of Baroda Perpetual Bond (Series XV) (ISIN code INE028A08273)
 1,003.51 
 - 
150 (March 31, 2022: Nil) units of `10,00,000 each held in 9.95% 
UPPCL Bonds
 1,523.98 
 - 
Total (Investments in bonds and debentures)
C
 45,906.02 
 43,736.21 
Investments in corporate fixed deposits (measured at amortised cost)
Unquoted
6.05% ICICI Home Finance Company Limited Fixed Deposits
 500.00 
 500.00 
6.30% ICICI Home Finance Company Limited Fixed Deposits
 500.00 
 500.00 
Total (corporate fixed deposits)
D
 1,000.00 
 1,000.00 
Total non-current investments
A+B+C+D
 60,505.41 
 87,343.72 
*(a) 	Represents 40% paid-up capital of the company carrying 50% 
voting rights
**(b) Represents 50% paid-up capital of the company carrying 50% 
voting rights
(c) 	Other disclosures :
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 58,781.11 
 86,133.30 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 58,781.11 
 86,133.30 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 1,724.30 
 1,210.42 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 163.70 
 163.70 
#Investments in bonds and debentures made during the year, represent debt instruments which are carried at amortised cost 
and impairment is recognised basis the expected credit losses, which amounts to NIL as at March 31, 2023 (NIL as at March 31, 
2022). The reduced market value as at the balance sheet date does not impact the carrying amount of such investments as they 
are being held to maturity.
5(a) Current investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment in mutual funds
Quoted
Investment in mutual funds [refer note 5(a)(iii) below]
 37,865.30 
 11,269.77 
Total (mutual funds)
A
 37,865.30 
 11,269.77 
Investment in bonds and debentures (measured at amortised cost)#
Quoted
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 8.97% UPPCL 
(series III-D) NCD 15/02/2024 (ISIN No. INE540P07079)
 517.50 
 - 
50 [March 31, 2022:50] bonds of `10,00,000 each held Assem 
Infrastructure Finance Limited MLD 15-12-23 (ISIN No. INE0AD507051)
 501.57 
 - 
100 [March 31, 2022:Nil] bonds of `10,00,000 each held 6.55% NHB 
APR 2023 (ISIN No. INE557F08FI7)
 1,001.65 
 - 
Total (Investments in bonds and debentures)
B
 2,020.72 
 - 
Investments in corporate fixed deposits (measured at amortised cost)
Unquoted
7.5% LIC Housing Finance Limited -1 year fixed deposits
 - 
 1,990.00 
5.75% LIC Housing Finance Limited -3 year fixed deposits
 1,000.00 
 1,000.00 
Investment in corporate fixed deposits
C
 1,000.00 
 2,990.00 
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a) Non-current investments (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
284
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Total current investments
A+B+C
 40,886.02 
 14,259.77 
Aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof
 39,886.02 
 11,269.77 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 1,000.00 
 2,990.00 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 - 
-
5(a)(i) Details of investments in mutual fund units
Non-current:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund- Direct- 
Growth
 - 
 - 
 1,068,875 
 974.87 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund- Growth-
Regular Plan
 1,026,778 
 969.17 
 2,799,608 
 2,524.96 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Regular-
Growth
 - 
 - 
 182,641 
 541.56 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Nifty SDL Plus PSU Bond Sep 2026 
60:40 index Fund -Direct Growth
 4,999,150 
 524.31 
 4,999,150 
 508.73 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Arbitrage Fund- Direct- Growth
 - 
 - 
 4,400,259 
 1,001.24 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Savings Fund- Direct- Growth
 - 
 - 
 224,616 
 1,000.24 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Low Duration Fund- Growth
 142,869 
 802.85 
Franklin India Short term Income  Plan-Retail Plan-
Segregated Portfolio-2 (10.90% Vodafone-Idea Ltd. 02-
09-2023) 
 20,174 
 25.35 
 36,374 
 31.96 
Franklin India Short term Income  Plan-Retail Plan-
Direct-Segregated Portfolio-2 (10.90% Vodafone Idea 
Ltd. 02-09-2023) 
 3,359 
 3.31 
 4,502 
 4.18 
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 1,793,204 
 1,127.20 
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Regular Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,639,484 
 2,171.54 
L&T Ultra Short Term Fund-Direct -Growth
 - 
 - 
 1,374,755 
 500.28 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 10,107,926 
 2,676.72 
HDFC Short Term Debt Fund- Direct Plan Growth
 - 
 - 
 2,074,508 
 543.92 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 - 
 - 
 2,033,430 
 531.40 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 6,556,969 
 1,612.12 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Growth
 - 
 - 
 8,942,887 
 2,115.51 
ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Direct-
Growth
 - 
 - 
 4,033,195 
 1,085.75 
ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage Fund-Direct-
Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,786,266 
 2,050.64 
IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 2,643,077 
 539.17 
IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Regular-Growth
 - 
 - 
 2,679,307 
 536.30 
IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,333,700 
 524.54 
IDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,369,717 
 540.51 
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Regular-Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,652,111 
 1,928.12 
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 1,998,617 
 1,084.87 
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 48,241 
 1,511.32 
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 - 
 - 
 17,315 
 525.31 
Kotak Bond Short Term Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 2,334,391 
 1,066.72 
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a) Current investments (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
285
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Kotak Bond Short Term Fund- Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,673,129 
 1,564.29 
Kotak Balanced Advantage Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 6,674,788 
 1,004.02 
Kotak Equity Arbitrage Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 3,161,687 
 1,001.27 
Kotak Money Market Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 13,809 
 499.97 
Kotak Nifty SDL APR 2027 top 12 Equal Weight Index 
Fund- Direct-G
 10,296,874 
 1,067.56 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 970,502 
 485.84 
 2,076,884 
 992.10 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Direct Growth
 - 
 - 
 1,074,349 
 532.32 
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Growth Plan Growth 
Option
 - 
 - 
 4,987,235 
 2,134.35 
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Direct Growth Plan 
Growth Option
 - 
 - 
 3,550,888 
 1,616.64 
Nippon India Banking & PSU Debt Fund -Growth Plan
 - 
 - 
 3,202,227 
 539.73 
Nippon India Money Market Fund-Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 29,844 
 999.95 
Nippon India ETF Nifty SDL Apr 2026 Top 20 Equal 
Weight Index- Fund
 2,000,000 
 2,237.00 
 - 
Nippon India Overnight Fund- Direct-Growth
 249,737 
 300.60 
 - 
 - 
Axis Money Market Fund -Direct Plan-Growth
 - 
 - 
 130,226 
 1,499.93 
Edelweiss Balanced Advantage Fund-Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 1,276,423 
 495.63 
Edelweiss Nifty PSU Bond Plus SDL Apr 2026-50:50 
Index Fund Direct-Growth
 9,577,882 
 1,060.30 
 - 
 - 
Bharat Bond FOF - April 2031 - Regular Plan Growth
 11,216,137 
 1,249.94 
 - 
 - 
Bharat Bond FOF - April 2030 - Regular Plan Growth
 9,990,469 
 1,249.92 
 - 
 - 
Axis Nifty AAA Bond Plus SDL ETF - 2026 Maturity 
50:50 Index Fund
 10,000,000 
 1,089.00 
 - 
 - 
DSP Overnight Fund-Direct-Growth
 41,704 
 500.72 
 - 
 - 
Invesco India Overnight Fund- Direct-Growth
 44,145 
 500.07 
 - 
 - 
Mirae Asset Overnight Fund-Direct-Growth
 43,514 
 500.08 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
60,623,294 
 12,566.02 
 107,986,614.00 
 42,139.88 
5 (a)(ii) Details of investments in alternate investment funds
Non-current:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
ICICI Prudential Corporate Credit Opportunities Fund-AIF -I
 680,381 
 713.86 
 99,995 
 199.98 
Total (A)
 680,381 
 713.86 
 99,995 
 199.98 
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a)(i) Details of investments in mutual fund units (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
286
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a)(iii) Details of investments in mutual fund units
Current:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 66,764 
 2,187.36 
 57,317 
 1,795.68 
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth
 1,998,617 
 1,136.67 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Regular Growth
 3,652,111 
 2,011.56 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Bond Short Term Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 2,334,391 
 1,114.05 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Bond Short Term Bond Fund-Growth
 3,673,129 
 1,620.44 
 - 
 - 
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 17,315 
 547.40 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund-Growth Regular 
Plan        
 3,582,178 
 3,381.20 
 1,809,348 
 1,631.84 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Corporate Bond Fund- Direct- Growth
 1,068,875 
 1,021.90 
 677,387 
 617.81 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-
Growth
 192,843 
 614.38 
 192,843 
 586.87 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Regular-
Growth
 182,641 
 564.97 
 - 
 - 
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 127,153 
 79.93 
L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Regular Growth
 - 
 - 
 886,572 
 528.98 
IDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 - 
 - 
 7,703,543 
 1,235.66 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Direct-Growth
 6,556,969 
 1,706.63 
 4,980,625 
 1,224.55 
ICICI Prudential Banking & PSU Debt Fund-Direct-Growth
 4,033,195 
 1,149.29 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Corporate Bond Fund-Growth
 8,942,887 
 2,233.24 
 - 
 - 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth
 10,107,926 
 2,791.74 
 2,673,256 
 707.92 
HDFC Short Term Debt Fund- Direct Plan Growth
 2,074,508 
 570.35 
 - 
 - 
HDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 2,033,430 
 552.69 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Ultra Short term Fund - Direct Plan - 
Growth
 - 
 - 
 11,192,493 
 2,676.20 
Franklin India Short term Income  Fund-Retail-Regular 
Growth
 2,447 
 120.99 
 3,451 
 162.62 
Franklin India Short term Income  Fund-Retail-Direct 
Growth
 347 
 17.22 
 459 
 21.71 
Bandhan Banking & PSU Debt Fund- Direct-Growth 
(Formerly known as IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- 
Direct-Growth)
 2,643,077 
 564.37 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Banking & PSU Debt Fund- REG-Growth 
(Formerly known as IDFC Banking & PSU Debt Fund- 
Regular-Growth)
 2,679,307 
 559.69 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth (Formerly 
known as IDFC Corporate Bond Fund- Direct-Growth)
 7,052,009 
 1,170.79 
 - 
 - 
Bandhan Corporate Bond Fund-Growth  (Formerly known 
as IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -Growth)
 3,333,700 
 541.29 
 - 
 - 
HSBC Corporate Bond Fund regular growth (Formerly 
Known as L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Growth)
 4,526,055 
 2,785.47 
 - 
 - 
HSBC Corporate Bond Fund direct growth (Formerly 
known as L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund-Direct-Growth)
 1,793,204 
 1,166.62 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Banking & Psu Debt Fund -Growth Plan
 3,202,227 
 560.39 
 - 
 - 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
287
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Direct Growth Plan Growth 
Option
 3,550,888 
 1,689.66 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Short Term Fund- Growth Plan Growth Option
 4,987,235 
 2,212.75 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Growth
 1,106,382 
 553.86 
 - 
 - 
Nippon India Corporate Bond Fund- Direct Growth
 1,074,349 
 559.87 
 - 
 - 
Aditya Birla SL CRISIL AAA  - Direct -Growth
 15,219,986 
 1,571.62 
 - 
 - 
ICICI Prudential Liquid Fund - Direct plan (G)
 176,129 
 586.84 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 101,865,121 
 37,865.30 
 30,304,447 
 11,269.77 
Note 5(b) Trade receivables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Trade receivables from contract with customers – related parties (refer note 30(c))
 2.19 
 - 
Trade receivables from contract with customers – non-related parties
 57,998.87 
 57,203.45 
Less: Provision for doubtful debts 
 (12,673.50)
 (14,034.94)
Total receivables
 45,327.56 
 43,168.51 
Current portion
 45,327.56 
 43,168.51 
Break-up of security details
Trade receivables considered good – secured
 2,172.22 
 2,080.84 
Trade receivables considered good – unsecured
 55,739.59 
 55,122.61 
Trade receivables which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Trade receivables – credit impaired
 89.25 
 - 
Total
 58,001.06 
 57,203.45 
Less: Provision for doubtful debts 
 (12,673.50)
 (14,034.94)
Total trade receivables
 45,327.56 
 43,168.51 
Current portion
 45,327.56 
 43,168.51 
Non-current portion
 - 
 - 
(i) Carrying value of trade receivables pledged as security by the Company [Also 
refer note 12(a)]
 39,329.65 
 36,112.49 
Significant estimate: Impairment provision on financial assets
Please refer Note 31 for details of significant estimate
Ageing of trade receivables:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2023
Not due
Less than 6 
months
6 months- 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
Total
(i)	 Undisputed trade receivables
	
- considered good
18,409.81
14,326.75
4,774.37
4,997.68
3,464.70
9,852.48
55,825.79
	
- which have significant increase in credit 
risk
	
- credit impaired
134.02
134.02
(ii)	 Disputed trade receivables
	
- considered good
1,952.00
1,952.00
	
- which have significant increase in credit 
risk
	
- credit impaired
89.25
89.25
Total
18,409.81
14,326.75
4,774.37
4,997.68
3,464.70
12,027.75
58,001.06
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
5(a)(iii) Details of investments in mutual fund units (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
288
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2022
Not due Less than 6 
months
6 months- 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years 
Total
(i) 	 Undisputed trade receivables
- considered good
16,009.51 18,775.19  2,624.03 4,131.16 3,990.40 
 9,078.35 54,608.64 
- which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
- credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27.38 
 98.73 
 359.22 
 485.33 
(ii) 	Disputed trade receivables
- considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,952.02  1,952.02 
- which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
- credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 157.46 
 157.46 
Total
16,009.51 18,775.19  2,624.03 4,158.54 4,089.13 11,547.05 57,203.45 
Note 5 (c): Loans
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
 Current 
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Non-current 
Loan to employees
 231.47 
 - 
 216.60 
 - 
 231.47 
 - 
 216.60 
 - 
Less: Loss allowance
 (5.35)
 - 
 (8.99)
 - 
Total loans
 226.12 
 - 
 207.61 
 - 
Break-up of security details
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Loans considered good – secured
 - 
 - 
Loans considered good – unsecured
 226.12 
 207.61 
Loans which have significant increase in credit risk
 - 
 - 
Loans – credit impaired
 5.35 
 8.99 
Total
 231.47 
 216.60 
Less: Loss allowance
 (5.35)
 (8.99)
Total loans
 226.12 
 207.61 
Note 5(d)(i): Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balances with banks
 - in current accounts [refer note (b) below]
 4,014.10 
 3,669.89 
Deposits with original maturity of less than three months
 653.11 
 498.97 
Cash on hand
 146.89 
 145.39 
Cheques in Hand
 47.05 
 168.15 
Total
 4,861.15 
 4,482.40 
Notes:
(a) 	 There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the reporting period and 
prior periods.
(b) 	 The above balance includes balances of two current accounts, amounting to `3.73 as at March 31, 2023 (`3.79 as at March 
31, 2022) which are not held in the name of the Group. They are held in the name of Crystal Sound and Music Private Limited 
and Spectrum Broadcast Holdings Private Limited which were amalgamated into Jagran Prakashan Limited w.e.f. January 
01, 2016.
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Note 5(b): Trade receivables (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
289
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Note 5(d)(ii): Other bank balances
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less than twelve 
months
 577.20 
 9,544.94 
Unpaid dividend accounts
 22.16 
 20.39 
Fixed deposits held as margin money [refer note (a) below]
 72.24 
 1,950.61 
Interest accrued on fixed deposits
 67.91 
 31.00 
Total 
 739.51 
 11,546.94 
Notes:
(a)	
These deposits are subject to lien with the bankers and government authorities.
Note 5(e): Other financial assets
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
 Current 
 Non-current 
 Current 
 Non-current 
(i) Security deposits:
  - Secured, considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  - Unsecured, considered good
 1,602.69 
 2,864.18 
 409.64 
 3,021.38 
  - Doubtful
 280.42 
 670.45 
 280.42 
 670.42 
Total
 1,883.11 
 3,534.63 
 690.06 
 3,691.80 
Less : Loss allowance
 (280.42)
 (670.45)
 (280.42)
 (670.42)
Total
 1,602.69 
 2,864.18 
 409.64 
 3,021.38 
(ii) Others:
- Deposits with original maturity of more than twelve 
months
 3,414.79 
 1,600.06 
 - 
 1,653.08 
- Fixed deposits held as margin money  [refer note (a) 
below]
 25.41 
 2,297.26 
 - 
 302.33 
- Interest accrued on fixed deposits and corporate 
deposits
 30.33 
 59.46 
 64.05 
 51.98 
(iii) Interest accrued on bonds and debentures
 1,438.75 
 - 
 1,402.11 
 - 
(iv) Unbilled revenue [refer note (b) below]
 1,341.53 
 - 
 878.54 
 - 
Less : Loss allowance
 (57.23)
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Insurance claim recoverable
 18.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total other financial assets
 7,814.90 
 6,820.96 
 2,754.34 
 5,028.77 
(a) 	 These deposits are subject to lien with the bankers and government authorities.
(b) 	 The Group classifies the right to consideration in exchange for deliverables as either receivable or as unbilled revenue 
(i.e. contract assets). Performance obligation satisfied by the Group against which neither the bill has been raised nor the 
consideration has been received is recorded as 'unbilled revenue' and is classified as a financial asset. Any amount previously 
recognised as a contract asset is reclassified to trade receivables at the point at which the right to consideration becomes 
unconditional, as only the passage of time is required before payment is due and invoice is raised to the customer. Unbilled 
revenue is tested for impairment in accordance with Ind AS 109 similar to trade receivables.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
290
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Detail of unbilled revenue:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i) 	
Advertisement revenue
Opening balance
 368.44 
 401.18 
Add : Revenue recognised during the year
 717.69 
 366.54 
Less : Invoiced during the year
 (365.12)
 (399.28)
Closing balance
 721.01 
 368.44 
(ii) Outdoor advertising
Opening balance
 509.28 
 279.98 
Add : Revenue recognised during the year
 563.98 
 509.28 
Less : Invoiced during the year
 (509.28)
 (279.98)
Closing balance
 563.98 
 509.28 
(iii) Event management and activation services
Opening balance
 0.82 
 9.80 
Add : Revenue recognised during the year
 56.54 
 0.82 
Less : Invoiced during the year
 (0.82)
 (9.80)
Closing balance
 56.54 
 0.82 
Total (i to iii)
 1,341.53 
 878.54 
Note 6(a): Deferred tax assets	
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Deferred tax assets (DTA)
a) 	 Allowance for doubtful advances allowable under the Income-tax Act, 1961 on 
actual write off
 982.03 
 1,065.41 
b) 	 Unused tax credits (MAT)
 3,650.96 
 3,559.05 
c) 	 Carry forward of unused tax losses
 1,187.22 
 1,968.53 
d) 	 Allowance for fair value on assets held for sale and other items which are 
allowable under Income-tax Act, 1961 on actual write off
 202.42 
 202.34 
e) 	 Others
 644.84 
 116.20 
Total
 6,667.47 
 6,911.53 
Deferred tax liabilities (DTL)
f) 	 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible assets
 3,765.47 
 3,528.02 
g) 	 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 92.80 
 89.28 
h)  	Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
 - 
 6.55 
Total
 3,858.27 
 3,623.85 
Net deferred tax assets
 2,809.20 
 3,287.68 
Note 5: Financial assets (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
291
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Movements in deferred tax assets
Property, plant and 
equipment and 
intangible assets
Financial assets at 
fair value through 
profit or loss
Financial assets at 
FVTOCI
Other items 
Total
At April 1, 2021 [DTA/(DTL)]
 (3,575.98)
 (10.76)
 36.55 
 6,247.36 
 2,697.17 
(Charged)/credited
- to profit or loss
 47.96 
 123.82 
 - 
 442.52 
 614.30 
- to other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (43.10)
 19.31 
 (23.79)
At March 31, 2022 [DTA/(DTL)]
 (3,528.02)
 113.06 
 (6.55)
 6,709.19 
 3,287.68 
(Charged)/credited
- to profit or loss
 (237.45)
 (3.44)
 6.55 
 (231.42)
 (465.76)
- to other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (12.72)
 (12.72)
At March 31, 2023 [DTA/(DTL)]
 (3,765.47)
 109.62 
 - 
 6,465.05 
 2,809.20 
The Finance Act, 2019 reduced the company’s applicable tax rate from 30% to 25% plus applicable surcharge and cess (“Reduced 
Rate”). Additionally, the newly inserted Section 115BAA by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2019 effective from April 1, 2019, 
provided an option to pay taxes at 22% plus applicable surcharge and cess (“New Rate”), subject to complying with certain conditions. 
 
Based on the assessment of future taxable profits, MBL has decided to continue with the Reduced Rate until the Minimum Alternate 
Tax (MAT) credit asset balance is utilised and opt for the New Rate thereafter.
Note 6(b): Non-current tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of year
 1,829.48 
 1,481.92 
Add: Taxes paid/(refunds) during the year [net]
 84.46 
 9.15 
Add: Excess provision relating to earlier year written back
 - 
 338.41 
Less: Tax expense relating to earlier years
 (73.82)
 - 
Less: Current tax payable for the year
 (126.17)
 - 
Balance as at the end of year
 1,713.95 
 1,829.48 
Note 7: Other non-current assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Capital advances
 1,162.66 
 1,167.45 
Prepaid expenses
 478.15 
 833.83 
Balances with statutory/government authorities
- Considered good
 - 
 - 
- Considered doubtful
 41.16 
41.16
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (41.16)
(41.16)
Advances to others:
- Considered good
 - 
 - 
- Considered doubtful
 527.72 
 170.00 
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (527.72)
 (170.00)
Advances to employees:
- Considered good
 - 
 - 
- Considered doubtful
 0.23 
 2.84 
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (0.23)
 (2.84)
Total other non-current assets
 1,640.81 
 2,001.28 
Note 6(a): Deferred tax assets	(Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
292
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 8: Inventories
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Raw materials [includes in transit of `4,095.80 (March 31, 2022: `1,852.17)]
 8,856.41 
 7,957.84 
Finished goods (magazines and books)
 - 
 4.17 
Stores and spares
 242.11 
 247.77 
Total inventories
 9,098.52 
 8,209.78 
(i)	
Carrying value of inventories hypothecated as security [Also refer note 12(a)]
 9,098.52 
 8,209.78 
Note 9: Other current assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Prepaid expenses
 1,797.30 
 1,753.25 
Balances with statutory/government authorities
	
- Considered good
 839.91 
 306.66 
	
- Considered doubtful
 - 
-
	
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 - 
-
Advances to others:
	
- Considered good
 1,464.05 
 1,602.01 
	
- Considered doubtful
 26.67 
26.67
	
Less: Allowance for doubtful advances
 (26.67)
 (26.67)
Advance paid under dispute
	
- Considered good
 200.00 
 200.00 
	
- Considered doubtful
 290.70 
 290.70 
	
Less: Provision for advance paid under dispute
 (290.70)
 (290.70)
Advances to employees
 26.72 
 77.31 
Advances to related parties
 1.59 
 - 
Others
 1,172.09 
 813.78 
Total other current assets
 5,501.66 
 4,753.01 
Note 10: Assets classified as held for sale
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Investment properties [refer note below]
 182.49 
 182.49 
Total assets classified as held for sale
 182.49 
 182.49 
Notes:
MIL has various properties which have been acquired under barter arrangements. As these properties are held for sale and its 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through use, and the management is in the 
process to sell these properties in the near future, the same have been considered as current Assets held for sale and measured 
at lower of its carrying value and fair value. Out of the total properties of `182.49 [Net of provision of `486.97], March, 31, 2022: 
`182.49 (Net of Provision of `483.53), title deeds for the properties having the carrying value of `54.04 [March 31, 2022: `111.37], 
are yet to be executed in the name of MIL.
In line with the management's plan to sell these assets, such assets have continued to be held for sale. There are several interested 
parties and the sale is expected to be completed in the next operating cycle. The assets are presented within total assets of MIL. 
Assets classified as held for sale were measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal, resulting 
in the recognition of a impairment loss write down of ` Nil Lakhs (March 31, 2022: `19.62) in the Consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss. The key inputs under this approach are price per square meter of comparable lots of plots in the area of similar location.
Note 11: Equity share capital and other equity
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
293
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 11: Equity share capital and other equity (Contd.)
11(a): Equity share capital
Authorised equity share capital
Particulars
Number of shares
Amount
As at April 1, 2021
 375,000,000 
 7,500.00 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022
 375,000,000 
 7,500.00 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 375,000,000 
 7,500.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
217,654,272 (March 31, 2022: 263,654,272) equity shares of `2 each
 4,353.09 
 5,273.09 
(i) 	
Movement in equity share capital
Particulars
Number of shares
Equity share capital 
(par value)
As at April 1, 2021
 278,181,045 
 5,563.62 
Less: Equity Shares bought back
 (14,526,773)
 (290.53)
As at March 31, 2022
 263,654,272 
 5,273.09 
Less: Equity Shares bought back
 (46,000,000)
 (920.00)
As at March 31, 2023
 217,654,272 
 4,353.09 
Terms and rights attached to equity shares		
	
	
	
	
Equity shares have a par value of `2. They entitle the holder to participate in dividends, and to share in the proceeds of winding 
up the company in proportion to the number of and amounts paid on the shares held. 
Every holder of equity shares present at a meeting in person or by proxy is entitled to one vote, and upon a poll each share is 
entitled to one vote.
(ii)	
Shares of the company held by holding company
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited (Ultimate holding company)
 147,931,155 
 180,765,897 
(iii) 	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the company
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Number of 
shares
% holding
Number of 
shares
% holding
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited
 147,931,155 
67.97%
 180,765,897 
68.56%
HDFC Trustee Company Limited
 20,697,117 
9.51%
 25,357,596 
9.62%
Jagran Prakashan Limited
294
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(iv) 	 Details of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023:
S. 
No.
Name of the Promoter
No. of shares
% of total number 
of shares
% of change during 
the year
Promoter
1
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited
 147,931,155 
 67.97 
 (0.59)
2
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta      
 269,078 
 0.12 
 0.02 
3
Mahendra Mohan Gupta   
 125,359 
 0.06 
 0.01 
4
Sanjay Gupta         
 53,000 
 0.02 
 - 
Promoter Group
 - 
 - 
1
VRSM Enterprises LLP
 509,848 
 0.23 
 0.04 
2
Shailendra Mohan Gupta   
 383,600 
 0.18 
 0.03 
3
Sameer Gupta                    
 159,856 
 0.07 
 0.01 
4
Vijaya Gupta                 
 156,000 
 0.07 
 0.01 
5
Tarun Gupta          
 134,200 
 0.06 
 0.01 
6
Devendra Mohan Gupta        
 117,890 
 0.05 
 0.01 
7
Sunil Gupta      
 100,000 
 0.05 
 0.01 
8
Devesh Gupta              
 100,000 
 0.05 
 0.02 
9
Sandeep  Gupta         
 68,336 
 0.03 
 - 
10
Rajni Gupta 
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
11
Siddhartha Gupta                    
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
12
Bharat Gupta        
 18,488 
 0.01 
 - 
13
Rahul Gupta           
 8,268 
 - 
 - 
Total
 150,177,478 
 68.99 
Details of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022:
S. 
No.
Name of the Promoter
No. of shares % of total number of 
shares
% of change during 
the year
Promoter
1
Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited
 180,765,897 
 68.56 
 3.60 
2
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta      
 259,078 
 0.10 
 0.01 
3
Mahendra Mohan Gupta   
 125,359 
 0.05 
 - 
4
Sanjay Gupta         
 53,000 
 0.02 
 - 
Promoter Group
 - 
 - 
1
VRSM Enterprises LLP
 509,848 
 0.19 
 0.01 
2
Shailendra Mohan Gupta   
 383,600 
 0.15 
 0.01 
3
Sameer Gupta                    
 159,856 
 0.06 
 - 
4
Vijaya Gupta                 
 156,000 
 0.06 
 100.00 
5
Tarun Gupta          
 121,200 
 0.05 
 0.01 
6
Devendra Mohan Gupta        
 117,890 
 0.04 
 - 
7
Sunil Gupta      
 100,000 
 0.04 
 - 
8
Devesh Gupta              
 90,000 
 0.03 
 - 
9
Sandeep  Gupta         
 68,336 
 0.03 
 0.01 
10
Rajni Gupta 
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
11
Siddhartha Gupta                    
 21,200 
 0.01 
 - 
12
Bharat Gupta        
 18,488 
 0.01 
 - 
13
Rahul Gupta           
 8,268 
 - 
 - 
Total
 182,979,220 
 69.41 
Note 11: Equity share capital and other equity (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
295
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(v)	
Shares bought back
The Board of Directors in their meeting held on November 4, 2022 had proposed buyback of 46,000,000 equity shares at a 
price of `75 per share aggregating to `34,500.00, as per the clause (xi) of the Schedule I to Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 as amended (“the Buyback Regulations”) and Section 68 and Section 70 of the 
Companies Act 2013. The shareholder's resolution was passed on December 17, 2022 by way of postal ballot. Pursuant to this, 
the Company has bought back a total of 46,00,000 fully paid-up equity shares  of face value of `2 each at an aggregate amount of 
`34,500.00 during the year ended March 31, 2023  from all eligible equity shareholders of the Company (including the promoters, 
the Promoter Group and Persons in Control of the Company)) (excluding transaction cost) through the "tender offer" process at 
at price of `75 per share. The equity shares bought back have been fully extinguished on March 29, 2023 end and the paid-up 
equity share capital of the Company has been reduced to that extent. As a result of the aforesaid buyback, an aggregate amount 
of `920.00 has been transferred to the capital redemption reserve representing the face value of equity share capital bought back.
Note 11(b) : Other equity
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Equity component of compound financial instrument
 945.87 
 945.87 
Capital reserve
 2,934.11 
 2,934.11 
Capital redemption reserve
 3,356.62 
 1,539.66 
Securities premium 
 28,255.56 
 29,631.69 
General reserve
 3,893.88 
 4,908.50 
Retained earnings
 130,990.77 
 168,509.52 
Other reserves
 - 
 - 
Total other equity
 170,376.81 
 208,469.35 
Movement of Reserves:	
(i)	
Equity component of compound financial instrument
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year (refer note (a))
 945.87 
 945.87 
Balance as at the end of the year
 945.87 
 945.87 
(a)	
The Company had issued 9,500 unsecured non-convertible redeemable debentures (NCDs) on July 21, 2011 to the holding 
company which were redeemable on July 21, 2016 at a premium of 6.5% per annum payable at the time of redemption. 
During the year ended March 31, 2016, the Company had redeemed 6,600 NCDs and extended the redemption date of the 
remaining NCDs to July 21, 2018 with the consent of debenture holders. The Company redeemed remaining NCDs during 
the year ended March 31, 2017.
	
The above NCDs had carried a premium @ 6.5% per annum which was lower than the prevailing interest rate for a comparable 
financial instrument. Accordingly, NCD's had been fair valued by discounting all the future cash flows to the present value 
based on prevailing market interest rate for a comparable instrument. The difference being equity contribution by the ultimate 
holding company.	
	
	
	
(i)	
Capital reserve
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 2,934.11 
 2,934.11 
Balance as at the end of the year
 2,934.11 
 2,934.11 
The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Note 11: Equity share capital and other equity (Contd.) 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
296
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 11(b) : Other equity (Contd.)
(iii)	 Capital redemption reserve
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 1,539.66 
 1,249.13 
Add: Transfer to capital redemption reserve from general reserve
 896.96 
 - 
Add: Transfer to capital redemption reserve from retained earnings
 920.00 
 290.53 
Balance as at the end of the year
 3,356.62 
 1,539.66 
(iv)	 Securities premium 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 29,631.69 
 29,631.69 
Less: Utilised for issue of bonus preference shares
 (1,376.13)
 - 
Balance as at the end of the year
 28,255.56 
 29,631.69 
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. This is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
(v)	
General reserve
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 4,908.50 
 4,908.50 
Less: Utilised for issue of bonus preference shares
 (117.66)
 - 
Less: Transfer from general reserve to capital redemption reserve
 (896.96)
 - 
Balance as at the end of the year
 3,893.88 
 4,908.50 
The general reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. As the general 
reserve is created by a transfer from one component of equity to another and is not an item of other comprehensive income, 
items included in the general reserve will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss.
(vi)	 Retained earnings
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Opening balance
 168,509.52 
 154,878.28 
Add/(Less): 
Net profit for the year
 19,678.68 
 21,687.56 
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligation, net of tax
 (395.53)
 (45.61)
Amount utilised in buy-back of equity shares (including transaction costs and tax on 
buyback) [refer note 11(a)]
 (41,024.73)
 (8,122.95)
Transfer of Fair Value Change (Net of deferred tax) of equity instruments 
derecognised / written off
 - 
 (127.21)
Deferred tax on equity instruments derecognised / written off
 - 
 (42.78)
Transfer to capital redemption reserve from retained earnings
 (920.00)
 (290.53)
Utilised for issue of bonus preference shares
 (6,762.97)
 - 
Share of non controlling interest in the profit for the year
 298.02 
 572.76 
Change in share of non controlling interest after buy-back
 2,153.95 
 - 
Interim Dividend paid during the year
 (10,546.17)
 - 
Closing balance
 130,990.77 
 168,509.52 
The amount that can be distributed by the Company as dividends to its equity shareholders is determined based on requirements 
of Companies Act, 2013. Refer Note 33(ii) for details of equity dividend declared.	
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
297
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 11(b) : Other equity (Contd.)
(vii)	 Other reserves
Particulars
 FVTOCI - Equity 
investments 
 Total other 
reserves 
As at April 1, 2021 (net of tax)
 (580.91)
 (580.91)
Equity instrument taken at fair value of FVTOCI written off
 759.99 
 759.99 
Deferred tax on above
 (179.08)
 (179.08)
As at March 31, 2022
 - 
 - 
Equity instrument taken at fair value of FVTOCI written off
-
 - 
Deferred tax on above
-
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
The Group had elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive 
income as these are strategic in nature and are not held for trading. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI equity 
investments reserve within equity. The Group transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity 
securities are derecognised. The above securities have been written off during the year.
Note 12: Financial liabilities
12(a): Non - current borrowings
Particulars
Maturity date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/
interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Secured
1000 (March 31, 2022: 1000) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.35% JPL 2023 of `10,00,000 each 
April 21, 2023
Refer note 
(i) and (iii) 
below
 8.35% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis 
 10,788.19 
 10,769.83 
1500   (March 31, 2022: 1500) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.45% JPL 2024 of `10,00,000 each
April 27, 
2023, April 
26, 2024
Refer note 
(ii) and  (iii ) 
below
 8.45% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis 
 16,163.66 
 16,140.06 
Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable 
Preference Shares (NCRPS) [Refer Note 41]
 8,372.17 
 - 
Term Loan from bank [Refer Note (iv) below]
November 30, 
2025
Monthly 
instalments 
10%
 936.98 
 1,326.10 
Total non-current borrowings
 36,261.00 
 28,235.99 
Less: Current maturities of long term debt 
[included in current borrowings]
 17,288.25 
 390.54 
Less: Interest accrued [included in current 
borrowings]
 1,966.46 
 1,966.46 
Non-current borrowings 
 17,006.29 
 25,878.99 
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
During the financial year 2020-21, JPL has issued 2,500 rated, secured, senior, listed, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
(“NCDs”) of the face value of `10.00 Lakhs each, aggregating to `25,000.00 through two different issues on a private placement 
basis as follows:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i)	
The first issue comprised 1,000 NCDs (ISIN Number: INE199G07040) of `10.00 Lakhs each aggregating `10,000.00 @ 8.35% 
p.a which were allotted on April 21, 2020. The NCDs are secured (for outstanding amount and interest accrued thereon) by 
way of a first ranking pari passu charge with `15,000.00 debenture holders, over a mortgaged property situated at Chennai 
and exclusive charge on certain identified immovable properties. For calculating the security cover, the said immovable 
properties are considered at their market value. A security cover of at-least 1.5 times of the issue amount of NCDs and 
interest thereon is to be maintained during the tenure of these NCDs and these are redeemable after three years from the 
date of allotment. The interest is to be paid annually and for the first year it was paid on the due date of April 22, 2021. The 
security cover based on market valuation of the said immovable properties carried out by independent valuers on various 
dates between October 2021 and March 2023 exceeded 1.5 times of the value of the issue amount of NCDs and interest 
thereon. Based on such valuation reports, management is of the view that the security cover as at March 31, 2023 exceeded 
1.5 times of the value of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon. The charge with respect to the security has been 
created within the due date. During the year ended March 31, 2021, proceeds amounting to `6,000.00 were utilised towards 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
298
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
working capital requirement and the balance `4,000.00 which were parked in fixed deposits as at March 31, 2021 pending 
deployment, were applied by the Company towards working capital requirements during the year ended March 31, 2022. 
The debentures are listed on BSE Limited. Refer note 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) for details of immovable properties charged as 
security. These debentures were fully redeemed subsequent to the year end on April 21, 2023.
(ii) 	 The second issue comprised 1,500 NCDs (ISIN Number: INE199G07057) of `10.00 Lakhs each aggregating `15,000.00 
@ 8.45% p.a. which were allotted on April 27, 2020. The NCDs are secured (for outstanding amount and interest accrued 
thereon) by first charge ranking pari-passu with Central Bank of India, Gumti No. 5, Kanpur by way of equitable mortgage over 
certain specified immoveable properties and by way of hypothecation and/or mortgage on the moveable fixed assets of the 
Company. The above charge is to secure existing/future working capital facility of `19,900.00 extended by Central Bank of 
India. Additionally, a separate first ranking pari passu charge was created over a mortgaged property situated at Chennai 
with `10,000.00 debenture holders. The security cover based on the security mentioned above shall not fall below 1.5 times 
of the outstanding NCDs and interest thereon during the holding period of debentures. 50% of the NCDs are redeemable 
at the end of third year and the balance 50% are redeemable at the end of fourth year from the date of allotment. The 
interest is to be paid annually and for the first year it was paid on the due date of April 27, 2021. The security cover based 
on market valuation of the said immovable properties valuation of which was carried out by independent valuers on various 
dates between October 2021 and March 2023 and the book value of moveable fixed assets, exceeded 1.5 times of the 
value of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon. Based on such valuation reports of the said immovable properties 
and considering the book value of moveable fixed assets, management is of the view that the security cover as at March 
31, 2023 exceeded 1.5 times of the value of the issue amount of NCDs and interest thereon. The charge with respect to 
the security has been created within the due date. The entire proceeds were utilised for working capital requirements. The 
debentures are listed on NSE Limited. Refer note 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) for details of immovable properties charged as security. 
These debentures were redeemed to the extent of 50% subsequent to the year end on April 27, 2023.
(iii) 	 The Company has undertaken that the Promoter Group shall hold at least 60% equity shareholding in the Company, directly 
or indirectly, and exercise management control till the tenor of the NCDs.
(iv)	 Term loan from ICICI Bank taken on 18th March, 2019 carrying a variable rate of interest of I-MCLR-1Y plus spread to be 
reset at the end of every year from the date of disbursement of loan. The loan is repayable in 84 monthly instalments of 
`32.54 each along with monthly interest from the date of loan. The loan is secured by way of exclusive charge on immovable 
property (building) being financed by the bank. As per the loan arrangement, MIL is required to maintain ratios (including 
Asset Coverage Ratio, Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Total Debt/Net Cash Accruals) at specified levels. The Holding 
Company has also given corporate guarantee for the said loan.
12(a): Current borrowings
Particulars
Maturity 
date
Terms of 
repayment
Coupon/
interest rate
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Secured
Cash credit facility availed from Central Bank of 
India [refer note (v) and (viii) below]*
 375.86 
 1,164.06 
Overdraft facility availed from Standard Chartered 
Bank [refer note (vi) below]
 250.75 
 100.02 
Overdraft facility availed from ICICI Bank Limited 
[refer note (vii) and (viii) below] *
 - 
 162.14 
Current maturities of long term borrowings
1,000 (March 31, 2022: 1000) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.35% JPL 2023 of `10,00,000 each
April 21, 
2023
Refer note 
(i) and (iii)
 8.35% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis 
 10,788.19 
 - 
1,500 (March 31, 2022: 1,500) Rated, secured, 
senior, redeemable, non-convertible debentures 
series 8.45% JPL 2024 of `10,00,000 each
April 27, 
2023, April 
26, 2024
Refer note 
(ii) and  (iii)
 8.45% p.a. 
on yearly 
basis 
 8,075.97 
 - 
Term loan from bank
November 
30, 2025
Monthly 
instalments 
10%
 390.54 
 390.54 
Current borrowings
 19,881.31 
 1,816.76 
* Repayable on demand
Note 12: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
299
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(v)	
Cash credit facility taken by the Holding Company is secured by first charge by way of hypothecation on current assets, books 
debts, inventories and other receivables both present and future and by first charge ranking pari-passu with `15,000.00 
debenture holders by way of equitable mortgage over certain specified immoveable properties and by way of hypothecation 
and/or mortgage on the moveable fixed assets of the Company including plant and machinery. Refer note 3(a), 3(b) and 3(c) 
for details of immovable properties charged as security.
(vi) 	 Cash credit and buyers' credit facilities availed from Standarad Chartered Bank, which are secured by first and exclusive 
charge on entire movebale fixed assets, stocks and book debts of the Company. Further, secured by letter of comfort from 
Holding Company.
(vii) 	Overdraft facilities are availed from ICICI Bank Limited and are secured by pledge of investments of subsidiary Midday 
Infomedia Limited.
(viii)	Current rate of interest on cash credit facility availed from Central Bank of India and overdraft facility availed from ICICI Bank 
Limited ranges from 7.25% p.a. to 10% p.a.
Net debt reconciliation
This section sets out an analysis of net debt and the movement in the net debt for each of the periods presented:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Cash and cash equivalents
 4,850.80 
 4,368.24 
Borrowings
 (36,887.60)
 (29,662.21)
Lease Liabilities
 (7,454.83)
 (7,463.83)
Net debt
 (39,491.63)
 (32,757.80)
Particulars
Cash and bank 
overdraft
 Lease 
Liabilities 
Borrowings
Total
Net debt as at April 1, 2021
 4,984.46 
 (4,932.18)
 (26,826.39)
 (26,774.11)
Cash flows
 (616.22)
 1,551.12 
 (827.87)
 107.03 
New leases
 (4,185.59)
 (4,185.59)
Lease concessions
 102.82 
 102.82 
Interest expense
 (469.98)
 (2,602.64)
 (3,072.62)
Interest paid
 469.98 
 2,745.70 
 3,215.68 
Other non-cash movements
 - 
  -  Acquisitions/disposals
 (1,966.46)
 (1,966.46)
  -  Fair value adjustments
 (184.55)
 (184.55)
Net debt as at March 31, 2022
 4,368.24 
 (7,463.83)
 (29,662.21)
 (32,757.80)
Cash flows
 482.56 
 1,816.19 
 1,188.73 
 3,487.48 
New leases
 (1,480.15)
 (1,480.15)
Lease concessions
 59.93 
 59.93 
Interest expense
 (1,060.18)
 (2,595.86)
 (3,656.04)
Interest paid
 670.12 
 2,545.56 
 3,215.68 
Other non-cash movements
  -  Acquisitions/disposals
 3.09 
 (8,178.76)
 (8,175.67)
  -  Fair value adjustments
 (185.06)
 (185.06)
Net debt as at March 31, 2023
 4,850.80 
 (7,454.83)
 (36,887.60)
 (39,491.63)
Note 12: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
300
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 12(b): Other financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Current
Interest accrued on non convertible debentures [refer note 12(a)]
 - 
 1,966.46 
Interest accrued on
- dues of MSME vendors
 40.86 
 30.31 
- others
 201.24 
 202.42 
Security deposit received from agents, staff and others
 8,526.99 
 8,348.97 
Unpaid dividend (not due for credit to Investor Education and Protection Fund)
 22.16 
 20.39 
Capital creditors
 146.76 
 192.10 
Book overdraft
 10.35 
 114.16 
Employee benefits payable
- Payable to related parties [refer note 30]
 139.27 
 138.78 
- Payable to others
 2,327.16 
 2,605.78 
Other creditors
 57.82 
 69.90 
Total other current financial liabilities
 11,472.61 
 13,689.27 
Note 12(c): Trade payables
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Current
(i) 	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises [refer note 
(a) below]
 119.91 
 255.81 
(ii) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
  - Payable to related parties [refer note 32]
 237.71 
 1.54 
  - Payable to others
 16,460.93 
 13,683.91 
Total trade payables
 16,818.55 
 13,941.26 
Ageing of trade payables:
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2023
Not Due
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
Total
(i) 	 Undisputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 119.91 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 119.91 
  -  Others
 3,499.65 
 12,114.24 
 752.60 
 217.22 
 114.93 
 16,698.64 
(ii) 	Disputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  -  Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,499.65 
 12,234.15 
 752.60 
 217.22 
 114.93 
 16,818.55 
Note 12: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
301
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment as at March 31, 2022
Not Due
Less than 1 
Year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years 
Total
(i) 	 Undisputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 12.05 
 242.96 
 0.28 
 0.39 
 0.13 
 255.81 
  -  Others
 4,360.36 
 8,001.13 
 951.61 
 206.71 
 165.64 
 13,685.45 
(ii)	 Disputed trade payables
  -  Micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  -  Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total trade payables
 4,372.41 
 8,244.09 
 951.89 
 207.10 
 165.77 
 13,941.26 
Notes:
(a) 	 Additional disclosure as per Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006
	
Dues to micro and small enterprises
The Company has certain dues to suppliers registered under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(‘MSMED Act’). The disclosures pursuant to the said MSMED Act are as follows:
S. 
No.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(i)
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and 
remaining unpaid as at year end
 119.91 
 255.81 
(ii)
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining 
unpaid as at year end
 48.89 
 30.31 
(iii)
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, 
beyond the appointed day during the year
 736.62 
 744.90 
(iv)
Interest paid, other than under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers 
registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the 
year
 - 
 - 
(v)
Interest paid, under Section 16 of MSMED Act, to suppliers registered 
under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
(vi)
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED 
Act, for payments already made
 9.87 
 7.28 
(vii)
Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years
 30.31 
 25.30 
Note: Dues to micro, small and medium enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified 
on the basis of information collected by the management.
Note 12: Financial liabilities (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
302
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 13: Employee benefit obligations
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Current
Non-current
Total
Current
Non-current
Total
Leave obligations (i)
 277.90 
 1,612.31 
 1,890.21 
 241.12 
 1,452.22 
 1,693.34 
Gratuity (ii)
 843.61 
 279.94 
 1,123.55 
 417.46 
 398.36 
 815.82 
Total Employee benefit obligations
 1,121.51 
 1,892.25 
 3,013.76 
 658.58 
 1,850.58 
 2,509.16 
(A) 	 Leave obligations
The leave obligations cover the Group’s liability for earned leave.
The amount of the provision of `277.90 (March 31, 2022: `241.12) is presented as current, since the Group does not have 
an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Group does 
not expect all employees to take the full amount of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Leave obligations not expected to be settled within the next 12 months
 1,612.31 
 1,452.22 
(B) 	 Defined contribution plans:
The Group also has certain defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees at 
the rate 12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund administered by 
the Government. The obligation of the Group is limited to the amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any 
constructive obligation. The expense recognised during the period towards defined contribution plan is `2,586.08 (March 
31, 2022: `2,288.31).
(C) 	 Post-employment obligations
	
Defined benefit plans - Gratuity
The Group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination 
is the employees' last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied for the number 
of years of service. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to fund managed by the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India.
	
Balance sheet amounts - Gratuity
(i)	
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet and the movements in the net defined benefit obligation over the year 
are as follows:
Particulars
 Present value of 
obligation 
 Fair value of plan 
assets 
 Net Amount 
April 1, 2021
 6,861.43 
 (5,919.48)
 941.95 
Current service cost
 654.39 
 - 
 654.39 
Interest expense/interest income
 465.46 
 (402.76)
 62.70 
Total amount recognised in Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss
 1,119.85 
 (402.76)
 717.09 
Remeasurements
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
interest expense/(income)
 - 
 5.87 
 5.87 
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions
 (164.73)
 11.17 
 (153.56)
Experience (gains)/losses
 220.56 
 - 
 220.56 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 55.83 
 17.04 
 72.87 
Employer contributions
 - 
 (1,176.36)
 (1,176.36)
Benefit payments
 630.13 
 (890.40)
 (260.27)
March 31, 2022
 7,406.98 
 (6,591.16)
 815.82 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
303
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Present value 
of obligation 
 Fair value 
of plan assets 
 Net Amount 
April 1, 2022
 7,406.98 
 (6,591.16)
 815.82 
Current service cost
 728.37 
 728.37 
Interest expense/interest income
 530.21 
 (477.54)
 52.67 
Total amount recognised in Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss
 1,258.58 
 (477.54)
 781.04 
Remeasurements
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
interest expense/(income)
 12.35 
 12.35 
(Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions
 191.45 
 191.45 
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions
 23.91 
 (12.06)
 11.85 
Experience (gains)/losses
 313.22 
 313.22 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 528.58 
 0.29 
 528.87 
Employer contributions
 (1,002.18)
 (1,002.18)
Benefit payments
 (755.01)
 755.01 
 - 
March 31, 2023
 9,949.15 
 (8,825.60)
 1,123.55 
(ii) 	 The net liability disclosed above relates to funded plans as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Present value of funded obligations
 9,949.15 
 7,406.98 
Fair value of plan assets
 (8,825.60)
 (6,591.16)
Deficit of funded plan
 1,123.55 
 815.82 
Deficit of gratuity plan
 1,123.55 
 815.82 
(iii) 	 Significant actuarial assumptions for post employment obligations and other long term benefits
	
Significant estimates: actuarial assumptions and sensitivity:
	
Jagran Prakshan Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Discount rate (per annum)
7.30%
7.39%
Rate of increase in compensation levels (per annum)
5.00%
5.00%
Mortality rate
 Indian assured 
lives mortality 
(2012-14) 
 Indian assured lives 
mortality (2012-14) 
Employee turnover / Attrition rate
18 to 30 years
10.00%
4.00%
30 to 45 years
6.00%
3.00%
Above 45 years
4.00%
1.00%
Note 13: Employee benefit obligations (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
304
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
Music Broadcast Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Discount rate (per annum)
7.40%
6.85%
Rate of increase in compensation levels (per annum)
7.00%
7.00%
Withdrawal rate
25 years & below 
25% p.a
25 to 35 years 
20% p.a
35 to 45 years 
15% p.a
45 to 55 years 
10% p.a
55 years and above 
2% p.a
25 years & below 
25% p.a
25 to 35 years 
20% p.a
35 to 45 years 
15% p.a
45 to 55 years 
10% p.a
55 years and above 
2% p.a
	
Midday Infomedia Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Discount rate
7.30%
6.90%
Salary growth rate
4.00% 
4.00% 
Rate of return on plan assets
7.30%
6.90%
Expected average remaining working lives of employees
5.99 years
8.34 years
Withdrawal rate
18 to 30 years
15.00%
15.00%
30 to 45 years
10.00%
10.00%
Above 45 years
5.00%
5.00%
(iv) 	 Sensitivity analysis
	
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
	
Jagran Prakshan Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(a) 	 Defined benefit obligation - discount rate +100 basis points
 (490.80)
 (513.27)
(b) 	 Defined benefit obligation - discount rate -100 basis points
 550.71 
 586.31 
(c) 	 Defined benefit obligation - salary escalation rate +100 basis points
 557.87 
 594.54 
(d) 	 Defined benefit obligation - salary escalation rate -100 basis points
 (505.49)
 (528.91)
	
Music Broadcast Limited
Particulars
Change in assumption
Impact on defined benefit obligation 
Increase in assumption
Decrease in assumption
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Discount rate
0.50%
0.50%
Decrease by
(3.06%)
(3.14%)
Increase by
3.24%
3.33%
Salary growth
0.50%
0.50%
Increase by
3.23%
3.31%
Decrease by
(3.08%)
(3.15%)
Withdrawal rate 
(W.R)
10%
10%
Decrease by
(0.13%)
(0.29%)
Increase by
0.13%
0.31%
Note 13: Employee benefit obligations (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
305
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
Midday Infomedia Limited
	
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
Particulars
Change in assumption
Impact on defined benefit obligation 
Increase in assumption
Decrease in assumption
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
As at 
March 31, 
2023
As at 
March 31, 
2022
Discount rate
0.50%
0.50%
Decrease by
(2.71%)
(2.49%)
Increase by
2.58%
2.38%
Salary growth
0.50%
0.50%
Increase by
2.67%
2.54%
Decrease by
(2.64%)
(2.41%)
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In 
practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity 
of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit 
obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when 
calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior 
period.
(v) 	 The major categories of plans assets are as follows:
	
Jagran Prakshan Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Funds managed by insurer*
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
	
Music Broadcast Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Funds managed by insurer*
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
	
Midday Infomedia Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023 
As at 
March 31, 2022 
Funds managed by insurer*
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
	
*Plan assets are held with Life Insurance Corporation of India and breakup thereof has not been provided by them.
(vi) 	 Risk exposure
Through its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are defined below:
Interest rate risk: The plan exposes the Group to fall in the interest rates. A fall in the interest rates will result in an increase 
in the ultimate cost of providing the above benefit and will thus result in an increase in the value of liability (as shown in 
financial statements).
Salary escalation risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated with the assumption of salary 
increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan participants from the 
rate of increase in salary used to determine the present value of obligation will have a bearing on the plan's liability.
Demographic risk: The Group has used certain mortality and attrition assumption in valuation of the liabilty. The company 
is exposed to the risk of the actual experience turning out to be worse.
Regulatory risk: Gratuity benefit is paid in accordance with the requirements of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (as 
amended from time to time). There is a risk of change in regulation requiring higher gratuity payouts.
Note 13: Employee benefit obligations (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
306
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 13: Employee benefit obligations (Contd.)
Liquidity risk: This is the risk that the Group is not able to meet the short-term gratuity payouts. This may arise due to non-
availability of enough cash/cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid assets not being sold in time.
Asset liability mismatching or market risk: The duration of the liability is longer comapred to duration of assets, exposing 
the company to market risk for volatilities/fall in interest etc.
Investment risk: The probability or likelihood of occurrence of losses relative to the expected return on any particular 
investment.
(vii) 	Defined benefit liability and employer contributions
The Group has agreed that it will aim to eliminate the deficit in defined benefit gratuity plan. Funding levels are monitored on 
an annual basis. The Group considers that the contribution set at the last valuation date is sufficient to eliminate the deficit 
over the period and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase significantly.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ended March 31, 2024 are `1,522.74 (March 31, 
2023: `578.47).
	
Jagran Prakshan Limited
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 9.26 years (March 31, 2022: 12.58 years).
	
Music Broadcast Limited
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 6.81 years (March 31, 2022: 6.90 years).
	
Midday Infomedia Limited
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 5.99 years (March 31, 2022: 8.34 years).
	
The expected maturity analysis of gratuity for the Group is as follows:
	
Expected cash flows for next ten years
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Less than a year
 925.96 
 510.70 
Between 1 - 2 years
 950.78 
 604.57 
Between 2 - 5 years
 3,765.95 
 2,641.35 
Over 5 years
 8,770.85 
 6,888.45 
Note 14 (a): Deferred tax liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
The balance comprises temporary differences attributable to:
Deferred tax liabilities (DTL)
a) 	
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment property
 7,634.67 
 7,818.91 
b) 	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 1,099.53 
 855.95 
Other items:
c) 	
Difference between book income and tax income due to different methods of 
accounting (net)
 2,538.21 
 2,819.31 
Total Deferred tax liabilities
 11,272.41 
 11,494.17 
Deferred tax assets (DTA)
d) 	 Impairment of investment in associates and goodwill
 1,822.19 
 - 
e) 	 Allowance for doubtful advances allowable under the Income-tax Act, 1961 on 
actual write off
 226.29 
 137.83 
Total deferred tax assets
 2,048.48 
 137.83 
Total Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
 9,223.93 
 11,356.34 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
307
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 14 (a): Deferred tax liabilities (Contd.)
Movements in deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets
Particulars
Property, plant and 
equipment and 
intangible assets
Financial assets at 
fair value through 
profit or loss
Financial assets 
at FVTOCI
Other items
Total
At April 1, 2021 [DTL/(DTA)]
 6,878.59 
 408.82 
 (134.99)
 5,352.71 
 12,505.13 
Charged/(credited)
   - to profit or loss
 940.32 
 447.13 
 - 
 (2,670.58)
 (1,283.13)
   - to other comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 134.99 
 (0.65)
 134.34 
At March 31, 2022 [DTL/(DTA)]
 7,818.91 
 855.95 
 - 
 2,681.48 
 11,356.34 
Charged/(credited)
   - to profit or loss
 (184.24)
 243.58 
 (2,047.50)
 (1,988.16)
   - to other comprehensive income
 (144.25)
 (144.25)
At March 31, 2023 [DTL/(DTA)]
 7,634.67 
 1,099.53 
 - 
 489.73 
 9,223.93 
Note 14(b): Current tax liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Opening balance
 111.04 
 1,207.84 
Add: Current tax payable for the year
 6,988.21 
 111.04 
Less: Taxes paid
 (6,470.05)
 - 
Less: Taxes paid for previous year
 (94.19)
 (1,200.00)
Less: Liability written back during the year
 (16.85)
 (7.84)
Closing balance
 518.16 
 111.04 
Note 15: Other current liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Unearned revenue [refer note (a) below]
 1,123.30 
 1,261.24 
Advance from customers
 3,041.21 
 1,809.60 
Statutory dues payable
 1,040.93 
 974.26 
Refund liabilities [refer note (b) below]
 3,592.74 
 176.61 
Liability towards CSR expense payable
 834.19 
 784.72 
Other liabilities
 551.98 
 542.16 
Provision for Tax on Buy-back of shares
 7,168.07 
 - 
Total other current liabilities
 17,352.42 
 5,548.59 
Notes:
(a)	
The Group recognises unearned revenue (i.e. contract liabilities) for consideration received before the Group transfers the 
control of goods or services to the customer and it is classified as other current liabilities.
(b) 	 Refund liabilities are recognised for incentive payable to customers and estimated liability of credit notes issued to customers.
Detail of unearned revenue:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(i) 	 Advertisement revenue
Opening balance
 1,175.99 
 628.98 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
 (1,175.99)
 (628.98)
Add: Invoiced during the year but not recognised as revenue
 1,086.40 
 1,175.99 
Closing balance
 1,086.40 
 1,175.99 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
308
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Detail of unearned revenue:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(ii) 	Outdoor advertising
Opening balance
 85.25 
 74.01 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
 (85.25)
 (74.01)
Add: Invoiced during the year but not recognised as revenue
 17.55 
 85.25 
Closing balance
 17.55 
 85.25 
(iii)  Event management and activation services
Opening balance
 - 
 - 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
Add: Invoiced during the year but not recognised as revenue
 19.35 
 - 
Closing balance
 19.35 
 - 
Total of unearned revenue
 1,123.30 
 1,261.24 
Note 16: Revenue from operations
Particulars
 Year ended 
March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
March 31, 2022
Revenue from contracts with customers
 - Sale of products and services
(a) 	 Advertisement revenue
 109,347.46 
 97,201.84 
(b) 	 Newspapers
 37,291.21 
 35,134.37 
(c) 	 Magazines, books and others
 30.35 
 29.87 
(d) 	 Advertisement revenue from sale of radio airtime
 19,692.85 
 16,652.92 
(e) 	 Outdoor advertising
 10,056.70 
 6,830.91 
(f) 	
Event management and activation services
 5,736.85 
 2,879.84 
Other operating revenue
- Job work
 1,699.86 
 1,530.09 
- Others
 1,762.17 
 1,335.27 
Total revenue from operations
 185,617.45 
 161,595.11 
(i)	
The Group derives its revenue from contracts with customers for the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point 
in time in the manner in which the Group transfers control of goods and services to customers. The Group is engaged mainly 
in the business of printing and publication of newspaper and magazines in India. The other activities of the Group comprise 
radio business, outdoor advertising business, event management and activation business and job work and other operating 
activity. Accordingly, the Group has organised its operations in the following categories:
	
(i) 	
Printing, publishing and digital comprising of advertisement revenue, sale of newspapers, magazines etc., job work 
and other operating revenue
	
(ii) 	 FM radio business comprising advertisement from sale of radio air time
	
(iii) 	 Others comprising outdoor advertising and event management and activation services.
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
A.
Performance obligation satisfied at a point in time
Print advertisement revenue
 109,347.46 
 97,201.84 
Advertisement revenue from sale of radio airtime
 19,692.85 
 16,652.92 
Sale of newspapers and magazines
 37,321.56 
 35,164.24 
Job work and other operating revenue
 3,462.03 
 2,865.36 
B.
Performance obligation satisfied over period of time
Outdoor advertising
 10,056.70 
 6,830.91 
Event management and activation services
 5,736.85 
 2,879.84 
Total
 185,617.45 
 161,595.11 
Note 15: Other current liabilities (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
309
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(ii)	
The following table shows unsatisfied performance obligation  as at year end : 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Print advertisement revenue
 1,086.40 
 1,175.99 
Outdoor advertising
 17.55 
 85.25 
Event management and activation services
 19.35 
 - 
Total
 1,123.30 
 1,261.24 
The Group has applied practical expedient methodology as per Ind AS 115 and has accordingly not disclosed information about 
remaining performance obligations which are part of the contracts that have original expected duration of one year or less 
and where the Group has a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the 
customer for performance obligation completed to date.
(iii)	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract price:
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
a) 	 Print advertisement revenue
Revenue as per contract price
 110,570.34 
 98,735.48 
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
 (1,222.88)
 (1,533.64)
Total
 109,347.46 
 97,201.84 
b) 	 Sale of newspapers and magazines
Revenue as per contract price
 37,380.39 
 35,194.86 
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
 (58.83)
 (30.62)
Total
 37,321.56 
 35,164.24 
c) 	 Advertisement revenue from sale of radio airtime
Revenue as per contract price
 20,210.76 
 16,932.86 
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
 (517.91)
 (279.94)
Total
 19,692.85 
 16,652.92 
d) 	 Outdoor advertising
Revenue as per contract price
 10,141.54 
 6,900.14 
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
 (84.84)
 (69.23)
Total
 10,056.70 
 6,830.91 
e) 	 Event management and activation services
Revenue as per contract price
 5,736.85 
 2,879.84 
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,736.85 
 2,879.84 
f) 	 Job work and other operating revenue
Revenue as per contract price
 3,462.03 
 2,865.36 
Adjustments for:
Incentive, rebates and discounts
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,462.03 
 2,865.36 
Total (a to f)
 185,617.45 
 161,595.11 
Note 16: Revenue from operations (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
310
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 17: Other income and other gains/(losses)
(a)	
Other income
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Interest income
  - On fixed deposits (at amortised cost)
 1,017.92 
 841.51 
  - On bonds (at amortised cost)
 3,777.17 
 2,373.20 
  - On income tax refund
 15.31 
 4.86 
  - Others
 25.57 
 31.41 
Dividend income from investments mandatorily valued at fair value through profit 
or loss
 1.76 
 0.70 
Unwinding of discount on security deposits
 172.14 
 126.56 
Total other income
 5,009.87 
 3,378.24 
(b) 	 Other gains/(losses)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Net gain/(loss) on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss
 1,129.85 
 1,774.57 
Net gain on sale of investments
 1,299.44 
 757.47 
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
 191.45 
 590.66 
Net gain/(loss) on disposal of investment property
 2,919.21 
 63.61 
Liabilities no longer required written-back
 20.82 
 2.93 
Net foreign exchange gains/(losses)
 (404.48)
 (119.99)
Impairment loss of investment properties on re-classification as assets held for sale
 - 
 9.99 
Miscellaneous income
 424.95 
 215.15 
Total other gains/(losses)
 5,581.24 
 3,294.39 
Note 18: Cost of materials consumed
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Raw materials at the beginning of the year 
 7,957.84 
 5,171.40 
Add: Purchases
 56,081.20 
 44,640.56 
Less: Raw materials at the end of the year
 (8,856.41)
 (7,957.84)
Total cost of materials consumed [refer note (a) below]
 55,182.63 
 41,854.12 
(a)	 Items of raw materials consumed
Newsprint
 52,375.34 
 39,450.61 
Printing ink
 2,807.29 
 2,403.51 
Total cost of materials consumed
 55,182.63 
 41,854.12 
Note 19: Changes in inventories of finished goods
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Stock of finished goods at the beginning of the year
 4.17 
 4.46 
Stock of finished goods at the end of the year
 - 
 4.17 
Total changes in inventories of finished goods
 4.17 
 0.29 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
311
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 20: Employee benefits expense
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Salary, wages and bonus
 34,331.79 
 32,878.72 
Contribution to employees provident and other funds [refer note 13]
 2,586.08 
 2,288.31 
Gratuity including contribution to gratuity fund [refer note 13]
 781.04 
 717.09 
Leave obligations
 391.82 
 274.25 
Staff welfare expenses
 761.10 
 837.37 
Total employee benefits expense
 38,851.83 
 36,995.74 
Note 20.1
The Code on Social Security, 2020 ("the Code") relating to employee benefits during employment and post-employment benefits 
received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. However, the date 
on which the Code will come into effect has not yet been notified. The Group will assess the impact of the Code when it comes 
into effect and will record any related impact in the period the Code becomes effective.
Note 21: Depreciation and amortisation expense
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment [refer note 3(a)]
 5,079.88 
 5,949.97 
Depreciation on right-of-use assets [refer note 3(b)]
 1,522.61 
 1,906.60 
Depreciation on investment properties [refer note 3(c)]
 139.66 
 43.98 
Amortisation of intangible assets [refer note 3(d)]
 3,933.00 
 3,961.93 
Total depreciation and amortisation expense
 10,675.15 
 11,862.48 
Note 22: Impairment losses on financial assets
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables, loans and advances and security 
deposits (net of write back)*
 2,582.63 
 3,183.27 
Doubtful advance written off*
 30.83 
 45.83 
Total Net impairment losses on financial assets
 2,613.46 
 3,229.10 
* includes write offs as per the Group's policy. However, the Group continues to have legal recourse available to it to recover the 
amount so written off and continues to pursue the recovery.
Note 23: Other expenses
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Consumption of stores and spares
 4,524.07 
 3,811.73 
Repairs and maintenance
- Building
 881.95 
 537.10 
- Plant and machinery
 2,048.47 
 1,615.04 
- Others
 731.91 
 1,060.44 
Office maintenance charges
 492.73 
 - 
News collection and contribution
 828.97 
 782.00 
Composing, printing and binding
 226.45 
 237.17 
Power and fuel
 3,494.17 
 3,401.41 
Freight and cartage
 256.08 
 174.23 
Direct expenses :
- Out of home advertising
 7,971.04 
 5,527.68 
- Event and activation business
 4,891.14 
 2,304.72 
- Digital
 4,568.67 
 2,806.03 
- Activity Expense
 2,692.16 
 - 
Rates and taxes
 164.40 
 224.91 
Rent
 (164.76)
 (75.70)
Carriage and distribution
 2,806.87 
 2,616.77 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
312
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Travelling and conveyance
 1,641.00 
 1,342.36 
Communication
 582.77 
 587.98 
Promotion and publicity expenses
 6,285.67 
 5,070.24 
Field expenses
 1,099.33 
 1,087.61 
Insurance
 328.34 
 430.31 
Donation
 0.73 
 8.05 
Payment to the auditors [refer note (a) below]
 216.34 
 195.65 
"Expenditure towards corporate social responsibility activities 
[refer note (b) below]"
 443.58 
 535.39 
Property, plant and equipment written off
 22.03 
 13.35 
Equity instrument at FVTPL written off
 - 
 202.31 
Provision for impairment in respect of above instruments
 - 
 (202.31)
Equity instrument at FVTOCI derecognised /written off
 - 
 760.00 
Reversal for Impairment loss created in the earlier year
 - 
 (170.00)
Commission on sales
 451.64 
 448.79 
Royalty
 425.88 
 492.12 
Common transmission infrastructure usage charges
 1,043.43 
 998.66 
Programming cost
 1,500.42 
 1,240.06 
Procurement of air time
 174.98 
 231.67 
Annual software license maintenance fee
 424.09 
 - 
Miscellaneous
 3,279.76 
 3,346.96 
Total other expenses
 54,334.31 
 41,642.73 
(a)	
Payment to auditors $#
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
As auditor:
  Audit fees
 189.92 
 181.50 
In other capacities:
  Certification fees
 14.66 
 8.00 
  Re-imbursement of expenses
 11.76 
 6.15 
Total payments to auditors
 216.34 
 195.65 
	
# Includes `78.41 (previous year: `69.51) paid to auditors of subsidiaries.
	
$ Net of GST input credit, as applicable.
(b)	 Corporate social responsibility expenditure
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Promoting health care including preventive health care and sanitation, 
including public outreach campaigns on COVID-19 awareness and / or 
vaccination.
 586.08 
 580.90 
Promotion of education and livelihood skills to visually impaired and orphan 
students with better infrastructure facilities along with support to cancer 
patients and neglected senior citizens.
 0.06 
 66.00 
Total
 586.14 
 646.90 
Amount required to be spent by the Group during the year  
(Refer note (i) below)
 550.06 
 618.00 
Interest earned on amount held as deposits with bank (Refer note (i) below)
 36.08 
 28.90 
Total required to be spent
 586.14 
 646.90 
Note 23: Other expenses (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
313
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 23: Other expenses (Contd.)
(b)	 Corporate social responsibility expenditure
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Amount spent during the year:
(i)	 Construction / acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
Sub-total (i)
 - 
 - 
(ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above
Amount spent during the year for promoting health care including preventive 
health care and sanitation, including public outreach campaigns on COVID-19 
awareness and / or vaccination:
In respect of current year obligation
 - 
 - 
In respect of previous year obligation (Refer note (ii) below)
 536.61 
 458.18 
Promotion of education and livelihood skills to visually impaired and orphan 
students with better infrastructure facilities along with support to cancer 
patients and neglected senior citizens
In respect of current year obligation
 0.06 
 66.00 
In respect of previous year obligation
 - 
 - 
Sub-total (ii)
 536.67 
 524.18 
Total Spent (i) and (ii)
 536.67 
 524.18 
(c)
Shortfall at the end of the year (Refer note (i) below)
 586.08 
 552.00 
(d) Total of previous year shortfall
 250.55 
 203.82 
(e) Reason for shortfall
 Refer note (ii) below  Refer note (ii) below 
(f)
Details of related party transactions (Refer note (iv) below)
 206.60 
 128.79 
(g) Liability against contractual obligations for CSR
 - 
 - 
(i) 	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, JPL has transferred `550.00 to Unspent CSR account maintained with Yes 
Bank Limited. Further, amount of `36.08 pertaining to interest earned during the financial year ended March 31, 2023 
on the unspent CSR account relating to the year ended March 31, 2022 is in a separate unspent CSR bank account 
maintained with Yes Bank Limited.
(ii)	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the JPL has spent an amount of `266.46 and `247.05 for the financial years 
2021-22 and 2020-21 respectively towards the upspent amount 0f `552.00 and `250.72 for the financial years 
2021-22 and 2020-21 respectively. The balance amount is in a separate unspent CSR bank account maintained with 
Yes Bank Limited. The CSR expenditure for the year ended March 31, 2023 of `536.61 (March 31, 2022: `458.18) is 
towards promoting health care including preventive health care and sanitation, including public outreach campaigns 
on COVID-19 awareness and / or vaccination.
(iii)	 Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company had deposited an amount of `550.00 in a separate bank 
account maintained with Yes Bank Limited.
(iv)	 The details of related party transactions as per Ind AS 24 (also refer note 30(B)(I)(4)) in relation to CSR expenditure are 
as follows:
Name of the related party
Relationship as per Ind 
AS 24
Amount for the year 
ended March 31, 2023
Amount for the year 
ended March 31, 2022
MMI Online Limited
Associate
 120.00 
 51.84 
Xpert Publicity Private Limited
Associate
 86.60 
 76.95 
Subtotal (b)
 206.60 
 128.79 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
314
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
	
Details of ongoing projects under 135(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
Balance as on April 1, 2022
 Amount 
required to be 
spent during the 
year 
 Amount spent during the year 
 Balance as on March 31, 2023 
With the Group
In separate CSR 
unspent account
From the 
Group's Bank 
account
From the 
separate CSR 
unspent account
 With the Group 
 In separate 
CSR unspent 
account 
 -   
 784.72 
 586.14 
 0.06 
 536.61 
 - 
 834.19 
Balance as on April 1, 2021
 Amount 
required to be 
spent during the 
year 
 Amount spent during the year 
 Balance as on March 31, 2022 
With the Group
In separate CSR 
unspent account
From the 
Group's Bank 
account
From the 
separate CSR 
unspent account
 With the Group 
 In separate CSR 
unspent account 
 -   
 662.00 
 646.90 
 66.00 
 458.18 
 -   
 784.72 
Details of CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act in respect of other than ongoing projects
Balance as on  
April 1, 2022
Amount deposited in 
Specified Fund of 
Schedule VII of the Act 
within 6 months
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
Balance as on  
March 31, 2023
-
-
-
-
-
Balance as on  
April 1, 2021
Amount deposited in 
Specified Fund of 
Schedule VII of the Act 
within 6 months
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
Balance as on  
March 31, 2022
-
-
-
-
-
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act
Balance excess spent as at April 
1, 2022
Amount required to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
 Balance as on March 31, 2023 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Balance excess spent as at April 
1, 2021
Amount required to be spent 
during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
 Balance as on March 31, 2022 
-
-
-
-
Note 24: Finance costs
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Interest and finance charges on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or 
loss
 2,545.99 
 2,428.64 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 1,060.18 
 469.98 
Interest expense on security deposits/others
 203.68 
 179.78 
Other borrowing costs
 49.48 
 70.79 
Total finance costs
 3,859.33 
 3,149.19 
Note 23: Other expenses (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
315
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 25: Income tax expense
This note provides an analysis of the Group’s income tax expense, shows amounts that are recognised directly in equity and how 
the tax expense is affected by non-assessable and non-deductible items. It also explains significant estimates made in relation 
to Group's tax positions.
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
(a)  Income tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year
 7,105.75 
 8,741.00 
Adjustments for current tax of prior periods
 73.82 
 - 
Less: excess provision relating to prior years written back
 (16.85)
 (310.35)
Total current tax expense
A
 7,162.72 
 8,430.65 
Deferred tax
- Decrease/(Increase) in deferred tax assets
 734.77 
 (312.59)
- (Decrease)/Increase in deferred tax liabilities
 (2,291.43)
 (1,584.84)
  Add: Tax expenses relating to earlier year
 34.26 
 - 
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)
B
 (1,522.40)
 (1,897.43)
Income tax expense
A+B
 5,640.32 
 6,533.22 
(b)	Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate:
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Profit before tax
 25,316.76 
 28,188.35 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
 5,308.88 
 7,666.37 
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (2021-22: 25.168%)(Current Year: Base rate 
22% + 10% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)  (Previous year: Base rate 
22% + 10% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)
Music Broadcast Limited (MBL) (Subsidiary)
 176.54 
 (220.20)
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 29.12% (2021-22: 29.12%)(Current Year: Base rate 25% 
+ 12% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)   
(Previous year: Base rate 25% + 12% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess) 
[Refer to note 6(a)]
Midday Infomedia Limited (MIL) (Subsidiary)
 594.83 
 (384.86)
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (2021-22: 25.168%)(Current Year: Base rate 
22% + 10% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)  (Previous year: Base rate 
22% + 10% Surcharge + 4% Health and Education cess)
Total Tax
 6,080.25 
 7,061.31 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable 
income:
- Saving due to indexation benefit on investment properties
 (46.22)
 (69.00)
- Saving due to indexation benefit on investment in mutual funds 
 (275.25)
 (468.35)
- Disallowance of corporate social responsibility paid (net)
 147.52 
 165.42 
- Amortisation of intangibles
 15.85 
 15.85 
- Depreciation charged on leasehold land
 8.81 
 10.98 
- Indexation benefit on sale of land
 - 
 (67.17)
- Transfer of deferred tax to retained earnings
 - 
 (42.78)
- Profit on sale of long-term investments (difference in tax rates applicable on long-
term capital gain and effective tax rate)
 (50.58)
 (49.04)
- Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 (14.73)
 - 
-Profit on sale of investment property
 (443.55)
 - 
- In respect of earlier year tax liability
 91.23 
 - 
- Tax saving on account of charging of transaction cost in tax books
 69.63 
 - 
-Interest on NCRPS
 56.32 
- Other items
 1.04 
 (24.00)
Income tax expense
 5,640.32 
 6,533.22 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
316
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable 
income. Given the complexities of contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions 
made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustment to tax income and expense already recorded.
Certain subsidiaries of the Group have undistributed earnings which if paid out of dividends would be subject to tax in the hands 
of the recipients. An assessable temporary difference exists but no deferred tax liability has been recognised as the parent entity 
is able to control the timing of distributions from this subsidiary and is not expected to distribute these profits in the foreseeable 
future.
Note 26: Contingent liabilities
(a)	
Contingent liabilities
(i)	
In respect of various pending labour and defamation cases: In view of large number of cases, it is impracticable to 
disclose the details of each case. Further, the amount of most of these is either not quantifiable or cannot be reliably 
estimated.
(ii)	
Demand of `112.00 (As at March 31, 2022: `112.00) received from Collector (Stamp) regarding stamp duty payable on 
amalgamation of subsidiary companies with Jagran Prakashan Limited in the year 2002, which has been stayed by the 
Hon’ble High Court.
(iii)	 Stamp duty on immovable assets acquired from print business of Naidunia Media Limited which are yet to be transferred 
in the name of the Company is estimated to be `211.00 (As at March 31, 2022: `211.00).
(iv)	 The Additional Commissioner, Mumbai, vide his order dated January 17, 2023 directed the District Collector, Mumbai 
to recover certain dues amounting to ₹ 6,523 relating to the building owned by the Jagran Group entities (comprising 
the Music Broadcast Limited, Midday Infomedia Limited and VRSM Enterprises LLP) in Mumbai from the banks, who 
had sold the building to the Jagran Group entities under the SARFAESI Act, 2002, on account of breach of terms and 
conditions of land lease agreement by its erstwhile owner. The Jagran Group entities have filed a revision application 
before the Revenue Minister, Government of Maharashtra, which is pending hearing. The carrying amount of such 
building in the books as on March 31, 2023 is ₹ 3,267. Based on the opinion of external legal counsel and internal 
assessment, the Group does not expect outflow of any economic resources in this matter.
(v)	
Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2023, in the matter of the Music Broadcast Limited vs Phonographic 
Performance Limited (‘PPL’) and other music providers, the Hon’ble Madras High Court partly allowed the appeal of PPL 
and other appellants by providing a ‘minimum floor rate’ of ₹ 660 per needle hour payable to PPL and other appellants 
for use of sound recordings by the Company over its radio stations w.r.t. the past decade 2010-2020. MBL has filed 
a special leave petition before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India challenging the High Court judgement. Based on 
the opinion of external legal counsel and its internal assessment, the MBL has a good case on merits and, therefore, 
it does not expect outflow of any economic resources in this matter.
(vi)	 MBL has received certain claims towards royalty for use of sound recordings over its radio stations amounting to 
`1,368.17 (As at March 31, 2022: `429.17 ). Out of the above, MBL has paid `200.00 (As at March 31, 2022: 200.00) 
under protest and issued bank guarantee for remaining amount. Based on the external legal counsel advice, MBL 
believes that more likely than not no outflow of resources will be required.
(vii)	 The amount of provident fund payable, if any, in respect of a subsidiary, in relation to certain allowances cannot be 
estimated reliably, though not likely to be significant. Hence, this amount has not been disclosed.
(viii)	 The Group's share of associates contingent liabilities is ` Nil (As at March 31, 2022 : ` Nil)
(ix)	 In respect of MIL, contingent liability in respect of income tax amounted to `91.92 (As at March 31, 2022 : `91.92)
(b)	 Contingent asset
(i)	
MIL has lodged a claim against a customer for recovery of its dues. However, the contingent asset has not been 
recognised as a receivable as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 as its receipt is dependent on the outcome of 
the arbitration process.	
Note 25: Income tax expense (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
317
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 27: Commitments
(a) 	 Capital and other commitments
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Estimated amount of contracts on capital account pending to be executed
[Net of advances `1,187.11 (As at March 31, 2021: `1,167.45)]
 229.60 
509.66
Total
 229.60 
 509.66 
(b)	 Other commitments
(i)	
Commitment (net of recoverable) towards sites hired for display of advertisement - `11,955.28 (As at March 31, 2022 
`10,183.12).
(ii) 	 As per the Grant of Permission Agreements ("GOPA") with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government 
of India, MBL is required to pay license fee at the rate of 4% of Gross Revenue of its FM radio channel for the financial 
year or 2.5% of the Non-refundable One Time Entry Fees ("NOTEF") for the city, whichever is higher, for each of its 39 
radio stations.
	
The minimum commitment in the form of 2.5% of NOTEF payable over the remaining license period is as follows:
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Within 1 year
 1,760.72 
 1,760.72 
Later than one year but not later than five years
 7,042.88 
 7,042.88 
Later than five years
 3,807.45 
 5,568.17 
Total
 12,611.05 
 14,371.77 
	
(iii) 	 In respect of MIL, total rental expense relating to short term operating lease amounted to `26.51 (As at March 31, 2022: 
`11.76)
Note 28: Earnings per share
Particulars
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2023 
 Year ended 
 March 31, 2022 
Net profit as per Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (` in Lakhs)
 19,984.01 
 22,247.72 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
 262,646,053 
 264,400,029 
Basic earnings per share of face value of `2 each (in Rupees)
 7.61 
 8.41 
Diluted earnings per share of face value of `2 each (in Rupees)
 7.61 
 8.41 
Note 29: (a) Details of loans, guarantees and investments under section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013
	
(i) 	
Details of loans given:
S. 
No.
Name of the party
Date of 
disbursement
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Purpose of loan
1
Midday Infomedia Limited
30-Nov-21
 - 
 200.00 
Working capital 
assistance
	
(ii) 	 Jagran Prakashan Limited had given continuing guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,500.00 to HDFC Bank 
Limited, on behalf of Music Broadcast Limited (subsidiary) towards bank guarantee extended by HDFC Bank Limited, 
Kanjur Marg, Mumbai branch to the subsidiary. The outstanding value of bank guarantee as on March 31, 2023 
aggregated to `2,166.28 (As at March 31, 2022: `2,166.28).
	
(iii) 	 Jagran Prakashan Limited has given a corporate guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,145.00 to ICICI Bank Limited 
for its wholly owned subsidiary Midday Infomedia Limited (subsidiary) in relation to the outstanding term loan. The 
term loan outstanding in respect thereof as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `936.98 (March 31, 2022 amounted to 
`1.326.10).
	
(iv) 	 Details of investment as at March 31, 2023: [refer note 4 and 5 (a)].
Jagran Prakashan Limited
318
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(b) 	 The shares held in Jagran Publications Private Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited are not transferable to 
a third party (i.e. persons and body corporate not belonging to U.P. Group, defined to be lineal descendants of late Mr. P.C. 
Gupta and Company in which not less than 51% shareholding is owned and controlled by their family members) without 
complying with certain conditions as contained in the Articles of Association of these two companies.
(c) 	 Pending ongoing disputes and lack of control, these associates are not considered in the consolidated financial statements 
of JPL and the investments made in Jagran Publications Private  Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited are 
recorded as investments in these financial statements [refer note 5(a)].
(d) 	 Details as required under Regulation 53(f) read with Para A of Schedule VI of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements), 2015 of loans, advances and investments:
Particulars
Outstanding  
as at  
March 31, 2023
Outstanding as at 
March 31, 2022
Maximum amount 
due at any time 
during the year 
ended March 31, 
2022
i. 	
Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii. 	
Jagran Publications Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 - 
 - 
In view of the severe long term restrictions imposed in Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited and Jagran Publication Private 
Limited, the entities have not been consolidated in the financial statements in accordance with the policy of the Group.
The Company had hitherto, without prejudice to its legal rights had fully provided for, receivables amounting to `1,568.31 and 
`130.03 due from Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited and Jagran Publications Private Limited respectively. However, 
given the inordinate delay in resolution of the disputes and the inevitable uncertainty inherent in the adjudication process, 
the Company had in the previous year written off the debts owed to it by Jagran Publication Private Limited and Jagran 
Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited. Based on legal advice received by the Company, such write offs do not adversely impact 
the Company's legal position in respect of its disputes with these companies and its shareholders. The Company will continue 
to vigorously protect all its legal rights in respect of the investments including financial exposure in Jagran Publication Private 
Limited and Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private Limited, without in any manner being constricted by such write off [Also refer 
note 30(B)(II)(1)].
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures
A.	
Name of related parties and nature of relationship
(a)  Holding Company
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Jagran Media Network 
Investment Private 
Limited
 Holding
India
67.97%
68.56%
(b)  Associates
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Leet OOH Media 
Private Limited
Associate
India
48.84%
48.84%
X-pert Publicity Private 
Limited
Associate
India
39.20%
39.20%
MMI Online Limited
Associate
India
44.92%
44.92%
Note 29: (a) Details of loans, guarantees and investments under section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
319
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
A.	
Name of related parties and nature of relationship (Contd.)
(c)  Other investments
Name
Type
Place of incorporation
Ownership interest as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Jagran Publications 
Private Limited*
[refer note 31(b)  
to 31 (d)]
India
40.00%
40.00%
Jagran Prakashan 
(MPC) Private Limited**
[refer note 31(b)  
to 31 (d)]
India
50.00%
50.00%
*Represents 40% paid-up capital of the Company carrying 50% voting rights.
**Represents 50% paid-up capital of the Company carrying 50% voting rights.
	
(d)	 Entities incorporated in India over which Key Management Personnel exercise significant influence
	
	
Lakshmi Consultants Private Limited
	
	
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
	
	
Jagmini Micro Knit Private Limited
	
	
Rave@Moti Entertainment Private Limited
	
	
Rave Real Estate Private Limited
	
	
V R S M Enterprises LLP  
	
(e)	
Key Management Personnel (KMP), relatives and other related entities
	
	
(i)	
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
	
	
	
Mahendra Mohan Gupta (Chairman and Managing Director)
Sanjay Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Sunil Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Shailesh Gupta (Whole-time Director)
Satish Chandra Mishra (Whole-time Director)
Sandeep Gupta (Whole-time Director w.e.f. May 30, 2022)
Vikas Joshi ( Managing Director of subsidiary w.e.f. July 26, 2022)
Devendra Mohan Gupta (Non-Executive Director)
Shailendra Mohan Gupta (Non-Executive Director)
Anuj Puri (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Shashidhar Sinha (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Vijay Tandon (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Anita Nayyar (Independent/Non-Executive Director of subsidiary)
Shailendra Swarup (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Divya Karani (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Dilip Cherian (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Jayant Davar (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Ravi Sardana (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Vikram Sakhuja (Independent/Non-Executive Director)
Madhukar Kamath [Independent/Non-Executive Director of subsidiary]
Rahul Gupta (Non-Executive Director of subsidiary)
Amit Jaiswal (Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
320
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Rajiv Shah (Chief Financial Officer and Whole-time Director of subsidiary w.e.f. April 20, 2022 and up to October 
20, 2022) 
Rajeshri Bolaikar (Chief Financial Officer of subsidiary w.e.f October 20, 2022 )
Arpita Kapoor (Company Secretary of subsidiary)
Astha Purwar (Company Secretary of subsidiary)
Ashit Kukian (Chief Executive Officer of subsidiary)
Prashant Domadia (Chief Financial Officer of subsidiary)
	
	
(ii) 	 Relatives of Key Management Personnel and their related entities
Sameer Gupta (Brother of Sunil Gupta)
Devesh Gupta (Son of Dhirendra Mohan Gupta)
Tarun Gupta (Son of Dhirendra Mohan Gupta)
Saroja Gupta (Mother of Sanjay Gupta)
Vijaya Gupta (Mother of Sunil Gupta)
Pramila Gupta Estates (Estate of Late wife of Mahendra Mohan Gupta)
Madhu Gupta (Wife of Dhirendra Mohan Gupta)
Pragati Gupta (Wife of Sanjay Gupta)
Ruchi Gupta (Wife of Shailesh Gupta)
Bharat Gupta (Son of Devendra Mohan Gupta)
Rajni Gupta (Wife of Shailendra Mohan Gupta)
Raj Gupta (Wife of Devendra Mohan Gupta)
Narendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Sanjay Gupta HUF
Sandeep Gupta HUF
Mahendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Shailesh Gupta HUF
Yogendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Sunil Gupta HUF
Sameer Gupta HUF
Shailendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Devendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Dhirendra Mohan Gupta HUF
Devesh Gupta HUF
Tarun Gupta HUF
Bharat Gupta HUF
Rahul Gupta HUF
Siddhartha Gupta HUF
Note: Related parties listed in (d) and (e)(ii) are those with whom the Company had transactions during the current or previous year.
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures (Contd.)
	
	
(i)	
Key Management Personnel (KMP) (Contd.)
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
321
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions
Sl. 
No. Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises 
over which Key 
Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
I.
Transactions with related parties
(1)
Revenue from advertisement, 
events, out of home and job work 
MMI Online Limited
 - 
 - 
 11.05 
 21.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.05 
 21.64 
Rave Real Estate Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.25 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.12 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
 0.12 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
 11.05 
 21.64 
 - 
 - 
 7.37 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
 18.42 
 21.71 
(2)
Advertisement revenue share 
expense
MMI Online Limited
 - 
 - 
 584.88 
 304.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 584.88 
 304.16 
 - 
 - 
 584.88 
 304.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 584.88 
 304.16 
(3)
Key management personnel 
compensation
Short tem employee benefits
- Key management personnel
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,724.43 
 1,794.89  1,724.43 
 1,794.89 
- Relatives
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 574.19 
 683.53 
 574.19 
 683.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  2,298.62 
 2,478.42  2,298.62 
 2,478.42 
(4)
Receiving of services (Refer note 
6 below)
Lakshmi Consultants Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 185.58 
 168.00 
 - 
 - 
 185.58 
 168.00 
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 33.11 
 52.69 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33.11 
 52.69 
MMI Online Limited
 - 
 -  3,107.18 
 1,697.81 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  3,107.18 
 1,697.81 
Xpert Publicity Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 104.60 
 90.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 104.60 
 90.45 
Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11.89 
 5.02 
 - 
 - 
 11.89 
 5.02 
 - 
 -  3,244.89 
 1,840.95 
 - 
 - 
 197.47 
 173.02 
 - 
 -  3,442.36 
 2,013.97 
(5)
Rent paid
VRSM Enterprises LLP
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 268.64 
 249.44 
 - 
 - 
 268.64 
 249.44 
Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203.67 
 196.58 
 203.67 
 196.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 268.64 
 249.44 
 203.67 
 196.58 
 472.31 
 446.02 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
322
Sl. 
No. Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises 
over which Key 
Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
I.
Transactions with Related Parties 
(Cont'd)
(6)
Sitting fee
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 68.05 
 45.25 
 68.05 
 45.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 68.05 
 45.25 
 68.05 
 45.25 
(7)
Expenses reimbursement received 
MMI Online Limited
 - 
 - 
 446.97 
 377.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 446.97 
 377.13 
 - 
 - 
 446.97 
 377.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 446.97 
 377.13 
(8)
Expenses reimbursement paid 
MMI Online Limited
 - 
 - 
 90.48 
 131.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 90.48 
 131.73 
 - 
 - 
 90.48 
 131.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 90.48 
 131.73 
(9)
Purchase of goods
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
II.
Outstanding balances at year end
(1)
Investments 
X-Pert Publicity Private Limited- 
Equity shares
 - 
 - 
 62.23 
 62.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 62.23 
 62.23 
Leet OOH Media Private Limited- 
Equity shares
 - 
 - 
 577.50 
 577.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 577.50 
 577.50 
MMI Online Limited- Equity shares
 - 
 - 
 559.95 
 559.95 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 559.95 
 559.95 
Jagran Publications Private Limited- 
Equity shares
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 10.00 
Jagran Prakashan (MPC) Private 
Limited- Equity shares
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.50 
Less: Provision for impairment in 
value of investments
 - 
 - 
 (559.95)
 - 
 (10.50)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (559.95)
 (10.50)
 - 
 - 
 639.73 
 1,199.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 639.73 
 1,199.68 
(2)
Trade receivables 
Rave Real Estate Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.15 
 - 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Consolidated
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
323
Sl. 
No. Particulars
Ultimate holding 
Company
Associates
Other investments
Enterprises 
over which Key 
Management 
Personnel exercise 
significant influence
Key management 
personnel (KMP), 
relatives and other 
related entities
Total
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
2022-23
2021-22
Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.19 
 - 
(3)
Loans and advances (assets)
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
 1.59 
 1.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.59 
 - 
(4)
Security deposits given
V R S M Enterprises LLP
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 200.00 
Pramila Gupta Estates
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 50.00 
 50.00 
 50.00 
 50.00 
Madhu Gupta
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 50.00 
 50.00 
 50.00 
 50.00 
Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 341.75 
 341.75 
 341.75 
 341.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 200.00 
 441.75 
 441.75 
 641.75 
 641.75 
(5)
Trade payables and other current 
liability
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 0.86 
 0.89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.86 
 0.89 
Lakshmi Consultants Pvt. Ltd.
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27.94 
 - 
 - 
 27.94 
 - 
MMI Online Limited
 - 
 - 
 206.75 
 0.65 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 206.75 
 0.65 
Jagran Micro Motors Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.14 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 139.27 
 138.78 
 139.29 
 138.78 
 - 
 - 
 207.61 
 1.54 
 - 
 - 
 30.10 
 - 
 139.27 
 138.78 
 376.98 
 140.32 
Notes
(1)	
The sales, purchases and other transactions with related parties are at arm's length. Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and interest free (except the interest 
bearing loans) are settled vide receipts / payments, except barter balances, which are settled on receipt / provision of services. For the year ended March 31, 2023, the Company 
has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts owed by related parties (March 31, 2022: ` Nil). This assessment is undertaken for each financial year through 
examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
324
(2)	 Commitments
(a) 	 The Company has given continuing guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,500 to HDFC Bank Limited, on behalf of Music Broadcast Limited (subsidiary) towards bank 
guarantee extended by HDFC Bank Limited, Kanjur Marg, Mumbai branch to the subsidiary. The outstanding value of bank guarantee as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to 
`2,166.28 (As at March 31, 2022: `2,166.28)
(b) 	 During the previous year, the Company has issued a letter of comfort to Standard Chartered Bank for sanction of working capital facility for an amount not exceeding 
`800.00 for its wholly owned subsidiary Midday Infomedia Limited. The amount availed in respect thereof as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `250.75 (As at March 31, 
2022: `100.02)
(c)	
The Company has given a corporate guarantee of an amount not exceeding `2,145.00 to ICICI Bank Limited for its wholly owned subsidiary Midday Infomedia Limited 
(subsidiary) in relation to the outstanding term loan. The term loan outstanding in respect thereof as on March 31, 2023 aggregated to `936.98 (March 31, 2022 amounted 
to `1,326.10).
(3)	 Jagran Media Network Investment Private Limited ("Holding Company") has given an undertaking to the Company to make good any shortfall in recovery of an advance of 
`475.00 given to Shakumbari Straw Product Limited.
(4)	 JPL has undertaken that the Promoter Group shall hold at least 60% equity shareholding in JPL, directly or indirectly, and exercise management control till the tenor of the NCDs.
(5)	 The remuneration to key managerial personnel and their relatives does not include the provision made for gratuity and leave benefits, as they are determined on actuarial basis 
for the Group as a whole.
(6)	 Refer note 23(b) for details of CSR expenditure in relation to receiving of services through related parties.
(7)	 The figures exclude GST, as applicable.
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
NOTES TO THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 30: Related Party Disclosures (Contd.) 
B.	
Related party transactions (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
325
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 31: Fair value measurements
The financial instruments are classified in the following categories and are summarised in the table below:
(i) 	
Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
(ii) 	 Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
(iii) 	 Amortised cost
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
FVTPL
FVTOCI 
Amortised cost 
FVTPL
FVTOCI 
Amortised cost 
Financial assets 
Investments
- Equity instruments
319.51
-
-
 267.65 
 - 
 - 
- Bonds and debentures
-
-
47,926.74
 - 
 - 
 43,736.21 
- Corporate fixed deposits
-
-
2,000.00
 - 
 - 
 3,990.00 
- Mutual funds and alternate investment 
funds
51,145.18
-
-
 53,609.63 
 - 
 - 
Trade receivables
-
-
45,327.56
 - 
 - 
 43,168.51 
Cash and cash equivalents
-
-
4,861.15
 - 
 - 
 4,482.40 
Other bank balances
-
-
717.35
 - 
 - 
 11,526.55 
Unpaid dividend
-
-
22.16
 - 
 - 
 20.39 
Loans
-
-
226.12
 - 
 - 
 207.61 
Security deposits
-
-
4,466.87
 - 
 - 
 3,431.02 
Insurance claim recoverable
-
-
18.63
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest accrued on bonds and 
debentures
-
-
1,438.75
 - 
 - 
 1,402.11 
Fixed deposits (including interest)
-
-
7,427.31
 - 
 - 
 2,071.44 
Unbilled revenue
-
-
1,284.30
 - 
 - 
 878.54 
Total financial assets
51,464.69
-
115,716.94
 53,877.28 
 - 
 114,914.78 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (including interest accrued)
-
-
36,887.60
 - 
 - 
 29,662.21 
Trade payables
-
-
16,818.55
 - 
 - 
 13,941.26 
Lease liabilities
-
-
7,454.83
 - 
 - 
 7,463.83 
Security deposits (including interest 
accrued on security deposits received)
-
-
8,526.99
 - 
 - 
 8,551.39 
Unpaid dividend
-
-
22.16
 - 
 - 
 20.39 
Other payables
-
-
2,923.46
 - 
 - 
 3,151.03 
Total financial liabilities
-
-
72,633.59
 - 
 - 
 62,790.11 
(i) Fair value hierarchy
The following table summarises the financial instruments at fair value by valuation methods. The different levels have been 
defined as follows:
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes listed equity instruments 
and mutual funds that have a quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments which are traded in the stock exchanges is 
valued using the closing price as at the reporting date. The mutual funds are valued using the closing net asset value.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques 
which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This 
is the case for investment in certain private equity funds and unlisted equity instruments.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
326
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 31: Fair value measurements (Contd.)
Financial assets measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022
Level 1
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVTPL:
Listed equity investments
309.07
-
309.07
257.21
-
257.21
Unlisted equity investments
-
10.44
10.44
-
10.44
10.44
Mutual funds 
50,431.32
713.86
51,145.18
53,409.65
199.98
53,609.63
Total financial assets
50,740.39
724.30
51,464.69
53,666.86
210.42
53,877.28
The Group’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the reporting 
period. There are no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year.
(ii) Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Financial assets in level 1 category includes investment in listed equity instruments and investment in mutual funds, where the 
fair values have been determined based on quoted market price.
Financial assets in level 3 category includes investment in private equity fund and unlisted equity instruments. In the case of 
investment in private equity fund, the fair values have been determined based on the net asset value. Investment in unlisted equity 
instruments is not usually traded in the market and considering the best information available, cost of investment is considered 
as fair value of the investments.
The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost are considered to be approximate to their fair 
values due to their short-term nature.
(iii)	 Valuation processes
The finance department of the Group includes Chief General Manager (Finance) who performs the valuation of financial assets 
and liabilities required for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 values. The Chief General Manager (Finance) reports 
directly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
The Group has written off the investment in private equity fund during the year and the same had already been provided for in 
the books of account in the earlier years.
Note 32: Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk, and price risk), 
credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the 
Group’s risk management framework.
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk.
Risk 
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, trade 
receivables, 
financial 
assets 
measured at amortised cost and 
fair value through profit or loss
Ageing analysis Credit ratings
Diversification of bank deposits, 
credit limits and letters of credit 
Investment guidelines for debt 
investments
Liquidity risk
Borrowings and other liabilities
Rolling cash flow forecasts
Availability of committed credit 
lines and borrowing facilities
Market risk – foreign 
exchange
Recognised financial assets and 
liabilities not denominated in 
Indian rupee (`)
Cash 
flow 
forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Insignificant 
foreign 
currency 
exposure
Market risk – interest 
rate
Borrowings at variable rates
Periodical 
monitoring 
with 
respect to market conditions
Replacing high cost borrowings 
with low cost borrowings from 
time to time
Market risk – security 
prices
Investments in equity securities
Observing 
market 
prices, 
operations and Cash flows 
and market reports
Portfolio diversification
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
327
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(A) 	 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group's receivables from customers and deposits and investments 
in the financial institutions. The carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure.
A default on a financial asset is when the counterparty fails to make contractual payments as per agreed terms. This definition 
of default is determined by considering the business environment in which entity operates and other macro-economic factors.
Assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. The Group writes off debtors when they fail to 
make contractual payment greater than 5 years past due.
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a significant 
increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase 
in credit risk the Company compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date with the risk of 
default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking information.
For banks and financial institutions, risk is managed by accepting only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of ‘A’.
The Group’s investments in debt instruments are considered to be low risk investments. The credit ratings of the investments 
are monitored for credit deterioration.
	
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk refers to the risk of default on its obligation by the counter party resulting in financial loss. The maximum 
exposure to the credit risk at the reporting date is primarily from trade receivable amounting to `12,730.73 and `14,034.94 
as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, respectively. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the 
individual characteristics of each customer. The management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk 
of its customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate. It has a credit risk 
management policy in place to limit credit losses due to non-performance of financial counterparties and customers. The 
Group monitors its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis at various levels. It closely monitors outstanding customer 
receivables alongwith the acceptable financial counterparty credit ratings and credit limits and revise where required in line 
with the market circumstances.
Due to the geographical spread and the diversity of the Group's customers, the Company is not subject to any significant 
concentration of credit risks at Balance Sheet date.
On account of adoption of Ind AS 109, the Group uses a simplified approach (lifetime expected credit loss model) for the 
purpose of computation of expected credit loss for trade receivables.
The Group calculates expected credit loss on its trade receivables using 'allowance matrix'.
Significant estimates: The impairment provisions for financial assets disclosed above are based on assumptions about risk 
of default and expected loss rates. The Group uses judgment in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the 
impairment calculation, based on the Group’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at 
the end of each reporting period. For trade receivables only, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by Ind AS 
109, “Financial Instruments”, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
Management judgment is required for assessing the recoverability of trade receivables and the valuation of the allowances 
for impairment of trade receivables. The Group makes impairment allowance for trade receivables based on an assessment of 
the recoverability of trade receivables. Allowances are applied to trade receivables where events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the balances may not be collectible. The impairment allowance is estimated by management based on historical 
experience and current economic environment. The Group assesses the expected credit losses by calibrating historical 
experience with forward-looking estimates. This may include information regarding the industry in which debtors are 
operating, historical and post year-end payment records, as well as creditworthiness of debtors.
	
Cash & cash equivalents and bank deposits
Credit risk related to cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits is managed by only accepting highly rated banks and 
diversifying bank deposits accounts in different banks across the country.
	
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost includes security deposits and others. Credit risk related to these other 
financial assets is managed by monitoring the recoverability of such amounts continuously. The Company’s investments in 
debt instruments are considered to be low risk investments. The credit ratings of the investments are monitored for credit 
deterioration.
Note 32: Financial risk management (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
328
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(B) 	 Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding 
to meet obligations when due. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Company’s liquidity position and cash and cash 
equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.  	
	
(i) 	
Financing arrangements-undrawn facilities
	
	
The Group had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Floating rate
Expiring within one year (cash credit from Central Bank of India)
- Fund based
 12,124.14 
 13,735.94 
- Non fund based
 4,545.53 
 4,024.78 
Expiring within one year (Overdraft facility with Axis Bank Limited)
- Fund based
 100.00 
 100.00 
- Non fund based
 200.00 
 200.00 
Expiring within one year (Non fund based from Yes Bank Limited)
 1,618.11 
 1,746.77 
Short term loan from Deutsche Bank AG
 - 
 10,000.00 
Overdraft facility availed from ICICI Bank Limited
 285.00 
 222.90 
Overdraft facility availed from Standard Chartered Bank
 549.25 
 699.98 
Overdraft facility availed from HDFC Bank Limited*
- Fund based
 1,000.00 
 1,000.00 
- Non fund based
 134.00 
 34.00 
Total
 20,556.03 
 31,764.37 
* The bank overdraft facilities may be drawn and terminated at any time by the bank without notice.
	
(ii) 	 Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables below analyse the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual 
maturities for all non-derivative financial liabilities. There are no derivative financial instruments in respect of reporting 
periods disclosed under these financial statements.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal 
their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Contractual maturities of financial 
liabilities
Less than 1 
year
Between 1 and 
2 years
Between 2 and 
5 years
Above 5 Years
Total
March 31, 2023
Non-derivatives
Borrowings including interest
 20,469.53 
 7,890.00 
 8,528.07 
 - 
 36,887.60 
Trade payables
 16,818.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 16,818.55 
Lease liabilities
 2,154.39 
 1,557.50 
 2,724.96 
 2,572.56 
 9,009.41 
Other financial liabilities
 11,472.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,472.61 
Total non-derivative liabilities
 50,915.08 
 9,447.50 
 11,253.03 
 2,572.56 
 74,188.17 
Contractual maturities of financial 
liabilities
Less than 1 
year
Between 1 and 
2 years
Between 2 and 
5 years
Above 5 Years
Total
March 31, 2022
Non-derivatives
Borrowings
 3,783.22 
 17,890.54 
 8,045.02 
 - 
 29,718.78 
Trade payables
 13,941.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13,941.26 
Lease liabilities
 2,172.76 
 1,830.60 
 3,151.46 
 3,149.16 
 10,303.98 
Other financial liabilities
 11,722.81 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,722.81 
Total non-derivative liabilities
 31,620.05 
 19,721.14 
 11,196.48 
 3,149.16 
 65,686.83 
Note 32: Financial risk management (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
329
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 32: Financial risk management (Contd.)
(C) 	 Market risk
	
(i) 	
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates in India and is not materially exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency 
transactions. The Group generally deals in USD for news print purchases from outside India. Foreign exchange risk 
arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not 
the Group’s functional currency (`). The risk is monitored and measured in a volatile currency environment through 
dependable forecast by external resources and is addressed by exiting from the exposure in material cases.
	
	
(a) 	 Foreign currency risk exposure:
	
	
	
The  Group's exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period expressed in `, are as follows
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
USD
AED
EURO
USD
Financial assets
Trade receivables
 257.63 
 461.11 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
 3,838.97 
6.01
0.05
 2,355.92 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk
 3,581.34 
 6.01 
 0.05 
 1,894.81 
Note: The exposure is not considered to be significant and hence sensitivity disclosure has not been made.
	
(ii) 	 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group's main interest rate risk arises from borrowings with variable rates, which exposes the Group to cash flow 
interest rate risk. During March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the Group's borrowings at variable rate were denominated 
in ` and USD.
The Group's fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk as 
defined in Ind AS 107 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures), since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows 
will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
	
	
(a) 	 Interest rate risk exposure
	
	
	
The exposure of the Group's borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period is as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Variable rate borrowings*
 1,563.59 
 2,752.32 
Fixed rate borrowings
 33,357.56 
 24,943.43 
Total borrowings  
 34,921.15 
 27,695.75 
	
	
	
*includes cash credit facility and overdraft facility.
	
	
	
Weighted average rate of borrowings as at March 31, 2023 ranges from 7.25% p.a. to 10.00% p.a.
	
(iii) 	 Price risk
	
	
The Group does not have significant equity investments that are publicly traded. The Group does not have significant 
non-listed equity securities that are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the 
investment securities. The Group manages its investment in unquoted securities by monitoring the cash flow measures.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
330
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Credit risk
Expected credit loss for trade receivables and unbilled revenue as at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Unbilled
Not Due
Less than 6 
Months
6 Months - 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Gross carrying amount - 
trade receivables
-
18,409.81
14,326.75
4,774.37
4,997.68
3,464.70
12,027.75
58,001.06
Gross carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
1,341.53
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,341.53
Expected credit loss rate
4.27%
4.47%
3.45%
27.68%
31.21%
47.23%
56.85%
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- trade receivables
-
823.75
493.99
1,321.73
1,559.66
1,636.34
6,838.03
12,673.50
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- unbilled revenue
57.23
-
-
-
-
-
-
57.23
Net carrying amount - 
trade receivables
-
17,586.06
13,832.76
3,452.64
3,438.02
1,828.36
5,189.72
45,327.56
Net carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
1,284.30
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,284.30
Expected credit loss for trade receivables and unbilled revenue as at March 31, 2022
Particulars
Unbilled
Not Due
Less than 6 
Months
6 Months - 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Gross carrying amount - 
trade receivables
-
16,009.51
18,775.19
2,624.03
4,158.54
4,089.13
11,547.05
57,203.45
Gross carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
878.54
-
-
-
-
-
-
878.54
Expected credit loss rate
0.00%
8.29%
1.09%
5.66%
15.01%
37.32%
88.38%
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- trade receivables
-
1,326.58
204.09
148.65
624.10
1,526.20
10,205.32
14,034.94
Expected credit losses 
(loss allowance provision) 
- unbilled revenue
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net carrying amount - 
trade receivables
- 14,682.93 18,571.10
2,475.38
3,534.44
2,562.93
1,341.73 43,168.51
Net carrying amount - 
unbilled revenue
878.54
-
-
-
-
-
-
878.54
Reconciliation of loss allowance on trade receivables and unbilled revenue
Particulars
Unbilled 
Revenue
Trade 
receivables
Loss allowance on April 1, 2021
 - 
 13,362.64 
Changes in loss allowance (net of bad debts)
 - 
 672.30 
Loss allowance on March 31, 2022
 - 
 14,034.94 
Changes in loss allowance (net of bad debts)
 57.23 
 (1,361.44)
Loss allowance on March 31, 2023
 57.23 
 12,673.50 
Note 32: Financial risk management (Contd.)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
331
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 33: Capital management
(i)	
Risk management
The Group's objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for the shareholders and benefits for the stakeholders. The Group strives to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust any dividend 
payments, return on capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
Consistent with the principles of prudence, the Group also monitors capital on the basis of debt to equity ratio where debt 
comprises borrowings including current maturities, net of cash and cash equivalents and equity comprising the shareholders 
funds outstanding at each reporting date.
The debt to equity position at each reporting date is summarised below:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Debt (including lease liabilities)
 39,481.28 
 30,677.18 
Total equity
 193,047.28 
 235,174.96 
Debt to equity ratio
 0.20 
 0.13 
(ii) 	 Dividend
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2023
Year ended
March 31, 2022
Equity shares
Final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2023 of `4 (March 31, 2022: Nil) 
per fully paid share
 (10,546.17)
 - 
Note 34: Interests in subsidiaries and associates
(a) 	 Subsidiaries
Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting solely of equity shares that are held directly by the Group, 
and the proportion of ownership interests held equals the voting rights held by the Group. The country of incorporation or 
registration is also their principal place of business.
Name of entity 
Place of 
business/ 
country of 
incorporation 
Ownership interest  
held by the Group 
Ownership interest held by non-
controlling interests 
Principal 
activities 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Midday Infomedia 
Limited (MIL)
India
100%
100%
 -   
 -   
Printing and 
Publication
Music Broadcast 
Limited (MBL)
India
74.05%
73.21%
25.95%
26.79%
Radio 
Business
(b)	 Non-controlling interests (NCI)
Set out below is summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interests that are material to 
the Group. The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations.
Summarised Balance Sheet
Music Broadcast Limited [MBL]
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Current assets 
 14,838.29 
 15,255.88 
Current liabilities 
 3,633.20 
 3,513.19 
Net current assets 
 11,205.09 
 11,742.69 
Non-current assets  
 68,892.94 
 69,791.23 
Non-current liabilities
 9,510.82 
 1,533.94 
Net non-current assets  
 59,382.12 
 68,257.29 
 
Net assets
 70,587.21 
 79,999.98 
Accumulated Non-controlling interest (NCI)
 18,317.38 
 21,432.52 
Jagran Prakashan Limited
332
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 34: Interests in subsidiaries and associates (Contd.)
Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss 
Music Broadcast Limited [MBL]
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Revenue
 19,886.14 
 16,843.02 
Profit/(loss) for the year
 343.99 
 (570.11)
Other comprehensive income 
 28.18 
 (47.04)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 
 372.17 
 (617.15)
Profit/(loss) allocated to NCI 
 (298.02)
 (572.76)
Summarised cash flows
Music Broadcast Limited [MBL]
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Cash inflow from operating activities 
 3,048.43 
 2,273.52 
Cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 
 (2,378.73)
 (1,761.36)
Cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 
 (790.86)
 (737.59)
Net Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash Equivalents
 (121.16)
 (225.43)
Transactions with non-controlling interests
During the year ended March 31, 2023, the Holding Company had purchased 2,915,512 equity shares for `663.17 of its 
subsidiary "Music Broadcast Limited- (MBL)" from the open market. Pursuant to this, the Holding Company's share holding 
increased from 73.21% to 74.05% as on March 31, 2023. Immediately prior to the purchase, the carrying amount of the 
existing 26.79% non-controlling interest was `21,432.52. The carrying amount of the 0.84% non-controlling interest acquired 
in Music Broadcast Limited was `663.17. The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of `663.17. There 
was no effect on the equity attributable to the owners of Jagran Prakashan Limited during the year.
(c)	
Interests in associates (Unquoted) (individually immaterial associates)
Set out below are the associates of the Group as at March 31, 2023 which, in the opinion of the directors, are immaterial to 
the Group. The entities listed below have share capital, which are held directly by the Group. The proportion of ownership 
interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights held.
Name of entity 
Place of 
business 
% of ownership interest 
Relationship
 
Accounting 
Method
 
Carrying amount 
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022
Leet OOH Media Private 
Limited
India
48.84%
48.84% Associate
Equity
 571.38 
 552.51 
X-Pert Publicity Private 
Limited
India
39.20%
39.20% Associate
Equity
 78.29 
 67.32 
MMI Online Limited 
India
44.92%
44.92% Associate
Equity
 - 
 639.73 
Total equity accounted investment
 649.67 
 1,259.56 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial associates
 649.67 
 1,259.56 
Aggregate amounts of the Group's share of:
Profit
 2.24 
 32.43 
Other comprehensive income
 1.81 
 6.31 
Total comprehensive income
 4.05 
 38.74 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
333
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 35: Additional information as required by Paragraph 2 of the General Instructions for Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements to Schedule III 
to the Companies Act, 2013
Name of the entity
Net assets
Share of profit or loss
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of consolidated 
other comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of consolidated 
total comprehensive 
income
Amount
Jagran Prakashan Limited
70.52%
136,146.45
116.21%
22,868.30
108.44%
(428.90)
116.37%
22,439.40
Subsidiaries
Indian
1.
Music Broadcast Limited
36.56%
70,587.21
1.75%
343.99
(5.27%)
20.87
1.89%
364.86
2.
Midday Infomedia Limited
4.59%
8,866.81
15.38%
3,026.79
(0.85%)
3.38
15.71%
3,030.17
Associates  
(Investment as per the equity method)
Indian
1.
Leet OOH Media Private Limited
0.10%
18.87
-
-
0.10%
18.87
2.
X-Pert Publicity Private Limited
0.06%
10.97
-
-
0.06%
10.97
3.
MMI Online Limited
(0.14%)
(27.60)
(0.46%)
1.81
(0.13%)
(25.79)
Adjustment arising out of consolidation
(21.16%)
(40,870.57)
(31.81%)
(6,257.31)
(0.01%)
-
(32.45%)
(6,257.31)
Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries
9.49%
18,317.38
(1.55%)
(305.33)
(1.85%)
7.31
(1.55%)
(298.02)
100.00%
193,047.28
100.00%
19,678.68
100.00%
(395.53)
100.00%
19,283.15
Jagran Prakashan Limited
334
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 36:	 Additional Regulatory Information	
i)	
The Group is not having any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules 
made thereunder and there is no pending proceeding against the Group.
ii)	
In respect of Jagran Prakashan Limited
	
The Company has been sanctioned a working capital limit from a bank of `17,500.00 (which included `12,500.00 relating to 
cash credit facility limit and `5,000.00 relating to non fund based facility limit) during the year and the borrowing outstanding 
in respect thereof as at March 31, 2023 amounted to `375.86 relating to the cash credit facility and utilisation of `454.47 
relating to the non fund based facility.The quarterly returns / statements of current assets filed by the Company with the 
bank were in agreement with the books of account for the year ended March 31, 2023.
	
In respect of Music Broadcast Limited ('MBL')
	
MBL has sanctioned borrowings of `1,434 during the year fully secured against fixed deposits. The quarterly returns / 
statements of current assets filed by MBL with the bank were in agreement with the books of account for the years ended 
March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
	
In respect of Midday Infomedia Limited ('MIL')
	
MIL has been sanctioned a working capital limit from banks of `1,085.00 during the year comprising of `285.00 being 
sanctioned from ICICI Bank secured against fixed deposits and `800.00 being sanctioned from Standard Chartered Bank 
secured against book debts and inventory. The quarterly returns / statements of current assets filed by MIL with the bank 
were in agreement with the books of account for the year ended March 31, 2023.
iii)	
The Group is not declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or any lender as defined under the Companies 
Act, 2013 or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the Reserve Bank of India.
iv)	
Relationship with struck off companies:
	
(a)	
In respect of Jagran Prakashan Limited
Name of Struck off 
Company
Nature of 
transactions
Transactions 
during the 
year March 
31, 2023
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as 
at March 31, 
2023 
Transactions 
during the 
year March 
31, 2022
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as 
at March 31, 
2022 
Relationship 
with the Struck 
off company
Virtualimage Media & 
Entertainment Private 
Limited
Receivables
 (0.18)
 1.39 
 0.02 
 1.57 Not applicable
I-Abroad Education & 
Immigration Services 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.65 
 - 
 0.65 Not applicable
Flyking Education Private 
Limited    
Receivables
 - 
 0.15 
 0.25 
 0.15 Not applicable
Manavta Technology 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 9.36 
 - 
 9.36 Not applicable
Ghar Sansar Trademart 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 - Not applicable
CIIS Educational Services 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.13 
 - 
 0.13 Not applicable
Adwave Publicity & Media 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 20.06 
 - 
 20.06 Not applicable
Siddiqui Buildcon Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.23 
 - 
 0.23 Not applicable
PP Operation & 
Maintenance Services 
Private Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.02 
 - 
 0.02 Not applicable
Shubh Life Realty 
Developers Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.76 
 - 
 0.76 Not applicable
Path-Right Consultancy 
Private Limited
Receivables
 (0.15)
 2.33 
 0.01 
 2.48 Not applicable
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
335
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of Struck off 
Company
Nature of 
transactions
Transactions 
during the 
year March 
31, 2023
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as 
at March 31, 
2023 
Transactions 
during the 
year March 
31, 2022
 Balance 
outstanding 
at the end of 
the year as 
at March 31, 
2022 
Relationship 
with the Struck 
off company
Vissar Infotech Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 0.09 
 - 
 0.09 Not applicable
Shidhibhumi Developers 
& Associates Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 - 
 0.50 
 - Not applicable
Amplitudes Advertising & 
Mktg Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 15.48 
 1.42 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Lintas India Limited
Receivables
 25.02 
 2.28 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Central Coalfields Ltd
Receivables
 1.16 
 1.16 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Prachi Media Consultants 
Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 3.18 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Shaheez Pharmaceuticals 
Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 - 
 0.68 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Unnatti Advertising Pvt.
Ltd.
Receivables
 - 
 3.32 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Touchstone Advertising 
Pvt.Ltd.
Receivables
 0.66 
 0.01 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Sigma Edu Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 - 
 0.08 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Homoeocare
Receivables
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Visrap Media Private 
Limited
Receivables
 - 
 2.20 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Span Communications 
Pvt.Ltd
Receivables
 69.28 
 23.09 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Preeyadarshani Homes 
Pvt. Ltd.
Receivables
 1.12 
 1.02 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Pathshala
Receivables
 0.47 
 (0.03)
 - 
 - Not applicable
The National Credit Co-
Oper. Society Ltd
Receivables
 0.16 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Appliq Airways Academy 
Pvt. Ltd.
Receivables
 - 
 0.61 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Jagannath Edibles Pvt. 
Ltd.
Receivables
 - 
 0.09 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Bhagalpur City 
Developers Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 - 
 3.80 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Nvu Retail International  
Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 0.66 
 0.66 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Asha Audio & 
Communication Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 14.43 
 2.16 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Injectoplast Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 2.10 
 2.10 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Beautex Advertising 
Media Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 213.86 
 41.55 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Abs Township Pvt.Ltd
Receivables
 6.80 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Nams Resort Pvt Ltd
Receivables
 0.34 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Bhushan India Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.98 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Sandalee Real Estates Pr 
& Dev Pvt. Ltd.
Receivables
 1.85 
 - 
 - 
 - Not applicable
Note 36: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
336
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 36: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
	
(b)	 In respect of Music Broadcast Limited
Name of Struck off Company
Nature of 
transactions
 Balance 
outstanding at the 
end of the year as 
at March 31, 2023 
 Balance 
outstanding at the 
end of the year as 
at March 31, 2022 
Relationship with 
the Struck off 
company
Maa Antair Foods Private Limited
Receivables
 0.79 
 0.79 
Not applicable
Samphire Food And Pharma (Pvt) Ltd
Receivables
 0.31 
 0.42 
Not applicable
Shamsheer Communications Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.01 
 0.01 
Not applicable
Naim Studios Private Limited
Receivables
 2.40 
 1.61 
Not applicable
Comwen Information Technologies 
Private Limited
Receivables
 0.64 
 0.64 
Not applicable
Tesmay Events And Media Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.01 
 0.01 
Not applicable
Worthwhile Gases Private Limited
Receivables
 4.80 
 4.80 
Not applicable
Vns Seeds Private Limited
Receivables
 0.37 
 0.37 
Not applicable
Cosmicdots Electrical And Technologies 
Private Limited
Receivables
 0.12 
 0.12 
Not applicable
Sanford Healthcare Private Limited
Receivables
 0.48 
 0.48 
Not applicable
Aligarh Locks Private Limited
Receivables
 3.80 
 0.58 
Not applicable
Balaji Shiksha Services Private Limited
Receivables
 5.04 
 5.11 
Not applicable
Paradigm Star Survey Marketing & Sales 
Private Limited
Receivables
 0.24 
 0.24 
Not applicable
Quck Cabs Services Private Limited
Receivables
 1.15 
 1.15 
Not applicable
Olive Healthcare Private Limited
Receivables
 0.11 
 0.11 
Not applicable
Martolia Builders And Developers Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.30 
 0.30 
Not applicable
Zoozoo Media Private Limited
Receivables
 0.23 
 0.23 
Not applicable
Mms Shoppy India Private Limited
Receivables
 2.94 
 4.19 
Not applicable
Cadd Global Technologies Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.20 
 0.20 
Not applicable
Plus Nine One Music Private Limited
Receivables
 0.23 
 0.23 
Not applicable
Rhythm Marketing Private Limited
Receivables
 0.56 
 0.56 
Not applicable
Focus Education Private Limited
Receivables
 0.37 
 0.37 
Not applicable
Celebrityprime Foods (India) Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.30 
 0.30 
Not applicable
Purosoft Water Solutions Private Limited
Receivables
 0.33 
 0.33 
Not applicable
Maven Entertainment Private Limited
Receivables
 0.09 
 0.09 
Not applicable
Backlift Technologies Private Limited
Receivables
 1.16 
 1.16 
Not applicable
Reliable Landbase Private Limited
Receivables
 0.09 
 0.09 
Not applicable
Triaza Entertainment Private Limited
Receivables
 0.04 
 0.04 
Not applicable
Driving Mind Innovations Private Limited
Receivables
 2.35 
 2.35 
Not applicable
Pytwo Foods & Hospitality Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.02 
 0.02 
Not applicable
Illenium Advertising And Marketing 
Private Limited
Receivables
 0.12 
 0.12 
Not applicable
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
337
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 36: Additional Regulatory Information (Contd.)
Name of Struck off Company
Nature of 
transactions
 Balance 
outstanding at the 
end of the year as 
at March 31, 2023 
 Balance 
outstanding at the 
end of the year as 
at March 31, 2022 
Relationship with 
the Struck off 
company
Annapurna Telecast & Teleport Private 
Limited
Receivables
 0.15 
 0.15 
Not applicable
Centaur Datacorp Private Limited
Receivables
 1.46 
 1.46 
Not applicable
Nirvana Motion Pictures Limited
Receivables
 4.12 
 4.12 
Not applicable
Challenge Advertising Private Limited
Receivables
 21.22 
 21.22 
Not applicable
Zenith Insurance Services Private 
Limited
Shares held 
by struck off 
Company
 0.01 
 0.01 
Not applicable
Vitalink Wealth Advisory Services Private 
Limited
Shares held 
by struck off 
Company
 0.01 
 0.01 
Not applicable
v)	
There is no charge or satisfaction pending to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) beyond the statutory period.
vi)	
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
vii)	 There is no scheme of arrangement in terms of section 230 to 237 of the Companies Act, 2013 during the year ended March 
31, 2023.
viii)	 The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) any funds to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provided any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
ix)	
The Group has not received any funds from any persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Group shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provided any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
x)	
The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during year ended March 31, 2023.
xi)	
The Group did not have any transaction which had not been recorded in the books of account that had been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey 
or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
xii)	 The Group had not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties 
(as defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, that are repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
xiii)	 The Group has utilised the borrowings availed from bank for the specific purpose for which it was taken as at March 31, 
2023.
xiv)	 Information with regard to other matters specified in Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 is either nil or not applicable 
to the Group for the year ended March 31, 2023. 	 	
	
	
Jagran Prakashan Limited
338
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 37: Segment Information
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, i.e. the Board of Directors, has determined the operating segments based on the nature of 
products and services, risk and return, internal organisation structure and internal performance reporting system.
The Group is presently engaged in the business of printing and publication of newspapers and periodicals, business of radio 
broadcast and all other related activities through its radio channels operating under brand name 'Radio City' in India and business 
of providing event management services and outdoor activities. Accordingly, the Group has organised its operations in the 
following categories:
(i)	
Printing, publishing and digital
(ii)	
FM radio business
(iii) 	 Others comprising outdoor advertising and event management and activation services.
The segment information provided to the Board of Directors for the reportable segment for the year ended March 31, 2023 is 
as follows-
As at March 31, 2023
Particulars
Printing, 
publishing 
and Digital
FM Radio
Others
Eliminations
Total
Revenue
External
 150,131.05 
 19,692.85 
 15,793.55 
 - 
 185,617.45 
Inter segment
 222.49 
 193.29 
 167.40 
 (583.18)
 - 
Total
 150,353.54 
 19,886.14 
 15,960.95 
 (583.18)
 185,617.45 
Result
Operating profit 
 29,759.95 
 2,306.75 
 1,400.95 
 - 
 33,467.65 
Less: Depreciation and amortisation expense
 (5,058.96)
 (3,279.57)
 (304.38)
 - 
 (8,642.91)
Less: Depreciation on intangibles recognised 
in consolidated financials on acquisition of FM 
Radio business [refer note 6 below]
 - 
 (2,032.24)
-
 - 
 (2,032.24)
Less: Impairment of goodwill
 - 
 (6,681.96)
 - 
 - 
 (6,681.96)
Operating profit less depreciation
 24,700.99 
 (9,687.02)
 1,096.57 
 - 
 16,110.54 
Interest income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,008.11 
Finance cost 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,859.33)
Unallocated corporate income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,583.00 
Unallocated corporate expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1,393.84)
Profit before tax and share of net profit of 
associates 
-
-
-
-
 21,448.48 
Tax expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5,640.32)
Exceptional items 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,868.28 
Share of net profit of associates 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2.24 
Profit after tax 
-
-
-
-
 19,678.68 
Other information
Segment assets
 112,717.20 
 55,201.40 
 8,764.74 
-
 176,683.34 
Unallocated corporate assets
-
-
-
-
 119,105.80 
Total assets
 112,717.20 
 55,201.40 
 8,764.74 
-
 295,789.14 
Segment liabilities
 39,683.87 
 4,771.85 
 3,632.03 
-
 48,087.75 
Unallocated corporate liabilities
-
-
-
-
 54,654.11 
Total liabilities
 39,683.87 
 4,771.85 
 3,632.03 
-
 102,741.86 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
339
Consolidated
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
As at March 31, 2022
Particulars
Printing, 
publishing 
and Digital
FM Radio
Others
Eliminations
Total
Revenue
External
 135,231.44 
 16,652.92 
 9,710.75 
 - 
 161,595.11 
Inter segment
 101.27 
 190.10 
 85.04 
 (376.41)
 - 
Total
 135,332.71 
 16,843.02 
 9,795.79 
 (376.41)
 161,595.11 
Result
Operating profit 
 35,080.06 
 1,102.59 
 535.04 
-
 36,717.69 
Less: Depreciation and amortisation expense
 (6,274.27)
 (3,274.78)
 (281.19)
-
 (9,830.24)
Less: Depreciation on intangibles recognised in 
consolidated financials on acquisition of FM Radio 
business [refer note 6 below]
-
 (2,032.24)
-
-
 (2,032.24)
Operating profit less depreciation
 28,805.79 
 (4,204.43)
 253.85 
 - 
 24,855.21 
Interest income
-
-
-
-
 3,377.54 
Finance costs 
-
-
-
-
 (3,149.19)
Unallocated corporate income
-
-
-
-
 3,295.09 
Unallocated corporate expense
-
-
-
-
 (754.56)
Profit before tax and share of net profit of 
associates 
-
-
-
-
 27,624.09 
Tax expense
-
-
-
-
 (6,533.22)
Exceptional Item
-
-
-
-
 564.26 
Share of net profit of associates 
-
-
-
-
 32.43 
Profit after tax 
-
-
-
-
 21,687.56 
Other information
Segment assets
 109,189.73 
 69,135.92 
 6,563.96 
-
 184,889.61 
Unallocated corporate assets
-
-
-
-
 132,600.59 
Total assets
 109,189.73 
 69,135.92 
 6,563.96 
-
 317,490.20 
Segment liabilities
 31,492.70 
 5,047.13 
 3,852.24 
-
 40,392.07 
Unallocated corporate liabilities
-
-
-
-
 41,923.17 
Total liabilities
 31,492.70 
 5,047.13 
 3,852.24 
-
 82,315.24 
Notes:
1.	
The Group prepares its segment information in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting 
the financial statements of the Group as a whole.
2.	
Operating profit represents profit/(loss) before depreciation /amortisation, finance costs, other income, tax and unallocated 
corporate expenses. Further, unallocated corporate income includes dividend income, net gain on sale of investments, net 
gain/(loss) on disposal of investment property and net gain on financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through 
profit or loss.
3.	
Segment assets include tangible, intangible, current and other non-current assets and exclude investment property, current 
and non-current investments, deferred tax assets (net) and current tax (net).
4.	
Segment liabilities include current, non current liabilities and exclude short-term and long-term borrowings, provision for 
tax(net) and deferred tax liabilities (net) and liability towards CSR expenses.
5.	
Inter segment revenue is accounted for on terms established by the management on arm's length basis. These transactions 
have been eliminated at the Group level.
6.	
Represents depreciation/amortisation under Ind AS for part of the consideration paid for acquisition of business and 
recognised as intangibles.
7.	
The Group does not have transactions of more than 10% of total revenue with any single external customer.
Note 38: The Group and its associates did not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts.
Note 37: Segment Information (Contd.)
Jagran Prakashan Limited
340
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  (All amounts in ` Lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note 39: There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Parent and its subsidiary companies and associate companies incorporated in India.
Note 40: There was an incident of fire at a rented warehouse of the JPL on November 6, 2020 which had resulted in destruction 
of inventory of raw materials (newsprint) valued at `3,754.06. During the year ended March 31, 2022, JPL had received the full 
and final payment of `3,438.28 from the insurance company for the aforesaid insurance claim. Accordingly, `564.26 being the 
difference between `3,438.28 and insurance claim receivable recorded in the books, had been recognised and included as part 
of "Exceptional items" in the Statement for the year ended March 31, 2022.
Note 41: Issue of non-convertible non-cumulative redeemable preference shares
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on October 22, 2020, approved a Scheme of Arrangement (“the Scheme”) 
under Section 230 of the Companies Act, 2013, for issuance of Non-Convertible Non-Cumulative Redeemable 
Preference Shares to the non-promoter shareholders of the MBL by way of bonus ("Bonus NCRPS") out of its reserves. 
The Scheme was approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) vide its order dated December 23, 2022 and became 
effective from the date of filing of the order with the Registrar of Companies, i.e., December 29, 2022. The Bonus Committee of 
the Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 19, 2023, approved the allotment of 8,969,597 Bonus NCRPS, i.e., 1 (One) 
Bonus NCRPS having a face value of `10 at a premium of `90 for every 10 (Ten) fully paid-up equity shares of face value of 
`2 each held, in accordance with the Scheme, to the members holding equity shares as on January 13, 2023 (“Record Date”). 
The Bonus NCRPS shall be redeemed after a period of 36 months from the date of allotment at a premium of `20 per share 
on issue price of `100 per share. Subsequent to the year-end, these have been listed on the BSE and NSE on April 20, 2023. 
The Bonus NCRPS have been accounted for in the books of the MBL in accordance with the accounting treatment prescribed in the 
Scheme and, accordingly, the present value of the redemption amount of Bonus NCRPS has been recognised as a financial liability in 
the Balance Sheet on the date of Scheme becoming effective with a corresponding adjustment to equity, net of transaction costs, as 
per Ind AS 32. Subsequently, the Bonus NCRPS have been measured at amortised cost as per Ind AS 109 using the effective interest 
rate method and the interest expense on the financial liability has been charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Note 42: MIL has entered into exchange contracts aggregating `78.68 (Previous year: `666.02) for sale of advertisement space 
in exchange of rights to acquire investment properties and other services. The fair value of advertisement space sold at the 
inception of the contract is recognised as an advance from customers / receivable against exchange arrangement and investment 
property acquired as current investments / other long-term assets where the rights to investment properties is not yet transferred. 
Revenue is recognised on publication of the advertisement and gain / loss is recognised on sale of investment property.
Note 43: MBL has taken into account the possible impact of COVID-19 pandemic and the related internal and external factors 
known to the management upto the date of approval of MBL's financial statements to assess the carrying amount of its assets 
and liabilities. MBL does not expect any material impact of the pandemic in the future periods, while it will continue to monitor 
the changes in future economic conditions, as they arise.
Note 44: MIL has suffered operational losses since earlier year/s, which is mainly due to adverse impact of COVID 19 on its business 
operations / activities. However, with the continued support of its workmen / employees, business associates, lenders and the Holding 
Company (by providing loan and infusion of additional capital in the earlier year/s), and strong marketing strategy, the Company was able 
to achieve the continuous steady improvement in its operations and profitability, and was also able to meet its financial and contractual 
obligations without any delay / default. Further, to improve its liquidity / cash flow, and to revive its financial position by reducing its 
debts and liabilities, the Company has sold / transferred its leasehold land having its printing facility / premises, and shifted its printing 
facility to a new premises taken on lease, resulting in cash inflow (net) of `4,620.20 and profit before tax of `3,868.28, and significant 
positive impact on its financial position. Considering the said organizational and financial support, the cash inflow, and its future plan 
for operations, and profitability, the Company is hopeful of further improvement in its operational and financial position, and accordingly 
these financial results have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Note 45: The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on May 30, 2023.
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP	
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Firm's Registration Number: 012754N/N500016)	 	
Jagran Prakashan Limited
Rahul Chattopadhyay	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Mahendra Mohan Gupta	 	
	
Sunil Gupta
Partner	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Chairman and Managing Director	
	
Whole-time Director
(Membership Number: 096367)	
	
	
	
	
DIN: 00020451	 	
	
	
DIN: 00317228
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Amit Jaiswal
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Chief Financial Officer
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Company Secretary
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Membership Number: F5863
Place: Kanpur	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Place: Kanpur	
Date: May 30, 2023		
	
	
	
	
	
	
Date: May 30, 2023
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report   2022-23
341
Consolidated
FORM AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint ventures
PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES
(In ` Lakhs)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Name of the Subsidiaries
Midday Infomedia Limited
Music Broadcast Limited
1.
Reporting period for the subsidiary concerned, if different from the 
holding company’s reporting period
N.A.
N.A.
2.
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on the last date of the 
relevant financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries
N.A.
N.A.
3.
Date since when subsidiary was acquired
01.04.2010
11.06.2015
4.
Share Capital
2,987.03
6,913.71
5.
Reserves & Surplus
5,879.78
45,561.19
6.
Total Assets
13,414.15
65,618.92
7.
Total Liabilities
4,547.34
13,144.02
8.
Investments
586.89
20,396.68
9.
Turnover
6,762.75
19,886.14
10.
Profit / (Loss) before taxation
(246.66)
606.25
11.
Provision for taxation
(594.83)
(262.26)
12.
Profit / (Loss) after taxation
3,026.79
343.99
13.
Proposed Dividend
Nil
Nil
14.
% of shareholding
100
74.05
Notes: 
1. Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: N.A.
2. Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: N.A.
PART “B”: ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures.
(In ` Lakhs)
S. 
No.
Name of Associates
Leet OOH Media 
Private Limited
X-Pert Publicity 
Private Limited
MMI Online 
Limited
1.
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
31.03.2023
31.03.2023
31.03.2023
2.
Date on which the Associate was associated 
30.06.2010
09.10.2009
04.09.2018
3.
Shares of Associate held by the Company on the year end
No. of Shares
1,60,762
39,200
21,95,500
Amount of Investment in Associates 
577.50
62.23
-
Extent of Holding%
48.84
39.20
44.92
4.
Description of how there is significant influence
Shareholding
Shareholding
Shareholding
5.
Reason why the associate is not consolidated
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
6.
Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited 
Balance Sheet
370.38
64.33
136.23
7.
Profit/(Loss) for the year 
38.63
27.99
(61.45)
(i) Considered in Consolidation
YES
YES
YES
(ii) Not Considered in Consolidation
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Notes: 
1.	
Company has / had no Joint Venture
2.	
Names of associates which are yet to commence operations: N.A.
3.	
Names of associates which have been liquidated or sold during the year: N.A.
Jagran Prakashan Limited
342
NOTES
NOTES
DISCLAIMER
In this Annual Report, we have disclosed forward-looking information to enable investors to 
comprehend our prospects and take investment decisions. This report and other statements - written 
and oral - that we periodically make contain forward-looking statements that set out anticipated results 
based on the management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify 
such statements by using words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expects’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, 
‘believes’, and words of similar substance in connection with any discussion of future performance. 
We cannot guarantee that these forward-looking statements will be realised, although we believe we 
have been prudent in our assumptions. The achievements of results are subject to risks, uncertainties 
and even inaccurate assumptions. Should, known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialise, or 
should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those 
anticipated, estimated or projected. Readers should keep this in mind. We undertake no obligation to 
publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events 
or otherwise.
JAGRAN PRAKASHAN LIMITED
Address: Jagran Building 2, Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur 208 005 Tel. No.: 0512-2216161
CIN: L22219UP1975PLC004147
