 
Max Estates Limited 
Corporate Oﬃce: Max Towers, L-15, C-001/A/1, Sector-16B, Noida-201301, Uttar Pradesh, India, | P: +91 120-4743222  
Regd Oﬃce: 419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Village Railmajra, 
Tehsil Balachaur, Dist. S.B.S. Nagar (Nawanshahr), Punjab 144 533, India 
Email : secretarial@maxestates.in | Website : www.maxestates.in | CIN: U70200PB2016PLC040200 
 
November 30, 2023  
BSE Limited  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers  
Dalal Street  
Mumbai – 400 001  
Scrip Code: 544008 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited   
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex   
Bandra (East)  
Mumbai – 400 051  
  
SYMBOL: MAXESTATES 
Sub: Notice of the 7th Annual General Meeting and Annual Report for the FY 2022-23  
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 30 and 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and further to our letter dated November 27, 2023 informing about 
the 7th Annual General Meeting ("AGM") of the Company scheduled to be held on Friday, December 22, 
2023 at 1600 hrs. (IST) through Video Conference ("VC") / Other Audio Visual Means ("OAVM") in 
compliance with circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI in this regard, we wish to 
inform the following: 
 
1. The Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23 and the notice of AGM are being sent through 
electronic mode to all the members of the Company whose email addresses are registered with the 
Company/Depository Participant(s). These documents are also available on the Company's website 
at www.maxestates.in.   
 
2. The entire shareholding of the Company is in Demat form. However, pursuant to the requirement of 
Section 91 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the 
Company will remain closed from Saturday, December 16, 2023 to Friday, December 22, 2023 (both 
days inclusive).  
 
3. The Company is providing the facility to vote by electronic means (remote e-voting as well as e-
voting at the AGM) on all the resolutions set out in the AGM notice to the members, who are holding 
shares on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, December 15, 2023. The remote e-voting will commence from 
Tuesday, December 19, 2023, at 0900 hrs. (IST) and shall end on Thursday, December 21, 2023 at 
1700 hrs. (IST).  
 
4. The Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23 and the Notice of AGM are enclosed herewith. 
 
This is for your information and records. 
 
Thanking you,   
  
Yours faithfully,  
 
For Max Estates Limited  
  
  
Abhishek Mishra  
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
 
Encl: a/a  
 
GMAX 
~EST ATES 
Abhishek Mishra
Digitally signed by Abhishek 
Mishra 
Date: 2023.11.30 22:09:06 +05'30'
Bringing real
well-being 
to real estate
Annual Report 2022–23
Corporate 
Review
Strategic 
Review
Our Enterprise _____________________ 4
Our JOURNEY _______________________ 8
OUR Path __________________________ 11
OUR VALUES ________________________ 15
Our Sustainability Journey_______ 19
Board of Directors_______________ 22
CONTENTS
Letter to Shareholders_______________________ 31
Management Discussion & Analysis_ _________ 36
Board’s Report________________________________ 61
Corporate Governance ReporT_______________ 76
General Shareholder Information_ ________ 106
Business Responsibility (BRSR) Review_ ________ 110
Standalone Financial Statements _ _________ 144
Consolidated Financial Statements_________ 231
Corporate
Review
Max Towers (Actual image)
CORPORATE REVIEW
4 | Annual Report 2022-23
Our  
Enterprise
Max Towers (Actual image)
5 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Max Estates Limited is the real estate development 
arm of Max Group. Established in 2016, Max 
Estates aspires to build sustainable, grade A 
developments in Delhi-NCR, with a focus on 
well-being. As progressive developers, Max 
Estates believes in breaking away from the 
conventional processes, and bring agility into 
how we build. Every day, our endeavour is to 
consciously create a unique confluence of  
spaces that enable collaboration, innovation, 
community, and bring in the true essence of 
well-being to everyday life. Our current and 
planned developments are diversified across 
various asset classes, key strategic locations 
across Delhi-NCR. Max Estates, in its pursuit  
of emerging as the most preferred brand in  
real estate in the NCR, is driven by the desire  
to enhance well-being through its exceptional 
experiences across the residential and 
commercial segment. 
Our developments personify our well-being 
orientation and bring our philosophies to life. 
Guided by our philosophies of WorkWell and 
LiveWell, we aspire to create differentiated 
working and living experiences, in the commercial 
and residential segments, respectively. We  
ensure this by moving beyond the conventional 
separation of work, life, and well-being by paying 
attention to the entire spectrum of wellness 
across physical, emotional, social, and 
environmental aspects.
Every day,  
our endeavour is  
to consciously create  
a unique confluence  
of spaces that enable 
collaboration, innovation, 
and community, and 
bring in the true 
essence of well-being  
to everyday life.
t,MAX 
~EST ATES 
6 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Max Financial Services Limited (MFSL) is part of 
India’s leading business conglomerate – the Max 
Group. Focused on Life Insurance, MFSL owns 
and actively manages an 87% majority stake in 
Max Life Insurance, India’s largest non-bank, 
private life insurance company. MFSL recorded 
consolidate revenues of INR 31,431 crore during 
FY 2023 and a Profit After Tax of INR 452 crore. 
The Company is listed on the NSE and BSE. 
Besides a 10% holding by Analjit Singh and 
sponsor family, some of the other group 
shareholders include MSI, Ward ferry, New York 
Life, Baron, GIC, Vanguard, Mirae Capital, and  
the Asset Management Companies of Nippon, 
HDFC, ICICI, Prudential, Kotak, Motilal Oswal, 
Sundaram and DSP. 
Max Life is the material subsidiary of Max 
Financial Services Limited. Max Life – a part  
of the $4-Billion Max group, an Indian multi 
business corporation – is India’s largest non- 
bank private life insurer and the fourth largest 
private life insurance company. 
In FY 2023, Max Life reported an Embedded 
Value (EV) of INR 16,263 crore, led by 28% growth  
in value of new business. The Operating Return 
on EV (RoEV) over stood at 22%. The New 
Business Margin (NBM) for FY2022 was 31.2%  
(at actual costs), an increase of 380 bps and the 
Value of New Business (VNB) was INR 1,949 crore 
(at actual costs), an annual growth of 28%.
On April 6, 2021, Axis Bank Limited, India’s 
third-largest private sector bank, together  
with its subsidiaries, Axis Capital Limited and  
Axis Securities Limited (collectively referred  
to as “Axis Entities”) became the co-promoters  
of Max Life. This was after completion of the 
acquisition of 12.99% stake collectively by the  
Axis Entities in Max Life. Under the deal, the  
Axis Entities have a right to acquire an additional 
stake of up to 7% in Max Life, in one or more 
tranches, subject to regulatory approvals.  
Max Life has 397 branch units across India as  
of March 31, 2023.
A TERM PLAN that ﬁnancially protects the dreams of your
loved ones, because for them
M A X  L I F E
A Non-linked Non-Participating Individual 
Pure Risk Premium Life Insurance Plan
UIN: 104N118V03
SECURE PLUS
PLAN
WITH
YOU ARE VALUABLE
FOR YOUR LOVED ONES
Be their
j MAXI FINANCIAL 
Q 
SERVICES 
~ 
1~ 
INSURANCE 
t,~ 
.........,INSURANCE 
#ProtectorOfTheMatch 
C-iMfi'@l@-ti:1919: ;9 
Antara Senior Living and Antara Assisted Care 
Services are wholly owned subsidiaries of  
Max India. The two main lines of businesses  
are Residence for Seniors and Assisted Care 
Services, which cater to all senior care needs.
Antara’s first residential community in Dehradun 
consists of around 197 apartments spread across 
14 acres of land. In 2020, Antara launched a new 
senior living facility in Noida, Sector-150. With  
340 apartments in its first phase of development,  
it will be ready for possession by 2025. 
Antara’s Assisted Care Services include ‘Care 
Homes’ ‘Care at Home’ and MedCare products. 
They cater to seniors over the age of 55, who 
need more immersive interventions in their  
daily lives due to medical or age-related issues.
New Max India Limited (MIL) was formed  
in June 2020 after Max India – the erstwhile  
arm of the $4-billion Max Group – merged  
its healthcare assets into Max Healthcare  
and demerged its senior care and other allied 
businesses in June 2020 into a new wholly 
owned subsidiary called Advaita Allied Health 
Services Limited which was later renamed as 
Max India Limited.
Max India is now the holding company of  
Max Group’s Senior Care business Antara, an 
integrated service provider for all senior care 
needs. It operates across two lines of businesses 
– Assisted Care services, including Care Homes, 
Care at Home and MedCare, and independent 
Residences for seniors. 
Max India investor list includes: IFC, New York 
Life, Nomura, TVF, Habrok Capital and Porinju 
Veliyath.
7 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
j
MAX I INDIA 
Q 
LIMITED 
~ 
ANTARA 
! A Max Group Company 
CORPORATE REVIEW
8 | Annual Report 2022-23
OUR 
JOURNEY
9 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Revisiting  
Our Journey
Max Estates 1.0 (2016 – 2018)
During the Max Estates 1.0 phase from 2016 to 
2018, the company’s focus was primarily on the 
speciality packaging films business while also 
venturing into the broader realm of real estate. 
During this period a significant milestone was 
the development of 222 Rajpur. This exclusive 
residential community comprised 22 luxurious 
villas and was strategically situated at one of  
the most prestigious addresses in Dehradun.  
222 Rajpur not only showcased our commitment 
to quality and excellence but also laid the 
foundation for Max Estates’ journey, setting the 
stage for further growth and expansion into  
the real estate sector. We continued to build  
on these early successes, evolving our strategies  
and offerings in the subsequent phases of  
our journey.
Charting the 
Path Forward
Max Estates 2.0 (2018 – 2021)
Max Estates 2.0 marked a transformative period 
in our journey, characterised by a strategic shift 
in focus and notable achievements. In this phase, 
the company narrowed its geographic focus to 
the thriving Delhi NCR region, recognising it as  
a dynamic and promising market for real estate 
development. Within the real estate sector, the 
company honed its expertise in the Commercial 
Real Estate (CRE) asset class, leveraging its growth 
potential and unique opportunities. This phase 
saw the launch and 100% occupancy of our 
flagship project, Max Towers Noida, underscoring 
our commitment to deliver quality spaces that 
meet the needs of discerning businesses. We 
also delivered our second office building in the 
heart of Delhi, known as Max House (Phase 1), 
which achieved 100% occupancy, emphasising 
our dedication to providing premium office 
spaces in prime locations. Both Max Towers  
and Max House (Phase 1) demonstrated their 
potential by realising rentals that commanded  
a remarkable 25% to 30% premium compared  
to their respective micro markets, highlighting 
the value and quality they offered to tenants. 
Moreover, we achieved a significant milestone 
with the receipt of the Completion Certificate  
for Max Square, our 3rd commercial office 
development, in February 2023, signifying 
continued progress in the real estate development 
landscape. Looking ahead, the company has the 
exciting prospect of delivering Max House (Phase 
2) by Q3 FY24, further expanding its presence in 
Delhi and strengthening the portfolio of 
high-quality office spaces.
Max Estates 2.0 laid the groundwork for 
emergence as a key player in the Delhi NCR  
real estate market, with a strategic focus on 
Commercial Real Estate. This phase’s success 
and momentum set the stage for future  
growth and development as the company 
continues to evolve and innovate in the real 
estate sector.
Max Estates 2.0 laid  
the groundwork for 
emergence as a key 
player in the Delhi NCR 
real estate market, with  
a strategic focus on 
Commercial real estate. 
10 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Pioneering  
a New Era
Max Estates 3.0 (2022 onwards)
In its latest phase, Max Estates 3.0 has  
embarked on a strategic journey to expand  
its presence in the real estate landscape.  
This phase includes significant achievements 
and forward-looking initiatives. In the past year, 
we’ve made significant strides, increasing our 
real estate development potential from  
2 to 8 mn sq.ft. This expansion encompasses 
diversification across residential and commercial 
asset classes, expanding into various geographic 
locations in Noida, Delhi, and Gurgaon. 
We’ve made a noteworthy entry into the 
residential real estate sector in Delhi NCR by 
acquiring a 10-acre land parcel in Sector 128, 
Noida. We’ve also ventured into the thriving 
commercial real estate market in Gurgaon by 
acquiring a 7.15 acre parcel on the Golf Course 
Extension Road and secured 4 acres of land in 
Sector 129, Noida, for a mixed-use commercial 
project. We have also entered into a Joint 
Development Agreement for around 2.4 mn sq.ft. 
of residential space in Sector 36A Gurgaon. These 
acquisitions allowed the company’s portfolio to 
grow to 8 mn sq.ft. Besides these, the Hon’ble 
NCLT has also approved our Resolution Plan for 
Delhi One (~2.5-3 mn sq.ft.) the implementation 
of which is subject to approval from Noida 
authorities. Max Estates is committed to continual 
expansion, with a goal of adding at least 1 mn sq.ft. 
each to our commercial and residential portfolios 
per year, all while embracing an Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) journey, emphasizing 
sustainability, community welfare, and  
ethical practices.
Our portfolio covers projects in different 
development stages, from delivered projects  
to those nearing completion and those still  
in the design phase, all in alignment with our 
overarching strategy of ‘One region, Multiple 
asset classes’. This strategic approach reflects 
our commitment to shaping a brighter future 
through diversified, sustainable, and dynamic 
real estate offerings.
This strategic  
approach reflects our 
commitment to shaping 
a brighter future through 
diversified, sustainable, 
and dynamic real estate 
offerings.
CORPORATE REVIEW
11 | Annual Report 2022-23
OUR PATH
Max Square (actual image)
12 | Annual Report 2022-23
Max Estates aspires to be 
the most trusted real estate 
company driven by the desire 
to ‘enhance quality of life’ 
through spaces we create
Our Vision
13 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Build a great place  
to work that attracts, 
nurtures and retains 
exceptional people
Be agile in adapting  
to evolving external 
environment
Our Mission
Augment the quality of 
life through exceptional 
design, sustainability, 
and experiences
14 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Be the most preferred choice 
for all stakeholders including 
customers, communities, 
shareholders and employees
Lead the market in 
harnessing technology to 
deliver world class spaces
Maintain cutting edge 
standards of governance
CORPORATE REVIEW
15 | Annual Report 2022-23
OUR VALUES
222 Rajpur (actual image)
CORPORATE REVIEW
16 | Annual Report 2022-23
SEVABHAV
EXCELLENCE
CREDIBILITY
We encourage a culture of service 
and helpfulness so that our actions 
positively impact society.  
Our commitment to seva defines 
and differentiates us.
We gather experts and the expertise 
to deliver the best solutions for life’s 
many moments of truth. We never 
settle for good enough.
We give you, our word. And we 
stand by it. No matter what. A ‘No’ 
uttered with the deepest conviction 
is better than a ‘Yes’ merely uttered 
to please, or worse, to avoid trouble. 
Our words are matched by our 
actions and behaviour.
17 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Max Estates
Empathetic 
Hospitality
Environmental 
Harmony
Peace  
of Mind
Sustainability
An intelligent approach to hospitality  
and service that values empathy. We understand 
the emotional and social needs of our  
customers and create spaces where they  
feel cared for.
We emphasise on holistic well-being and pay 
immense attention to every element. We focus 
on elements like air, water and biophilia through 
interventions that aim to provide fresh air, water, 
and integrate green designs enabling us to build 
developments that prioritise our users.
Our endeavour is to enable the well-being of  
our users, in all possible ways. By carefully 
choosing well-connected locations, opting for 
the highest standards of sanitation, and ensuring 
all safety measures are in place, we build peace 
of mind for our users in our developments.
Safeguarding the environment through  
energy and resource efficiency is the 
foundational principle of our sustainable 
development policy.
Our 9 pillars of holistic well-being
18 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Generosity
We believe in going beyond  
the required norm, to build 
generosity of time, space,  
and attention to detail into  
our spaces.
Belonging
Our developments promote 
social well-being by integrating 
amenities and events that 
promote engagement and 
interaction, leading to a true 
sense of community.
Inclusivity
Our spaces are designed for 
the well-being of all in mind, 
irrespective of age or gender.
Intentional 
Design
Food and 
Nutrition
We deeply care for the health and well-being  
of our customers by offering easy access  
to organic vegetables and biotic food sales.  
We also offer curated F&B options with  
a focus on quality and nutrition.
Our interventions are carefully crafted to 
promote a healthier lifestyle, with the help  
of technology and design. We offer comfort  
with the right ergonomics, and thermal 
considerations. We integrate aesthetics with 
functionality, by including carefully curated 
artwork in our developments and encourage 
physical movement by building mobility into  
our spaces.
CORPORATE REVIEW
19 | Annual Report 2022-23
Our  
Sustainability 
Journey
Max Square (actual image)
20 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Our vision is to enhance the quality of life 
through the spaces we create. In this pursuit, 
we also aspire to create a positive contribution 
towards the global sustainable development 
goals (SDGs). It is a well-known fact that built 
infrastructure is one of the major contributors 
to climate change. As a progressive real estate 
player, we want to make a beneficial impact on 
the environment by continuously benchmarking 
and upgrading energy efficiency best practices 
including the shift to renewable sources.
With Max Estates Limited’s (MEL) first 
Sustainability Report in 2021, we officially 
embarked on a long journey to make our 
commitment to sustainability a key differentiator 
within the real estate market. We underwent 
an organisation-wide gap analysis to figure out 
our short-term, medium-term and long-term 
roadmap concerning ESG. GRESB is Global Real 
Estate Sustainability Benchmark a mission-
driven and investor-led organisation providing 
standardised and validated Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) data to the 
capital markets. Established in 2009, GRESB 
has become the leading ESG benchmark for 
real estate and infrastructure investments 
across the world. Through our participation in 
GRESB, we aim to benchmark ourselves against 
other developers and assess how to improve 
ourselves as we aspire to play a transformative 
and positive role in the evolving ecosystem of 
global ESG standards. Being a capital-intensive 
industry, we realise the importance that all 
stakeholders place on ESG as well. We will 
continue to share and gather feedback from 
our stakeholders to course correct, steer ahead 
and continuously re-set the bar for the industry.
Post implementation of short-term 
recommendations, we participated in the 
GRESB index for the first time in 2022. MEL 
received a rating of 69/100 for operational 
assets and 75/100 for under-development 
assets. A detailed gap analysis of the GRESB 
ratings was conducted to carve out the road 
map to improve GRESB scores to 85/100 in both 
operational and under-development assets.
Subsequently, GRESB 2023 results have been 
released, MEL has improved its GRESB scores 
from 6983 for operational assets and 7593 
for under-development assets, which has 
enabled the organisation to achieve 4 star 
rating. We realise a lot of this is not just about 
developing sustainable buildings but also 
about streamlining internal measurement, 
monitoring, and governance processes to be 
on a path of continuous improvement. We 
aim to achieve a 5-star rating in GRESB 2024.
Our vision is to enhance the quality  
of life through the spaces we create.  
In this pursuit, we also aspire to create  
a positive contribution towards the global 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
83/100
93/100
for operational 
assets and
MEL improved its GRESB 2023 ratings to
for under  
development 
assets 
21 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Community Engagement
As a progressive real estate player, Max Estates 
Limited (MEL) has a duty to give back to the 
community. Our contributions to charitable 
organisations are guided by our Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy and we conduct our CSR 
activities through Max India Foundation, Max 
Group’s social responsibility arm.
We conduct our community initiatives by 
supporting other organisations already working 
with child education and health care. This year, 
MEL, through Max India Foundation (MIF)  
has contributed to its community vision  
through organisations such as Simple Education 
Foundation, Citizen India Foundation, and Teach 
to Lead. These are primarily working in the fields 
of education and healthcare.
MEL has partnered with Habitat for Humanity  
to sponsor homes for the underprivileged using 
a part of the proceeds from residential sales. 
Habitat for Humanity, a global non-profit, aims 
to enhance housing for marginalised Rewari 
families in India. The pandemic underscores 
housing’s vital role in well-being, particularly  
for vulnerable groups. Improved housing fosters 
health, safety, dignity, and social standing, 
impacting climate protection and access to 
services. This initiative prioritises secure housing 
for impoverished construction workers and 
labourers with meagre incomes, residing in small 
semi-pukka houses, which are in dilapidated 
conditions, and combating health risks. With  
50 families as beneficiaries, the project addresses 
urgent housing needs for those who need it  
the most. 
We conduct our 
community initiatives  
by supporting  
other organisations 
already working  
with child education  
and health care.
CORPORATE REVIEW
22 | Annual Report 2022-23
board of  
directors
Estate 128 (artistic render)
23 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Mr. Analjit Singh is the Founder and Chairman  
of The Max Group, a $4-billion Indian multi-
business enterprise, with interests in life 
insurance (Max Life), real estate (Max Estates), 
senior living (Antara). The Max Group is 
renowned for successful joint ventures with 
some pre-eminent firms including Mitsui 
Sumitomo & Toppan, Japan; New York Life 
Insurance Company; Bupa Plc, Life Healthcare, 
SA; DSM, Netherlands, Hutchison Whampoa; 
Motorola, Lockheed Martin, and others. 
Amongst privately held family businesses,  
Mr. Analjit Singh is the founder of Leeu Collection, 
a group of leisure boutique hotels in Franschhoek, 
South Africa; The Lake District, UK; and soon to 
be opened in Florence, Italy. The Leeu Collection 
also includes a significant presence in wine and 
viticulture through Mullineux Leeu Family Wines 
in SA. He founded Max Healthcare, Max Life, Max 
Bupa, Six Senses Vana, Max Touch (telecom), 
among other businesses. 
Mr. Singh was awarded the Padma Bhushan, 
India’s second highest civilian honour, by the 
President of India in 2011. An alumnus of The 
Doon School and Shri Ram College of Commerce, 
University of Delhi, Mr. Analjit Singh holds an 
MBA from the Graduate School of Management, 
Boston University. He has been conferred with  
an honorary doctorate by Amity University. 
He served as a Director on the Board of Sofina 
NV/SA, Belgium till March 2022 and as the 
non-executive Chairman of Vodafone India till 
August 2018. 
Mr. Singh was a member of the Founder 
Executive Board of the Indian School of Business 
(ISB), India’s top ranked B-School and has served 
as Chairman of the Board of Governors of The 
Indian Institute of Technology and The Doon 
School.
Mr. Singh has served on the Prime Minister’s 
Indo US CEO and Indo UK CEO Council.  
He served as the Honorary Consul General of  
the Republic of San Marino in India from 2007  
till 2018. His appointment as Honorary Counsel 
General of the Republic of San Marino has  
been reinstated from March 2022.
He has been felicitated by Senator Hillary Clinton, 
former US Secretary of State, on behalf of the 
Indian American Centre for Political Awareness 
for his outstanding achievement in presenting 
the international community with an 
understanding of a modern and vibrant India 
and for creating several successful joint ventures 
with leading American companies and promoting 
business ties with the USA.
He has been honoured with the Ernst and  
Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award (Service 
Category) and the Golden Peacock Award for 
Leadership and Service Excellence. In 2014 he 
was awarded with Spain’s second highest civilian 
honour, the Knight Commander of the Order of 
Queen Isabella, and the Distinguished Alumni 
Award from Boston University.
Mr. Analjit Singh
Founder & Chairman  
of The Max Group
24 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Mr. Sahil Vachani is the CEO and Managing 
Director of Max Estates Limited (MEL), one of  
the three listed companies of the $4-billion 
Indian conglomerate – the Max Group. He also 
serves as a Director on the Boards of Max 
Financial Services Limited and its subsidiary  
Max Life Insurance as a representative of the 
Owner Sponsor Group led by Mr. Analjit Singh. 
Mr. Vachani joined the Max Group in 2016 with 
 a focus on creating a powerful real estate  
brand – Max Estates Limited and steering the 
company’s other businesses towards growth. 
Since assuming his role at MEL, he has successfully 
completed key transactions which will have an 
enduring impact on the Company’s growth 
journey over the next few years. Max Estates 
today is among the top few commercial real 
estate developers in the NCR region with 
marquee developments such as Max Towers  
and Max House. The company has received 
many accolades under Sahil’s leadership  
most notable being – Developer of the Year. 
Mr. Vachani started his career as an investment 
banker with Citigroup in London, where he 
worked on Mergers and Acquisitions across the 
Middle East and Africa region. In 2004, he joined 
Dixon Technologies, a consumer appliance 
manufacturing firm as Business Head and set  
up new verticals across multiple locations. He 
was also involved in the launch of new products, 
setting up of new manufacturing facilities and 
establishing relationships with leading brands  
as customers. 
He then progressed as the Co-founder and 
Managing Director of Dixon Appliances Pvt. Ltd., 
where he was responsible for the business from 
inception including designing of products, 
building the team, setting up the manufacturing 
facility, operations and building relationships 
with leading brands in India such as Panasonic, 
Godrej, LG, among others. He holds a bachelor’s 
degree in management sciences from the 
University of Warwick, U.K. and an Executive 
Management Program on Disruptive Innovation 
from the Harvard Business School.
Mr. Sahil Vachani
MD and CEO,  
Max Estates Limited
25 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai is a Managing Director at 
the Office of the Chief Investment Officer at New 
York Life Insurance Company. His responsibilities 
include oversight and implementation of select 
investment programs over various asset classes. 
Mr. Tai has over 35 years of investment and 
portfolio management experience. He serves 
 on the boards of several investment advisors 
and joint venture companies on behalf of New 
York Life. He was also a former board member  
of listed companies in Hong Kong and Thailand. 
Mr. Tai joined New York Life Enterprises in  
Hong Kong in 1999 as Vice President - Investment, 
supporting the firm’s investment activities in 
Asia. He was transferred to New York in 2003  
to assume the role of NYLE’s Chief Investment 
Officer, where he was responsible for the firm’s 
international investment portfolios, setting 
investment policies and optimising performance 
within ALM and risk tolerance considerations.  
He moved to his current position in 2012. 
Mr. Tai started his career at CIBC Wood Gundy  
in Toronto - first in corporate real estate project 
finance and then in investment banking. He was 
relocated to Hong Kong in 1995 to assume the 
role of Executive Director at CIBC CEF, a joint 
venture between CIBC and the Cheung Kong 
Group, responsible for structuring of merchant 
banking and corporate finance transactions. 
Mr. Tai holds a Bachelor of Commerce (Honors) 
degree from the University of Manitoba and an 
MBA from the University of Toronto. 
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai
26 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Non-Executive Director
Mr. D.K. Mittal 
Mr. D. K. Mittal is a former Indian Administrative 
Service (IAS) officer from the batch of 1977  
and has served the Government of India in 
various capacities, including Secretary, 
Department of Financial Services, Secretary, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Additional 
Secretary, Department of Commerce.
Mr. Mittal has hands on experience in 
Infrastructure, International Trade, Urban 
Development, Renewable Energy, Agriculture 
Development and Micro-Credit, Corporate 
Governance, Banking, Insurance, Pension  
and Finance. He holds a Master’s degree in 
Physics from the University of Allahabad, India.
27 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Mr. Niten Malhan is the founder and managing 
partner of New Mark Advisors LLP, an investment 
firm focused on bringing a private markets 
approach to investing in the public markets. 
Prior to founding New Mark Advisors LLP in  
April 2018, he was the managing director and 
co-head of India at Warburg Pincus India  
Private Limited (“Warburg Pincus”), a global 
private equity firm.
Mr. Malhan joined Warburg Pincus in 2001 and 
became a partner at the firm in 2007. In 2012,  
he was appointed the co-head of the India 
business, co-leading a team of 15 investment 
professionals and a portfolio of over $3 billion  
in value. Between 2012 and 2017, Niten was also  
a member of the global executive management 
group of the firm, a group of senior partners  
who lead different offices and industry groups  
at Warburg Pincus.
Prior to joining Warburg Pincus, he worked as 
director of business development at Stratum 8,  
a Silicon Valley technology start-up company. 
Before that, he was an engagement manager  
at McKinsey & Company, and worked in the India, 
South East Asia and Boston offices of the firm.
Mr. Malhan has served as member of the  
board of directors of several investee companies 
including Alliance Tire Company, AVTEC, 
Cleanmax Solar, DB Corp, Diligent Power Private 
Limited, Embassy Industrial Parks, Havells India 
Limited, Laurus Labs, Lemon Tree Hotels, 
Metropolis Healthcare Limited and Sintex 
Industries Limited.
He currently serves as an Independent Director 
on the boards of Max Estates Limited, Max India 
Limited, Lemon Tree Hotels, and Fleur Hotels 
Private Limited. Mr. Malhan has also served as 
the vice-chairman of the Indian Venture Capital 
and Private Equity Association and is a Founder 
and Trustee of Plaksha University.
Mr. Malhan studied Computer Science and 
Engineering at Indian Institute of Technology, 
New Delhi, and completed his Post Graduate 
Diploma in Management from Indian Institute 
of Management, Ahmedabad.
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Niten Malhan
28 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan is a Global Partner  
and leads the CEO & Board and Consumer 
Markets Practices for Heidrick & Struggles in 
India. She also oversees the Education Practice  
in South Asia.
A long-tenured partner, Ms. Padmanabhan 
joined Heidrick & Struggles in 2000 and over  
the last 18 years has played a key role in building 
the business in India. Working closely with the 
leadership teams in India and the region, she has 
assisted them in building their leadership teams 
in South Asia. Her clients include large global 
and Indian corporations in the consumer, retail, 
luxury, hospitality and leisure, education and 
OTC sectors, Ms. Padmanabhan has also assisted 
many of them build their top leadership teams 
during start-up / India entry.
Before moving to her present position of leading 
the Consumer Markets Practice, she set up and 
very successfully built the Lifesciences Practice 
for the company in India. During the six years 
that she led the Practice in India, she partnered 
closely with all the leading players in the 
pharmaceuticals and devices sectors in  
the country.
Ms. Padmanabhan has specialised in leadership 
searches at the Board and ‘C’ level. In meeting 
the leadership needs of her clients, she has been 
very successful not only in tapping Indian 
leadership talent both in market and abroad  
but also in bringing in talent from overseas. 
Partnering with her clients in driving their digital 
and diversity agendas is a focus area for  
Ms. Padmanabhan.
Prior to joining Heidrick and Struggles, she  
had a leadership role in a major direct-selling 
multinational with overall responsibility for 
customer services and delivery. As part of the 
senior management team, she was a key 
member on the Strategic Planning Group of  
the company. Her career also includes general 
management, consulting, and teaching stints.
Non-Executive Director
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Strategic 
Review
Estate 128 (artistic rendition)
CORPORATE REVIEW
31 | Annual Report 2022-23
Letter to 
Shareholders
by Mr. Analjit Singh & Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Max House (Actual image)
32 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Dear Shareholders, 
Greetings!
In recent years, the global economy has grappled 
with crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, financial sector 
instability, and rising inflation, making 2023 
another challenging year on the horizon. Amid  
a challenging global economic landscape, India’s 
economy emerged as a bright spot, achieving 
the rank of the world’s fifth-largest economy in 
2022. The economy continued to exhibit resilience 
with a 7.2% GDP growth in FY23, driven by robust 
services and consumption sectors.
For Max Estates, FY23 was a year of transformation 
marked by the successful reverse merger of  
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (MVIL)  
into Max Estates Limited (MEL). This merger, 
approved by the National Company Law  
Tribunal (NCLT), aims to streamline operations 
and strengthen Max Estates’ position in the 
real estate industry, leading to the creation of the 
new listed entity, Max Estates Limited wherein all 
assets and liabilities of MVIL will vest with MEL.
Despite rising construction costs driven by 
increasing input and labor expenses and the 
RBI’s monetary tightening measures, the FY23 
residential market achieved record-breaking 
sales and new launches. The premium and 
luxury segments, experiencing over 2x growth  
in 2022 compared to pre-pandemic levels. This 
surge in premium housing can be attributed  
to enhanced homeownership sentiment,  
improved income prospects, and the demand 
for homes that offer future-proof attributes  
like size, lifestyle amenities, and strong resale 
value. This upward trend is expected to persist  
in 2023 due to sustained demand.
In 2022, commercial office space take-up (net 
absorption) was the second highest in the past 
decade, trailing only behind the numbers from 
2019. Delhi-NCR consistently ranks among the 
top regions in terms of leasing activity. Looking 
ahead to 2023, ongoing macroeconomic 
uncertainties stemming from monetary 
tightening, inflation, potential downturns  
in developed economies, and geopolitical 
challenges may affect occupier expansion  
plans and decisions. Nevertheless, India  
will maintain its appeal as a cost-effective 
destination with a wealth of highly skilled talent.
Max Estates made significant strides in the  
real estate sector by acquiring residential and 
commercial land parcels in Noida and Gurgaon, 
expanding their portfolio to 8 mn sq.ft. 
Additionally, the approved resolution plan for 
Delhi One will further add 2.5 - 3 mn sq.ft. to  
their portfolio. Overall, MEL team has been able 
to build a well-diversified real estate portfolio  
in terms of geographical footprint across Delhi 
NCR, asset class spread across commercial, 
residential and mixed use and risk spectrum 
from delivered to nearing completion and  
under design/construction. 
The most notable of these acquisitions was  
the entry into the premium residential real 
estate market in Delhi NCR with the acquisition 
of ~10-acre residential land parcel in Noida.  
The company also announced its entry into 
Gurgaon, by acquiring a 7.15-acre commercial 
land parcel on Golf Course Extension Road and 
entering into a residential joint development  
of a ~12-acre land parcel in Sector 36A, Gurgaon, 
where we will develop region’s first 
intergenerational community at scale.  
In addition, the company has also acquired a 
For Max Estates, 
FY2023 was a year  
of transformation 
marked by the 
successful reverse 
merger of Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited 
(MVIL) into Max  
Estates Limited (MEL).
6MAX 
.,,..__E ST AT E S 
33 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
~4-acre commercial land parcel in Sector 129, 
Noida, adjacent to Max Square, Noida translating  
it into a 6.6 acre mixed use campus, unique to 
this micro market. 
Our completed Grade A+ office projects –  
Max Towers and Phase 1 of Max House are 100% 
leased at a ~25-30% premium to the micro 
market. The collections continue to be on time 
and in full. Lease rental income from Max Towers 
stood at INR 340 Million whereas Lease rental 
income from Max House Phase 1 stood at 
INR 143 Million in FY23.
In February 2023, Max Square Project achieved 
its Completion Certificate in just 30 months.  
This development has earned the highest green 
building standards certification from Indian 
Green Building Council (IGBC) and is IGBC 
Platinum certified under the Green New 
Buildings Rating System. With a strong pipeline 
of advanced-stage client agreements, the 
company is confident in achieving a full project 
lease within 12-18 months of completion.
Max House Phase 2 is on schedule for completion 
by Q3 FY24, expanding on Phase 1 with a larger 
leasable area of 0.15 mn sq.ft. The company is 
experiencing strong demand from both existing 
and new clients and is confident of achieving 
100% lease within 12 months from completion, 
including a substantial pre-leased portion. 
Additionally, our newly acquired commercial 
projects in Sector 65, Gurgaon and Sector 129, 
Noida are currently under design and should  
be ready for occupancy in 3-5 years.
In FY23, the Company launched Estate 128,  
our foray into the premium residential segment. 
The product has received a spectacular response 
with 100% sales as a part of the pre-formal 
launch phase post RERA approval. Besides, our 
joint development for residential in Gurgaon is 
currently under design and should be ready for 
launch in Q2 FY25.
New York Life has now participated in both  
new commercial projects as 49% partner taking 
its total commitment to the company at INR 800 
crore. This is a clear testimony of Max Estates 
Max Estates made 
significant strides in  
the real estate sector  
by acquiring residential 
and commercial land 
parcels in Noida and 
Gurgaon, expanding 
their portfolio to  
8 million square feet.
Max Towers (actual image)
Max Estates is dedicated to elevating the concept of  
well-being within the real estate sector by enhancing the 
quality of life through the spaces we create. Building upon  
its impressive track record in commercial real estate (CRE), 
the company has now ventured into the residential space, 
marking its debut with a luxury development in Noida, India. 
Max Estates intends to leverage the Group’s strength in 
terms of its brand equity, partnership DNA, track record  
in commercial real estate and deep local knowledge and 
expertise for a successful foray. 
Mr. Analjit Singh
Founder & Chairman 
Max Group
The Company is making significant strides to 
establish itself as a leading real estate brand in Delhi 
NCR, with a focus on the well-being of its consumers 
and all its stakeholders. Anchored on its operating 
philosophies of WorkWell and LiveWell,  Max Estates 
aims to deliver design and hospitality led 
differentiated consumer experiences. We are 
confident of making the Company a leading real 
estate brand in Delhi-NCR. 
Mr. Sahil Vachani
MD and CEO 
Max Estates Limited
35 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
investing in building execution capabilities  
and driving strong governance and  
institutional culture.
The company’s stated aspiration is to add at least  
1 mn sq.ft. each for commercial and residential 
on an average yearly. To enable execution at 
scale, the company has significantly upgraded 
its bandwidth and capability over the last 12 
months, focusing on attracting top quality talent,
particularly to build its residential vertical.  
The company also undertook several strategic
initiatives to strengthen systems and processes,
including transition to SAP as its new ERP
platform, digital interventions across the value
chain, institutionalisation of SOPs as well as
embracing ESG best practices across the
organisation with participation in GRESB 
ranking this year.
Our aim is to ‘Become a leading real estate 
brand in Delhi NCR with focus on design  
and hospitality led differentiation in customer 
experience’. We endeavour to continuously 
strengthen our land acquisition, liaisoning, 
design, sustainable construction and 
development, sales and marketing, asset 
management capabilities, and consumer 
experiences anchored in our WorkWell and 
LiveWell philosophies to effectively serve
across a range of micro-markets within Delhi-
NCR through a wide spectrum of product,  
price,demand mix and regulatory landscape.
Driven by our clear priorities, unwavering
commitment to execution, utmost attention  
to detail, and Design to Asset Management 
anchored in WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophies, we are confident of emerging 
 as the preferred brand for customers in both  
the commercial and residential segments  
in Delhi NCR.
We extend our heartfelt gratitude to all of you  
for your unwavering faith in our company and  
its vision. Our appreciation goes out to our 
dedicated employees throughout the Group,  
our valued business partners, our esteemed  
JV partner New York Life Insurance Company, 
our committed investors and shareholders,  
and the government and its various agencies 
with whom we actively collaborate. Your support is 
deeply appreciated and instrumental in our 
continued success.
Driven by our clear 
priorities, unwavering 
commitment to 
execution, utmost 
attention to detail,  
and Design to Asset 
Management anchored  
in WorkWell and  
LiveWell philosophies,  
we are confident to 
emerge as the preferred 
brand for customers  
in both the commercial 
and residential segments  
in Delhi NCR.
6MAX 
~ESTATE 5 
CORPORATE REVIEW
36 | Annual Report 2022-23
Management  
Discussion  
& Analysis
Max House (actual image)
--
--- --
,. -
37 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Reverse Merger 
The Company has achieved the conclusion of the 
reverse merger of Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited (MVIL) into Max Estates Limited (MEL) 
– a historical milestone in Company’s timeline. 
The Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and 
Arrangement, which involves the merger of  
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (MVIL) into 
Max Estates Limited (MEL), has been sanctioned 
by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), 
Chandigarh Bench, effective from July 31, 2023. 
This entails that MVIL, henceforth, will be 
amalgamated, and all the assets and liabilities 
 of MVIL will vest with MEL.
This reverse merger with Max Estates as a listed 
company serves well to the aforesaid strategy. 
The new listed entity, named Max Estates 
Limited, will truly reflect our vision, the nature  
of our business and aspirations to scale the Real 
Estate (RE) footprint in Delhi-NCR. The merger 
would enhance Max Estates’ balance sheet 
flexibility to further expand and grow the RE 
business and the company also expects time 
and cost synergies through streamlining of 
administrative operations. This will simplify the 
corporate structure and enable the company  
to re-name the entity as Max Estates – a move 
that will resonate with real estate as the only 
focus of the company.
MEL is rapidly expanding its real estate portfolio 
in NCR in commercial and residential segment: 
Max Estates Limited (MEL) was formed in 2016 
following the demerger of Max India with the 
legacy business of Max Speciality Films Limited 
(MSFL). In the same year, MEL made a strategic 
decision to venture into the real estate business. 
MEL’s journey so far can be summarised in  
3 phases:
MEL 1.0 | Experiment
2015 – 2018
 
MEL 1.0 marked the company’s experimental 
phase, focusing on specialty packaging films and 
venturing into real estate with the successful 
delivery of 222 Rajpur, a luxury residential villa 
community in Dehradun. This endeavour set the 
foundation for the LiveWell concept and 
showcased MEL’s potential in real estate.
MEL 2.0 | Establish
2019 – 2022
MEL 2.0 was the establishment phase, 
formalising the company’s purpose and strategy 
to enhance the quality of life through real estate. 
They concentrated on office-led commercial 
developments in Delhi NCR, delivering 
successful projects like Max Towers and Max 
House, achieving full occupancy and premium 
rentals. This phase solidified MEL’s presence in 
the NCR commercial market, with ongoing 
projects like Max Square and further focus on 
real estate after exiting the speciality packaging 
films business. 
Max Estates a pureplay  
real estate focused company,  
ready for execution at scale.
222 Rajpur (actual image)
39 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
MEL 3.0 | Expansion
2022 onwards
MEL 3.0 is the expansion phase, that the 
company embarked on, with an ambitious 
growth trajectory, diversifying into premium 
residential real estate in Delhi NCR and 
commercial expansion in Gurgaon. Through 
strategic acquisitions the company expanded its 
portfolio to 8 mn sq.ft. With a focus on holistic 
well-being and a commitment to blending 
innovative design and exceptional hospitality, 
MEL aims to deliver distinct consumer 
experiences under its core philosophies of 
WorkWell and LiveWell.
Renewed Purpose and Mission
MEL aims to bring Max Group’s values of 
Sevabhav, Excellence and Credibility to the 
Indian real estate sector. The Company has a 
renewed purpose to “Enhancing quality of life 
through spaces we create”. It aims to achieve 
this through:
  Augment the quality of life through exceptional 
design, sustainability, and experiences
  Be the most preferred choice for all 
stakeholders including customers, 
communities, shareholders, and employees
  Build a great place to work that attracts, 
nurtures, and retains exceptional people
  Lead the market in harnessing technology  
to deliver world class spaces
  Maintain cutting edge standards of governance
  Be agile in adapting to evolving  
external environment
Strategy in Real Estate
 
The company, over the last 12 months has scaled 
up its real estate portfolio from 2 to 8 mn Sq.ft.  
of development potential, which is well 
diversified across asset classes (residential and 
commercial), geography (Noida, Delhi and 
Gurgaon), and risk spectrum in terms of 
delivered, nearing completion and under design. 
This is in line with our strategy of – one region, 
multiple asset classes. 
The Company is making significant strides to 
establish itself as a leading real estate brand in 
Delhi NCR, with focus on the well-being of its 
consumers and all its stakeholders. Anchored on 
its operating philosophies of WorkWell and 
LiveWell, Max Estates aims to deliver design and 
hospitality led differentiated consumer 
experiences. We are confident of making the 
Company the leading real estate brand in 
Delhi-NCR – a market that has a huge vacuum of 
credible and reputed developers in comparison 
to the size, a cluster with 25 million+ population.
With a focus  
on holistic well-being  
and a commitment  
to blending innovative 
design and exceptional 
hospitality, MEL aims  
to deliver distinct 
consumer experiences 
under its core philosophies 
of WorkWell and LiveWell.
Yamuna River
48
NE3
44
148A
MAX HOUSE PHASE 1
Delhi
~0.1 Mn. Sq. Ft.
MAX HOUSE PHASE 2
Delhi
~0.15 Mn. Sq. Ft.
ESTATE 128
Sector 128, Noida
~1.1 Mn. Sq. Ft.
~0.
MAX TOWERS
Sector 16B, Noida
6 Mn. Sq. Ft.
MAX SQUARE
Sector 129, Noida
~0.7 Mn. Sq. Ft.
MAX SQUARE TWO
Sector 129, Noida
~1 Mn. Sq. Ft
SECTOR 36A 
Dwarka Expressway,
Gurugram
~2.4 Mn. Sq. Ft.
SECTOR 65
Golf Course Ext.
Road, Gurugram
~1.6 Mn. Sq. Ft.
Saket
Gurugram
Faridabad
Noida
Dwarka
New Delhi
National Highway
Metro Lines
COMMERCIAL
RESIDENTIAL
1  The size mentioned here is on 100% basis
Asset Name
Location 
Asset Class
Size  
(Leasable/ Saleable area1) 
(Approximate) 
Max Towers
Noida
Commercial
0.6 mn sq.ft.
Max House – Phase 1
Delhi
Commercial
0.1 mn sq.ft.
Max Square
Noida
Commercial
0.7 mn sq.ft.
Max House – Phase 2
Delhi
Commercial
0.15 mn sq.ft.
Estate 128
Noida
Residential
1.1 mn sq.ft.
Max Gurgaon – 65
Gurgaon
Commercial
1.6 mn sq.ft.
Max Gurgaon – 36 A
Gurgaon
Residential
2.4 mn sq.ft.
Max Square Two
Noida
Commercial
1 mn sq.ft.
Our Portfolio:
WorkWell at Max Towers (actual image)
Max Towers (actual image)
WorkWell at Max House (actual image)
222 Rajpur (actual image)
Max Square (actual image)
Max House (actual image)
WorkWell at Max Square (actual image)
Estate 128 (artistic rendition)
LiveWell at Estate 128 (artistic rendition)
42 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Global Economy
The last couple of years have seen the global 
economy struggling to deal with impactful and 
overlapping crises including the impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, ongoing effects of Russia’s 
invasion of Ukraine, financial sector turmoil, high 
inflation among others. 2023 is set to be a 
challenging year for the global economy too, 
with storm clouds rolling in some markets, while 
others show resilience. According to the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the global 
growth rate is projected to decrease from 3.4% 
in 2022 to 2.8% in 2023. However, it is expected 
to recover and stabilise at 3.0% in 2024.
The global economy is facing headwinds  
from the lingering geopolitical conflict, supply 
chain disruptions, elevated inflationary pressures 
from across countries, and tighter financial 
conditions on the back of monetary policy 
tightening by major central banks across the 
world. The weakness in global growth is mainly 
concentrated in Europe, Latin America, and the 
United States.
In contrast, Asian economies, particularly India 
and China, are anticipated to be the main drivers 
of global growth in 2023. These countries are 
benefiting from ongoing reopening efforts and 
experiencing less intense inflationary pressures 
compared to other regions. India and China 
together are projected to contribute to half of  
all growth in Asia.
However, despite the slowdown, across the  
bulk of the developed and developing world,  
the pace of real economic activity has held up 
quite well in the face of dampening effects of 
elevated inflation and, in some cases, 
unprecedented monetary policy tightening. 
Amongst the G20 and many of the world’s 
largest developing countries, there is hardly  
any sign of an imminent economic contraction. 
Slowdown has been somewhat offset by 
strengths in other sectors, particularly in 
service-sector activities and labour markets.  
Also, global inflation is expected to decrease 
from 8.8% in 2022 to 6.6% in 2023 and further 
decline to 4.3% in 2024. However, it is worth 
noting that these inflation levels are still above 
the pre-pandemic levels observed between  
2017 and 2019, which were around 3.5%.
The global economy has proved to be 
impressively resilient, however inflation 
continues to be a concern.
The global economy has proved to  
be impressively resilient, however, 
inflation continues to be a concern.
2022
Global Growth Rate (in %)
3.4%
2.8%
3.0%
2023
2024
2022
Global Inflation (in %)
8.8%
6.6%
4.3%
2023
2024
Max Square (actual image)
44 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Indian Economy
Amid chaos and anxiety in global economy, 
India’s economy has outperformed numerous 
economies over the past year and emerged as  
a bright spot. Amid varied global headwinds on 
macros, such as inflation, rates, currency and 
geopolitics, India’s economic outlook remains 
optimistic in mid to long term. In 2022, India 
emerged as the world’s fifth largest economy, 
overtaking the UK, and it is set to surpass Japan 
and Germany to become the world’s third-
largest economy by 2029.
India’s growth continues to be resilient despite 
some signs of moderation. Its GDP grew by 7.2% 
in FY23, as per the published official figures, 
boosted by services and consumption, putting it 
among the world’s fastest-expanding major 
economies. In its annual report, RBI suggests 
GDP growth will be sustained in 2023–24, 
projecting it to be around 6.5% backed by sound 
macroeconomic policies, easing inflation, and  
a robust financial sector.
The growth is underpinned by strong investment  
activity bolstered by the government’s capex 
push and buoyant private consumption.  
Private sector balance sheets have improved 
over the past couple of years and companies are 
undertaking more capex. Corporate deleveraging 
has also improved banks’ balance sheets, aiding 
the banking system to come out of the asset 
quality cycle. In FY23, the government’s CAPEX 
push drove investment growth, a story which is 
likely to remain unchanged in FY24. High tax 
collections give the government ammunition to 
spend and cushion the impact of the impending 
global slowdown. Consumer demand remains 
strong, especially among the affluent, as is 
evident from the retail industry and the better 
profit performance of consumer discretionary 
goods companies in recent quarters. 
CPI inflation reached a 25-month low in May 
2023 and Indian rupee is showing stability. The 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has achieved its goal 
for the consumer price index with CPI inflation 
declining from its peak of 7.8% in April 2022  
to 4.3% in May 2023, and remaining comfortably 
within the central bank’s tolerance band of 2–6%.
Global headwinds have also played to India’s 
advantage. With geopolitical developments 
influencing trade relationships and disrupting 
supply chains, nations and multinationals are 
emphasizing resilience, diversification, and 
self-sufficiency. India has huge potential as an 
export hub and investment destination 
considering the China Plus One strategy, 
especially in the manufacturing and services 
sectors, where it has competencies and 
comparative advantage. Consequently, there  
has been a healthy rise in FDI equity flows from 
Japan, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the 
United Arab Emirates even as FDI from the 
United States has fallen. This shows that globally, 
there is rising confidence about investing  
in India.
The macroeconomic stability indicators suggest 
the Indian economy is well-placed to take on  
the foreseen challenges. India’s strong macro-
economic fundamentals, moderating oil prices, 
lowering inflation, sustained policy push and 
domestic consumption is likely to keep India as 
the ’fastest growing major economy in next  
3-5 years2’ and on sustained growth trajectory  
in the long term.
2022
CPI Inflation (in %)
7.8%
4.3%
2023
2 S&P Global Ratings
In 2022, India emerged as 
the world’s fifth largest economy, 
overtaking the UK, 
and it is set to surpass Japan and 
Germany to become the world’s 
third-largest economy by 2029.
222 Rajpur (actual image)
46 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Real Estate Sector in India
Indian real estate sector’s sustained turnaround 
in 2022 culminated with record growth numbers. 
2023 is expected to carry forward the growth 
trends witnessed in the past year with some 
headwinds likely to act as momentary disruptors. 
Real estate is projected to rise to nearly 15%3 of 
India’s gross domestic product (GDP) by fiscal 
year 2031(~$7.5 trillion), up from 7% in currently.
Indian real estate is emerging as a preferred 
investment destination with attractive rental 
yields and future appreciation potential amidst 
global market volatility and increasing 
inflationary pressures. Both global and domestic 
investors are optimistic about the overall market 
potential, boosted by the overall growth amidst 
the global crises and supply chain disruptions.
Institutional investors demonstrated a strong 
appetite for real estate even during the 
pandemic and continued to invest and look for 
opportunities to participate in reform-driven 
growth.
Buoyed by broad based recovery in real estate 
sector in India post COVID -19, capital flows  
grew by over 32% YoY in 2022 and over  
22% pre-pandemic (2019) levels to attain  
a peak of USD 7.8 billion. Delhi – NCR followed  
by Mumbai and Bangalore, dominated capital 
flows, accounting for a share of over 67% in 
investments in 2022. According to CBRE, 
development sites/ land (48%) and built-up 
offices (35%) sectors garner major investments, 
however, residential, industrial and logistics  
are expected to see a greater share of equity 
inflows in FY24. 
2022 was a landmark year in terms of land 
activity, indicative of long-term bets that 
investors are willing to take on real estate 
development in India. The residential sector has 
seen the highest traction with a share of nearly 
37% in the land acquired since 2018. This is due 
to the strong momentum in housing sales that 
the sector has seen over the past two years; 
thereby enabling developers to ride the wave.
Sustainability is high on the central government’s 
agenda, with green growth being one of the 
seven priorities announced by the finance 
minister in Union Budget 2023. As more 
companies commit to sustainable building 
practises, energy efficiency, and lowering their 
carbon footprint, 2023 will see a stronger 
emphasis on ESG practices, as it holds the centre 
stage and impacts the entire real estate sector 
value-chain. 
Indian real estate is 
emerging as a preferred 
investment destination 
with attractive rental  
yields and future 
appreciation potential 
amidst global market 
volatility and increasing 
inflationary pressures.
3 www.capitalgroup.com/institutional/insights/articles/will-india-breakout-emerging-market.html
67%
investments accounted for  
Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, and Bangalore,  
which dominating capital flows in 2022
47 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Residential Real Estate
The pandemic augmented the need for owning 
a house as homebuyers sought security amidst 
uncertain times. Residential market chartered  
a new high in terms of both sales and new 
launch activity despite a rise in construction cost 
(owning to growing input and labour costs) and 
RBIs monetary tightening measures. India’s 
residential property market witnessed a record-
breaking year in FY23, with the value of home 
sales reaching an all-time high of INR 3.474 lakh 
crore, marking a robust 48% year-on-year 
increase. The volume of sales also exhibited  
a strong growth trajectory, with a 36% rise  
to 379,0954 units sold in FY23, highest volume 
since 2014. The premium and high-end 
categories had a very good run, thereby playing 
a significant role in high sales activity recorded 
during the year. All seven top cities in India 
recorded growth between 24% and 77% in the 
total value of housing sold during the year.5
Premium and luxury segment have exhibited  
a sharp growth in 2022, increasing by over 2x in 
comparison to pre-pandemic levels. The uptrend 
in luxury housing is the result of overall improved 
homeownership sentiment, improved earning 
potential, and the desire for homes that are 
future proofed in terms of sise, lifestyle quotient, 
and resale value growth. This trend is expected 
to continue in 2023, owing to sustained demand. 
The ongoing consolidation in Indian real estate 
has gathered further momentum, with 
established and listed real estate developers 
continuing to gain more market share in terms 
of sales and liquidity. Homebuyers increasingly 
prefer developers with a sound execution track 
record and financial position. Ratings agency 
India Ratings & Research expects grade 1 players 
to register double-digit, on-year sales growth of 
around 15% in FY23. It has maintained the outlook 
on the sector as improving. However, while the 
outlook is positive for grade 1 companies, it’s 
negative for non-grade 1 developers, and this  
is expected to continue. The formalisation of the 
sector, led by a raft of policy reforms, is driving 
fringe players to partner with grade 1 developers 
for project execution and sales as they command 
the market. Large real estate developers are  
also exploring partnerships for synergies in terms 
of sales, liquidity, branding and business 
development. Top real estate developers are 
expected to double their sales over the next 
three-four years, driven by robust demand, 
increasing affordability and industry 
consolidation, CLSA said in a recent report  
on India’s property industry.
Monetary tightening had only a limited impact 
on residential sales in a year that saw five repo 
hikes by the RBI as overall affordability index 
continued to remain very robust and unlike 
developed economy the delta in interest rates 
were relatively much less. A further extension of 
the tightening cycle could put pressure on 
categories that are more sensitive to changes in 
disposable income (mainly affordable/ budget 
segments).
4 Anarock report 
5 https://www.livemint.com/news/india/recordbreaking-year-for-india-s-residential-property-market-with-48-yoy-increase-in-
home-sales-led-by-mmr-and-luxury-segment-11684150333925.html
24-77%
range of growth recorded in the total value of housing 
sold during the year in all seven top cities in India
The uptrend in luxury housing 
is the result of overall improved 
homeownership sentiment, 
improved earning potential 
and the desire for homes that 
are future proofed in terms 
of size, lifestyle quotient and 
resale value growth.
Estate 128 (aRTISTIC RENDITION)
49 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
The leasing  
momentum in 2022  
was led by Bangalore, 
Hyderabad and  
Delhi-NCR with a 
cumulative share of 68%.
Commercial Real Estate 
The resumption of economic activity in 2022  
post pandemic relaxations saw leasing 
momentum owing to pent up of demand and  
a gradual acceleration of return to office plans. 
The commercial office space thus witnessed  
a remarkable recovery in 2022 from pandemic 
lows, even as the focus shifted from pandemics 
retraction and vaccination coverage to new 
macroeconomic and geopolitical challenges. 
India’s net absorption across the top seven cities 
for the full year was recorded at 386 mn sq.ft., 
surpassing 26 mn sq.ft. in 2021, up by about 
46%. hitting a three-year high, post-COVID.  
In fact, the net absorption for the calendar year 
2022 is second only to the 2019 net absorption 
numbers for the past 10 years while also being 
higher than the five-year pre-pandemic average 
(2015-2019) by 3.1%. The leasing momentum in 
2022 was led by Bangalore, Hyderabad, and 
Delhi-NCR with a cumulative share of ~68%. 
Delhi-NCR has consistently maintained its 
position in the top pack in terms of leasing 
activity.
Technology corporates drove leasing followed  
by flexible space operators, engineering and 
manufacturing companies, BFSI firms and 
research, consulting and analytics organisations. 
In a first, domestic firms overtook American 
firms, in terms of share of annual leasing, 
accounting nearly half of leasing activity in 20227, 
mainly led by flexible space operators, 
technology and BFSI corporates. According to 
JLL, supply increased from 46 mn sq.ft. in 2021 
to 58 mn sq ft in 2022 which is up by 26% on  
a y-o-y basis. While completions are higher than 
net absorption, a large part of the new 
completions, particularly in Delhi – NCR, are 
strata sold and non-institutionally owned. 
With sustained leasing recovery, moderating 
vacancy levels, and persistent demand for 
investment, rental recovery continued across 
cities in Grade A assets, throughout 2022.  
Several micro-markets in Delhi-NCR, Bangalore, 
Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Pune 
witnessed a quoted rental growth of 1-9% YoY. 
Net absorption CY23 is expected to be  
~ 37-406 mn sq.ft., at par with CY22 level. 
Bangalore, Hyderabad, and Delhi-NCR would 
continue to dominate completions. Vacancy 
rates are anticipated to be range bound (~16-17%6) 
in 2023. 
Continued macro-economic uncertainty due  
to monetary tightening, inflation, potential 
downturns in developed economies and 
geopolitical challenges may impact occupier 
expansion plans and decision making in 2023. 
However, India would remain an attractive 
cost-effective destination and a source of 
abundant high skilled talent. Even though full 
impact of these macro challenges on global 
corporates’ decisions is yet to be determined,  
this may lower the pace in leasing activity 
initially, but would pick up subsequently. 
Bangalore, Delhi-NCR and Hyderabad would 
remain the biggest demand drivers, while 
sustained leasing activity is also expected in 
Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, and Kolkata. While 
share of technology companies remains high, 
however it is expected to decline in future. The 
demand void will be supplemented by BFSI, 
flexible space operators, and engineering and 
manufacturing corporates. 
In line with global and APAC trends, hybrid 
working would continue to be the norm going 
forward in India though at a relatively lower scale 
compare to developed markets. Occupiers would 
continue to offer flexibility to their employees as 
holistic hybrid working strategies will be the key 
to attracting and retaining talent.  
 
6 Source: JLL
7	
https://www.financialexpress.com/industry/indian-corporates-beat-american-firms-in-office-leasing-in-january-march-cbre/3034766/
50 | Annual Report 2022-23
Occupiers are thus expected to continue to 
display a flight to quality wave towards modern, 
premium sustainable spaces in the medium  
to long term. For the office to be the best place 
to work and provide outstanding human 
experience, the workplace needs to be 
reimagined to meet talent, preferences, and 
aspirations. The future of the office will be a 
space that is brand differentiating, welcoming, 
promotes employee health and wellbeing, 
attractive to future talent and offers positive 
experiences for people through improved 
amenities and best-in-class fit-outs.
The future of the office 
will be a space that  
is brand differentiating, 
welcoming, promotes 
employee health and 
wellbeing, attractive  
to future talent and 
offers positive 
experiences for people 
through improved 
amenities and best-in-
class fit-outs.
Max House (actual image)
Max House (actual image)
52 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Financial Business Performance 
FY23 has been a special year at MEL. The Company 
embarked upon MEL 3.0 journey wherein it 
exited the speciality packaging films business 
and redeployed the capital to expand real estate 
portfolio to 8 mn sq.ft. We have curated a very 
well diversified across asset classes (residential 
and commercial), geography (Noida, Delhi, and 
Gurgaon), and risk spectrum in terms of 
delivered, nearing completion and under design.
Consolidated revenue, EBITDA and profit after 
tax for the MEL was up by 6%, 23% and 262%  
on year-on-year basis to INR 1,073 Million,  
INR 317 Million and INR 170 Million respectively 
in FY23. Total lease rental income (Max Towers 
and Max House) up by 30% on year-on year basis 
to INR 483 Million in FY23. Net debt to equity 
ratio of the Group is 0.53x with total borrowings 
of MEL are at INR 8,244 Million against cash and 
cash equivalent balance of INR 1,618 Million as  
on March 31, 2023.
Max Estates completed Grade A+ office projects 
– Max Towers and Phase 1 of Max House are 
100% leased at a ~25-30% premium to the micro 
market. The collections continue to be on time 
and in full. Lease rental income from Max Towers 
stood at INR 340 Million whereas Lease rental 
income from Max House Phase 1 stood at  
INR 143 Million in FY23.
Max Square Project has received its Completion 
Certificate in February 2023, in a short span of  
30 months. The development has obtained the 
highest green building standards certification 
from IGBC and is IGBC Platinum certified under 
the Green New Buildings Rating System.  
The Company has built a robust pipeline at 
advance stages of closure with several clients 
and is confident to fully lease the project within 
12-18 months of completion.
For Max House Phase 2, work is on track and is 
expected to be completed by Q3 FY24. This is an 
extension of Max House Phase 1, with a larger 
leasable area of 0.15 mn sq.ft. The company is 
getting excellent traction in terms of the 
demand from both existing and new clients.  
The company is confident to fully lease the 
project within 12 months of completion, including  
significant proportion which is to be pre-leased.
In FY23, the Company has entered the residential 
segment thereby adding a new asset class in its 
portfolio with acquisition of 10-acre land parcel in 
Sector 128, Noida with development potential of  
1 mn sq.ft. The building plan and RERA8 approvals 
came in record time The Product launch and 
selling process is activated as per promised 
timelines. The product has received spectacular 
response with 100% sales as a part of the 
pre-launch phase post RERA approval.
The company has expanded its geographical 
footprint by entering Gurgaon with opportunities  
in both commercial and residential segment. 
The company acquired a land with commercial 
license of 7.15 acre and development potential  
of 1.6 mn sq.ft. in Sector 65 of Golf Course 
Extension Road, a prime office vector in Gurgaon.  
Additionally, the company has executed a  
Joint Development agreement on ~12-acre land 
with development potential of 2.4 mn sq.ft. of 
residential in sector 36A in Gurgaon.
FY23 has been a  
special year at MEL.  
The company embarked 
upon MEL 3.0 journey 
wherein it exited the 
speciality packaging 
films business and 
redeployed the capital 
to expand real estate 
portfolio to 8 mn sq.ft. 
8 Real Estate Regulatory Authority
53 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
The company has also acquired ~4 acre of 
commercially licensed land in Sector 129, Noida-
Greater Noida Expressway adjacent to current 
Max Square development to evolve the combined 
footprint into a mixed use ~7 acre campus.
New York Life has now participated in both new 
commercial projects as 49% partner taking its total 
commitment to the company at INR 800 crore. 
This is a clear testimony of Max Estates investing in 
building execution capabilities and driving strong 
governance and institutional culture.
NCLT has approved the resolution plan for Delhi 
One, which will add another 2.5 - 3 mn sq.ft. of 
mixed-use development to company’s portfolio; 
the implementation will begin post certain 
approvals from NOIDA.
The company’s stated aspiration is to add  
1 mn sq.ft. each for commercial and residential  
on an average yearly. To enable execution at scale,  
the company has significantly upgraded its 
bandwidth and capability over the last 12 months,  
focusing on attracting top quality talent, 
particularly to build its residential vertical.  
The company also undertook several strategic 
initiatives to strengthen systems and processes, 
including transition to SAP as its new ERP 
platform, digital interventions across the value 
chain, as well as embracing ESG best practices 
across the organisation with participation in 
GRESB ranking this year.
With focus on exceptional design, sustainability, 
and experiences anchored around our WorkWell 
and LiveWell philosophies, our endeavour is to 
become a preferred choice for all stakeholders 
which including customers, communities, 
shareholders, and employees.
Revenue for MAS increased by 50% YoY in FY23  
to INR 358 Million. We expect the facility service 
business of MAS to witness growth in FY24.
The company’s  
stated aspiration  
is to add 1 mn sq.ft.  
each for commercial 
and residential on  
an average yearly. 
Max Estates Limited has laser sharp 
focus on timely project execution, 
quality construction and efficient 
project management and prioritised 
customer satisfaction.
55 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Progress Against Key Pillars to Enable Execution at Scale 
Growth
MEL has built well-diversified commercial and 
residential real estate portfolio across Delhi-NCR 
at scale to usher next level of growth. After 
successful commercial developments in Delhi 
and Noida, the Company expanded its footprint 
to residential developments along with entry 
into the Gurgaon real estate market.  
The Company is looking to accelerate its growth 
journey by building on its current portfolio 
spanning 8 mn sq.ft. and adding at least 1 mn 
sq.ft. across each commercial and residential 
portfolio. In priority, the plan is to look for growth 
in residential vectors in Noida and Delhi.
Capital
With focus on two asset classes, the Company 
will efficiently allocate capital between the two 
while ensuring that a well-diversified portfolio  
in terms of footprint is developed. This will be 
across multiple markets within Delhi-NCR, 
including business models that are outright 
purchase and joint developments. We will 
leverage our strong balance sheet in a timely 
manner to secure growth opportunities at the 
right price. 
Since inception, the company has raised  
INR 3,400 crore+ of capital including equity  
and debt. Further, to continue our asset-light 
approach and diversify capital exposure, we will 
continue to bring in equity partners as we have 
done with New York Life. New York Life has 
already made commitment of ~INR 800 crore  
till date, with a 49% equity stake in Max Square 
Phase 1 & 2 and the Sector 65, Gurgaon 
commercial project. They will continue to 
evaluate co-investment, as a strategic investor,  
in our CRE business. The Company will also 
continue to explore the Joint Development Route, 
as it has done in the residential project in Gurgaon, 
as a capital light approach to secure land.
Execution
MEL has laser sharp focus on timely project 
execution, quality construction, and efficient 
project management and prioritised customer 
satisfaction. Our existing assets, Max Towers and 
Max House are fully leased at 25-30% premium  
to micro-market to leading domestic and 
multinational companies, well diversified across 
sectors. Max Square, our latest commercial 
project in Noida, was built in a record time of 30 
months and has gained strong leasing traction. 
The development has obtained the highest 
possible green building standards certification 
from IGBC (IGBC Platinum). Completion of Max 
House Phase 2 is on track for Q3 FY24. We 
possess a strong dedication to people and 
process, combined with excellent execution 
capabilities, enabling us to confidently 
undertake four real estate projects 
simultaneously.
Customer Experience
At Max Estates, we’ve paid close attention to 
creating a unique confluence of spaces that 
enable collaboration, innovation, and community,  
that are not just functionally and aesthetically 
pleasing, but also environmentally sustainable, 
and designed to promote the holistic well being 
of our users. Guided by our philosophies of 
WorkWell and LiveWell, we create differentiated 
working and living experiences by moving 
beyond the conventional separation of work, life, 
and well-being, and paying attention to the 
entire spectrum of wellness across physical, 
emotional, social, and environmental aspects. 
Our developments personify our wellness 
orientation and bring our WorkWell and 
LiveWell philosophies to life. 
We possess a strong 
dedication to people 
and process, combined 
with excellent execution 
capabilities, enabling us 
to confidently undertake 
four real estate projects 
simultaneously.
56 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
We integrate art, life, and nature into our spaces. 
Expressive artworks are incorporated within our 
developments – serving as a manifestation of  
our ethos – enabling interactions and building 
communities and bonds. Our in-house 
engagement vertical, Pulse, breathes life into our 
buildings by curating a collection of events and 
activities that nurture occupants to be healthier 
and happier. We believe in incorporating nature 
as an active participant in our design, to allow for 
periods of relaxation and escape from the hustle 
of everyday life. The ~11,000 sq. ft. central forest 
courtyard at the heart of Max Square, our latest 
commercial development, is a testament to our 
biophilic design and philosophy. 
People 
To enable execution at scale, the company  
has significantly upgraded its bandwidth and 
capability over the last 12 months, focusing on 
attracting top quality talent, particularly to build 
its residential vertical. The focus has been to 
on-board talent with requisite experience with  
a good mix of real estate and non-real estate for 
each domain across real estate value chain.  
The emphasis is on building a culture of working 
together as a team in cross functional setting to 
deliver a superior product and experience.  
While maintaining a lean corporate set-up, we 
will continue to invest in building organisational 
capacity, including leadership bandwidth in 
cohesion with the scale and scope of our current 
and aspired RE portfolios.
Process
Several strategic initiatives have been undertaken  
to strengthen systems and processes, including 
transition to SAP as its new ERP platform and 
digital interventions across the value chain. 
ESG elements such as reduction of carbon 
emissions, use of sustainable materials, energy 
efficiency and wellness enhancements are 
becoming important for both occupiers as well 
the investors of real estate. With our first 
Sustainability Report in 2021, we have officially 
embarked on a long journey to make our 
commitment to sustainability a key differentiator 
within the real estate market. We continue to 
embrace ESG best practices across the 
organisation, with participation in GRESB 
ranking this year for the 2nd time. This would 
enable us to benchmark ourselves against the 
best practices of leading players – domestic and 
global. We view this as a long-term journey of 
continuous improvement. 
We have onboarded several digital tools across 
value chain including BIM, SFDC, SAP, Wobot, 
Clairco, Smart Joules, Zykrr, Reloy, Ozontel and 
many others to improve operational efficiency, 
optimise cost and enhance customer 
experience. We are now working on a 3-year 
digital road map with help of an external advisor 
to start embedding digital interventions as we 
execute at scale. 
Risk
The company has embarked upon formalising 
‘Risk Register’, which identifies and rates risk 
parameters as well as tracks it with focus actions 
required to mitigate it. The Risk Register today 
captures risk across 7 buckets including 
macroeconomic, business, regulatory, brand, 
capital, people and technology. For each risk,  
the company rates it into four categories – low, 
moderate, severe, and critical based on two 
dimensions which are probability of its 
occurrence and level of impact if it occurs.  
While maintaining  
a lean corporate set-up, 
we will continue to invest 
in building organisational 
capacity, including 
leadership bandwidth, 
in cohesion with the 
scale and scope of our 
current and aspired  
real estate portfolios. 
We believe in 
incorporating nature 
as an active participant 
in our design, to allow 
for periods of relaxation 
and escape from the 
hustle of everyday life.
222 Rajpur (actual image)
58 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
The endeavour is to build ‘Risk Culture’, which 
enables members across function, role, and 
tenure to bring up for discussion any source of 
risk and suggestions on how to mitigate it, which 
becomes integral part of Risk Register to be 
regularly tracked at the right forums. We have 
also established a Risk Management Committee 
responsible for reviewing the risk management 
plan/process. 
Brand
The Company has proven its capability on 
design-led differentiation with its assets and is 
fast establishing itself as a leading real estate 
brand that caters to the holistic needs of both 
businesses and individuals, with a focus on 
promoting wellbeing and sustainable lifestyles.  
It is focusing on bringing real wellbeing to real 
estate. Our wellness orientation is at the forefront 
and establishes a unique value proposition that 
sets us apart from competitors. It also showcases 
a strong commitment to our vision to enhance 
quality of life through the spaces we create.
The Company has 
proven its capability  
on design-led 
differentiation with  
its assets and is fast 
establishing itself  
as a leading real estate 
brand that caters  
to the holistic needs  
of both businesses  
and individuals, with  
a focus on promoting 
well-being and 
sustainable lifestyles.
59 | Annual Report 2022-23
CORPORATE REVIEW
Key Milestones for FY 24 
Our aim is to become ‘a leading real estate  
brand in Delhi-NCR with focus on design  
and hospitality led differentiation in customer 
experience’. We endeavour to continuously 
strengthen our land acquisition, liaisoning, 
design, sustainable construction and 
development, sales and marketing, asset 
management capabilities, and consumer 
experiences anchored in our WorkWell and 
LiveWell philosophies to effectively serve across  
a range of micro-markets within Delhi-NCR 
through a wide spectrum of product, price, 
demand mix and regulatory landscape. Further, 
the Company will continue to employ best-in-
class digital tools and technologies to minimise 
execution risk in terms of cost and time as well 
as enhancing customer experience and 
operational efficiency.
Our key priorities for FY24 are listed as under:
  Lease Max Square within 12-18 months of 
completion; and secure pre-leasing of Max 
House, Phase 2
  Successful launch of Max Estates’ first residential 
project in Delhi NCR (Sector 128, Noida)
  Obtain Occupancy Certificate for Max House 
Phase 2 
  Start construction for 2 commercial and  
1 residential project - Max Square 2 (Noida), 
Sector 65 (Gurgaon) and residential project  
in Sector 128 (Noida)
  Closure of additional growth opportunities 
with a focus on residential
  Financial closure for 4 new growth projects 
already acquired by Max Estates – 2 residential 
and 2 commercial
   Invest in Max Estates’ brand story and its 
outreach—focusing on holistic well-being  
of consumers (WorkWell / LiveWell)
  Build tech enabled systems and processes 
across value chain in both asset classes to 
ensure health and safety, customer experience, 
operational efficiency and cost stewardship  
at scale
  Expand talent breadth and depth (external 
and internal) and develop next layer of 
leadership across value chain 
  Continue to embrace and implement  
ESG best practices, monitor progress through 
GRESB ranking (2nd year)
Driven by our clear priorities, unwavering 
commitment to execution, utmost attention  
to detail, and Design to Asset Management 
anchored in WorkWell and LiveWell 
philosophies, we are confident to emerge  
as the preferred brand for customers in both 
the commercial and residential segments  
in Delhi NCR.
Further, the Company 
will continue to employ 
best-in-class digital 
tools and technologies  
to minimise execution 
risk in terms of cost  
and time as well as 
enhancing customer 
experience and 
operational efficiency.
60 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Strategic
Review
Annual Report 2022-23 | 61
Strategic Review
Dear Shareholders,
Your Directors have the pleasure of presenting the 7th 
(Seventh) Board’s Report along with the Audited Financial 
Statements of your Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2023 (“FY 2023”). 
Update on Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and 
Arrangement between Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited and Max Estates Limited and their respective 
shareholders and creditors
The Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) of the 
Chandigarh Bench sanctioned the Composite Scheme of 
Amalgamation and Arrangement between Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as “MVIL” 
or the “Transferor Company”) and Max Estates Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Company”, “your company”, 
“MEL”, or the “Transferee Company”) on July 3, 2023. The 
Certified True Copy of the NCLT Order, dated July 21, 2023, 
was received by the Company on July 24, 2023. The Scheme 
became effective on July 31, 2023 (“Effective Date”) being 
the date on which the order was filed with the Registrar of 
Companies by the transferor Company and the Transferee 
Company.
From the Effective Date, MVIL dissolved and merged 
into the Company. This entailed the transfer of all MVIL’s 
assets and liabilities to MEL, effective from April 1, 2022, 
the Appointed Date under the Scheme. Consequently, the 
Board of the Company was reconstituted on July 31, 2023, 
aligning with the structure of MVIL’s Board.
Subsequently, in accordance with the Scheme, the 
Company, at its Board Meeting held on August 18, 2023, 
allotted 14,71,34,544 Equity Shares of INR 10/- each to the 
shareholders of MVIL as of the Record Date (August 11, 
2023) in the ratio of one Equity Share of the Company for 
every one Equity Share of MVIL. 
The Company strategically transformed into a Listed 
Company via this reverse merger. The Company obtained 
in-principle approvals from NSE on September 14, 2023, 
and BSE on September 15, 2023, subsequently listing its 
shares on the stock exchanges on October 30, 2023.
This strategic move improves the Company’s financial 
base and promoting our real estate business expansion. 
The consolidation is anticipated to bring better operational 
efficiency and cost savings, with a reinforced commitment 
to the real estate sector, evident in our brand name, “Max 
Estates”.
Given MVIL’s dissolution on July 31, 2023, it became infeasible 
to present MVIL’s Board Report to its shareholders in a 
general meeting. This was due to the statutory requirement 
under Sub-Section 3 of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 
2013, which mandates the Board Report’s attachment to 
Financial Statements for presentation in an Annual General 
Meeting.
To ensure transparency and compliance, Max Estates 
Limited, adhering to the Companies Act, 2013 and best 
corporate governance practices, has incorporated relevant 
MVIL data for FY 2023 within this Board Report. This 
initiative provides shareholders with a comprehensive 
overview of MVIL’s activities and performance in its last 
operational year, fulfilling our obligations despite the unique 
merger circumstances.
This report, prepared for Max Estates Limited, contains 
the relevant information related to MVIL up to March 31, 
2023, considering the approval and implementation of 
the Scheme after FY 2023 and based on the Company’s 
Standalone Financial Statements for FY 2023, integrating 
the consolidated performance of the Company and its 
subsidiaries wherever required.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial and Operational Performance
The Standalone and consolidated financial performance of 
your Company and MVIL for FY 2023 is summarized below:
BOARD’S REPORT
62 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Standalone Financial Results
(INR in Lakhs)
Particulars
 MEL*
MVIL
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2022
Income
Revenue from Operations
4,929.23
3,901.22
2,388.63
1,980.98
Other Income
4,955.96
1,046.49
2,769.31
48,842.97
Total Income
9,885.19
4,947.71
5,157.94
50,823.95
Expenditure
Decrease in inventories of work in progress and 
finished goods 
1,138.84
1,850.95
-
-
Employee benefits expense
1,750.73
598.73
901.47
867.18
Finance costs
1,132.79
725.88
381.53
321.89
Depreciation and amortisation expense
514.11
144.47
353.41
378.41
Other expenses
2,021.66
1,101.22
1,056.66
936.40
Total Expenses
6,558.13
4,421.25
2,693.07
2,503.88
Profit/(Loss) before Tax
3,327.06
526.46
2,464.87
48,320.07
Tax expense
51.59
-
200.77
9,974.57
Profit/(Loss) after Tax 
3,275.45
526.46 
2,264.10
38,345.50
Consolidated Financial Results
(INR in Lakhs)
Particulars
MEL* 
MVIL
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2022
Income
Revenue from Operations
10,734.20
6,928.87
10,734.20
 10,096.71 
Other Income
2,393.63
464.60
2,393.63
 992.58 
Total Income
13,127.83
7,393.47
13,127.83
 11,089.29 
Expenditure
Cost of land, plots development rights, constructed 
properties and others  
1,015.55
-
1,015.55
 705.33 
Change in inventories of constructed properties
1,138.84
1,850.94
1,138.84
 1,850.94 
Employee benefits expense
1,537.73
347.49
1,537.73
 1,316.28 
Finance costs
1,861.87
1,616.92
1,861.87
 1,657.28 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
1,490.82
1,068.14
1,490.82
 1,481.29 
Other expenses
3,874.82
1,664.90
3,874.82
 3,651.72 
Total Expenses
10,919.63
6,548.39
10,919.63
 10,662.84 
Profit/(Loss) before exceptional items and tax
2,208.20
845.08
2,208.20
 426.45 
Exceptional items
-
-
-
 - 
Profit before tax from continuing operations
2,208.20
845.08
2,208.20
 426.45 
Tax expenses
361.50
352.88
510.22
 (39.15)
Profit/(Loss) after Tax 
1,846.70
492.20
1,697.98
 465.60 
Discontinued operations
Revenue from operations
-
-
-
 126,984.14 
Other income
-
-
-
 1,029.34 
Total expenses
-
-
-
 106,189.26 
Profit before tax
-
-
-
 21,824.22 
Gain on sale of discontinued operations
-
-
-
 40,922.47 
Tax expenses/(credit) 
-
-
-
 17,339.72 
Profit for the period from discontinued operations
-
-
-
 45,406.97 
Profit for the period from continuing and 
discontinued operations
1846.70
492.20
1,697.98
 45,872.57 
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of parent
1,901.49
499.89
1,752.77
 38,768.48 
Non-controlling interest
(54.79)
(7.69)
(54.79)
 7,104.09 
*The above financial details of MEL for FY 2023 are captured considering the merger of MVIL into MEL. 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 63
Strategic Review
In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and 
Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the 
audited Consolidated Financial Statements are provided as 
part of this Annual Report and shall also be laid before the 
ensuing Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company. 
Therefore, the Standalone and Consolidated Financial 
Statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Indian Accounting Standards (IND AS) notified under the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as 
amended from time to time).
Company’s Performance / Operations
On a consolidated basis, your Company generated a 
revenue (including other income) of INR 13,127.83 Lakhs in 
FY 2022-23 as compared to INR 7,393.47 Lakhs in FY 2021-
22, registering an increase of 77.56%. 
Profit before tax (PBT) was INR 2,208.20 Lakhs in FY 
2022-23 as compared to INR 845.08 Lakhs in FY 2021-22, 
reflecting an increase of 2.61 times. Profit after tax (PAT) 
was INR 1,846.70 Lakhs as against INR 492.20 Lakhs in FY 
2021-22, an increase of 3.75 times from the previous year.  
DIVIDEND
Your directors have not recommended any dividend for the 
financial year 2022-23.
The Board of Directors of your Company has approved a 
Dividend Distribution Policy in line with Regulation 43A 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”). The said policy is available 
on the website of the Company at https://maxestates.in/
investors/. 
TRANSFER TO RESERVES 
The Company has not transferred any amount to reserve 
during the financial year 2022-23.
LISTING INFORMATION 
The equity shares of the Company are traded on BSE Limited 
(Scrip Code ‘544008’) and National Stock Exchange of India 
Ltd. (Symbol ‘MAXESTATES’) effective from October 30, 2023.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: The 
equity shares of MVIL were traded on BSE Limited (Scrip 
Code ‘539940’) and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
(Symbol ‘MAXVIL’) effective June 22, 2016 till August 10, 
2023. The ISIN number for dematerialisation of the equity 
shares of MVIL was INE154U01015. The annual listing fees 
for the Financial Year 2022-23 have been paid to both the 
Stock Exchanges. 
SHARE CAPITAL 
The Authorized Share Capital of the Company as at March 
31, 2023 stood at INR 78,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Seventy 
Eight Crores Only) comprising of 7,80,00,000 (Seven Crores 
Eighty Lakh) Equity Shares of INR 10/- (Indian Rupees Ten 
Only) each.
Further, pursuant to the Scheme the authorized share 
capital of the Company has been increased from INR 
78,00,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Seventy-Eight Crores Only) 
comprising of 7,80,00,000 Equity Shares of INR 10/- (Indian 
Rupees Ten Only) each to INR 1,50,00,00,000/- (Indian 
Rupees One Hundred and Fifty Crore Only) divided into 
15,00,00,000 equity shares of INR 10/- (Indian Rupees Ten 
only) each w.e.f. July 31, 2023. 
The Paid-up Share Capital of the Company as at March 31, 
2023, stood at INR 77,91,00,000 (Indian Rupees Seventy-
Seven Crores Ninety One Lakhs Only) comprising of 
7,79,10,000 Equity Shares of INR 10/- (Indian Rupees Ten 
Only) each. Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the said 
paid-up share capital was cancelled, and 14,71,34,544 
equity shares of INR 10 (Indian Rupees Ten Only) each, fully 
paid-up, were issued and allotted on August 18, 2023 to the 
shareholders of MVIL as on the Record Date (August 11, 
2023), in the ratio of 1:1 i.e., 1 Equity Share of  face value of 
INR 10 each, fully paid-up, of the Company for every 1 Equity 
Share of   face value of INR 10 (Indian Rupees Ten Only) 
each, fully paid up held by them in Transferor Company, in 
dematerialised form and credited as fully paid-up equity 
shares.    
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: 
During the year under review, MVIL allotted 1,56,978 equity 
shares of INR 10/- (Indian Rupees Ten Only) each arising 
from the exercise of Stock Options by the Option Holders 
under ‘Max Ventures and Industries Employee Stock Plan 
– 2016’ of MVIL. Consequently, the issued and paid-up 
equity share capital of MVIL as on March 31, 2023, was INR 
1,47,10,36,260/- (Indian Rupees One Hundred and Forty-
Seven Crore Ten Lakh Thirty-Six Thousand Two Hundred 
and Sixty only) comprising of 14,71,03,626 equity shares of 
INR 10/- (Indian Rupees Ten only) each. 
64 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Further, from the end of the financial year March 31, 2023, 
and up to July 31, 2023 (effective date of the scheme), MVIL 
has further allotted 30,918 equity shares of INR 10/- (Indian 
Rupees Ten Only) each arising from the exercise of Stock 
Options by the Option Holders under ‘Max Ventures and 
Industries Employee Stock Plan – 2016’ of MVIL.  
SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
As on March 31, 2023, your Company was a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of MVIL. Further, following are the subsidiaries of 
your Company as at March 31, 2023:
• 
Max Towers Private Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary 
company
• 
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited, 
a 
wholly-owned 
subsidiary company
• 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary company (Refer Note 1)
• 
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary company (Refer Note 2)
• 
Acreage Builders Private Limited, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary company (Refer Note 3)
• 
Max Square Limited, a subsidiary company
Notes:
1.	
The Company purchased the entire equity share capital 
of Accord Hotels and Resorts Private Limited on June 
17, 2022, and subsequently changed its name to Max 
Estates 128 Private Limited.
2.	
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited as a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Company was incorporated on 
September 5, 2022.
3.	
On February 2, 2023, Acreage Builders Private Limited 
became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. 
On April 13, 2023, the Company sold 49 per cent of 
the equity shares of Acreage Builders Private Limited 
to New York Life Insurance Company, making it a 
subsidiary of the Company. 
Your Company had no associate or joint venture during FY 
2023.
Further, a detailed update on the performance of your 
Company’s subsidiaries is furnished in the Management 
Discussion and Analysis section, which forms part of this 
Report.
In compliance with the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the Financial Statements and other documents of 
the subsidiaries are not being attached with the Financial 
Statements of the Company and are available on the website 
of the Company viz. https://maxestates.in/investors/. 
Further, the contribution of subsidiary(ies) to the overall 
performance of your Company is outlined in Note No. 44 of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: As 
of March 31, 2023, MVIL was having following 9 (Nine) 
subsidiaries (including step-down subsidiaries):
• 
Max Estates Limited 
• 
Max I. Limited 
• 
Max Asset Services Limited 
• 
Max Towers Private Limited 
• 
Max Square Limited 
• 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
• 
Max Asset Services Limited
• 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
• 
Acreage Builders Private Limited 
Pursuant to the Scheme, MVIL has been merged with the 
Company w.e.f. July 31, 2023 (effective date) and all the 
subsidiary companies of MVIL have become the subsidiary 
companies of the Company from the effective date.  
Form AOC-1 containing the salient features of Financial 
Statements of the Company’s and MVIL’s subsidiaries, is 
attached as ‘Annexure–1’. 
ANNUAL RETURN 
The Annual Return of the Company is available at the website 
of the Company at https://maxestates.in/investors/. 
EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION PLAN: 
Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023 
Acknowledging the importance of sustaining employee 
motivation and adhering to the provisions of the Scheme, 
the Company adopted the Max Estates Employee Stock 
Option Plan  2023 in its Board meeting held on July 31, 
2023. It ensured that all its terms and conditions mirrored 
those under the Max Ventures and Industries Employee 
Stock Plan – 2016 to cater the subsisting stock option to 
the employees made by MVIL as of the Effective date, i.e., 
July 31, 2023. Furthermore, while granting stock options, the 
Company considered the duration for which employees had 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 65
Strategic Review
held stock options granted by MVIL.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: MVIL 
has adopted an employee stock option plan viz. ‘Max 
Ventures and Industries - Employee Stock Plan 2016’ 
(‘ESOP Plan’) at its first Annual General Meeting held on 
September 27, 2016. The ESOP Plan provides for grant of 
stock options aggregating not more than 5% of equity share 
capital of MVIL to eligible employees and Directors of MVIL 
and its subsidiaries. There was no change in the ESOP Plan 
during FY 2023. Further, the ESOP Plan is in compliance 
with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 (as amended from time to time). The ESOP Plan 
is administered by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee constituted by the Board of Directors of MVIL. 
During FY 2023, MVIL has granted 2,97,538 stock options 
to the eligible employees of MVIL and its subsidiaries. A 
statement setting out the details of options granted upto 
March 31, 2023 and other disclosures as required under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 
and Rule 12(9) of Companies (Share Capital & Debentures) 
Rules, 2014 for FY 2023, have been placed on the website of 
the Company https://maxestates.in/wp-content/themes/
max-estate/html/pdf-viewer.html?pdf_url=https://
maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/ESOP-
Disclosure-MVIL-2023.pdf.
MATERIAL CHANGES BETWEEN THE END OF 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND THE DATE OF THIS 
REPORT 
From the end of the Financial Year till the date of this report, 
the following changes have taken place in the Company 
which may affect the financial position of the Company:
i.	
Please refer to the section of this report tilted 
“Update on Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and 
Arrangement between Max Ventures & Industries 
Limited and Max Estates Limited and their respective 
shareholders and creditors”.
ii.	
The Board of Directors of your Company was 
reconstituted.
iii.	 Your Company received in-principle approval from 
NSE and BSE on September 14, 2023 and September 
15, 2023 respectively. Subsequently, our Company’s 
shares were listed on the Stock Exchanges effective 
from October 30, 2023.
Except as mentioned above, there is no other material 
changes and commitments, affecting the financial position 
of the Company which have occurred between the end of 
the Financial Year of the Company i.e. March 31, 2023 and 
the date of this Board’s Report. 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
During the year under review, since the Company was an 
unlisted entity, it was not mandated to meet the Corporate 
Governance requirements as specified by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India under Part C of Schedule V of 
the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as “Listing 
Regulations”).
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: 
During the FY 2023, MVIL complied with all the mandatory 
requirements of Corporate Governance specified by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India through Part C of 
Schedule V of the Listing Regulations. As mandated by the 
said Clause, a separate Report on Corporate Governance 
forms part of the Annual Report of the Company as 
Annexture-2. 
A certificate from M/s Sanjay Grover & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries regarding compliance with 
the regulations of Corporate Governance pursuant to Part 
E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations and a certificate 
from the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of 
MVIL on compliance of Part B of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations forms part of the Corporate Governance Report 
with respect to MVIL.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
In terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, a review 
of the performance of the Company, including those of your 
Company’s subsidiaries, is provided in the Management 
Discussion & Analysis section, which forms part of this 
Annual Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
As at March 31, 2023, the Board of Directors of your 
Company comprised of 3 (three) Directors with 1 (one) 
Executive Director and 2 (two) Non-Executive Directors.
Pursuant to the Scheme, MVIL merged with the Company 
effective from July 31, 2023. Consequently, existing Board 
66 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on July 31, 
2023 reconstituted the Board in the following manner:
yy
Mr. Analjit Singh (DIN: 00029641) was appointed as an 
additional Director of the Company and Chairman of 
the Company.
yy
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (DIN: 00040000) was 
appointed as an additional Director of the Company in 
the Independent category.
yy
Mr. Niten Malhan (DIN: 00614624) was appointed as an 
additional Director of the Company in the Independent 
category.
yy
Ms. Gauri Padamanabhan (DIN: 01550668) was 
appointed as an additional Director of the Company in 
the Independent category.
yy
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai (DIN: 08748152) was appointed as 
an additional Non-Executive Director of the Company.
yy
Mr. Sahil Vachani (DIN: 00761695) was appointed as 
an additional Director of the Company and further 
appointed as Managing Director and CEO of the 
Company w.e.f August 01, 2023.
The Board further took note the resignation received from 
Mr. Kishansingh Ramsinghaney (DIN: 00329411), Mr. Rishi 
Raj (DIN: 08490762) and Mr. Bishwajit Das (DIN: 00029455) 
the existing Board members w.e.f. July 31, 2023. The 
Board places on record its appreciation for their valuable 
contributions during association with the Company.  
Post reconstitution, the Board of Directors of your Company 
comprised of 6 (six) Directors with 1 (one) Executive 
Director and 5 (five) Non-Executive Directors including 3 
(three) Independent Directors.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: As on 
March 31, 2023, the Board of Directors of MVIL comprised of 
6 (six) Directors with 1 (one) Executive Director and 5 (five) 
Non-Executive Directors including 3 (three) Independent 
Directors. 
During the year under review, Mr. Kummamuri Narasimha 
Murthy (DIN: 00023046) resigned from the position of Non-
Executive Independent Director of MVIL, effective from the 
closure of business hours on August 08, 2022. The MVIL 
Board places on record its appreciation for his valuable 
contributions during his association with MVIL. 
BOARD MEETINGS 
The Board of Directors of your Company met 16 
(Sixteen) times i.e. on April 18, 2022, May 16, 2022, 
June 3, 2022, June 17, 2022, June 28, 2022, July 6, 
2022, August 5, 2022, September 6, 2022, September 
22, 2022, November 9, 2022, November 17, 2022, 
November 21, 2022, February 1, 2023, February 
3, 2023, March 17, 2023 and March 27, 2023. The 
details of attendance of the Directors in the aforesaid 
meetings are mentioned below:  
Sl. 
No. Date of Meeting
No. of 
Directors 
entitled 
to attend
No. of 
Directors 
attended
1.
April 18, 2022
3
3
2.
May 16, 2022
3
3
3.
June 3, 2022
3
3
4.
June 17, 2022
3
3
5.
June 28, 2022
3
3
6.
July 6, 2022
3
3
7.
August 5, 2022
3
3
8.
September 6, 2022
3
3
9.
September 22, 2022
3
3
10.
November 9, 2022
3
3
11.
November 17, 2022
3
3
12.
November 21, 2022
3
3
13.
February 1, 2023
3
3
14.
February 3, 2023
3
3
15.
March 17, 2023 
3
2
16.
March 27, 2023
3
3
The detail of the Directors attending the numbers of 
the meeting are as follows:
Name of 
Directors
Designation
Board Meetings
Held 
during 
tenure
Attended
Mr. Rishi Raj
Whole time 
Director
16
15
Mr. Kishansingh 
Ramsinghaney
Director
16
16
Mr. Bishwajit Das Director
16
16
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023:
The Board of Directors of MVIL met 6 (Six) times 
during FY 2023. 
The details of meetings and the attendance of 
directors of MVIL are provided in the Corporate 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 67
Strategic Review
Governance Report which forms part of this Annual 
report.
STATEMENT OF DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS
During FY 2023, your Company was not obligated to appoint 
the Independent Directors.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: During 
the year under review, in terms of Section 149(6) of the 
Act and Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, MVIL 
received declaration of independence from all Independent 
Directors namely, Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal, Mr. Niten 
Malhan, Mr. Kummamuri Narasimha Murthy and Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan. 
During the year under review, Mr. Kummamuri Narasimha 
Murthy (DIN: 00023046) resigned from the position of Non-
Executive Independent Director of MVIL, effective from the 
closure of business hours on August 08, 2022.
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent Directors fulfil 
the conditions of independence specified in Section 149(6) 
of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations. 
The Independent Directors have also confirmed that they 
have complied with the Company’s Code of Conduct and 
the inlaid policies and applicable laws.
KEY MANAGERIAL Personnels 
As at March 31, 2023, following were the Key Managerial 
Personnel of your Company:
1.	
Mr. Rishi Raj, Whole-time Director
2.	
Mr. Nitin Kumar, Chief Financial Officer 
During FY 2023, Mr. Ankit Jain resigned from the position 
of Company Secretary of the Company, effective January 11, 
2023.
Subsequently, the Board appointed Mr. Abhishek Mishra 
as Company Secretary, effective from June 28, 2023. Mr. 
Mishra had also held the position of Company Secretary 
and Compliance Officer of MVIL, the holding company of 
the Company. 
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: As 
of March 31, 2023, in terms of provisions of Section 203 
of the Act, read with the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, Mr. 
Sahil Vachani - Managing Director and CEO, Mr. Nitin Kumar 
Kansal - Chief Financial Officer were the Key Managerial 
Personnel of MVIL. In addition, Mr. Ankit Jain was appointed 
as Company Secretary and Compliance Officer effective 
May 16, 2022, and ceased to be the Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer effective from January 11, 2023. 
Subsequently, the MVIL’s Board appointed Mr. Abhishek 
Mishra as the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer, 
effective from May 19, 2023. 
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
During FY 2023, your Company was not required to 
constitute any committee of Board of Directors in terms of 
provisions of the Act and the Rules made there under.
However, post effectiveness of the Scheme, the Board of 
Directors, in its meeting held on July 31, 2023, constituted 
five (5) committees of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
These are Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, 
Stakeholder’s 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Investment & Finance Committee, and Risk Management 
and Sustainability Committee. These committees have been 
established in alignment with best Corporate Governance 
practices and comply with the requirements of the relevant 
provisions of applicable laws and statutes.  
The Composition of other committees are as under: 
Committee
Members
Audit Committee
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal 
(Chairman)
Mr. Niten Malhan
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan 
(Chairperson)
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Mr. Analjit Singh
Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal 
(Chairman)
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Risk Management 
and Sustainability 
Committee
Mr. Niten Malhan 
(Chairman)
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal
Mr. Rishi Raj
Investment & Finance 
Committee
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal 
(Chairman)
Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Mr. Niten Malhan
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: As at 
68 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
March 31, 2023, there were 5 (Five) Committees of Board 
of Directors in MVIL viz. Audit Committee, Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, Stakeholder’s Relationship 
Committee, Investment & Finance Committee and Risk 
Management and Sustainability Committee. A detailed 
note on Board and Committees composition, its terms of 
references and the meetings held during FY 2023 has been 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report which forms 
part of this Annual Report. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 177 of the Act, as at 
March 31, 2023, the Audit Committee of MVIL comprises of 
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal, Chairman, Mr. Niten Malhan and 
Mr. Sahil Vachani, and all the recommendations made by 
Audit Committee were accepted by the Board of Directors. 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS’ MEETING
During FY 2023, your Company was not required to appoint 
an Independent Director in terms of provisions of the Act 
and the Rules made there under. Therefore, the requirement 
of having a separate meeting of Independent Directors was 
not applicable.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: During 
the year under the review, the Independent Directors met 
on April 18, 2022 and May 16, 2022 inter-alia, to: 
• 
Review the performance of non-independent Directors 
and the Board as a whole;
• 
Review the performance of the Chairman of the 
Company, taking into account the views of executive 
Directors and non-executive Directors; and
• 
Assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the Company management and 
the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively 
and reasonably perform their duties.
Performance Evaluation of the Board
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
performance evaluation has been done in the Board Meeting 
of the Company, wherein the performance of the Board as 
a whole was discussed and evaluated. The key areas on 
which evaluation was done were attendance, contribution 
to deliberations, effective deployment of knowledge and 
expertise, providing inputs to the management, taking 
care of the stakeholder interests, the working of the Board. 
Overall, the performance of Board as a whole and Individual 
Directors after taking into consideration the suggestion of 
the members of the Board, was found satisfactory. 
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: The 
performance evaluation of the Board of MVIL as stipulated 
under the Listing Regulations and Section 134 of the Act 
read with Rule 8(4) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014, a formal annual evaluation has been carried out for 
evaluating the performance of the Board, the Committees 
of the Board and the Individual Directors including the 
Independent Directors and the Chairman.  
The performance evaluation was carried out by obtaining 
feedback from all Directors of MVIL through a confidential 
online survey mechanism through Diligent Boards which is a 
secured electronic medium through which MVIL interfaces 
with its Directors. The Directors were also provided an 
option to participate in physical mode. The outcome of this 
performance evaluation was placed before Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, Independent Directors’ 
Committee and the Board in their respective meeting for 
the consideration of members. 
The review concluded by affirming that the Board 
of MVIL as a whole as well as its Chairman, all of its 
members, individually and the Committees of the Board 
continued to display commitment to good governance 
by ensuring a constant improvement of processes and 
procedures and contributed their best in overall growth of 
the organization.
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION POLICY
As on March 31, 2023, the provisions of Section 134(3)(e) 
and 178 of the Act, were not applicable to the Company. 
However, post effectiveness of the Scheme, the Company 
has approved the Nomination & Remuneration Policy on 
July 31, 2023. The said Policy is available on our website at 
https://maxestates.in/investors/.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: In terms 
of the provisions of Section 134(3)(e) and 178 of the Act, the 
Board of Directors of MVIL on the recommendation of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee have put in place a 
policy on Director’s appointment and remuneration including 
criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes, 
independence of a Director and other matters provided
Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the same policy was 
adopted by the Company in the Board Meeting held on July 
31, 2023 and available on the website at https://maxestates.
in/investors/.   
Annual Report 2022-23 | 69
Strategic Review
DISCLOSURE UNDER SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION & REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013 
During the FY 2023, the Company and MVIL has a requisite 
policy for the prevention, prohibition and redressal of 
Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace. This 
comprehensive policy ensures gender equality and the right 
to work with dignity. The Internal Complaints Committee 
(ICC) is in place for redressal of complaints received relating 
to sexual harassment. During FY 2023 and till the date of 
this report, no complaint pertaining to sexual harassment 
was received by ICC.
The requisite policy for the prevention, prohibition and 
redressal of Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace 
is available on the website of the Company at https://
maxestates.in/investors/.   
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES 
The details of loans, guarantees and investments of the 
Company are provided in Note No. 39 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements forming part of this Annual Report.
CONTRACTS 
OR 
ARRANGEMENTS 
WITH 
RELATED PARTIES
All transactions entered by the Company during FY 2023 
with related parties under the Act were in the ordinary 
course of business and on an arm’s length basis. No material 
RPTs were entered into during FY 2022-23. Accordingly, the 
disclosure of RPTs as required under Section 134(3)(h) of 
the Act in Form AOC 2 is not applicable.
The details of all related party transactions are provided 
in Note No. 38 to the Standalone Financial Statements 
attached to this Report. 
The Policy on materiality of related party transactions and 
dealing with related party transactions as approved by 
the Board may be accessed on the Company’s website at 
https://maxestates.in/investors/. 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Your Company considers that risk is an integral part of its 
business and therefore, it takes proper steps to manage 
all risks in a proactive and efficient manner. The Company 
management periodically assesses risks in the internal 
and external environment and incorporates suitable risk 
treatment processes in its strategy, business and operating 
plans. 
There are no risks which, in the opinion of the Board, 
threaten the very existence of your Company. However, 
some of the challenges faced by the Company and/or 
its key operating subsidiaries have been set out in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis Report forming part 
of this Annual Report.
VIGIL MECHANISM 
As on March 31, 2023, the provisions of vigil mechanism 
were not applicable to the Company.
Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the Board of Directors of 
the Company at their meeting held on July 31, 2023, adopted 
a vigil mechanism framework pursuant to which a Whistle 
Blower Policy (‘Policy’) has been adopted and the same is 
hosted at the Company’s website at https://maxestates.in/
investors/. 
It provides opportunity to the directors, stakeholders and 
employees to report in good faith about the unethical and 
improper practices, fraud or violation of Company’s Code of 
Conduct. The Policy also provides for adequate safeguard 
against victimization of the whistleblowers using such 
mechanism. The Policy also provides for direct access to 
the Chairperson of the Audit Committee in exceptional 
cases.  
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: During 
the FY 2023, MVIL has in place a vigil mechanism pursuant 
to which a Whistle Blower Policy (‘Policy’). It provides 
opportunity to the directors, stakeholders and employees 
to report in good faith about the unethical and improper 
practices, fraud or violation of Company’s Code of Conduct. 
The Policy also provides for adequate safeguard against 
victimization of the whistleblowers using such mechanism. 
The Policy also provides for direct access to the Chairperson 
of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases, and no person 
was denied access to the Audit Committee on matters 
relating to the Policy during FY 2023.
HUMAN RESOURCES
As on March 31, 2023, the information required under 
Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(1) and Rule 
5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 was not applicable to 
the Company. 
70 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: The 
information required under Section 197(12) of the Act read 
with Rule 5(1) and Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as 
amended from time to time, is given in ‘Annexure-3’.
PARTICULARS OF CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION 
& 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE EARNING AND OUTGO
The information on the conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings & outgo for the 
Company and MVIL as stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) 
of the Act read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is 
as follows:
a) 	 Conservation of Energy 
(i)	 the steps taken or impact on conservation of 
energy 
	
Regular efforts are made to conserve the energy 
through various means such as use of low energy 
consuming lightings, etc. 
(ii)	 the steps taken by the Company for using alternate 
sources of energy 
	
Since your Company is not an energy intensive 
unit, utilization of alternate source of energy may 
not be feasible. 
(iii)	 Capital 
investment 
on 
energy 
conservation 
equipment: Nil
b) 	 Technology Absorption 
	
Your Company is not engaged in manufacturing 
activities therefore, there is no specific information to 
be furnished in this regard. 
	
There 
was 
no 
expenditure 
on 
Research 
and 
Development during FY 2023.
c) 	 Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo 
	
The foreign exchange earnings and outgo during FY 
2023 are given below: 
	
Total Foreign Exchange earned :  NIL
	
Total Foreign Exchange outgo : INR 160.05 crore (also 
includes MVIL foreign exchange outgo)
STATUTORY AUDITORS & AUDITORS’ REPORT 
Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 and other applicable 
provisions of the Act, M/s. K.K Mankeshwar & Co., 
Chartered Accountants (FRN–106009W) were re-appointed 
as Statutory Auditors of the Company for a second tenure 
of five years at 6th AGM held on September 26, 2022 to 
hold office till the conclusion of the ensuing 11th AGM of the 
Company to be held in the year 2027 (Financial Year from 
2022-23 to 2026-27).  During FY 2023, M/s. K.K Mankeshwar 
& Co., Chartered Accountants, has tendered the resignation 
effective from March 24, 2023. 
Further, the Members of the Company at their Extra 
Ordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) held on March 27, 2023, 
appointed M/s. S.R. Batliboi & Co Chartered Accountants 
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 301003e/e300005) as the 
Statutory Auditors of the Company to fill the casual vacancy 
caused by the resignation of K.K. Mankeshwar, till the 
conclusion of the ensuing AGM of the Company to be held 
in this year 2023, for carrying out the audit for FY 2022-23. 
In view of the above, the Board of Directors of the Company 
at their meeting held on November 7, 2023 recommended 
the re-appointment of M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Co. LLP as 
Statutory Auditors of the Company for a further period of 
four years commencing from the conclusion of the ensuing 
AGM till the conclusion of the 11th AGM of the Company 
to be held in the year 2027. The Company has received a 
certificate from M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Co. LLP, to the effect 
that they are eligible for appointment as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
The Auditors Report annexed with this Annual Report, 
does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse 
remarks.
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS AND SECRETARIAL 
AUDIT REPORT
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company and MVIL 
appointed M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Company 
Secretaries to undertake the Secretarial Audit of the 
Company and MVIL. The Report of the Secretarial Auditor of 
the Company and MVIL has been annexed as ‘Annexure-4’ 
and ‘Annexure 4A’ respectively to this Report.
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks 
or disclaimers given by the Secretarial Auditors in their 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 71
Strategic Review
Report for the year under review and hence, does not call 
for any further comments.
Further, Max Towers Private Limited, the material subsidiary 
of the Company, has also undergone Secretarial Audit as 
per Section 204 of the Act and Regulation 24A of the Listing 
Regulations.
Accordingly, the Secretarial Audit Report for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2023 of Max Towers Private Limited 
issued by M/s Raghav Bansal & Associates, Practicing 
Company Secretaries, is attached as Annexure-4B. The 
said report is self-explanatory and do not contain any 
qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks or disclaimers.
INTERNAL AUDITORS
During FY 2023, M/s. MGC Global Risk Advisory LLP, 
Chartered Accountants were appointed as Internal Auditors 
of the Company and MVIL.
COST RECORDS
During FY 2023, the Company maintained the cost 
records pursuant to the provisions of section 148(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and rules made thereunder.  
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
The Company has in place adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Financial Statements. During FY 
2023, such controls were tested and no reportable material 
weaknesses in the design or operation effectiveness were 
observed. 
In addition, Statutory Auditors in their report also confirmed 
the adequacy and operational effectiveness of its internal 
control over financial reporting (as defined in Section 143 of 
the Act) as on March 31, 2023.
In the opinion of the Board, the existing internal control 
framework is adequate and commensurate with the size 
and nature of the business of the Company.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: During 
FY 2023, The Company had in place adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Financial Statements. 
During FY 2023, such controls were tested and no 
reportable material weaknesses in the design or operation 
effectiveness were observed. 
During the year under review, there were no instances of 
fraud reported by the auditors to the Audit Committee or 
the Board of Directors.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The provision under section 135 of the Act, w.r.t constitution 
of CSR Committee and contribution towards CSR activities 
were not applicable to the Company. Accordingly, the 
requirement for submission of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report, pursuant to clause (o) of Sub-Section 
(3) of Section 134 of the Act and Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014 were not 
applicable to the Company.
However, post effectiveness of the Scheme, in terms of the 
provisions of Section 135 of the Act, read with Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, the 
Board of Directors of the company at their meeting held on 
July 31, 2023 approved a CSR policy which is available at the 
website of the Company at https://maxestates.in/investors/.
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: The 
Annual Report on CSR Activities of the Company for MVIL 
for FY 2023 is enclosed as ‘Annexure–5’ to this Report, 
which is self-explanatory.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
Report In terms of Clause 34(2)(f) of the Listing Regulations, 
2015, a Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report, on 
various initiatives taken by the Company, is enclosed to this 
report as ‘Annexure–6’.
PUBLIC DEPOSITS
During FY 2023, the Company and MVIL have not accepted 
or renewed any deposits from the public.
COMPLIANCE OF SECRETARIAL STANDARDS 
During FY 2023, the Company and MVIL complied with 
the applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 118 of the Companies Act, 2013.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
In terms of Section 134(3)(c) of the Act and to the best of 
their knowledge and belief, and according to the information 
and explanation provided to them, your Directors hereby 
confirm that: 
a.	
in preparation of the Financial Statements, the 
72 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
along with proper explanations relating to material 
departures; 
b.	
such accounting policies have been selected and 
applied consistently and judgments and estimates 
made that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
as on March 31, 2023 and of the profit of the Company 
for year ended on that date; 
c.	
proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance 
of 
adequate 
accounting 
records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities;
d.	
the financial statements have been prepared on going 
concern basis; 
e.	
proper internal financial controls were in place and 
that such financial controls were adequate and were 
operating effectively; and 
f.	
the systems to ensure compliance with the provisions 
of all applicable laws were in place and were adequate 
and operating effectively
UNCLAIMED SHARES 
Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the Company allotted 
the equal number of shares appearing under ‘Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited– Unclaimed Suspense Account” 
as well as shares previously held by the shareholders in 
physical form in MVIL as on Record Date (August 11, 2023), 
to the Company’s “Unclaimed Securities-Suspense Escrow 
Account” with the nomenclature of ‘Max Estates Limited - 
Unclaimed Securities - Suspense Escrow account ’.    
Update with respect to MVIL during the FY 2023: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 39 of the Listing 
Regulations, MVIL has transferred the unclaimed equity 
shares on July 18, 2017 in the Demat Account titled as ‘Max 
Ventures and Industries Limited– Unclaimed Suspense 
Account’. The equity shares transferred to said Unclaimed 
Suspense Account belong to the members who have not 
claimed their Share Certificates pertaining to the equity 
shares of the Face Value of INR 10/- (Rupees Ten only) each. 
The details of equity shares of MVIL held in the Unclaimed 
Suspense Account have been provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report which forms part of this Annual Report.
SIGNIFICANT 
AND/OR 
MATERIAL 
ORDERS 
PASSED BY REGULATORS OR THE COURTS 
Please refer to the section of this report tilted “Update on 
Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement 
between Max Ventures & Industries Limited and Max 
Estates Limited and their respective shareholders and 
creditors”.
Except as described above there is no other significant 
and material orders passed by the regulators or courts or 
tribunals that could impact the going concern status or 
company’s operations in future.
Other Disclosures
• 
Details of application made or any proceedings 
pending under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 during the year along with their status 
as at the end of the financial year: 
During the FY 2023, an insolvency petition was filed 
by one Sanjiv Bhayana(“Applicant”) before NCLT, 
Chandigarh, alleging that Max Estates Ltd.(“Company”) 
owed INR 361.08 Lakhs to him on account of brokerage 
fee payable by Company for purchase of certain 
property. The Company has already responded to 
said Insolvency petition by filing an appropriate reply 
based on facts and merits of the matter and the claim 
of Applicant has been denied on account of lack of any 
Contractual obligation to pay any brokerage on part of 
Company and further false averments relied upon by 
the Applicant have also been refuted by the Company 
in course of its reply. Matter is presently pending before 
the Hon’ble Tribunal with next date of hearing been 
24.11.2023. The Company has been informed by its 
counsels that it has a prima facie good chance of being 
able to defend itself in the said matter.
• 
The details of difference between amount of the 
valuation done at the time of one-time settlement 
and the valuation done while taking loan from the 
Banks or Financial Institutions along with reasons 
thereof: 
During the year under review, the company has not 
entered into any one time settlement with Banks or 
Financial Institutions, therefore, there was no reportable 
instance of difference in amount of the valuation.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 73
Strategic Review
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For MAX ESTATES LIMITED
November 7, 2023	
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Managing Director and CEO
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal 
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
Statements in this Report, particularly those which relate 
to Management Discussion and Analysis describing 
the Company’s objectives, projections, estimates and 
expectations may constitute “forward looking statements” 
within the meaning of applicable laws and regulations. 
Actual results might differ materially from those either 
expressed or implied in the statement depending on the 
circumstances.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
Your Directors would like to place on record their sincere 
appreciation for the continued co-operation and contribution 
made by its management and employees towards the 
growth of the Company. Your Directors acknowledge with 
thanks the co-operation and assistance received from 
various agencies of the Central and State Governments, 
local authorities, Financial Institutions and Banks, valued 
Customers, Suppliers, Vendors, Shareholders and all other 
business associates.
74 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Annexure – 1
Note: The details under form AOC-1 were drafted in line with the earlier approval by the Board of Max Ventures and Industries Limited in its 
meeting held on May 19, 2023, and further modified by making suitable changes with respect to the effectiveness of the Composite Scheme 
of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst Max Ventures and Industries Limited (ceased to exist and merged with the Company effective 
from July 31, 2023) and the Company and their respective shareholders and creditors, and annexed to the Board’s Report of the Company 
for shareholders information and for better Corporate Governance post approval by the Board of the Company on November 7, 2023.
Form AOC-1
[Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries or associate companies or joint 
ventures
Part A - Subsidiaries
(Amount in Lakhs)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Max I. 
Limited
Max Asset 
Services 
Limited
Max Towers 
Private 
Limited
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
Max Square 
Limited
Max Estates 
128 Private 
Limited
Max Estates 
Gurgaon 
Limited
Acreage 
Builders 
Private 
Limited
1.
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if 
different from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period.
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
Date of Acquisition 
of Control/Date of 
Incorporation 
31-07-2023* 31-07-2023* 29-04-2017
25-11-2019 24-06-2019
17-06-2022 05-09-2022
27-10-2022
3.
Reporting currency 
and Exchange rate 
as on the last date 
of the relevant 
Financial year in 
the case of foreign 
subsidiaries
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
4.
Share capital
5.00
205.00
6506.00
473.89
11,000.96
965.20
10.00
54.48
5.
Reserves & Surplus 
38.10
(2,090.43)
1,885.62
751.89
(204.21)
(188.18)
(0.71)
20,330.01
6.
Total Assets
291.78
8,608.55
44,919.25
11,012.47
51,311.83
16,185.41
5,186.00
25,427.39
7.
Total Liabilities
291.78
8,608.55
44,919.25
11,012.47
51,311.83
16,185.41
5,186.00
25,427.39
8.
Investments  
270.12
4,445.13
-
-
-
448.95
0.00
-
9.
Turnover 
1.78
3,794.57
3,591.68
754.34
-
-
38.23
-
10. Profit before 
taxation
(6.51)
133.59
450.42
218.91
(111.80)
(138.42)
(0.71)
(5.24)
11.
Provision for 
taxation
(1.73)
39.01
140.01
(78.71)
-
(138.42)
(0.71)
-
12. Profit after taxation
(4.78)
94.58
310.41
297.62
(111.80)
(138.42)
(0.71)
(5.24)
13. Other 
Comprehensive 
Income
-
(0.37)
-
-
-
-
-
-
14. Total 
Comprehensive 
income
-
(0.37)
310.41
-
-
-
-
-
15. Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
16. % of shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
51%
100%
100%
100%
Annual Report 2022-23 | 75
Strategic Review
*Effective date of Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement between Max Ventures and Industries Limited and 
Max Estates Limited.
1.	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Not Applicable 
2.	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Not Applicable
Note:	
a)	 Reserves and Surplus includes security premium but does not include equity component of any security.
b)	 Turnover also includes other income. 
c)	
The Company purchased the entire equity share capital of Accord Hotels and Resorts Private Limited on June 17, 2022, 
and subsequently changed its name to Max Estates 128 Private Limited.
d)	 Max Estates Gurgaon Limited as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company was incorporated on September 5, 2022.
e)	 On February 2, 2023, Acreage Builders Private Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On April 13, 
2023, the Company sold 49 per cent of the equity shares of Acreage Builders Private Limited to New York Life Insurance 
Company, making it a subsidiary of the Company. 
PART – B – Not Applicable since there are no associates or joint ventures of the company.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
Sahil Vachani
Managing Director and CEO 
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000 
November 7, 2023
Noida
Abhishek Mishra
Company Secretary 
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Chief Financial Officer
76 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
MVIL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (‘MVIL’) is committed 
towards maintaining the highest standards of Corporate 
Governance and recognizes that in today’s environment, 
it is a critical driver for achieving excellence, attracting 
high-quality talent and optimising capital allocation across 
all business verticals. MVIL believes that appropriate 
disclosure procedures, transparent accounting policies, 
strong and independent Board practices and highest levels 
of ethical standards are critical to enhance and retain all 
stakeholders’ trust and generate sustainable corporate 
growth. It is the conviction with which MVIL has set in place 
systems, procedures and standards that are promoting 
good corporate governance standards.
To ensure strong discipline in capital management, 
robust performance management of the businesses and 
sustained value creation across all stakeholders, MVIL has 
implemented a comprehensive governance framework 
for itself and its subsidiaries. The framework entails 
implementation of various transformational initiatives 
across three key facets of governance:
• 
Board Architecture 
The Board in each of the operating companies stand 
re-configured to create the right composition with 
an ideal number of independent directors, ensuring 
board diversity with respect to functional and industry 
expertise, having active and engaged lead directors on 
each Board and separating the role of the CEO and the 
Chairman. In addition, a clear role for the Board has 
been articulated on areas like strategy formulation, 
monitoring financial health, leadership development, 
risk management and succession planning.
• 
Board Processes 
Various people processes of the Board have been 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
optimized (viz. on-boarding of directors, Board 
education 
and 
business 
engagement, 
enabling 
independence, adherence to code of conduct etc.). Key 
operational aspects such as ensuring a comprehensive 
and well-balanced meeting agenda, timely and 
adequate information flow to the Board, inviting 
external participants to take Board sessions are in 
place to ensure that the Board time is spent optimally 
on all critical areas of the business. 
All material matters to be considered by the Board are 
reviewed in specific committees of the Board that are 
composed of the right balance between executive, 
non-executive and independent Directors who add 
value to and are specifically qualified for the particular 
committee. Detailed charters are published for every 
committee of the Board.
• 
Board Effectiveness
To enhance ‘Board Effectiveness’ and assess the 
Board’s performance, an annual evaluation of Board 
Members is conducted and inter-company Board 
movements to be effected to ensure that the Board is 
well-equipped and engaged to take the right decisions 
for the business. In addition, various mechanisms have 
been implemented to improve the performance of the 
Board, which involves establishing clear standards 
of conduct & behaviour, setting a calendar of key 
governance interventions like strategy setting sessions, 
risk management sessions, consequence management 
etc.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
As at March 31, 2023, MVIL Board comprises of 6 (Six) 
members comprising 1 (One) Executive Director and 5 
(five) Non-Executive Directors of which 3 (Three) were 
Independent Directors. Mr. Analjit Singh, Chairman of the 
Company is a Promoter, Non- Executive Director.  
Note: As on March 31, 2023, the Company being the unlisted Company was not mandated to meet the Corporate Governance requirements 
as specified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India under Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirement) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as “Listing Regulations”). The details under this ‘Corporate Governance Report’ 
were approved by the Board of Max Ventures and Industries Limited (ceased to exist and merged with the Company effective from July 
31, 2023) in its meeting held on May 19, 2023, and further modified by making suitable changes with respect to the effectiveness of the 
Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst Max Ventures and Industries Limited and the Company and their respective 
shareholders and creditors, and annexed to the Board’s Report of the Company for more transparency and for better Corporate Governance 
post approval by the Board of the Company on November 7, 2023.
Annexure – 2
Annual Report 2022-23 | 77
Strategic Review
Name of Director
Number of Board 
meetings during FY 
2023
Atten-
dance at
last AGM 
held on 
August 25, 
2022
Number of 
Directorships 
in other 
Companies as 
at March 31, 
2023*
Number of committee 
positions held in other 
public companies as at 
March 31, 2023**
Held 
during 
tenure
Attended
Chairman
Member
Mr. Analjit Singh 
[Promoter, Non-Executive Director 
& Chairman]
6
6
Yes
11
-
-
Mr. Sahil Vachani
[Managing Director and CEO]
6
6
Yes
17
1
-
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
[Independent Non-Executive 
Director]
6
6
Yes
11
3
4
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy@
[Independent Non-Executive 
Director]
3
3
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
[Independent Non-Executive 
Director]
6
5
Yes
2
-
1
Mr. Niten Malhan
[Independent Non-Executive 
Director]
6
6
Yes
4
1
-
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai
[Non-Executive Director]
6
6
No
3
-
-
* 	
Excluding Foreign Companies and Companies formed under Section 8 of the Act.
** 	 Represents Memberships/Chairmanships of Audit Committee & Stakeholders Relationship Committee of Indian Public 
Limited Companies other than companies formed under Section 8 of the Act.
@   Resigned from the position of Non-Executive Independent Director effective August 08, 2022.
In terms of Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and SEBI 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, (“Listing Regulations”) the Company 
has received declaration from Independent Directors 
confirming their independence from the Management. Also, 
the Board has evaluated the independence of Directors and 
opines that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions 
specified in Listing Regulations and are independent of the 
Management.
During the FY 2023, Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy resigned from 
the position of Independent Director of MVIL effective from 
end of business hours on August 08, 2023, due to other 
professional commitments. The Board appreciates the 
guidance and support provided by him during his tenure.
As at March 31, 2023, none of the Directors was a member 
in more than ten committees, or the Chairman of more 
than five committees, across all public limited companies 
in which he/she is a Director. Mr. Sahil Vachani is a relative 
of Mr. Analjit Singh. Further, none of the other directors are 
related inter-se. 
The composition of Directors and their attendance at 
the Board meeting held during the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023 (“FY 2023”) and at the last Annual General 
Meeting, including the details of their other Directorships 
and Committee Memberships as on March 31, 2023 are 
given below:
78 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Further, names of the other listed entities where the 
directors of MVIL are director as on March 31, 2023 and the 
category of directorship is as follows:
Name of 
Director
Name of other 
listed entity
Category of 
directorship
Mr. Analjit 
Singh
Max Financial 
Services Limited
Max India Limited 
Promoter, Non-
Executive Chairman
Promoter, Non-
Executive Chairman
Mr. D. K. Mittal
Balrampur Chini 
Mills Limited
Max Financial 
Services Limited
Bharti Airtel 
Limited
Trident Limited
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Mr. Niten 
Malhan
Max India Limited 
Lemon Tree Hotels 
Limited
Independent 
Director
Independent 
Director
Mr. Sahil 
Vachani
Max Financial 
Services Limited
Non-Executive, 
Non Independent 
Director
Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan
Max Financial 
Services Limited
Independent 
Director
Mr. Ka Luk 
Stanley Tai
Nil
N.A.
Details of Board Meetings held during FY 2023:
6 (Six) Board meetings were held during FY 2023, details of 
which are as under:
S. 
No
Date
Board 
Strength
No. of 
Directors 
Present
1.
April 18, 2022
7
7
2.
May 16, 2022
7
6
3.
August 5, 2022
7
7
4.
November 9, 2022
6
6
5.
February 3, 2023
6
6
6.
March 28, 2023
6
6
INTERSE RELATIONSHIP AMONG DIRECTORS
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director and CEO of MVIL is 
son-in-law of Mr. Analjit Singh, Chairman of the Board and 
Promoter of MVIL. Apart from them, no other directors are 
related to each other.
SHAREHOLDING OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Details of shares held by Non-Executive Directors of MVIL 
as on March 31, 2023 are as under:
S. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of equity shares
of INR 10/- each
1
Mr. Analjit Singh
41,41,481
2
Mr. D. K. Mittal
5,865 
3
Mr. Niten Malhan
Nil
4
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai
Nil
5
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Nil
How do MVIL make sure our board is effective?
The calendar for the Board and Committee meetings are 
fixed in advance for the whole year, along with significant 
agenda items. At least one Board meeting is held within 
45 days from the close of each quarter (within 60 days for 
last quarter of financial year) to review financial results 
and business performance and the gap between two 
consecutive Board meetings does not exceed 120 (one 
hundred and twenty days), as required by law. Matters 
of exigency are also approved by the Directors through 
resolutions passed by circulation as permissible under the 
provisions of the Act and Secretarial Standards on meetings 
of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and the same are also duly 
noted in the next meeting.
Generally, meetings of Committees of Board are held prior 
to the Board meeting. The Chairperson of the respective 
Committee briefs the Board about the proceedings of the 
Committee meeting and its recommendations on matters 
that the Board needs to consider and approve.
All agenda items are accompanied by comprehensive notes 
and annexures on the related subject; and in certain areas 
such as business plans/ business reviews and financial 
results, detailed presentations are made to the Board 
members. The material for the Board and Committee 
meetings is generally published seven days in advance 
through e-mail and/or electronically in a secured dedicated 
portal. The Board is regularly updated on the key risks and 
the steps and process initiated for reducing and, if feasible 
eliminating various risks. Business risk evaluation and 
management is an ongoing process with MVIL.
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities 
effectively, members of the Board are apprised on the 
overall performance of MVIL and its subsidiaries at every 
Board meeting. The Board has complete access to all the 
relevant information within MVIL. Senior Management is 
invited to attend the Board/ Committee meetings to provide 
detailed insight into the items being discussed.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 79
Strategic Review
Key Board qualifications, expertise and attributes
MVIL Board comprises of qualified members who bring in 
the required skills, competence and expertise that allow 
them to make effective contribution to the Board and its 
committees. The Board members are committed to ensuring 
that MVIL is in compliance with the highest standards of 
corporate governance.  
In terms of the requirement of the SEBI (LODR) Listing 
Regulations, the Board has identified the following core 
skills/expertise/ competencies of the Directors for effective 
functioning of MVIL in the context of MVIL’s business:
1.	
Corporate governance - Maintaining Board and 
management accountability, protecting shareholder 
interests, and observing appropriate governance 
practices.
2.	
Leadership - Leadership experience in developing 
talent, planning succession, and driving change and 
long-term growth. Practical understanding of managing 
organizations, processes, strategic planning, and risk 
management. 
3.	
Strategic thinking - Forming strategies to analyze the 
marketplace and identify opportunities to stimulate 
growth, considering the impact of key decisions, offer 
contingency plans and risk mitigation, bearing in mind 
the stakeholders’ best interests.
4.	
Diversity 
- 
Representation 
of 
gender, 
ethnic, 
geographic, cultural, or other perspectives that expand 
the Board’s understanding of the needs and viewpoints 
of our customers, partners, employees, governments, 
and other stakeholders worldwide.
5.	
Financial acumen - Proficiency in financial management, 
financial reporting processes, or experience in actively 
supervising the finance function.
6.	
Business 
Growth 
- 
Identifying 
market 
trends, 
developing strategies for growth of business. Building 
brand awareness and equity and enhancing enterprise 
reputation. Ability to assess investment or acquisition 
decisions, evaluation of operational integration plans.
7.	
Merger and acquisitions - Experience in acquisitions 
and other business combinations, with the ability to 
assess ‘build and buy’ decision, accurately valuing the 
transactions and evaluating the operational integration 
plans.
Mr. Analjit Singh, Mr. Sahil Vachani, Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai 
and Mr. D. K. Mittal possess all the aforementioned skills/
expertise/competencies. Further, Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan 
possesses skills specified in serial no. 1, 2 and 4, and Mr. 
Niten Malhan possesses skills specified in serial no. 1, 3, 6 
and 7 above. The brief profile of directors, forming part of 
this Annual Report to provide an insight into the education, 
expertise, skills and experience of the Directors.
Code of Conduct
In compliance with Regulation 26(3) of Listing Regulations, 
During the FY 2023, MVIL has in place Code of Conduct for 
the Directors and Senior Management (‘the Code’). 
Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the MVIL ceased to 
exist and merged with MEL effective from July 31, 2023 and 
therefore, MEL has adopted the similar Code of Conduct 
for Directors and Senior Management in its meeting of 
the Board of Directors held on July 31, 2023 and the same 
is  available on the MEL’s website https://maxestates.in/
wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Code-of-Conduct-
Directors-and-Sr.-Management-1.pdf. 
All the members of the Board of Directors and senior 
management personnel of MVIL had affirmed compliance 
with above mentioned Regulation including Code for FY 
2023 and declaration to this effect signed by the Managing 
Director and CEO forms part of this report as Annexure-I.
Pursuant to the requirements of the SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 as amended, MVIL has 
also adopted a Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and 
Report trading by insiders, for prevention of insider trading, 
which is applicable to all the Directors, Designated Persons 
and Connected Persons of MVIL. Post effectiveness of the 
Scheme, the MVIL ceased to exist and merged with MEL 
effective from July 31, 2023 and therefore, MEL has adopted 
the similar Code of Conduct in its meeting of the Board of 
Directors held on July 31, 2023 and the same is  available 
on the MEL’s website at https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/MEL-Code-of-Conduct-to-Regulate-
Monitor-and-Report-Trading-by-Insiders.pdf. 
 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
AUDIT COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2023, the Audit Committee of MVIL 
comprised of Mr. D. K. Mittal (Chairman), Mr. Niten Malhan 
and Mr. Sahil Vachani. Pursuant to the resignation of Mr. 
80 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
K. Narasimha Murthy as Non-Executive Independent 
Director, he ceased to be a member of Audit Committee 
effective August 08, 2022. The members of the Committee, 
except Mr. Sahil Vachani, are Independent Directors. All 
members of the Committee possess requisite accounting 
and financial knowledge. The Chairman of the Committee 
has accounting and financial management expertise. The 
Company Secretary of MVIL acts as the Secretary to this 
Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been 
defined by the Board of Directors in accordance with 
Regulation 18 and Part C of Schedule II of the Listing 
Regulations and applicable provisions of the Act. This 
Committee, inter-alia, recommends appointment and 
remuneration of statutory auditors, secretarial auditors, 
internal auditors, reviews Company’s financial reporting 
processes & systems and internal financial controls, financial 
and risk management policies, related party transactions, 
significant transactions and arrangements entered into by 
unlisted subsidiaries, review of inter-corporate loans and 
investments, review the statement of uses / application 
of funds raised through preferential issue, MVIL’s financial 
statements, including annual and quarterly financial results 
and financial accounting practices & policies and reviews 
the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism.
The representatives of Internal Auditors and Statutory 
Auditors were invited to the meetings of the Committee, as 
and when required. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
was present at the last Annual General Meeting of MVIL to 
answer the shareholder queries.
Meetings & attendance during FY 2023
The Committee met 6 (Six) times during FY 2023 on April 
18, 2022, May 16, 2022, August 5, 2022, November 9, 
2022, February 2, 2023 and March 28, 2023. The details of 
attendance of Directors at the meetings are as under:
Name of Director
Number of 
meetings 
held during 
tenure
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. D. K. Mittal
6
6
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy
3
3
Mr. Niten Malhan
6
6
Mr. Sahil Vachani
6
6
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2023, the Committee comprised of Ms. 
Gauri Padmanabhan (Chairperson), Mr. D. K. Mittal, and 
Mr. Analjit Singh. Pursuant to the resignation of Mr. K. 
Narasimha Murthy as Non-Executive Independent Director, 
he ceased to be a member of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee effective August 08, 2022. All the members of 
the Committee, except Mr. Analjit Singh, are Independent 
Directors. The Company Secretary of MVIL acts as the 
Secretary to this Committee.
During the FY 2023, the Committee was reconstituted and 
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan was appointed as Chairperson of 
the Committee effective August 23, 2022 through circulation.
The scope including terms of reference of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee has been defined by the Board 
of Directors in accordance with Regulation 19 and Part D 
of Schedule II to the Listing Regulations and applicable 
provisions of the Act. This Committee, inter-alia, evaluates 
the compensation and benefits for Executive Directors and 
Senior Executives at one level below the Board, recruitment 
of key managerial personnel and finalisation of their 
compensation, induction of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors and fixing the method, criteria and quantum of 
compensation to be paid to the Non- Executive Directors 
and formulate the criteria for evaluation of independent 
directors and the Board. The details of annual evaluation 
of the performance of the Board, its committees and of 
individual directors have been disclosed in the Board’s 
Report. It also administers the (a) ESOP Scheme(s) of MVIL 
including allotment of equity shares arising from exercise 
of stock options; and (b) Phantom Stock Scheme of the 
Company.  
The remuneration policy of MVIL is aimed at attracting 
and retaining the best talent to leverage performance 
in a significant manner. The strategy takes into account, 
the remuneration trends, talent market and competitive 
requirements. Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the MVIL 
ceased to exist and merged with MEL effective from July 31, 
2023 and therefore, MEL has adopted the similar policy in 
its meeting of the Board of Directors held on July 31, 2023 
and the same is  available on the MEL’s website at www.
maxestates.in.
Meetings & attendance during FY 2023:
The Committee met thrice during FY 2023 on May 16, 2022, 
November 9, 2022 and February 2, 2023. The details of 
attendance of Directors at the meetings are as under:
Annual Report 2022-23 | 81
Strategic Review
Name of Director
Number of 
meetings 
held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy
1
1
Mr. D. K. Mittal
3
3
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
3
2
Mr. Analjit Singh
3
Nil
Performance 
evaluation 
criteria 
for 
Independent 
Directors
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act and 
Regulation 17(10) of the Listing Regulations, the performance 
evaluation of Independent Directors was done by the 
entire Board of Directors of MVIL and in the evaluation 
the directors, who were subject to evaluation had not 
participated. The evaluation of Independent Directors was 
based on criteria such as current knowledge of the MVIL’s 
business sector & trends; understanding of the MVIL’s 
business, its subsidiaries, operational structure and key 
risks; meaningful & constructive contribution in meetings, 
guidance to the management etc.
Criteria of making payments to Non - Executive Directors 
MVIL pays sitting fees of INR 1,00,000/- per meeting to 
its Non-Executive Directors for attending the meetings 
of Board and Committees of the Board and separate 
meeting(s) of Independent Directors.  
The Company has not paid any remuneration to its Non-
Executive/ Independent Directors during FY 2023, except 
annual compensation of INR 2,25,00,000/- (Rupees Two 
Crores Twenty-Five Lakhs Only) to Mr. Analjit Singh, Non-
Executive Chairman of the Company in terms of applicable 
provisions of the Act and the sitting fees.
Remuneration paid to Directors during FY 2023
Details of the sitting fees paid to Non-Executive/ Independent 
Directors of the Company during FY 2023 are as under:
S. No. Name of the Director
Sitting Fee paid
(in INR)
1
Mr. Analjit Singh
6,00,000
2
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy*
11,00,000
3
Mr. D. K. Mittal
19,00,000
4
Mr. Niten Malhan
17,00,000
5
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
10,00,000
6
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai
N.A.
*   Resigned from the position of Non-Executive Independent 
Director effective August 8, 2022.
The remuneration payable/ paid to Executive Director of 
MVIL including performance incentives is determined from 
time to time by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
in terms of applicable provisions of the Act read with MVIL’s 
remuneration policy.  
Details of the remuneration charged to profit and loss 
account in respect of Mr. Sahil Vachani as Managing 
Director and CEO for FY 2023 is as under:
Description 
(Amount in INR)
Salary 
1,60,43,380
Benefits (Perquisites)
66,41,688
Performance Incentive/special 
payments
1,67,94,528
Retirals
9,37,240
Total
4,04,16,836
Service contract
5 years w.e.f. January 
15, 2021
HR Notice period
3 months
Stock options granted (in 
numbers)
N.A.
The severance fee, if any, shall be payable as per the 
provisions of the Act. The Variable Compensation / 
Performance Incentive shall be paid depending on the 
performance rating and MVIL’s performance within the 
limits approved by shareholders of MVIL.
MVIL did not have any pecuniary relationship or transactions 
with the Non-Executive Directors of MVIL other than 
payment of the sitting fees for attending meetings. Further, 
during FY 2023, none of the directors of MVIL were granted 
/ held any outstanding stock options under the Max 
Ventures and Industries Employee Stock Plan – 2016 or 
other convertible securities of MVIL. 
Details of equity shares held by Directors of MVIL as on 
March 31, 2023 are:
S. No. Name of the Director
No. of equity shares 
of INR 10/- each
1
Mr. Analjit Singh
41,41,481
2
Mr. D. K. Mittal
5,865 
3
Mr. Niten Malhan
Nil
4
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai
Nil
5
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Nil
6
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Nil
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE 
As at March 31, 2023, the Committee comprised of 
Mr. 
Dinesh 
Kumar 
Mittal 
(Chairman), 
Ms. 
Gauri 
Padmanabhan and Mr. Sahil Vachani. Key responsibilities 
of this Committee are formulation of procedures in line 
82 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
with the statutory guidelines to ensure speedy disposal of 
various requests received from shareholders from time to 
time, redressal of shareholders and investor complaints/
grievances. The scope of the Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee has been defined by the Board of Directors 
in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 20 read 
with Part D of Schedule II to the Listing Regulations. The 
Committee also approves the transfer and transmission 
of securities; issuance of duplicate certificates etc. The 
Company Secretary of MVIL acts as the Secretary to this 
Committee.
Further, Mr. Abhishek Mishra, Company Secretary is 
Compliance Officer of the Company under Listing Regulations.
Meetings & attendance during FY 2023
The Committee met once during FY 2023 on November 9, 
2022. All the Committee members except Mr. Sahil Vachani 
were present at the meeting. 
The Committee has delegated the authority to effect 
transfer, transmission and transposition of shares up to 1,000 
per folio and deletion and/or change of name of security 
holders, to the MD & CEO, CFO and Company Secretary 
/ Compliance Officer, and such transfers, transmissions 
and transpositions etc. are subsequently ratified in next 
meeting of the Committee. MVIL has normally attended to 
the Shareholders / Investors complaints within a period of 
7 (Seven) working days except in cases which were under 
legal proceedings/disputes.
During the FY 2023, no complaint was received from the 
shareholders. Further, there were no pending investor 
complaints as on March 31, 2023.   
INVESTMENT & FINANCE COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2023, the Committee comprised of Mr. 
D. K. Mittal, Mr. Niten Malhan and Mr. Sahil Vachani. The 
Chairman of the committee is elected by the members at 
the meeting. The responsibilities of this Committee are 
to review financial performance of businesses carried 
on by MVIL and its subsidiaries, review and recommend 
revenue and capital budgets of MVIL and its subsidiaries, 
review and recommend various fund raising options and 
financial resources allocation to MVIL’s subsidiaries and 
to review proposals on business restructuring, mergers, 
consolidations acquisitions, investments, establishment of 
joint ventures and divestments of any businesses, etc.
During FY 2023, Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy ceased to be 
member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation 
effective August 08, 2022. 
Meetings & attendance during FY 2023
The Committee met once during FY 2023 on April 18, 2022. 
All the Committee members were present in the meeting. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
During previous FY 2022, the Board of Directors of the 
Company in its meeting held on June 11, 2021 has dissolved the 
Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee and role 
of the CSR Committee is being discharged by the Board of 
Directors effective from that date. Accordingly, the Company 
does not have any CSR Committee as at March 31, 2023.
RISK MANAGEMENT & SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
As at March 31, 2023, the Committee comprised of Mr. 
Niten Malhan (Chairman), Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan, Mr. 
Sahil Vachani, Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal and Mr. Rishi Raj as 
its member. The Committee comprises of two independent 
directors, one executive director and 2 members of senior 
management.
During FY 2023 following changes took place in the 
composition of the Committee:
(i)	 Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy ceased to be member of the 
Committee pursuant to his resignation effective August 
08, 2022; and
(ii)	 Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan was appointed as member of 
the Committee effective September 22, 2022.
As on March 31, 2023, brief description of terms of reference 
of Risk Management & Sustainability Committee inter-alia 
includes the following:
1.	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy which 
shall include:
(a)	 A framework for identification of internal and 
external risks specifically faced by the listed 
entity, in particular including financial, operational, 
sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related 
risks), information, cyber security risks or any other 
risk as may be determined by the Committee.
(b)	 Measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks.
(c)	 Business continuity plan.
2.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 83
Strategic Review
and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks 
associated with the business of the Company;
3.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk 
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy 
of risk management systems;
4.	
To periodically review the risk management policy, at 
least once in two years, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity;
5.	
To keep the board of directors informed about the nature 
and content of its discussions, recommendations and 
actions to be taken;
6.	
The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration 
of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to 
review by the Risk Management Committee.
Meetings & attendance during FY 2023
The Committee met twice during FY 2023 on May 9, 
2022 and November 4, 2022. The details of attendance of 
Directors at the meetings are as under:
Name of Director
Number of 
meetings 
held
Number of 
meetings 
attended
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy
1
1
Mr. Niten Malhan
2
2
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
1
1
Mr. Sahil Vachani
2
Nil
Mr. Rishi Raj
2
2
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal
2
2
SEPARATE MEETING OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
The Independent directors of MVIL had a separate meeting 
on April 18, 2022 and May 16, 2022 during FY 2023 where 
the following agenda items were considered in terms 
of Schedule IV of the Act and provisions of the Listing 
Regulations: 
(a)	 Evaluation of the performance of Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole;
(b)	 Evaluation of the performance of Chairman of MVIL; 
and
(c)	 Assessment of the quality, quantity and timeliness of 
flow of information between MVIL management and 
the Board.
Further, MVIL has made familiarization programme to 
familiarize Independent Directors, their roles, rights, 
responsibilities in MVIL, nature of the industry in which MVIL 
operates, business model of MVIL, etc. Post effectiveness 
of the Scheme, the MVIL ceased to exist and merged with 
MEL effective from July 31, 2023 and therefore, MEL has 
adopted/made the similar familiarization programme as of 
MVIL to familiarize Independent Directors in its meeting of 
the Board of Directors held on July 31, 2023 and the same 
is available on the MEL’s website at https://maxestates.
in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Familiarization-
Program-of-Independent-Directors-1.pdf.     
COMPANY SECRETARY
Mr. Ankit Jain ceased to be Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer of MVIL w.e.f. January 11, 2023, and 
Mr. Abhishek Mishra has been appointed as the Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer of MVIL w.e.f. May 19, 
2023.
GENERAL MEETINGS
The details of General Meetings held in the last 3 (three) 
years and Special Resolutions passed by the shareholders 
of MVIL at the said meetings are as under:
Particulars
Date, time and 
venue of General 
Meeting
Special Resolution passed 
by the shareholders at the 
General Meeting
7th Annual 
General 
Meeting
August 25, 2022 
at 1400 hours 
through Video 
Conference
Not Applicable
6th Annual 
General 
Meeting
September 23, 
2021 at 1400 
hours through 
Video Conference
Not Applicable
5th Annual 
General 
Meeting
December 30, 
2020 at 1400 
hours through 
Video Conference
Approval for re-appointment 
of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal as 
Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company to 
hold office for second term of 
5 (five) consecutive years i.e. 
upto January 14, 2026.
Approval for re-appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Kummamuri 
Narasimha Murthy as Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director of the Company to 
hold office for second term of 
5 (five) consecutive years i.e. 
upto January 14, 2026.
Approval for re-appointment 
of Mr. Sahil Vachani as 
Managing 
Director 
and 
Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company for a period of five 
years effective January 15, 
2021 up to January 14, 2026.
84 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Tribunal Convened Meetings
During the FY 2023, pursuant to order of Hon’ble National 
Company Law Tribunal (“Hon’ble NCLT”), Chandigarh 
Bench an meeting of equity shareholders and secured 
creditors of MVIL was convened on December 3, 2022 at 
1000 hours through Video Conference for approval of draft 
Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement 
amongst Max Ventures and Industries Limited and Max 
Estates Limited and their respective shareholders and 
creditors.
POSTAL BALLOT AND POSTAL BALLOT PROCESS
During FY 2023, MVIL has passed special resolution by way 
of a postal ballot on March 17, 2023:
Postal Ballot Notice was issued on February 15, 2023 for 
seeking approval of the Members of MVIL by means of 
Special Resolution for payment of compensation to Mr. 
Analjit Singh, Non-executive Chairman.
In accordance with Section 110 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rules 22 and 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 read with the General Circular 
No. 11/2022 dated December 28, 2022 (in continuation to the 
circulars issued earlier in this regard), issued by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs, physical copies of the Notice were 
not circulated to the Members and voting was conducted 
only electronically through e-voting facility availed through 
NSDL.
Mr. Devesh Kumar Vasisht, Practicing Company Secretary 
and Managing Partner of DPV & Associates LLP (Firm 
Registration No.: L2021DE009500) having office at 1A/1, 
Second Floor, Geeta Colony, Delhi-110031, was appointed 
as the Scrutinizer for conducting the postal ballot process 
in a fair and transparent manner.
The result of the voting on resolutions by remote e-voting 
was declared by Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal, Chief Financial 
Officer on March 18, 2023, basis which the resolutions were 
declared to be passed. The details of the voting pattern are 
as follows: 
Special Resolution for payment of compensation to Mr. Analjit Singh, Non-executive Chairman of MVIL
Particulars
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of Equity Shares
Paid-up value of the 
Equity Shares
(In INR)
a) Total votes received
197
12,28,18,087
1,22,81,80,870
b) Less: Invalid votes
-
-
-
c) Abstained from voting on the resolution
-
-
-
d) Net Valid votes cast
197
12,28,18,087
1,22,81,80,870
e) Votes with assent for the resolution
169
11,96,86,590
1,19,68,65,900
f) Votes with dissent for the resolution
28
31,31,497
3,13,14,970
No resolution requiring postal ballot process as required 
by the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, is proposed to be placed for the shareholders’ 
approval as on the date of issuance of this report.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Timely disclosure of reliable information and corporate 
financial performance is at the core of good Corporate 
Governance. Towards this direction, the quarterly / annual 
results of MVIL were announced within the prescribed 
period and published in The Financial Express/Business 
Standard/Mint (English) and Desh Sewak (Punjabi). The 
results were displayed on MVIL website www.maxvil.com. 
The official news releases and the presentations made to 
the investors / analysts (if any) were also displayed on MVIL 
website and also sent to the BSE Ltd. and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited for dissemination.
DISCLOSURES
(a)	 Related party transactions
There are no materially significant related party 
transactions of MVIL with its Promoters, the Directors 
or the Management, their subsidiaries or relatives, etc., 
that may have potential conflict with the interests of 
MVIL at large.
MVIL has formulated a policy for transacting with 
related parties. Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the 
MVIL ceased to exist and merged with MEL effective 
from July 31, 2023 and therefore, MEL has adopted the 
similar policy in its meeting of the Board of Directors 
held on July 31, 2023 and the same is  available on the 
link of MEL’s website at https://maxestates.in/wp-
content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-Policy-on-Related-
Annual Report 2022-23 | 85
Strategic Review
Party-Transactions-1.pdf. The transactions entered 
with the related parties are disclosed in Notes to the 
Financial Statements in the Annual Report.
(b)	 Compliance by MVIL
During the FY 2023, MVIL has duly complied with all 
the mandatory requirements of Listing Regulations 
including other Regulations and Guidelines issued by 
SEBI from time to time on all matters relating to capital 
markets. No penalties or strictures have been imposed 
on MVIL by the stock exchanges, SEBI or any other 
statutory authorities on any matter relating to capital 
markets during FY 2023, FY 2022 and FY 2021.   
(c)	 Whistle Blower Policy
	
During the FY 2023, MVIL has a vigil mechanism 
pursuant to which a Whistle Blower Policy has been 
put in place. MVIL has established the necessary 
mechanism for employees to report concerns about 
unethical behavior. It is hereby affirmed that no person 
has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on matters relating to Whistle Blower Policy 
of MVIL.
(d)	 Material Subsidiary Companies
	
MVIL had one material unlisted subsidiary company 
as on March 31, 2023 viz., Max Towers Private Limited 
(‘MTPL) incorporated on October 27, 2016 at Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh and M/s S.R. Batliboi & Co., appointed 
as Statutory Auditors of MTPL on December 23, 
2022 for carrying out the audit for FY 2023. Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan is the common Independent Director for 
the Company and MTPL as at March 31, 2023.    
	
Further, MVIL has formulated a policy for determining 
‘material subsidiaries’. Post effectiveness of the Scheme, 
the MVIL ceased to exist and merged with MEL effective 
from July 31, 2023 and therefore, MEL has adopted the 
similar policy in its meeting of the Board of Directors 
held on July 31, 2023 and the same is  available on the link 
of MEL’s website at https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/MEL-Policy-for-determination-of-
Material-Subsidiaries-1.pdf.   
(e)	 Commodity price risks and commodity hedging 
activities
	
MVIL does not deal in commodity activities. 
Accordingly, the disclosures required to be made in 
terms of SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2018/0000000141 dated November 15, 2018 
pertaining to commodity price risks and commodity 
hedging activities are not applicable to MVIL.
(f)	 Recommendation of Committees to the Board
	
During FY 2023, there were no such recommendations 
of the Committees, which the Board had not accepted. 
(g)	 Fees paid to statutory auditors and all entities in the 
network firm/ entity – INR 44.89 Lakh
(h)	 Disclosure in relation to Sexual Harassment of 
Women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013: 
Number of 
complaints 
filed during the 
financial year
Number of 
complaints 
disposed off 
during the 
financial year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending as 
on end of the 
financial year
Nil
Not applicable
Not applicable
(i)	 Disclosure of loans and advances 
	
During FY 2023, MVIL and its subsidiaries have not 
given loan and advances in the nature of loans to firms/
companies (other than subsidiaries) in which Directors 
are interested. 
	
A detailed disclosure with respect to Subsidiaries of 
MVIL form part of the Board’s Report attached as part 
of this Annual Report.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
A section on the ‘Shareholder Information’ is annexed, and 
forms part of this Annual Report.  
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
The certification by the Managing Director and Chief 
Financial Officer of MVIL, in compliance of Regulation 17(8) 
read with Part B of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations, is 
enclosed as Annexure II.
M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries have certified that as on March 31, 2023, MVIL 
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as stipulated in Schedule V of the Listing Regulations and 
the said certificate is annexed to the Report as Annexure-III.
86 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
A certificate from M/s. Sanjay Grover & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries, certifying that as on 
March 31, 2023 none of the directors on the board of MVIL 
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as directors of companies by the Board/
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority 
is annexed as Annexure-IV to the Report.
DISCLOSURE ON NON-MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
The Company has duly complied with all the mandatory 
requirements under Listing Regulations and the status of 
compliance with the non-mandatory recommendations 
under Part E of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations is 
given below:
Shareholders’ Rights:
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of 
MVIL were published in newspapers and were also posted 
on the Company’s website.
Audit Qualification:
It has always been the MVIL’s endeavor to present 
unqualified financial statements. There is no audit 
qualification in respect of Financial Statements of MVIL for 
FY 2023.
Separate posts of Chairman and CEO:
MVIL has separate persons for the post of Chairman and 
Managing Director, During the FY 2023, Mr. Analjit Singh, 
a Non-Executive Promoter Director was the Chairman and 
Mr. Sahil Vachani served as Managing Director and CEO.
Reporting of Internal Auditor:
The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee, 
which defines the scope of Internal Audit.
DETAILS OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
REQUIREMENTS 
SPECIFIED 
IN 
REGULATIONS 17 TO 27 AND CLAUSE (B) TO (I) OF SUB 
– REGULATION (2) OF REGULATION 46 OF LISTING 
REGULATIONS
MVIL  was in compliance with the corporate governance 
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clause 
(b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of Listing Regulations.
Further, there was no non-compliance of any requirement 
of corporate governance report of sub-paras (2) to (10) of 
Part C to Schedule V of Listing Regulations.
EQUITY SHARES IN UNCLAIMED SUSPENSE ACCOUNT
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 39 of the Listing 
Regulations, MVIL had transferred the unclaimed equity 
shares on July 18, 2017 in the Demat Account titled as ‘MAX 
VENTURES AND INDUSTRIES LIMITED– UNCLAIMED 
SUSPENSE ACCOUNT’.  The equity shares transferred to 
said Unclaimed Suspense Account belong to the members 
who had not claimed their Share Certificates pertaining to 
the equity shares of the Face Value of Rs.10/- each.  
The details of Equity Shares held in the Unclaimed Suspense 
Account as at March 31, 2023 are as follows:
S. 
No.
Particulars
No. of 
Shareholders
Number 
of Equity 
Shares
1.
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares 
lying in the Unclaimed 
Suspense Account lying 
at the beginning of the 
year. 
2,269
1,05,358
2.
Number of shareholders 
who approached the 
issuer for transfer 
of shares from the 
Unclaimed Suspense 
Account during the year.
7
498
3.
Number of shareholders 
to whom shares were 
transferred from the 
Unclaimed Suspense 
Account during the year.
7
498
4.
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in the 
Suspense Account lying 
at the end of the year.
2,262
1,04,860
Further the voting rights on the above-mentioned shares 
shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares 
claims the shares.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
November 7, 2023
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Managing Director and CEO 
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 87
Strategic Review
Annexure- I
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
Declaration signed by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on Code of Conduct as required by 
Regulation 26(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
This is to declare and confirm that MVIL has received affirmations of compliance with the provisions of MVIL’s Code of 
Conduct for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 from all Directors and Senior Management Personnel of MVIL.
May 19, 2023
Noida
For Max Ventures and Industries Limited
Sahil Vachani 
Managing Director and CEO
 	
	
	
          DIN: 00761695 
88 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Annexure – Il
CERTIFICATION BY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
To
The Board of Directors,
Max Ventures and Industries Limited,
We, Sahil Vachani, Managing Director & CEO and Nitin Kumar Kansal, Chief Financial Officer of Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited (“the Company”) certify that:
A.	 We have reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow statement of the Company for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023 and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
(a)	 these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading; and
(i)	 these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
(ii)	 There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the financial 
year ended March 31, 2023 which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
(iii)	 We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we 
have evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and 
we have disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, wherever applicable, deficiencies in the design or 
operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are aware  and the steps we have taken or propose to take 
to rectify these deficiencies.
B. 	 We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
(i)	 significant changes, if any, in internal control over financial reporting during the financial year ended March 31, 
2023; 
(ii)	 significant changes, if any, in accounting policies during the financial year ended March 31, 2023 and that the same 
have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements; and 
(iii)	 instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management 
or any employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
For Max Ventures and Industries Limited
May 19, 2023
New Delhi	
       
Nitin Kumar Kansal
Chief Financial Officer
Sahil Vachani 
Managing Director and CEO 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 89
Strategic Review
Annexure – III
Corporate Governance Certificate
To 
The Members 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
(L85100PB2015PLC039204)
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar,
Village Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, 
Nawan Shehar, Punjab-144533
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“the 
Company”), for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) 
of Regulation 46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). 
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our 
examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance 
of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of 
the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company 
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of 
Regulation 46(2) and Para C, D and E of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
New Delhi
May 19, 2023
For Sanjay Grover & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
Kapil Dev Taneja
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
CP No.: 22944 / Mem. No.: F4019
UDIN: F004019E000336681
90 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Annexure – IV
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C Clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
MAX VENTURES AND INDUSTRIES LIMITED
(CIN: L85100PB2015PLC039204)
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar,
Village Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, 
Nawan Shehar, Punjab-144533
1.	
That the equity shares of Max Ventures and Industries Limited (herein after referred as the Company) are listed on BSE 
Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
2.	
We have examined the relevant disclosures received from the Directors, registers, records, forms, and returns maintained 
by the Company and produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance 
with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
3. 	 In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications and examination of the disclosures 
under section 184, 189, 170, 164, 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and Director Identification Number (DIN) 
status at MCA portal, www.mca.gov.in, and explanations furnished to us by the Company and its officers, we certify 
that none of the below named Directors on the Board of the Company as on March 31, 2023 have been debarred or 
disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority:
Sr. No.
Name of Director
Director Identification Number
Date of Appointment
1.
Mr. Analjit Singh
00029641
15/01/2016
2.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
00040000
15/01/2016
3.
Mr. Niten Malhan
00614624
08/11/2019
4.
Mr. Sahil Vachani
00761695
15/01/2016
5.
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
01550668
26/11/2018
6.
Mr. KA Luk Stanley Tai
08748152
01/02/2022
* Mr. Narasimha Murthy Kummamuri has been resigned during the Audit period ended on 31st March, 2023.
4.	
Ensuring the eligibility of the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company and our responsibility is to express an opinion on this based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
5.	
This certificate is based on the information and records available up to this date and we have no responsibility to update 
this certificate for the events and circumstances occurring after the date of the certificate.
For Sanjay Grover & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
	
Kapil Dev Taneja
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
CP No.: 22944/ Mem. No. F4019
UDIN: F004019E000336813
Annual Report 2022-23 | 91
Strategic Review
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Registered Office:
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Village Railmajra, Tehsil 
Balachaur, District S B S Nagar, Nawanshahr, Punjab – 144 
533
Investor Helpline:
Tel. No.: 0120-4743222
Fax: 0120-4743250
E-mail: investorhelpline@maxvil.com 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent:
Mas Services Limited, 
T-34, 2nd Floor, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase – II, New 
Delhi–110 020, 
Tel–011 26387281/82/83
Fax–011 26387384
e-mail: info@masserv.com
Annual General Meeting:
Date and Time: Friday, December 22, 2023 at 16:00 hrs. 
through video conference
Deemed Venue: Registered Office of the Company at 419, 
Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Village Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, 
District S B S Nagar, Nawanshahr, Punjab - 144 533
Book Closure: From Saturday, December 16, 2023 to Friday, December 22, 2023 (both days inclusive).
Financial Year: The Financial Year of the Company starts from 1st April of a year and ends on 31st March of the following year.
Financial Calendar - 2023-24 (Tentative):
1
First quarter results
By August 14, 2023
2
Second quarter & half yearly results
By November 14, 2023
3
Third quarter results
By February 14 , 2024
4
Annual results
By May 30, 2024
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES:
The Equity Shares of MVIL were listed on the BSE Limited (‘BSE’), Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 
400 021 and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’) Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East) 
Mumbai – 400051. MVIL confirms that it has duly paid annual listing fees due to BSE and NSE for FY 2023-24.
CONNECTIVITY WITH DEPOSITORIES:
MVIL’s shares were in dematerialized mode through National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository 
Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
STOCK CODE:
BSE
539940
NSE
MAXVIL 
Demat ISIN No. for NSDL and CDSL
INE154U01015
MONTHLY HIGH AND LOW QUOTATION ON BSE LIMITED (BSE) AND NATIONAL STOCK EXCHANGE OF INDIA 
LIMITED (NSE) for MVIL stock price during FY 2023
Month
Bse
Nse
High (INR)
Low (INR)
High (INR)
Low (INR)
April, 2022
126.85
101.55
127.25
102.80
May, 2022
114.85
90.00
116.00
91.20
June, 2022
104.60
85.40
104.00
85.95
July, 2022
112.65
87.60
113.00
87.40
August, 2022
132.95
101.00
133.00
102.00
September, 2022
149.40
126.00
149.95
126.70
October, 2022
204.80
139.90
204.90
139.55
November, 2022
198.00
153.70
198.00
153.55
December, 2022
183.15
143.05
183.15
143.30
January, 2023
159.10
134.00
159.45
136.85
February, 2023
152.00
125.95
147.95
126.05
March, 2023
143.00
121.60
143.10
121.50
92 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Sensex Vs. Share price (Pertaining to MVIL for FY 2023)
The securities of MVIL were not suspended from trading during the financial year.
EQUITY SHAREHOLDING PATTERN AS ON MARCH 31, 2023 for MVIL:
Category
No. of shares held 
% of shareholding
Promoters & Promoter Group
72846286
49.52
Mutual Funds and UTI
928
-
Banks, Financial Institutions 
2700
-
Trust
1401
-
Foreign Portfolio Investors 
13100101
8.91
Foreign Institutional Investors
344
-
Foreign Direct Investment 
31282950
21.27
Bodies Corporate 
2604212
1.77
Non-resident Indians 
2613495
1.78
Clearing Members 
1885883
1.28
Resident Individuals
22760826
15.47
NBFCs
4500
-
Total
147103626
100.00
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2023 for MVIL
No. of Shareholders
Percentage
to Total
Shareholdings
No. of shares
Percentage to
Total
25806
88.717
1 to 5000
2224789
1.512
   1331 
4.576 
5001 to 10000
1075226
0.731
741
2.547
10001 to 20000
1129308
0.768
340
1.169
20001 to 30000
  876389 
0.596
148
0.509 
30001 to 40000
527769
0.359
147
0.505 
40001 to 50000
697104
0.474
  218 
0.749
50001 to 100000
1685916
1.146
357 
1.227 
100001 and above
138887125
94.414
29088
100.00
147103626
100.00
Annual Report 2022-23 | 93
Strategic Review
DEMATERIALISATION STATUS AS ON MARCH 31, 2023 for MVIL
(i) 	 Shareholding in dematerialised mode - 99.87% of the paid up share capital
(ii) 	 Shareholding in physical mode - 0.13% of the paid up share capital
RECONCILIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL AUDIT
As stipulated by the Regulation 76 of SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018, a practicing Company 
Secretary carries out the Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit, on a quarterly basis, to reconcile the total admitted capital 
with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) with the total 
listed and paid-up capital. The audit report, inter alia, confirms that the total listed and paid up capital of the Company is in 
agreement with the aggregate of the total number of shares in dematerialized form and total number of shares in physical 
form.
FOR SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING SHARES IN DEMATERIALISED MODE
Shareholders holding shares in dematerialised mode are requested to intimate all changes with respect to bank details, 
mandate, nomination, power of attorney, change of address, change of name etc. to their Depository Participant (DP). These 
changes will be reflected in the Company’s records on the downloading of information from Depositories, which will help 
the Company to provide better service to its shareholders.
SHARE TRANSFER/TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Pursuant to SEBI Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2018/24 dated June 08, 2018 read with SEBI’s Press Release under 
reference PR No.: 51/2018 dated December 03, 2018, transfer of shares held in physical form is not permitted w.e.f. March 31, 
2019 and it is mandatory to demat the securities for getting the shares transferred.
We therefore request all the shareholders, holding shares in physical form to dematerialise their shareholding with the 
Depository Participants of their choice.
During the Financial Year ended March 31, 2023 (“FY 2023”), MVIL has not approved any transfer of shares in physical form 
except those which are permissible under Statute/Regulations. However, for others the transfers are effected within limits 
prescribed by law. The average turnaround time for processing registration of other transfers is 15 days from the date of 
receipt of requests. The processing activities with respect to requests received for dematerialisation are completed within 
7 -10 days.
DIVIDEND
The year under review was the eighth financial year of MVIL’s operations. Considering the future business plans of MVIL, the 
Board of Directors did not recommend any dividend for FY 2023 on the Equity Share Capital of MVIL.
OUTSTANDING GDRS/ADRS/ WARRANTS OR ANY CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS, CONVERSION DATE AND 
LIKELY IMPACT ON EQUITY:
As at March 31, 2023, MVIL did not have any outstanding GDRS/ADRS/ Warrants or any convertible instruments.
COMMODITY PRICE RISKS AND COMMODITY HEDGING ACTIVITIES
MVIL does not deal in commodity activities. The Commodity price risks and commodity hedging activities are not applicable 
to MVIL.
PLANT LOCATIONS:
Not Applicable.
94 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
COMMUNICATION OF FINANCIAL RESULTS
The unaudited quarterly financial results and the audited annual financial results are normally published in the Financial 
Express/Business Standard/Mint (English) and Desh Sewak (Punjabi). The financial results, press releases and presentations 
(if any) are communicated to the NSE and BSE and were also displayed on MVIL’s website- www.maxvil.com.
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE WITH MVIL
Investors and shareholders can correspond with the office of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of MVIL or the Corporate 
Office of MVIL at the following addresses:
Mas Services Limited (Registrar & Share Transfer Agent)
T-34, 2nd Floor
Okhla Industrial Area, Phase – II
New Delhi – 110 020
Contact Persons
Mr. Sharwan Mangla
Tel No.:-011-26387281/82/83
Fax No.:- 011 – 26387384
e-mail: investor@masserv.com 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (Corporate Office)
Secretarial Department
Max Towers, L -15
C001/A/1, Sector 16B,
Noida, Uttar Pradesh-201301.
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
Mr. Abhishek Mishra
Tel. No.: 0120 4743222
E-mail: abhishek.mishra@maxestates.in 
LIST OF ALL CREDIT RATINGS OBTAINED BY THE ENTITY ALONG WITH ANY REVISIONS THERETO DURING 
THE RELEVANT FINANCIAL YEAR, FOR ALL DEBT INSTRUMENTS OF SUCH ENTITY OR ANY FIXED DEPOSIT 
PROGRAMME OR ANY SCHEME OR PROPOSAL OF THE LISTED ENTITY INVOLVING MOBILISATION OF FUNDS, 
WHETHER IN INDIA OR ABROAD:
Not Applicable.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Estates Limited
November 7, 2023
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Managing Director and CEO 
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 95
Strategic Review
ANNEXURE–3
Note: The provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 15(1) of the Companies (Appointment of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 were not applicable to the Company for the FY 2023. However, the details under Annexure - 2 were approved by the 
Board of Max Ventures and Industries Limited (ceased to exist and merged with the Company effective from July 31, 2023) in its meeting 
held on May 19, 2023, and attached with the Board’s Report of the Company for more transparency and for better Corporate Governance.
DETAILS PERTAINING TO REMUNERATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 197(12) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
READ WITH RULE 15(1) OF THE COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT OF MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014.
(a)	 Ratio of remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of all employees of MVIL for the financial 
year: 
Director
Ratio to median remuneration
Mr. Analjit Singh, Non-Executive Director/Chairman
3.8
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director & CEO
6.8
(b)	 The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the financial year: 
Name of Person
% Increase in remuneration
Mr. Analjit Singh, Non-Executive Chairman*
50%
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director & CEO
(28.0%)
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal, Chief Financial Officer 
(28.9%)
Mr. Ankit Jain, Company Secretary**
NA
* Mr. Analjit Singh received gross compensation (other than sitting fees) of INR 2.25 crore per annum during FY 2023 and 
INR 1.50 Crore per annum during FY 2022, in accordance with the terms approved by the shareholders of MVIL.
** Mr. Ankit Jain ceased to be Company Secretary with effect from January 11, 2023.
Note: % increase in remuneration refers to increase in fixed salary as per the appraisal process. Negative % is due to 
onetime Bonus payout to CEO & CFO during FY 2022.  
(c)	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: (4.7%)
(d)	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of MVIL : 8 (Eight)
(e)	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries in the employees other than the managerial personnel 
in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration: (8.83) % (Negative % is due to onetime Bonus payout to some of the KMP’s and employees during FY 
2022)
(f)	 MVIL confirms that remuneration paid during FY 2023, is as per the Remuneration Policy of MVIL. 
96 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES PURSUANT TO PROVISIONS OF SECTION 197(12) OF THE 
COMPANIES ACT 2013 READ WITH COMPANIES (APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL) RULES, 2014
Details of top 10 employees in terms of remuneration drawn, including:
A.	 Employees who were employed throughout the year and were in receipt of remuneration of not less than 
INR 1,02,00,000/- : 
Sl.
No
Name
Designation
Age
(Yrs.)
Remuneration
(INR)
Qualification
Exp. 
(Years)
Date of 
commencement 
of employment
Last Employment
1
Mr. Sahil 
Vachani
Managing 
Director and CEO
40
4,04,83,290 
B.Sc. 
(Management 
Sciences)
20
January 15, 
2016
Siva Reality 
Ventures Pvt. 
Ltd.
2
Mr. Rohit 
Rajput*
Chief Executive 
Officer, MASL 
45
2,34,22,268 
Post Graduate 
Programme in 
Management, 
B.E. (Mechanical)
21
October 13, 
2016
Hay Group
3
Mr. Rishi Raj
Chief Operating 
Officer 
46
1,65,61,350 
Post Graduate 
Programme in 
Management 
23
April 01, 2019
Max India 
Limited
4
Mr. Nitin 
Kumar
Chief Financial 
Officer
47
1,16,16,608 
Chartered 
Accountant
22
January 15, 
2016
Max India 
Limited
B.	 Employees employed for a part of the financial year and were in receipt of remuneration of not less than INR 
8,50,000/- per month : Nil
C.	 Other employees:
Sl.
No
Name
Designation
Age
(Yrs.)
Remuneration
(INR)
Qualification
Exp. 
(Years)
Date of 
commencement of 
employment
Last 
Employment
1
Ms. Shruti 
Batish
General 
Manager - Legal 
39
         67,26,539 
Master’s in 
business law, 
LLB 
14
April 01, 2016
Siva Reality
2
Mr. Archit 
Goyal
General 
Manager - 
Finance & 
Accounts 
34
         52,48,699 
Master’s in 
business 
finance, CA, 
B.Com. (Hons.)
12
September 22, 2017
Healthfore 
Technologies 
Limited
3
Mr. 
Manvendra 
Singh Gurjar
Senior Manager 
- Government 
Relations
39
         25,55,535 
LLB, B.Sc. 
(Zoology)
14
July 03, 2017
Essence of Nature
4
Mr. Akshay 
Lall
Senior Manager 
- Growth & 
Cross Function 
Initiatives 
27
         25,13,690 
Bachelor of 
Arts , New York 
University
4.10
July 02, 2018
Not Applicable
5
Mr. Ankit 
Jain**
Deputy General 
Manager & 
Company 
Secretary 
37
         22,20,801 
B. Com , CS & 
LLB
13.5
April 01, 2019
Bhartiya Group
6
Mr. Rajat 
Shukla
Executive - 
Finance & 
Accounts 
33
           6,85,088 
B.Com 
1.1
July 01, 2021
Not Applicable
*Ceased to be an employee w.e.f. January 06, 2023.
**Ceased to be an employee w.e.f. January 11, 2023.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 97
Strategic Review
Notes:
1.	
Remuneration comprises of salary, allowances, value of rent-free accommodation, bonus, medical expenses, leave 
travel assistance, personal accident and health insurance, company’s contribution to provident fund, pension, gratuity 
and superannuation fund, leave encashment and value of perquisites.
2.	
None of the employees mentioned above is related to any Director of MVIL, except Mr. Sahil Vachani, who is a relative 
of Mr. Analjit Singh.
3.	
During FY 2023 some of the KMP’s and employees have also exercised the stock options granted to them. 
4.	
All appointments are contractual on rolls of MVIL and in accordance with the terms and conditions as per Company 
Rules / Policies.
5.	
During FY 2023, no employee was in receipt of remuneration in excess of the Managing Director and CEO of MVIL and 
held himself/herself or along with his/her spouse and dependent children 2% or more of the equity share of MVIL.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
May 19, 2023 
Noida
Sahil Vachani
Managing Director and CEO 
DIN: 00761695 
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director
DIN: 00040000 
98 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Annexure-4 
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year ended 31st March 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule no.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Board of Directors, 
MAX ESTATES LIMITED 
(CIN: U70200PB2016PLC040200)
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar Village
 Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur Nawanshehar
 Nawan Shehar Punjab - 144533
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Max Estates Limited (hereinafter called “the Company”) which is an unlisted Company. Secretarial 
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory 
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
We report that-
a) 	 Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
b) 	 We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed, provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
c) 	 We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the financial statements of the Company.
d) 	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliances of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
e) 	 The compliance of the provisions of the corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulation, standards is the 
responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
f) 	 The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minutes books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the 
Financial Year ended on 31st March 2023 (Audit Period), generally complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the provisions of:
I.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made thereunder;
II.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
Annual Report 2022-23 | 99
Strategic Review
III.	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
IV.	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial borrowings;
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standards on Meetings of the Board 
of Directors and on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India which has been generally 
complied with.
During the audit period, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Acts, Rules and Regulations as mentioned 
above.
The Company is mainly engaged in the business of Construction of Buildings carried out on own account basis or on a 
fee or contract basis i.e. real estate development and letting, sub-letting, leasing, selling and distribution of residential or 
commercial  complex, house, building etc. 
We have checked the compliance management system of the Company to obtain reasonable assurance about the adequacy 
of systems in place to ensure compliance of specifically applicable law and this verification was done on test basis. We 
believe that the Audit evidence which we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to explanations given to us, we believe that the compliance 
management system of the Company seems adequate to ensure compliance of law specifically applicable to the Company:
a)	 The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016.
b)	 The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment & Conditions of Service) Act, 1996.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted. The Company, being a wholly owned 
subsidiary, is not required to appoint any Independent Director(s) pursuant to Section 149 of the Act read with Rule 4(2) of 
the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules 2014. Further, there was no change in the composition of 
the Board of Directors during the audit period.
Adequate and proper notices were given to all Directors to schedule the Board Meetings, Committee meetings, agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda were sent in advance other than those meetings which were held on shorter notice, and a 
system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and 
for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
Board decisions were carried out with unanimous consent and therefore, no dissenting views were required to be 
captured and recorded as part of the minutes. 
We further report that there are systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the 
Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines and standards.
We further report that during the audit period:
o	
members of the Company vide special resolution passed at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on June 16, 
2022 approved issue of 31,784 Unsecured Compulsorily Convertible Debentures of INR 1,00,000/- each to its Holding 
Company.
o	
members of the Company vide special resolution passed at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on November 
18, 2022 approved conversion of unsecured loan of INR 93,00,00,000 availed from its Holding Company into 9,300 
Unsecured Compulsorily Convertible Debentures of INR 1,00,000 each.
o	
members of the Company vide special resolution passed at the extra-ordinary general meeting held on March 27, 2023 
approved sale of 49% equity share of Acreage Builders Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, in 
one or more tranches, to New York Life Insurance Company.
100 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
o	
the Board of Directors of the Company at their meeting held on April 18, 2022 approved a Composite Scheme of 
Amalgamation and Arrangement (“Scheme”) amongst Max Estates Limited and Max Ventures & Industries Limited 
under Sections 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, equity shareholders of Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited and the secured creditors of the Company approved the Scheme at their respective NCLT convened meetings 
held on December 03, 2022 in compliance with the Order of the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh 
Bench dated October 14, 2022. 
  
For Sanjay Grover & Associates
Company Secretaries
Firm Registration No. P2001DE052900 
Peer review Certificate No.: 1352/2021 
	
	
Neeraj Arora
	
Partner
Date: August 18, 2023	
	
	
	
                  CP No.16186/M. No: F10781
Place: New Delhi                                                            	
             UDIN:  F010781E000825430
Annual Report 2022-23 | 101
Strategic Review
Annexure-4A 
Note: Post effectiveness of the scheme, Max Ventures and Industries Limited (MVIL) ceased to exist and merged with the Company 
effective from July 31, 2023. However, the Secretarial Audit Report for the FY 2023 of MVIL is enclosed with the Board’s Report of the 
Company to provide more transparency and for better Corporate Governance.
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
(L85100PB2015PLC039204)
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar,
Village Railmajra, Tehsil Balachaur, 
Nawan Shehar, Punjab-144533
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by Max Ventures and Industries Limited (hereinafter called ‘the Company’), which is a listed Company. 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion hereon.
We report that-
a)	 Maintenance of secretarial records are the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
b)	 We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed, provide a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
c)	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of the financial statements of the Company.
d)	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliances of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
e)	 The compliance of the provisions of the corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and standards is the 
responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis and we 
adhered to best professional standards and practices as could be possible while carrying out audit.
f)	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the 
audit period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 (“Audit Period”) complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, 
in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
102 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the Audit Period according to the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made thereunder;
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings, where applicable;
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’):-
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 {Not 
applicable during the audit period};
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021 
{not applicable during the audit period};
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 {not applicable during 
the audit period};
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 {not applicable during the 
audit period}; and
(i)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
(vi)	 The Company is primarily having investments in various subsidiaries and is engaged in growing and nurturing and 
providing shared services to group companies. As informed by the Management, there is no sector specific law 
applicable to the Company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the Secretarial Standard on Meetings of the Board of 
Directors and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India which have 
been generally complied with.
We report that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines, to the extent 
applicable, as mentioned above during the Audit Period.
We further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors, Independent Directors and Woman Director. The changes in the composition of the Board of 
Directors that took place during the audit period were carried out incompliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, Agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent 
in advance of the meeting and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Board decisions are carried out with requisite majority and therefore, no dissenting views were required to be captured and 
recorded as part of the minutes.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 103
Strategic Review
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We report further that during the audit period, the Board of Directors of the Company at its Board Meeting dated 18th April, 
2022 approved the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst Max Venture & Industries Limited and 
Max Estates Limited under Sections 230 - 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 with effect from appointed date i.e. April 01, 2022, 
subject to receipt of requisite statutory/ regulatory approvals including approval of the Chandigarh Bench of the National 
Company Law Tribunal.
New Delhi
May 19, 2023
For Sanjay Grover & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
Firm Registration No.: P2001DE052900
	
Kapil Dev Taneja
	
	
	
	
	
Partner
CP No.: 22944/ Mem. No. F4019
UDIN: F004019E000336551
104 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Annexure–4B 
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
(For the Financial Year Ended 31stMarch, 2023)
[Pursuant to Section 204{1} of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies {Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel} Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members
MAX TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Max Towers, L-12, C- 001/A/1,
Sector- 16B, Noida, Gautam Buddha Nagar, 
U.P.-201301
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence 
to good corporate practices by MAX TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED (hereinafter called “the Company” or “MTPL”). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate 
conducts /statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, We hereby report that in our opinion, the Company 
has, during the audit period covering the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2023, complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism 
in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
1.	
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
Company for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the provisions of:
I.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made thereunder;
II.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder (Not Applicable to 
the Company as the shares of the Company are not listed on any stock exchange);
Ill.	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
IV.	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings (Not 
Applicable to the Company during the Audit period);
V.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’) :-( Not Applicable to the Company as the shares of the Company are not listed on any 
stock exchange)
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011;
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2009;
(d)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;
Annual Report 2022-23 | 105
Strategic Review
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations,2008;
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client to the extent applicable;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998;
(i)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
VI.	 We, based upon the Management Representation, further report that there are adequate systems and 
Processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and 
ensure compliance with the following pertinent laws, rules, regulations and guidelines as specifically 
applicable to the Company and Other Applicable Laws on the basis of received from the management:
a)	 The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 and rules of the state(s) where project were 
being undertaken;
b)	 Transfer of Property Act, 1882;
c)	 The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment & Conditions of Service) 
Act, 1996.
d)	 Indian Stamp Act, 1899.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of:
(i)	 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) with regard to 
Board Meeting and General Meeting.
During the period under review, the Company has generally complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above. We further report that compliance of applicable 
financial laws including Direct and Indirect Tax laws by the Company has not been reviewed in this audit as 
same are subject to review by the Statutory Auditors and other designated professionals.
2.	
We further report that:
a.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors 
and Non-Executive Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place 
during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
b.	
	Adequate notices were given to all the directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda were sent at least seven days in advance and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting.
c.	
	Board decisions are carried out with unanimous consent and therefore, no dissenting views were required to 
be captured and recorded as part of the minutes.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines.
106 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
We further report that during the Audit period:
1.	 The company’s statutory auditor, KK Mankeshwar & Co., resigned from their position effective from December 15, 
2022, creating a casual vacancy. Subsequently, the company in its extra-ordinary general meeting held on 
December 23rd 2022, appointed M/s SR. Batliboi & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, to fill the casual vacancy, up 
to the date of ensuing Annual general meeting.
2.	 The Company Secretary, Ms. Neha Yadav, has resigned from her position with effect from November 29, 2022.
3.	 The company has obtained the Shareholders approval on 30th August 2022 for the variation in the terms 
and conditions of below existing CCD’s:
a.)	 25,930 Zero Coupon Compulsory Convertible Debentures to Zero Coupon Unsecured Non­Convertible 
Redeemable Debentures and
b.)	 90 Series 1 Zero Coupon Compulsory convertible Debentures to Zero Coupon Unsecured, Non­ Convertible 
Redeemable Debentures.
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure and forms integral part of this 
report.
FOR RAGHAV BANSAL & ASSOCIATES
RAGHAV BANSAL
PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARY 
M.No.: 12328
CP.No. : 14869 
PR.No. : 3055/2023
UDIN: F012328E000333761
Place: Delhi 
Date: 18-05-2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 107
Strategic Review
Annexure to Secretarial Audit Report of Max Towers Private Limited for financial year ended 31stMarch, 
2023
To,
The Members
Max Towers Private Limited 
Max Towers, L-12, C- 001/A/1, 
Sector- 16B, Noida,
Gautam Buddha Nagar, U.P.-201301
Management Responsibility for Compliances
1.	 The maintenance and compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, 
secretarial standards are the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	 	We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that 
correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices we followed provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	 	We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the 
Company.
4.	 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5.	 The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
FOR RAGHAV BANSAL & ASSOCIATES
	
RAGHAV BANSAL
PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARY 
M.No.: 12328
CP.No. : 14869 
PR.No. : 3055/2023
UDIN: F012328E000333761
Place: Delhi 
Date: 18-05-2023
108 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
Annexure-5
Note: The provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 were not applicable to the Company for the FY 2023. However, the details 
under Annexure - 4 were approved by the Board of Max Ventures and Industries Limited (ceased to exist and merged with the Company 
effective from July 31, 2023) in its meeting held on May 19, 2023, and attached with the Board’s Report of the Company for more transparency 
and better Corporate Governance.  
MAX VENTURES AND INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES FOR  THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2022-23
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company: 
	
The Board of Directors has adopted a CSR Policy, which comprises of the Vision and Mission Statement, philosophy 
and objectives. The CSR Policy is available on the website of the Company at www.maxestates.in/investors/ 
	
Under the said policy, the Company had proposed to undertake or contribute for the activities relating to community 
development, promotion of healthcare and education etc.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee: #
Sl.
No
Name of Director
Designation/ Nature of 
Directorship
Number of Meetings 
of   CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of Meetings 
of  CSR Committee 
attended during the 
year
Not Applicable
	
#The Company is not required to constitute a CSR Committee under section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
3.	
Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are 
disclosed on the website of the company.
	
https://maxestates.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/MEL-CSR-Policy.pdf
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance 
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable: 
	
Not Applicable 
5.	
(INR In Lakhs)
a.
Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)
764.90 
b.
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)
15.30 
c.
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous financial years.
Nil 
d.
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
10.30 
e.
Total CSR obligations for the financial Year (b)+(c)-(d)
5.00 
6.	
                                                                                                                                 (INR In Lakhs)
a.
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project).
5.00 
b.
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
Nil
c.
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
Nil
d.
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
[(a)+(b)+(c)].
5.00 
e.	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial Year	
(INR In Lakhs)
Total Amount
Spent for the
Financial Year
(INR)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of 
transfer
Name of the
Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
5.00 
Nil
Annual Report 2022-23 | 109
Strategic Review
(f) 	 Excess amount for set-off, if any: Not Applicable
(INR In Lakhs)
Sl. No.
Particulars
Amounts 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
NA
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
NA
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
NA
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
NA
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
NA
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding  three Financial years:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR 
Account as 
per section 
135(6) (in 
INR)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under section 
135(6) (in 
INR)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year (in 
INR)
Amount transferred 
to any fund 
specified under 
Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to 
section 135(5)
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in INR)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount
 (in INR)
Date of
Transfer
1.
2019-20
Nil
2.
2020-21
Nil
3.
2021-22
Nil
Total
Nil
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year: Yes/No
	
No
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/acquired
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year:
Sl. No. 
Short particulars of
the property or 
asset(s) [including
complete address and 
location of the
property
Pincode 
of the
property
or 
asset(s)
Date of
Creation
Amount
of CSR
amount
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/
beneficiary of the registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
Address
	
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/ Municipal 
Corporation/  Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9	
Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5).
	
Not Applicable
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
                                 For Max Ventures and Industries Limited
DATE: May 19, 2023
PLACE: Noida
Sahil Vachani
Managing Director and CEO 
DIN: 00761695
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Independent Director 
DIN: 00040000 
110 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
To know more about 
our Sustainability 
Strategy, scan the QR 
code
Annexure – 6
Annual Report 2022-23 | 111
Strategic Review
SCHEME OF AMALGAMATION AND ARRANGEMENT 
The Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench at Chandigarh, had passed an order 
on July 3, 2023, sanctioning the Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“MVIL” or “Transferor Company”) and Max Estates Limited 
(“Company” or “MEL” or “Transferee Company”) and their respective shareholders and creditors 
(“Scheme”) which was filed with Registrar of Companies on July 31, 2023 (the “Effective Date”). 
In view of the above, the Company has successfully completed the reverse merger, integrating MVIL 
into the Company from Effective Date, and this entails that all the assets and liabilities of MVIL have 
vested with MEL with effect from April 1, 2022 (Appointed date under the Scheme).
This strategic decision benefits from having Max Estates as a publicly listed company. This integration 
strengthens the financial position of Max Estates, aiding in the expansion of our Real Estates endeavors. 
Moreover, the Company anticipates increased efficiency and cost-effectiveness by refining operational 
processes. This merger not only streamlines our business identity but also emphasizes our undivided 
attention to the real estate sector, as reflected in the name Max Estates.
In the above context, this report has been prepared for Max Estates Limited. However, some sections 
contain data related to MVIL as of March 31, 2023, as the Scheme was approved and effected after 
the end of FY 2022-23.
112 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
Inspired by the need to positively contribute towards the global sustainable development goals (SDGs), Max 
Estates has committed to the long journey of sustainability. Our vision is to ‘enhance the quality of life through the 
spaces we create’. Realizing and acknowledging that real estate, being an integral part of the built environment, 
is one of the major contributors to climate change, Max Estates wants to have a beneficial impact on the 
environment by continuously benchmarking, upgrading and implementing the best practices in the industry.
In 2021, Max Estates underwent an organization-wide gap analysis. The idea was to establish a baseline and 
understand where we stood at that point of time when it came to Sustainability. After various discussions, we 
decided that the first step was to identify our stakeholders (internal and external) and conduct a materiality 
assessment to understand what was important to them about Sustainability and where they would like us to 
focus. Keeping that in mind, we formulated an ESG roadmap detailing our short-term, medium-term and long-
term goals (refer to the table below), as well as preparing ourselves for participation in GRESB1. In 2021, Max 
Estates published its first Sustainability Report. Through our participation in GRESB, we aim to benchmark 
ourselves against other developers and assess how to improve ourselves as we aspire to play a transformative 
and positive role in the evolving ecosystem of global ESG standards. Being in a capital-intensive industry, we 
realize the importance that our stakeholders place on ESG. We will continue to share & gather feedback from 
our stakeholders to course correct, steer ahead & continuously re-set the bar for the industry.
Short-Term (within 6 months)
Medium-Term (within 18 months)
Long-term (within 5 years)2
Technical Audit for Max Towers & 
Max House (Energy, Water & Waste)
Year on Year data of Energy, Water, 
Waste and GHG
Monitoring and tracking Energy, 
Water, Waste and GHG data as per 
GRESB format and implementing 
methods to improve Year on Year 
intensity metrics
Energy, Water, Waste & GHG Data 
Collection
Verification of data by 3rd Party 
according to GRESB standards
Increasing usage of renewable 
energy in operational assets
Waste Management Policy
Health & Safety Policy
Net Zero Policies, Targets and 
design standards
Renewable Energy Policy
Customer Satisfaction Policy
Energy Rating Certification for 
Operational Assets (BEE Star or 
equivalent)
Health & Safety Data Dashboard
Energy Conservation Policy
ISO 14001 or equivalent rated 
Environment Management System
ESG Training Data Dashboard
Pollution Prevention Policy
Re-submission 
of 
SOP 
on 
performance appraisal and explain 
significance of KRA rating system 
and relevant KRAs with ESG 
parameters included
Health & Safety Policy
Water Conservation Policy
-
Labour Policy
3rd 
Party 
Tenant 
Satisfaction 
Survey
-
Employee Satisfaction Survey - 
Internal
Material sourcing & Sustainable 
procurement policy
-
Shareholder Rights Policy
Vendor Code of Conduct
-
1	
GRESB – Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarking
2	
Currently in the planning stage
Annual Report 2022-23 | 113
Strategic Review
Short-Term (within 6 months)
Medium-Term (within 18 months)
Long-term (within 5 years)2
Overall Sustainability Policy
Biodiversity policy
-
Public 
Commitment 
to 
International Standards - UN SDGs
Climate change adaptation policy
-
ESG section on website
Refine RFP and energy conservation 
requirements 
of 
MEP/Green 
Building consultants
-
-
Community Impact Note with 
impact of community inititatives 
across the assets
-
-
Workstation ergonomics survey
-
-
Inclusion and diversity policy
-
-
Employee engagement policy
-
-
Employee health & well-being 
policy
-
-
Revised ESG Section on MEL 
Website
-
As of now, Max Estates has implemented its medium-term goals as well as received a 4-star rating in GRESB. 
Our ESG roadmap was used as a driving force and framework for change management in our internal processes. 
After implementing various initiatives such as: 
yy
Articulating our commitments and guidelines to implement sustainability across our value chain through 
15 new policies under the ESG umbrella on various topics including but not limited to Renewable Energy, 
Sustainable Procurement, Labour Welfare, Health & Well-being, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion as well as 
Vendor Code of Conduct;
yy
Strengthening our reporting of Energy, Water, Waste & GHG emissions data by assuring the same through 
an independent 3rd party by the ISAE 3000 standard;
yy
Identifying various types of risks (Business, Regulatory, Macroeconomic, Capital, People, Brand, and 
Technology) and built a culture of not just maintaining a Risk Register but also discussing risk mitigation 
during our management reviews along with regularly updating our Board on the red flags, if any;
yy
Conducting an independent 3rd party Tenant Satisfaction Survey across our operational assets to gauge 
the customer service and hospitality standards. Max Estates Limited received a world-class Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) of 81 based on the responses of our tenants;
yy
Conducting an internal Community Impact Assessment (CIA) to monitor our impact on the nearby 
communities, not only across our operational assets but also our under-construction assets.
Over the course of implementing the above and much more, we realized a lot of this is not only about 
developing buildings through sustainable design and construction activities but also about streamlining internal 
measurement, monitoring, and governance processes to be on a path of continuous improvement. We aim to 
achieve a 5-star rating in GRESB 2024.
114 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of   the 
Company
U70200PB2016PLC040200
2
Name of the Company
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
3
Year of Incorporation
2016
4
Registered office address
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar Village Railmajra, Tehsil 
Balachaur Nawanshehar, Punjab- 144533
5
Corporate office address
Max Towers, L-15, C - 001/A/1, Sector- 16B, Gautam 
Buddha Nagar, Noida- 201301, Uttar Pradesh
6
E-mail id
secretarial@maxestates.in
7
Telephone
0120-4743222
8
Website
www.maxestates.in 
9
Financial year for which reporting is being 
done
2022-2023
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares 
are listed
NSE and BSE*
11
Paid-up capital
147,13,45,440**
12
Name and contact details of the person who 
may be contacted in case of any queries on 
the BRSR report
Name- Abhishek Mishra
Designation - Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer
Phone No.: +91 120-4743222
Email ID: abhishek.mishra@maxestates.in
13
Reporting Boundary
Consolidated
* As of March 31, 2023, Max Estates Limited was an unlisted company. Post-implementation and effectiveness of the 
Scheme, Max Estates Limited has listed on the Stock Exchanges on October 30, 2023.
** The Company had a paid-up share capital of 7,79,10,000 equity shares of INR 10 each, aggregating to INR 77,91,00,000 
as of March 31, 2023. Post effectiveness of the Scheme, the said paid-up share capital was cancelled, and 14,71,34,544 
equity shares of INR 10 each, fully paid-up, were issued and allotted on August 18, 2023 to the shareholders of MVIL or 
Transferor Company as on the Record Date of August 11, 2023, at par in a 1:1 ratio i.e., 1 Equity Share of  face value of INR 
10 each, fully paid-up, of the Company for every 1 Equity Share of  face value of INR 10 each, fully paid up held by them 
in Transferor Company, in dematerialised form and credited as fully paid-up equity shares.  
II.	 Products/services	
14.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No Description of main 
activity
Description of business activity
% turnover
1.
Real Estate
Real Estate Activities - With owned or leased assets.
92.4%*
	
* as per Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 115
Strategic Review
15.	 Products/services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% turnover contributed
1.
Real Estate Development
681
92.4%*
	
* as per Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
III.	 Operations	
16. 	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated.
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
N/A
4
4
International
N/A
N/A
N/A
17. 	 Markets served by the entity
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of states)
4 States (Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand)
International (No. of countries)
 Not Applicable 
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
Not applicable. Max Estates Limited, the real estate development arm of the Max Group, has strategically 
chosen to focus on developing multiple asset classes but only in one location, Delhi NCR. 
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
Established in 2016, Max Estates aspires to build sustainable, grade A+ residential and commercial developments 
in Delhi NCR, with a focus on well-being. Our endeavour is to consciously create a unique confluence of spaces 
that enables collaboration, innovation, and community, and promotes holistic well-being of our consumers. Our 
current and planned developments are diversified across various asset classes, key strategic locations across 
Delhi NCR, as well as across the risk spectrum between delivered, nearing completion and under design 
projects. 
	
Max Estates Limited is steadfastly emerging as a top brand in real estate at Delhi NCR. Max Estates Ltd. 
Continues to be  driven by its desire to enhance wellbeing through its exceptional experiences. 
	
Post Covid, the CRE industry witnessed a trend of flight to quality, with top-notch companies upgrading 
to developer owned Grade A+ spaces. Organisations have chosen well maintained contemporary office 
complexes that offer better employee well-being, sustainable outlook, and the best of amenities, which are 
suited to the future of work in the new normal. Aligning with the market trend and the need of the hour, we have 
built offices with a host of amenities, and allocated dedicated areas for flexible workspace solutions across our 
assets as well. This has allowed us to be the preferred choice for tenants that are looking to occupy Grade A+ 
commercial office spaces in Delhi NCR. Our developments are now synonymous with quality and have enjoyed 
a surge in leasing demand from a reputed and diverse clientele, as well as commanded premium rentals of 
$1 psf/month and more, across micro markets. Our occupants belong to a varied set of industries including 
professional services, media, financial services, IT/ITES, real estate related businesses, manufacturing, etc.
	
On the residential front, our LiveWell philosophy guides the design and operational intent of our developments, 
with carefully selected locations, multitude of amenities, inclusive design, and a focus on sustainability 
becoming signature markers of all our developments. Operating in the premium and luxury segments, with 
116 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
pricing above INR 10,000 psf, our residential developments are created to cater to discerning homeowners, 
who are looking to opt for a lifestyle of privacy and holistic well-being, across physical, social, emotional, and 
environmental aspects.
IV.	 Employees	
18.	 Details as on March 31, 2023
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
S. No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
     Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
86
68
79%
18
21%
2
Other than 
Permanent (E)
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
3
Total employees 
(D+E)
86
68
79%
18
21%
WORKERS*
1
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
2
Other than 
Permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
3
Total workers 
(F+G)
0
0
0
0
0
	
* Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the 
same does not form part of this disclosure. 
b. 	 Differently abled employees and workers
S. No. Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
0
0
0
0
0
2
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3
Total differently abled employees (D+E)
0
0
0
0
0
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS*
1
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable*
2
Other than Permanent (G)
3
Total differently abled workers (F+G)
	
* Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the 
same does not form part of this disclosure.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 117
Strategic Review
19.	 Participation/inclusion/representation of women*
Total (A)
No. and percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
6
1
17%
Key Management Personnel
2
-
-
	
*During the year under review, this information pertains to the Board of Directors and KMPs of Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited which have been dissolved and merged with the Company post effectiveness of the Scheme.
20.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
Particulars
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
19.0%
8.3%
27.3%
10.8%
0%
10.8%
9.3%
4.6%
13.9%
Permanent Workers*
Not Applicable*
	
The average of the count of employees at the beginning and end of financial year has been taken as the base for calculation 
of Attrition %
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same 
does not form part of this disclosure.
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21. 	 a. 	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures:  
S. No.
Name of Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate Companies/ Joint 
Venture (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ 
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity 
indicated in column 
A, participate 
in the Business 
Responsibility 
initiatives of listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1. 
Max I. Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
2. 
Max Asset Services Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
3. 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
4. 
Max Towers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
5. 
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
6. 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
7. 
Max Square Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
8. 
Acreage Builders Private Limited*
Subsidiary
100
(Refer note)
Yes
	
Note: On February 2, 2023, Acreage Builders Private Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On April 13, 2023, the 
Company sold 49 per cent of the equity shares of Acreage Builders Private Limited to New York Life Insurance Company, making it a subsidiary 
of the Company. 
VI.	 CSR Details  
22.	 (i)    Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
	
(ii)	 Turnover*: INR 9,885.19 Lakhs  
	
(iii)	Net worth*: INR 1,10,318.67 Lakhs
	
*The information provided here is on a standalone basis for Max Estates Limited during the financial year 2022-23
118 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 
23.	 Complaints/grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/No) (If yes, 
then provide web-
link for
grievance redress
policy)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remark
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remark
Communities
Yes
(Link: https://
maxestates.in/
contact-us/)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes
(Email: 
investorhelpline@
maxestates.in)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
-
Shareholders
Yes
(Email: 
investorhelpline@
maxestates.in)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
-
Employees and 
workers
Yes
(Link: https://
maxestates.in/
wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/
MEL-Vigil-
Mechanism-Whistle-
Blower_New-1.pdf)
Nil
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Nil
-
Customers
Yes
(Email: crm@
maxestates.in)
Nil
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Nil
Operational 
complaints 
by 
customers 
are not 
captured 
in this 
disclosure
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes
(Link: https://
maxestates.in/
wp-content/
uploads/2023/09/
MEL-Vigil-
Mechanism-Whistle-
Blower_New-1.pdf)
Nil
Nil
Nil 
Nil
Nil
-
Others, please 
specify
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
24.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues 
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and 
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to 
adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format: 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 119
Strategic Review
#
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of 
risk, approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate.
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
1
Non-discrimination
Opportunity
Promoting non-
discrimination practices 
can attract diverse 
customers and talent, 
leading to business 
growth.
-
Positive: Increased 
revenue, market 
share
2
Occupational Health 
& Safety
Risk
Inadequate health and 
safety measures can 
lead to accidents, legal 
liabilities, and damage to 
reputation.
Implement robust 
health and safety 
protocols, provide 
training, conduct 
regular inspections 
and audits.
Negative: 
Potential legal and 
compensation 
costs, reputational 
damage
3
Environmental 
Compliance
Risk
Non-compliance 
with environmental 
regulations can result 
in penalties, legal 
consequences, and 
reputational harm.
Establish an 
environmental 
management 
system, adhere 
to regulations, 
monitor and report 
on compliance.
Negative: Potential 
fines, legal costs, 
reputational 
damage
4
Customer Health 
Safety
Risk
Neglecting customer 
health and safety can 
lead to liability claims, 
loss of customers, and 
reputational damage.
Implement 
health and safety 
protocols, conduct 
regular inspections, 
ensure product and 
service quality.
Negative: 
Potential legal and 
compensation 
costs, loss of 
customers
5
Energy Efficiency & 
Emissions
Opportunity
Embracing energy 
efficiency reduces 
operational costs, 
enhances sustainability, 
and aligns with market 
trends.
-
Positive: Reduced 
energy costs, 
operational 
savings, improved 
sustainability
6
Building Material 
Efficiency
Opportunity
Efficient use of building 
materials reduces 
costs, waste, and 
environmental impact 
while promoting 
sustainability.
-
Positive: Cost 
savings, reduced 
waste, enhanced 
reputation
7
Tax - Strategy & 
Governance
Risk
Poor tax strategy and 
governance can lead to 
financial penalties, legal 
issues, and reputational 
risks.
Establish a robust 
tax strategy, ensure 
compliance, 
maintain 
transparent and 
accountable tax 
governance.
Negative: Potential 
fines, legal costs, 
reputational 
damage
120 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
#
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk / 
opportunity
In case of 
risk, approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate.
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
8
Water Efficiency
Opportunity
Implementing water 
efficiency measures 
conserves resources, 
reduces costs, 
and demonstrates 
environmental 
stewardship.
-
Positive: Reduced 
water costs, 
operational 
savings, improved 
sustainability
9
Child Labor
Risk
Involvement in child 
labour can lead to 
legal and reputational 
consequences, 
affecting the company's 
operations.
Establish strict 
supplier codes of 
conduct, conduct 
regular audits, 
verify and monitor 
supply chain 
practices.
Negative: 
Potential legal and 
compensation 
costs, reputational 
damage
10
Human Right 
Assessment
Risk
Ignoring human rights 
can result in legal 
actions, brand damage, 
and negative impact on 
company reputation.
Conduct human 
rights due 
diligence, engage 
with stakeholders, 
address issues, 
and establish 
remediation 
processes.
Negative: Potential 
legal costs, 
reputational 
damage
11
Anti-corruption
Risk
Involvement in corrupt 
practices can result in 
legal penalties, loss of 
trust, and damage to 
company reputation.
Implement anti-
corruption policies 
and procedures, 
provide training, 
conduct regular 
monitoring and 
internal audits.
Negative: Potential 
legal costs, fines, 
reputational 
damage
12
Marketing & Labelling Opportunity
Transparent and 
accurate marketing 
and labelling practices 
enhance customer 
trust, brand loyalty, and 
competitiveness.
-
Positive: Improved 
customer trust, 
brand reputation, 
increased sales
Annual Report 2022-23 | 121
Strategic Review
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) Principles and Core Elements.
The NGRBC as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, 
transparent and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in 
their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment
P7
Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
Disclosure Question
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
POLICY AND MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/ 
policies cover each principle 
and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
b.  	 Has the policy been approved by 
the Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
N
N
Y
N
c.  	 Web link of the policies, if 
available
All policies are available on the Sustainability Page of  
Max Estates Limited website
2. 	 Whether the entity has 
translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3. 	 Do the enlisted policies extend 
to your value chain partners? 
(Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
N
Y
Y
Y
4.	
Name the national and 
international codes/ 
certifications/ labels/ standards
USGBC LEED (Core & Shell) Platinum and Gold certified projects 
IGBC New Buildings Platinum certified projects
IGBC Health & Well-being Platinum and Gold certified projects
5. 	 Specific commitments, goals 
and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any
Deliver minimum IGBC/USGBC LEED Gold or GRIHA 4-star certified projects
6. 	 Performance of the entity 
against specific commitments, 
goals and targets
All commercial projects delivered by Max Estates Limited (Max Towers, Max 
House and Max Square) have been minimum IGBC/LEED Gold and above 
certified
122 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND OVERSIGHT
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, 
targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure) 
	
Please refer to “Letter to Stakeholders” section at the beginning of the report provided on page no. 112
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability (BRSR) Policy
	
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director & CEO (DIN:00761695)
9.	
Does the entity have a specified committee of the board/ director responsible for decision making on sustainability 
related issues? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide details.
	
Yes. Company has Risk Management and Sustainability Committee, details of which are as follows:
a.	
Mr. Niten Malhan (Chairman), DIN: 00614624
b.	
Mr. Sahil Vachani, DIN: 00761695
c.	
Mrs. Gauri Padmanabhan, DIN: 01550668
d.	
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal, DIN: 03048794 
e.	
Mr. Rishi Raj, DIN: 08490762
10.	 Details of Review of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) by the company:
Subject for 
Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee
Frequency: Annually (A) / Half yearly 
(H) / Quarterly (Q) / Any other – 
please specify*
P1
P2
P3
P4 P5 P6
P7 P8 P9
P1
P2
P3
P4 P5 P6
P7 P8 P9
Performance 
against above 
policies & follow up 
action
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
Compliance 
with statutory 
requirements of 
relevance to the 
principles, and 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
11.	 Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide the name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
Annual Report 2022-23 | 123
Strategic Review
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated: 
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not 
consider the Principles 
material to its business 
(Yes/ No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage 
where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement 
the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have 
the financial or/human 
and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/
No)
It is planned to be done 
in the next financial year 
(Yes/No)
Any other reason (please 
specify)
124 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY AND IN 
A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE	
1. 	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the principles during the financial year:
Total 
number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/ principles covered under the 
training audits impact
% of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors*
1
• 
Session on Strategy & Competition
16.67%
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
9
• 
Session on Whistleblower Policy
• 
CII training on Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
• 
Sessions on Prevention of Sexual Harassment
• 
Session on Strategy & Competition
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
37
• 
Sessions on holistic well-being, health & 
lifestyle of employees
• 
Customer Service Training
• 
Knowledge and upskilling on ESG
• 
Statutory & Governance Sessions
• 
Professional skill development – Advanced 
Excel, Power BI etc
• 
MEL Next - Focused developmental intervention 
for future leaders of the organisation
• 
Team wise training on Standard Operating 
Procedures
91.86%
Workers
Not Applicable**
	
* Only 1 out of the 6 Board Members attended this training
	
**Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure. 
2. 	 Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year. 
(Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount 
(In INR)
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Not Applicable
Nil
Not Applicable
Settlement
Nil
Nil
Compounding fee
Nil
Nil
Annual Report 2022-23 | 125
Strategic Review
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Not Applicable
Punishment
Nil
3. 	 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the appeal/revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
4. 	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Max Estates’ management has laid emphasis on establishing a strong governance mechanism on anti-corruption. For 
Max Estates, this serves as a true differentiator, given the significant challenges faced by the real estate and construction 
industry on corruption over the years. Max Estates has always taken anti-corruption efforts very seriously and established 
a high standard of business conduct. Additionally, a vigil mechanism was compiled in the Whistleblower Policy to take 
appropriate action in case of any such incidents. Listed are the anti-corruption policies available in the public domain 
which can be accessed by everyone:
-	
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management
-	
Whistle Blower Policy
-	
Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor, and Report Trading by Insiders
-	
Related Party Transactions Policy
	
These policy documents ensure that all employees, irrespective of their position, have an ethics and value system 
ingrained in their work culture. These policies also form an integral part of the induction training program for new 
employees joining the company. These policies are often shared and reshared with all employees via e-mails or training 
workshops to keep high standards of their conduct and ethics.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6. 	 Details of complaints about conflict of interest
Particulars
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received 
in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the Directors
Nil
N/A
Nil
N/A
Number of complaints received 
in relation to issues of Conflict of 
Interest of the KMPs
Nil
N/A
Nil
N/A
126 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
7. 	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
Not Applicable 
PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS 
SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
Particulars
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Details of improvements in  
environmental and social impact
R&D
-
-
-
Capex
INR 2,50,00,000
Max Estates developments are mandated 
to be LEED/IGBC Gold rated or above, 
and to achieve the same during the project 
construction phase, capital expenditure is 
incurred to achieve this milestone. 
Beyond the scope of green building 
certifications, 
we 
have 
invested 
in 
technology partnerships to enhance the 
well-being of our occupants. Examples of 
these investments are – Smart Joules, an 
automated AI based system to regulate 
chillers and provide cost and energy 
savings for our assets. Clairco (Aliferous 
Technologies 
Pvt. 
Ltd.) 
technology 
maintains a healthy air quality for our 
occupants.
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, Max Estates’ sustainable sourcing aligns with the company’s vision and corporate policy for sustainable 
development through low-impact real estate development. We adhere to relevant environmental regulatory 
laws, evaluating the suitability of low-carbon structural and non-structural material options, evaluating modular 
construction technology, minimizing and recycling construction demolition waste, ensuring all suppliers, 
manufacturers and contractors comply with Health and Safety and Environmental legislation, prohibiting slavery 
and the use of forced, bonded, or child labor, and developing relationships with suppliers to promote improvements 
in product and minimize any adverse impacts.
b.	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
We have published our guidelines on sustainable procurement and we are further enhancing our internal processes 
to record and report this data.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Like any other real estate development organization, Max Estates’ assets have a very long-life span, at least of 50 years. 
Not only are the assets of the highest quality, but they are also LEED and IGBC certified buildings with a minimum rating 
of Gold. Having not reached the latter end of the lifecycle of our assets, we can consider this to be done at a later stage. 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 127
Strategic Review
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. 
	
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is not applicable to Real Estate Development organisations. Max Estates 
Limited does ensure that waste generated during operations and maintenance of its assets is duly treated, recycled, 
and disposed as per regulatory requirements.
PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, 
INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
      % of employees covered by
Category 
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity
benefits
Paternity
benefits
Day care 
facilities
No. (B)
% 
(B/A)
No. (C)
% 
(C/A)
No. (D)
% 
(D/A)
No. (E)
% 
(E/A)
No. (F)
% 
(F/A)
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
68
68
100%
68
100%
0
0%
68
100%
-
-
Female
18
18
100%
18
100%
18
100%
0
0%
-
-
Total
86
86
100%
86
100%
18
100%
68
100%
-
-
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES*
Male
Not Applicable*
Female
Total
	
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same 
does not form part of this disclosure.
b.	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
 % of workers covered by
Category
Total (A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity
Benefits
Paternity
Benefits
Day Care 
Facilities
No. 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
No. 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
No. (F)
% 
(F/A)
PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
Not Applicable*
Female
Total
OTHER THAN PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
Not Applicable*
Female
Total
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same 
does not form part of this disclosure.
128 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
2.	
Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial year.
Benefits
FY 2022-23 
     FY 2021-22 
No. of 
employees 
covered (as 
a % of total 
employee)
No. of 
workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)*
Deducted & 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Yes/No/
N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered (as 
a % of total 
employees)
No. of 
workers 
covered (as 
a % of total 
workers)*
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Yes/No/
N.A.)
PF
100%
N/A
Yes
100%
N/A
Yes
Gratuity
100%
N/A
No
100%
N/A
No
ESI
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Others – Please 
specify
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
3. 	 Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/offices accessible to differently abled employees and workers as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this 
regard.
	
No. However, all our assets are constructed on the basis of the latest National Building Code guidelines which include 
designing our spaces by incorporating accessibility and inclusivity for differently abled persons.  
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, Max Estates has drafted and follows a policy on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion which is publicly available on our 
website.
5. 	 Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent Workers*
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
N/A
N/A
Female
100%
100%
N/A
N/A
Total
100%
100%
N/A
N/A
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 129
Strategic Review
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in 
brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes, Max Estates has a whistleblower policy that gives 
all stakeholders a formal way to bring any complaints or 
concerns to the attention of the whistleblower committee. 
The primary objective of the policy is to make sure 
that stakeholders can report instances of unethical or 
improper behaviour as well as any complaints for the 
appropriate action.  Through this policy, Max Estates 
offers all stakeholders the protections they need to make 
disclosures in good faith without fearing retaliation
Other than Permanent Employees*
Not Applicable 
Permanent Workers**
Not Applicable
Other than Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
	
*Max Estates does not have any “Other than Permanent Employees”. Hence, in all the sections pertaining to these 
details are not applicable.
	
**Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
7. 	 Membership of employees in association(s) or unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
employees 
/workers 
in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
86
0
0%
82
0
0%
- Male
68
0
0%
66
0
0%
- Female
18
0
0%
16
0
0%
Total Permanent 
Workers
Not Applicable*
- Male
- Female
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
130 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
8. 	 Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
On health & safety/
wellness measures
On skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On health and 
safety measures/ 
wellness
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. F
% 
(F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male
68
28
41.1%
67
98.5%
66
51
77.2%
65
98.4%
Female
18
10
55.5%
18
100%
16
15
93.7%
16
100%
Total
86
38
44.1%
85
98.8%
82
66
80.4%
81
98.7%
WORKERS
Male
Not Applicable*
Female
Total
	
* Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers.
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES*
Male
68
60
88.2%
66
54
81.8%
Female
18
12
66.7%
16
12
75.0%
Total
86
72
83.7%
82
66
80.5%
WORKERS
Male
Not Applicable**
Female
Total
	
* The eligibility criteria for year-end performance is those onboarded on or before 30th September of the financial year
	
**Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
10.	 Health & Safety Management System
a. 	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system? 
	
Yes. Our Health and Safety manual for projects applies to all those individuals operating at the project sites. Further, 
each project site may present unique situations. The site safety plans are developed and deployed by the vendor/
contractor to address such unique concerns. A site safety management committee monitors the implementation 
of each and every safety plan. Periodic internal and external safety audits are carried out to ensure adherence to 
all safety guidelines. Any safety gap, incident, and operational improvement are communicated to the site safety 
committee and to the corporate safety team. The learnings from each site are recorded at the corporate level and 
included in the safety instruction manual. These safety instructions are also clearly displayed at the site in the form 
of various signages. The message conveyed through these signages is in both Hindi and English language.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 131
Strategic Review
b. 	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
The Max Estates’ team carries out weekly site safety inspections as well as prepares reports of such inspections. 
Copies of the completed inspection reports are kept on site and are available for inspection at all times. Remedial 
actions are taken to rectify any deficiency identified or unsafe practices discovered during the safety inspections.
	
The performance of our suppliers is closely monitored, especially contractors engaged in construction and project 
management. Prior to the commencement of any potential high-risk operations, we conduct a detailed hazard 
analysis and risk assessment of the task and produce Method Statements to reduce the level of risk to acceptable 
levels. A permit-to-work system is developed for each project site, which is a formal written system used to control 
certain types of work that are potentially hazardous.
c. 	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Yes/No)
	
Yes, prior to the commencement of any potential high-risk operations, we conduct a detailed hazard analysis and 
risk assessment of the task and produce Method Statements to reduce the level of risk to acceptable levels. A 
permit-to-work system is developed for each project site, which is a formal written system used to control certain 
types of work that are potentially hazardous.
d. 	 Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/No)
	
Yes, Max Estates Limited gives employees access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, such as:
• 
Every project has emergency handling equipment and paramedics are on call around-the-clock to handle any 
non- or occupational injuries or illnesses;
• 
Medical camps are organised in cooperation with healthcare providers;
• 
Periodic trainings on promoting good health and well-being are organised by Human Capital
• 
All employees are covered under health insurance.
11. 	 Details of safety related incidents:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Not Applicable*
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Not Applicable*
No. of fatalities
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Not Applicable*
High consequence work-related injury or 
ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Not Applicable*
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
132 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
In alignment with our “WorkWell philosophy”, all of Max Estates’ assets are people-centric with all possible measures 
having been incorporated for enhancing workplace health and well-being not only at the design stage, but also whilst 
operating the assets. These measures address various aspects such as indoor air quality, water quality, daylight 
access, biophilia, hygiene parameters, healthy food choices, lifestyle etc. This collectively helps in promoting physical, 
psychological, and social well-being among all building occupants. To implement these measures, design, operational 
and policy level interventions are required which are well incorporated in all the assets.
13.	 Number of complaints on working conditions and health and safety made by employees and workers. 
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
Nil
N/A
N/A
Nil
N/A
N/A
Health & Safety
Nil
N/A
N/A
Nil
N/A
N/A
14.	 Assessments for the year
% Of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity 
or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100% 
Working Conditions
100% 
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and   on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.  – 
	
A workplace ergonomic assessment was conducted which had few key recommendations to improve 
the working conditions and prevention of long-term health issues. Based on the analysis, the major 
actions points are the change in the illumination set-up of the premises, to set-up an early intervention 
mechanism for reporting of early signs of MSDs (Musculoskeletal Disorders) and to provide ergonomic 
training encompassing postural awareness.
PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS 
STAKEHOLDERS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Max Estates Limited has identified its critical stakeholders by prioritization of primary & secondary stakeholders. 
The primary stakeholders include investors, employees, tenants, suppliers, and contractors. The list of secondary 
stakeholders includes local & regional communities, government and media. Both primary and secondary stakeholders 
are responsible for the company’s growth and supporting the business financially and strategically. The stakeholder 
mapping has helped Max Estates Limited understand who its key stakeholders are and their expectations towards 
business. The primary and secondary stakeholders were identified on the rationale that stakeholders who are directly or 
indirectly dependent on Max Estates Limited’s activities, its real estate portfolio or services and associated performance, 
or on whom Max Estates Limited is dependent in order to operate and stakeholders who can influence or have an 
impact on Max Estates Limited’s strategic or operational decision making.
	
A cross-functional team with financial, legal, operational and management responsibilities was chosen to enhance 
organizational learning and establish the materiality assessment to obtain valuable insights that resulted in more 
informed decision-making. We regularly engage with our stakeholders using a variety of engagement modes. Since 
each stakeholder group has a different expectation from us, we engage with them on the topics of their interest.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 133
Strategic Review
2. 	 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication 
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community 
Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), 
Others
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half 
yearly/ Quarterly 
/ others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key topics 
and concerns        
raised during such 
engagement
Investors & 
shareholder
No
Board Meetings
Annual Reports
Analyst calls &
Meetings
Quarterly
Economic performance 
and growth Competition, 
market and other risks
Employees
No
Conferences
Annual reports
Feedback forms
Continuous
As and when 
required
Career advancement 
opportunities 
Health and safety
Training and development
Transparent 
communication and 
grievance redressal
Performance evaluation
Rewards and recognition
Tenants
No
Newsletters
Social media
Company
Website
Feedback forms
Web Applications
At least once a week 
through social media 
In-person, once a 
month
For grievance 
redressal as and 
when required
Assured quality
Timely delivery
Grievance redressal
Communities
No
Annual reports
Press release
Social media
At least once a week 
through
social media
For grievance
redressal as and 
when required
Land degradation
Local infrastructure
facilities
Providing employment
Government
No
Annual Reports
Newsletters
Feedback forms
At least once in
six months
As and when
required
Regulatory compliance
CSR activities
Media
No
Annual Reports
Newsletters
Feedback forms
Social media
Press releases
As and when 
required
Business Transparency & 
Ethics
Suppliers and 
Contractors
No
Annual Reports
Newsletters
Social media & 
Company Website
Feedback forms
At least once a 
quarter
Feedback – once a 
year
Pricing and payment terms
Delivery time
Growth
134 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
86
***
***
82
***
***
Other than Permanent 
Not Applicable*
Total employees 
86
***
***
82
***
***
WORKERS
Permanent 
Not applicable**
Other than Permanent 
Total workers 
	
*Max Estates does not have any “Other than Permanent Employees”. Hence, in all the sections pertaining to these 
details are not applicable.
	
**Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
	
*** Trainings pertaining to Human Rights and Policies are imparted periodically, however the concrete data pertaining 
to the same was not formally recorded.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23    
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
minimum 
wage
More than 
minimum 
wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
minimum 
wage
More than 
minimum 
wage
No. 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. 
(E)
% 
(E/D)
No. 
(F)
% 
(F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
86
-
-
86
100%
82
-
-
82
100%
Male
68
-
-
68
100%
66
-
-
66
100%
Female
18
-
-
18
100%
16
-
-
16
100%
Non-permanent 
Not Applicable*
Male
Female 
WORKERS
Permanent
Not Applicable*
Male
Female
Non-permanent 
Male
Female
	
*Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same does 
not form part of this disclosure.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 135
Strategic Review
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
     
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of respective 
category
Board of Directors (BoD) *
5
3,52,41,645
1
-
KMP (other than BoD)**
2
69,18,704
0
Not Applicable
Employees other than 
BOD & KMP***
66
17,96,224
16
12,37,552
Workers
Not Applicable****
	
*Only remuneration of the Chairman and Managing Director of Max Estates Limited has been accounted for in this 
disclosure.
	
**KMP remuneration is accounted for on a standalone basis
	
***Remuneration of employees other than BoD & KMP accounted for on a consolidated basis
	
****Any workers at construction site, are provided by a third party. Therefore, the information pertaining to the same 
does not form part of this disclosure.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. The company ensures its commitment to respecting, protecting, and remediating human rights issues in line with 
the fundamental principles of human rights and applicable laws. We have the Labour Welfare & Human Rights Policy in 
place to address this and the Human Capital department is responsible for ensuring compliance with the same.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues?
	
We have a Labour Welfare & Human Rights Policy in place which contains a grievance redressal mechanism. The 
Human Capital department is responsible for ensuring compliance for the same. The policy requires us to implement 
procedures to raise any grievances or violations, which are duly investigated and escalated to the HR department as 
well as overseen by our Senior Management. We respect the anonymity of those who raise concerns and do not accept 
any form of retaliation. Additionally, we ensure to take appropriate action against those who are in violation of this policy.
6.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Discrimination at 
workplace
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Child Labour
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Forced Labour
/Involuntary Labour
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Wages
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other issues
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
136 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
7. 	 Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
Complaints can be filed in a physical and handwritten format to Internal Complaints Committee (ICC). Before filing the 
inquiry, the aggrieved person may request the respective team in the ICC to take steps to resolve the matter through 
conciliation. This can include counselling, educating, orienting, or warning the respondent to promptly stop the unwelcome 
behavior. In some cases, a neutral person might even be appointed to act as a conciliator between the parties to resolve 
the complaint. Max Estates Limited has also formulated a POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment) Policy that outlines 
the mechanism in further detail. The anonymity of those involved and raise concerns is always kept in mind. 
8. 	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. As stated by our General Contract Conditions (GCC), a robust Vendor Code of Conduct has to be attached in all 
agreements that includes and details out the need to strictly adhere to safety standards set forth by Max Estates Limited 
and applicable labour or other laws. 
9. 	 Assessments for the year:
% of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100% of our offices, properties, and suppliers are assessed every 
year to ensure all operations are in line with the fundamental 
principles of human rights and necessary applicable laws.
Forced/ involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
10. 	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 9 above.  
	
Not applicable as no such issue has been highlighted yet, thereby requiring no corrective action.
PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESS SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE 
ENVIRONMENT
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23 
FY 2021-22
Total electricity consumption (A) – in Gigajoules (GJ)
25,498.03
29,712.09
Total fuel consumption (B) – in Gigajoules (GJ)
1,481.71
1045.16
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
0
0
Total energy consumption (A+B+C) - in Gigajoules (GJ)
26,979.74
30,757.255
Energy intensity (Total energy consumption/ turnover in rupees)
0.000025
0.000044
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment / evaluation / assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, Name of the external agency: TUV India Private Limited.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
       No. The PAT scheme does not apply to Max Estates Limited. 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 137
Strategic Review
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
0
0
(ii) Ground Water
0
0
(iii) Third Party Water
0
0
(iv) Seawater/ Desalinated Water
0
0
(v) Others
64,557
1,318
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)  
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
64,557
1,318
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
64,557
1,318
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
0.000060
0.000002
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, Name of the external agency: TUV India Private Limited. 
(Scope of assurance statement is calendar year 2022)
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
We have achieved and implemented a Zero Liquid Discharge mechanism in our latest delivered asset, Max Square. 
We endeavour to, and promote resource circularity in all our past and future developments, thereby striving for zero 
liquid discharge in its operations. In compliance with LEED and IGBC requirements, all fixtures in our assets contain 
low-flow fixtures to ensure efficient water consumption. Raw water is solely purchased from the Municipal Department 
and there is no usage of groundwater. Raw water is then treated in a Water Treatment Plant to make it potable for our 
occupants. Greywater and wastewater go to a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and are then treated to be used for various 
operations. STP treated water is used in cooling towers, flushing & maintaining the landscape.
5.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity3:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
NOx
Microgram/m3
252
230
SOx
Microgram/m3
87.5
48.2
Particulate matter (PM)
Microgram/m3
161.1
64.5
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
Microgram/m3
N/A
N/A
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
Microgram/m3
1.29
0.15
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
Microgram/m3
N/A
N/A
Others- please specify
Microgram/m3
N/A 
N/A
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. – Yes - The readings are provided by NABL approved laboratories 
recognised by the Central Pollution Control Board. 
3.	
The data given in this table are spot readings of DG stack emissions carried out semi-annually in our operational assets (Max Towers 
and Max House)
138 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
6,467.37
5,400.37
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
8,44,257.99
4,72,003.09
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent/ 
Rupees
0.000787
0.000681
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. – Yes, Name of the external agency: TUV India Private Limited. 
(Scope of assurance statement is calendar year 2022)
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
No. As of now, Max Estates does not have a focused project targeting reduction in GHG emissions. Currently, our main 
focus is to start recording our GHG emissions. Once the baseline is set and our scale increases, we shall look to adopt 
projects to reduce our emissions.
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0
0
E-Waste (B)
0
0
Bio-Medical Waste (C)
0
0
Construction and demolition waste (D)
43.20
81.01
Battery For (E)
0.8
0
Radioactive waste (F)
N/A
N/A
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) – Lube Oil from DG Sets
0.29
0
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
- Dry and Wet Waste
79.96
39.47
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)*
124.26
120.48
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Recycled
0
0
(ii)	
Re-used
0
0
(iii)	 Other recovery operations (safely disposed)
We have a contract with Nationwide 
Waste Management, which is a PRO 
agency recognized by CPCB. They 
dispose the wet waste to compost & 
dry waste to recycling.
Total
0
0
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	
Incineration
We are further enhancing our internal 
processes to record and report this 
data.
(ii)	
Landfilling
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
Total
Annual Report 2022-23 | 139
Strategic Review
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external 
agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. – Yes, Name of the external agency: TUV India Private Limited. 
(Scope of assurance statement is calendar year 2022)
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the 
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Max Estates Limited has created a comprehensive waste management strategy that includes identifying different types 
of waste, such as hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and ensuring appropriate waste management mechanisms 
are in place. This includes minimizing waste at the source, promoting recycling and diversion of waste from landfills, 
in-office development, applying appropriate methods to handle and dispose of electronic waste, ensuring waste 
storage, working with tenants to ensure proper waste management, securing waste and debris disposal, and deploying 
construction and demolition waste handling, storage & diversion techniques.
10.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
     S.No.
Location of operations/ 
offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if 
any.
Not applicable, as none of our registered or corporate offices are situated in any ecologically sensitive areas
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
Name and brief details of 
project
EIA Notification 
Number
Date 
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Yes 
/ No)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain (Yes/
No)
Relevant 
Web Links
Not applicable, as we are yet to undertake any project requiring an EIA
12.	  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
S.No.
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the non-
compliance
Any fines / penalties / 
action taken by regulatory 
agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective 
action taken if 
any
There has been no incident of non-compliance of applicable environmental law/ regulations or guidelines by Max 
Estates Limited
140 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESS, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, 
SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
1.	
a. 	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
	
Max Estates Limited is associated with 5 industry chambers/ associations and these have been listed below.
b. 	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers / 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO)
National
2
Urban Land Institute (ULI)
International
3
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
4
Indian Green Building Council (IGBC)
National
5
Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of 
India (CREDAI)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities. 
Name of the Authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action Taken
No incidence of anti-competitive conduct by Max Estates Limited.
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year. 
Name and brief details 
of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web 
link
Max Estates Limited is yet to undertake any project which will require a Social Impact Assessment to be conducted.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity
S. No.
Name of 
Project for 
which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected 
Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by 
R&R
Amounts paid 
to PAFs in the 
FY (In INR)
Max Estates Limited is yet to undertake any project which will require a Rehabilitation & Resettlement to be 
conducted.
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
At Max Estates, we firmly believe that the ecosystem & community around our assets is as important as the asset itself. 
Through interactions with the neighbouring communities, we collect feedback to enhance the ecosystem around our 
asset to uplift the lives of our local communities. Some examples of such initiatives for the community near Max Towers 
are our efforts to establish a footover bridge in front of Max Towers for safe & easier commute for the local community, 
working towards covering up the open sewer near Max Towers to enhance the health & wellbeing of the community. 
Similarly, at Max House, Okhla, we have been actively working with a residential colony adjacent to the asset to provide 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 141
Strategic Review
them with efficient sewage treatment. We are also looking to clean up & beautify the area under the flyover near Max 
House to increase the safety & security of the local community.
4. 	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
Not Available*
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts
	
*We are further enhancing our internal processes to record and report this data.
PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN 
A RESPONSIBLE MANNER
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
Feedback on overall Asset & Facility Management from our tenants is collected as follows:
-	
Annual Tenant Satisfaction survey piloted by an external body expert in conducting customer surveys 
-	
Regular in-person meetings with tenants by the in-house hospitality team 
-	
Informal one-on-one catch-ups with tenant admins as and when required 
	
Any requests & concerns raised by the tenants are recorded in the Tenant Issues & Asset Upgradation tracker and 
resolved within the maximum resolution time. The requests and issues are reviewed on daily basis by General Manager 
Asset & Hospitality Operations, weekly by the Head of Max Asset Services and monthly by the MD & CEO of MEL.
Some examples of asset upgradation basis the feedback received are as follows:
-	
Free shuttle service to & from the metro station 
-	
A dedicated ambulance is deployed on-site to deal with any medical emergencies 
-	
The elevator movement sequence was modified to reduce wait time 
-	
Pulse’ program to organise events & activities for tenant engagement
2.	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information 
about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
As a real estate developer, we do inform our 
tenants and clients about our sustainability 
practices. Even still, the parameters listed 
here are not applicable to us.
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
142 | Annual Report 2022-23
Strategic Review
3.	
Number of consumer complaints:
FY 2022-23
Remarks
FY 2021-22
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at end 
of year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at end 
of year
Data Privacy
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Advertising
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Cyber-security
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Delivery of 
essential services
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Unfair Trade 
Practices
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Others
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on accounts of safety issues
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
0
Not Applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
	
Max Estates Limited places a high priority on cybersecurity and data preservation policies to protect its clients’ sensitive 
information. The company has implemented robust security tools and monitoring applications, encryption, and access 
controls to safeguard its digital assets. Max Estates Limited also maintains a comprehensive data backup and recovery 
plan to ensure business continuity in the event of a cyber-attack or natural disaster. These policies demonstrate the 
company’s commitment to maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its data.
	
In addition to its cybersecurity and data preservation policies, Max Estates Limited has also implemented SAP ERP 
to further enhance its data processing, preservation, and security capabilities. By using these systems, the company 
is able to centralize its data and ensure its accuracy, completeness, and timeliness. This allows for faster and more 
efficient decision-making, as well as improved transparency and accountability.
	
Furthermore, the company endeavors to share all its data with external agencies through a secure and controlled 
platform, Sharepoint. This enables the company to collaborate effectively with partners and stakeholders while 
maintaining the confidentiality and security of its data. Sharepoint also ensures that all data is kept up-to-date and 
accessible in real-time, which is critical for maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
No such incident took place or was applicable to Max Estates Limited.
Financial 
Review
Standalone  
Financial Statements
144 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
To the Members of Max Estates Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Ind AS 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind 
AS financial statements of Max Estates Limited (“the 
Company”), which comprise the Balance sheet as 
at March 31, 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss, 
including the statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement 
of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and 
notes to the standalone Ind AS financial statements, 
including a summary of significant accounting 
policies.
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid standalone Ind AS financial statements give 
the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, 
as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of 
the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2023, 
its profit including other comprehensive income, its 
cash flows and the changes in equity for the year 
ended on that date. 
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind 
AS financial statements in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified under 
section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Ind 
AS Financial Statements’ section of our report. We 
are independent of the Company in accordance 
with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the standalone Ind AS financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the Code of 
Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our audit opinion on the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements.
Emphasis of matter
We draw attention to note 37 of the standalone Ind 
AS financial statements which states that the merger 
has been accounted from the Appointed date i.e. 
April 01, 2022 defined in the Composite scheme of 
amalgamation and arrangement. However, being 
a common control business combination, Ind AS 
103, Business Combinations requires the Company 
to account for the business combination from the 
combination date (i.e., the date on which control has 
been transferred) or from the earliest date presented 
in the standalone Ind AS financial statements, 
whichever is later. Therefore, comparative financial 
information for previous year ended March 31, 2022 
has not been restated since the scheme prevails over 
the applicable accounting requirements. Our opinion 
is not modified in respect of this matter.
Other Information 
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Board’s 
report, but does not include the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements does not cover the other information and 
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
such other information is materially inconsistent with 
the standalone Ind AS financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated. The Board’s report is not 
made available to us at the date of this auditor’s 
report. We have nothing to report in this regard.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Annual Report 2022-23 | 145
Financial Review
Responsibility of Management for the Standalone 
Ind AS Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone 
Ind AS financial statements that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position, financial performance 
including other comprehensive income, cash flows 
and changes in equity of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also 
includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, relevant to the preparation 
and presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error.
In preparing the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements, management is responsible for assessing 
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management either intends to 
liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting 
process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these standalone Ind AS 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control. 
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
Ind AS financial statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management. 
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
146 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the standalone 
Ind AS financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Company to cease to continue as a going 
concern. 
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure 
and content of the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements, including the disclosures, and whether 
the standalone Ind AS financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
Other Matter
The standalone Ind AS financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended March 31, 2022, included 
in these standalone Ind AS financial statements, 
have been audited by the predecessor auditor who 
expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements 
on May 16, 2022. 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section 
(11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the 
“Annexure 1” a statement on the matters specified 
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report 
that:
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to the 
best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit;
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of accountas 
required by law have been kept by the 
Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books; 
(c)	 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit 
and Loss including the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow 
Statement 
and 
Statement 
of 
Changes 
in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account;
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone 
Ind AS financial statements comply with 
the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as 
amended;
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 
31, 2023 taken on record by the Board of 
Directors, none of the directors is disqualified 
as on March 31, 2023 from being appointed 
as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the 
Act;
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to these 
standalone Ind AS financial statements and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls, 
refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” 
to this report;
(g)	 In our opinion, the managerial remuneration 
for the year ended March 31, 2023 has 
been paid / provided by the Company to its 
directors in accordance with the provisions of 
section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;
(h)	 With respect to the other matters to be 
included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance 
with Rule  11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 147
Financial Review
opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact 
of pending litigations on its financial 
position in its standalone Ind AS financial 
statements – Refer Note 30 to the 
standalone Ind AS financial statements; 
ii.	 The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts 
for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses;
iii.	 There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company.
iv.	 a) 	 The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, and as disclosed in the 
note 45 to the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other person or entity, including 
foreign 
entities 
(“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) 
or 
provide 
any 
guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
b) 	 The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, and as disclosed in the 
note 45 to the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements, no funds have 
been received by the Company 
from any person or entity, including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Company shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
and
c)	 Based on such audit procedures 
performed that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come 
to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain 
any material misstatement.
v.	
No dividend has been declared or paid 
during the year by the Company.
vi.	 As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable 
for the Company only w.e.f. April 01, 
2023, reporting under this clause is not 
applicable.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 23108044BGYZJB3299
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: August 18, 2023
148 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Annexure 1 referred to in paragraph 1 under the 
heading of “Report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements” of our audit report of even date
Re: Max Estates Limited (“the Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought 
by us and given by the Company and the books of 
account and records examined by us in the normal 
course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and 
belief, we state that:
(i)	 (a)	 (A) 	The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of 
property, plant and equipment and 
investment property. 
(i)	 (a)	 (B) 	The Company has maintained proper 
records 
showing 
full 
particulars 
of 
intangible assets.
(i)	 (b) 	All property, plant and equipment have not 
been physically verified by the management 
during the year but there is regular programme 
of annual verification, wherein each item of 
the property, plant and equipment is verified 
at least once in three years. In our opinion, 
such programme of physical verification is 
reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets. No 
material discrepancies were noticed on such 
verification.
(i)	 (c)	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties 
(other than properties where the Company is 
the lessee and the lease agreements are duly 
executed in favour of the lessee) are held in 
the name of the Company.
(i)	 (d)	 The Company has not revalued its property, 
plant and equipment (including Right of use 
assets) or intangible assets during the year 
ended March 31, 2023.
(i)	 (e)	 There are no proceedings initiated or are 
pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of 
Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and 
rules made thereunder.
(ii)	 (a)	 The management has conducted physical 
verification of inventory at reasonable intervals 
during the year. In our opinion the coverage 
and the procedure of such verification by the 
management is appropriate. No discrepancies 
of 10% or more in aggregate for each class 
of inventory were noticed on such physical 
verification.
(ii)	 (b)	 The Company has not been sanctioned 
working capital limits in excess of Rs. five 
crores in aggregate from banks or financial 
institutions during any point of time of the 
year on the basis of security of current assets. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on 
clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
(iii)	(a)	 During the year the Company has provided 
loans and stood guarantee as follows: 
(Amount in Rs. lakhs)
Particulars
Guarantees
Security
Loans
Advances 
in nature of 
loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided 
during the year
- Subsidiaries
76,859.50
-
12,948.22
-
Balance outstanding as at balance 
sheet date in respect of above cases
- Subsidiaries
65,456.67
-
17,375.14
-
During the year the Company has not provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood 
guarantees and provided security to firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 149
Financial Review
loans or advances in the nature of loans to 
firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any 
other parties.
(iii)	(e)	 There were no loans to companies which had 
fallen due during the year, that have been 
renewed or extended or fresh loans granted 
to settle the overdues of existing loans given 
to the same parties. There were no loans or 
advance in the nature of loan granted to firms, 
Limited Liability Partnerships or any other 
parties.
 (iii)	(f)	 As disclosed in the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements, the Company has granted loans, 
repayable on demand to companies. Of these 
following are the details of the aggregate 
amount of loans granted to related parties 
as defined in clause (76) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013: 
(iii)	(b)	 During the year, the investments made 
and guarantees provided to companies are 
not prejudicial to the Company’s interest. 
During the year the Company has not made 
investments, provided guarantees, provided 
security and granted loans and advances in 
the nature of loans to firms, Limited Liability 
Partnerships or any other parties.
(iii)	(c)	 The loans granted during the year to 
companies, are repayable on demand and no 
such loan has been demanded for repayment 
during the year. The Company has not granted 
loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any 
other parties.
(iii)	(d)	 There are no amounts of loans granted to 
companies which are overdue for more than 
ninety days. The Company has not granted 
(Amount in Rs. lakhs)
Particulars
All Parties
Promoters
Related Parties
Aggregate amount of loans
- Repayable on demand 
17,375.14
-
17,375.14
Percentage of loans to the total loans
100%
-
100%
	
The Company has not granted any loans or 
advances in the nature of loans, either repayable 
on demand or without specifying any terms or 
period of repayment to firms, Limited Liability 
Partnerships or any other parties. Also, none of 
these loans are granted to promoters.
(iv)	There are no loans, investments, guarantees, and 
security in respect of which provisions of sections 
185 of the Companies Act, 2013 are applicable and 
accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(iv) of the Order insofar as it relates to section 
185 of the Act is not applicable to the Company. 
Loans, investments, guarantees and security in 
respect of which provisions of section 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 are applicable have been 
complied with by the Company.
(v)	 The Company has neither accepted any deposits 
from the public nor accepted any amounts which 
are deemed to be deposits within the meaning of 
sections 73 to 76 of the Companies Act and the 
rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)	We have broadly reviewed the books of account 
maintained by the Company pursuant to the 
rules made by the Central Government for the 
maintenance of cost records under section 
148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, related to 
construction industry, and are of the opinion that 
prima facie, the specified accounts and records 
have been made and maintained. We have not, 
however, made a detailed examination of the 
same.
(vii)	(a)	The Company is regular in depositing with 
appropriate authorities undisputed statutory 
dues including goods and services tax, 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, cess and other statutory dues 
applicable to it. According to the information 
and explanations given to us and based 
on audit procedures performed by us, no 
undisputed amounts payable in respect of 
150 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
these statutory dues were outstanding, at the 
year end, for a period of more than six months 
from the date they became payable.
	
	
We have been informed by the management 
of the Company that due of sales-tax, service 
tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value 
added tax, are not applicable to the Company.
(vii)	(b)	The dues of value added tax have not been 
deposited on account of any dispute, are as 
follows: 
Name of the 
statute
Nature of the 
dues
Amount (in 
Rs. Lakhs)
Period to 
which the 
amount 
relates
Forum where 
the dispute is 
pending
Remarks, if any
Uttarakhand 
VAT Act, 2005
Value Added 
Tax
21.24
AY 2016-17
Joint 
Commissioner 
(Appeals)
Net of amount deposited 
under protest
	
There are no dues of goods and services tax, 
provident fund, employees’ state insurance, 
income-tax, sales tax, service tax, duty 
of custom, duty of excise, cess, and other 
statutory dues which have not been deposited 
on account of any dispute.
(viii)	 The Company has not surrendered or disclosed 
any transaction, previously unrecorded in the 
books of account, in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the 
year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on 
clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
(ix)(a) 	 The Company has not defaulted in repayment 
of loans or other borrowings or in the payment 
of interest thereon to any lender.
(ix)(b)		 The Company has not been declared wilful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
(ix)(c)		 Term loans were applied for the purpose for 
which the loans were obtained.
(ix)(d)		 On an overall examination of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company, no 
funds raised on short-term basis have been 
used for long-term purposes by the Company.
(ix)	(e)	 On an overall examination of the standalone 
Ind AS financial statements of the Company, 
the Company has not taken any funds from 
any entity or person on account of or to 
meet the obligations of its subsidiaries. The 
Company does not have any associate or joint 
venture.
(ix)(f)	 The Company has not raised loans during 
the year on the pledge of securities held in 
its subsidiaries. The Company does not have 
any associate or joint venture. Hence, the 
requirement to report on clause (ix)(f) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company. 
(x)(a)	 The Company has not raised any money 
during the year by way of initial public 
offer / further public offer (including debt 
instruments) hence, the requirement to report 
on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(x)(b)	 The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares /
fully or partially or optionally convertible 
debentures during the year under audit and 
hence, the requirement to report on clause 
3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(xi)(a)	 No fraud by the Company or no fraud on 
the Company has been noticed or reported 
during the year.
(xi)(b)	 During the year, no report under sub-
section (12) of section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 has been filed by cost auditor/ 
secretarial auditor or by us in Form ADT-4 as 
prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
(xi)(c)	 As represented to us by the management, 
there are no whistle blower complaints 
received by the Company during the year.
(xii)	
The Company is not a nidhi company as per 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Therefore, the requirement to report on clause 
3(xii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 151
Financial Review
(xiii) 	
According to the information and explanations 
given by the management, transactions with 
the related parties are in compliance with 
section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 
2013 where applicable and the details have 
been disclosed in the notes to the standalone 
Ind AS financial statements, as required by 
the applicable accounting standards. 
(xiv)(a)	The Company has an internal audit system 
commensurate with the size and nature of its 
business.
(xiv)(b)	The internal audit reports of the Company 
issued till the date of the audit report, for the 
period under audit have been considered by 
us.
(xv)	
The Company has not entered into any 
non-cash transactions with its directors or 
persons connected with its directors and 
hence requirement to report on clause 3(xv) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)(a)	The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not 
applicable to the Company. Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause (xvi)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)(b)	The Company is not engaged in any Non-
Banking Financial or Housing Finance 
activities. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause (xvi)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xvi)(c)	The Company is not a Core Investment 
Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations 
made by Reserve Bank of India (RBI). 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on 
clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company. 
(xvi)(d)	The Group does not have more than one CIC 
as part of the Group, hence, the requirement 
to report on clause 3(xvi)(d) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
(xvii)	
The Company has not incurred cash losses 
in the current financial year and in the 
immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii)	 The previous statutory auditors of the 
Company have resigned during the year and 
we have taken into consideration the issues, 
objections or concerns raised by the outgoing 
auditors.
(xix)	
On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed 
in note 40 to the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements, ageing and expected dates of 
realization of financial assets and payment 
of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, our knowledge of the Board of 
Directors and management plans and based 
on our examination of the evidence supporting 
the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any 
material uncertainty exists as on the date of 
the audit report that Company is not capable 
of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date. We, however, state that this is 
not an assurance as to the future viability 
of the Company. We further state that our 
reporting is based on the facts up to the date 
of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities 
falling due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date, will get discharged by 
the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx)(a)	 In respect of other than ongoing projects, 
there are no unspent amounts that are 
required to be transferred to a fund specified 
in Schedule VII of the Companies Act (the 
Act), in compliance with second proviso to 
sub section 5 of section 135 of the Act. This 
matter has been disclosed in note 25 to the 
standalone Ind AS financial statements.
(xx)(b)	 There are no unspent amounts in respect 
of ongoing projects, that are required to be 
transferred to a special account in compliance 
of provision of sub section (6) of section 135 
of Companies Act. This matter has been 
disclosed in note 25 to the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner 
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 23108044BGYZJB3299
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: August 18, 2023
152 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Annexure 2 to the independent auditor’s report 
of even date on the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements of Max Estates Limited 
Report on the Internal financial controls under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements 
of Max Estates Limited (“the Company”) as of 
March  31,  2023, in conjunction with our audit of 
the standalone Ind AS financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s responsibility for internal financial 
controls
The Company’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Companies Act, 2013. 
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to these standalone Ind AS financial statements 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, 
as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls, both issued by ICAI. Those Standards and 
the Guidance Note require that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to these standalone Ind AS financial statements 
was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to these standalone 
Ind AS financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone Ind AS financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding 
of internal financial controls with reference to these 
standalone Ind AS financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial 
controls with reference to these standalone Ind AS 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to these standalone Ind AS financial 
statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone Ind AS financial statements is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 153
Financial Review
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could 
have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to these standalone Ind AS financial 
statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone Ind 
AS financial statements, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud 
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of the internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the 
internal financial control with reference to standalone 
Ind AS financial statements may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree 
of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference to 
these standalone Ind AS financial statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2023, based on 
the internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note issued by the ICAI.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 23108044BGYZJB3299
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date:
154 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Standalone Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2023
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 Particulars 
 Notes 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 37)
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 3 (i)
 566.40 
 114.92 
Investment properties
 3 (ii)
 7,041.94 
 7,451.46 
Intangible assets
4 (i)
 333.02 
 3.45 
Right-of-use assets
4 (ii)
 1,317.55 
 - 
Financial assets
 (i) Investment 
5
 100,508.72 
 50,003.88 
 (ii) Other bank balances
6
 335.35 
 239.37 
(iii) Other financial assets
7
 4,582.58 
 1,492.54 
Non-current tax assets
8
 771.72 
 350.14 
Other non current assets
9
 24.37 
 603.41 
Deferred tax assets
26
 205.07 
 86.51 
 115,686.72 
 60,345.68 
Current assets
Inventories
10
 195.10 
 1,345.25 
Financial assets
(i) Trade receivables
11(i)
 394.02 
 162.94 
(ii) Investment
11(ii)
 10,414.79 
 - 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
11(iii)
 155.61 
 56.05 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above
11(iv)
 1,389.79 
 3,304.51 
(v) Loans
11(v)
 17,375.14 
 3,089.57 
(vi) Other financial assets
11(vi)
 604.81 
 201.41 
 Other current assets 
12
 872.09 
 333.69 
 31,401.35 
 8,493.42 
TOTAL ASSETS
 147,088.07 
 68,839.10 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
13(i)
 - 
 7,791.00 
Share capital pending issuance
13(i)
 14,710.36 
 - 
Other equity
13(ii)
 108,650.83 
 52,800.40 
Total equity
 123,361.19 
 60,591.40 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
 14 (i) 
 9,731.84 
 3,661.88 
(ii) Lease liabilities
14 (ii)
 3,488.51 
 - 
 (iii) Other financial liabilities
14 (iii)
 1,440.75 
 852.34 
Provisions
15
 119.21 
 56.82 
 14,780.31 
 4,571.04 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 155
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 Particulars 
 Notes 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 37)
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
16 (i)
 7,071.22 
 2,830.10 
(ii) Lease liabilities
16 (ii)
 236.66 
(iii) Trade payables
16 (iii)
 (a) Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises 
and  small enterprises
 - 
 4.63 
 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other 
than
 micro enterprises and small enterprises
 977.22 
 307.96 
(iv) Other financial liabilities
16 (iv)
 265.90 
 107.66 
Other current liabilities
17
 198.31 
 343.56 
Provisions
18
 197.27 
 82.75 
 8,946.58 
 3,676.66 
TOTAL LIABILITIES
 23,726.89 
 8,247.69 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 147,088.07 
 68,839.10 
Summary of significant accounting policies	
2-45
The accompanying notes are integral part of the 
financial statements
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
156 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Standalone statement of profit and loss
for the year ended March 31, 2023
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 Notes 
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
INCOME
 
I
Revenue from operations
19
 4,929.23 
 3,901.22 
II
Other income
20
 4,955.96 
 1,046.49 
III
Total income (I+II)
 9,885.19 
 4,947.71 
IV
EXPENSES
Decrease in inventories of work-in-progress and 
finished goods
21
 1,138.84 
 1,850.95 
Employee benefits expense
22
 1,750.73 
 598.73 
Finance costs
23
 1,132.79 
 725.88 
Depreciation and amortization expense
24
 514.11 
 144.47 
Other expenses
25
 2,021.66 
 1,101.22 
Total expenses (IV)
 6,558.13 
 4,421.25 
V
Profit before tax
 3,327.06 
 526.46 
Tax expenses
26
- Current tax 
 2,050.58 
 - 
- Deferred tax credit
 (1,998.98)
 - 
Total tax expense
 51.60 
 - 
Profit after tax
 3,275.46 
 526.46 
VI
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income not to be 
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
periods:
Re-measurement losses on defined benefit 
plans
27
 0.02 
 3.93 
Income tax effect
 (0.01)
 - 
 0.01 
 3.93 
Other comprehensive income for the year
 0.01 
 3.93 
VII
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the 
year
 3,275.47 
 530.39 
VIII Earnings per equity share (Nominal Value of 
share Rs.10/-) (refer note 28)
 
Basic (Rs.)
 2.23 
 0.67 
Diluted (Rs.)
 2.22 
 0.12 
Summary of significant accounting policies	
2-45
The accompanying notes are integral part of the 
financial statements
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 157
Financial Review
Standalone Statement of Cash flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2023
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
 Particulars 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit/(Loss) before tax
 3,327.06 
 530.39 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
Depreciation & amortization of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets
 514.15 
 144.47 
Interest in NCD
 (583.77)
 - 
Employee stock option scheme expenses
 100.60 
 39.57 
Liability no longer required written back
 (0.01)
 (30.57)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 6.61 
 0.42 
Unwinding of interest on security deposit
 (10.67)
 - 
Interest income
 147.42 
 (941.41)
Guarantee fee income
 (89.45)
 (14.72)
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
 (13.78)
 - 
Profit on sale of current investment
 (1,034.81)
 - 
Profit on derecognition of right of use asset
 (135.97)
 - 
Provision for doubtful advance written back
 (1,062.00)
 - 
Finance costs (including fair value change in financial 
instruments)
 1,140.24 
 682.60 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 2,305.62 
 410.75 
Working capital adjustments:
Increase/ (decrease) in trade payables
 (203.68)
 (369.19)
Increase/ (decrease) in long-term provisions
 2.49 
 17.92 
Increase/ (decrease) in other non current financial liabilities
 136.48 
 - 
Increase/ (decrease) in other non current liabilities
 - 
 - 
Increase/ (decrease) in deferred tax liability
 - 
 - 
Increase/ (decrease) in short-term provisions
 21.16 
 - 
Increase/ (decrease) in other current liabilities
 (266.23)
 (144.74)
Increase/ (decrease) in other financial liabilities
 99.10 
 494.20 
Decrease / (increase) in trade receivables
 (50.97)
 (112.31)
Decrease / (increase) in inventories
 1,150.15 
 1,872.01 
Decrease / (increase) in other current and non current assets
 (483.05)
 (506.62)
Decrease / (increase) in current and non current financial 
assets
 (319.40)
 (921.91)
Cash generated from operations
 2,391.67 
 740.11 
Income tax paid
 (2,245.23)
 (140.52)
Net cash flows used in operating activities
 146.44 
 599.59 
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including intangible 
assets, CWIP and capital advances)
 (357.79)
 (77.04)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 (29.71)
 22.25 
Investment in Subsidiary company
 (44,293.93)
 (281.60)
Sale of investment in subsidiary (net of expenses)
 13,172.88 
 - 
(Purchase)/Proceeds from sale of current investment
 (7,041.03)
 - 
Loan repaid by subsidiaries
 46.11 
 1,391.52 
Loan given to subsidiaries
 (1,313.89)
 (3,247.17)
Investment in Investment property
 34.49 
 (124.14)
Investment in Mutual Fund
 (431.45)
 - 
Interest received
 (660.44)
 992.78 
158 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
 Particulars 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Investment in Right-of-use assets
 271.95 
 - 
Net movement in Deposit
 39,647.34 
 1,747.71 
Net cash flows used in investing activities
 (955.47)
 424.31 
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of equity share capital including 
security premium, net of expenses incurred for shares issued
 - 
 - 
Repayment of lease liability (including interest)
 (564.81)
 - 
Proceeds from issue of compulsorily convertible debentures
 (0.01)
 86.51 
Loan to subsidiary company
 (11,770.94)
 - 
Repayment of loan from subsidiary company
 - 
 - 
Interest paid
 (1,036.05)
 (686.44)
Proceeds from short-term borrowings from Holding/subsidiary 
company (net)
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from issuance of ESOPs including security premium
 24.86 
 - 
Repayment of borrowings
 (410.74)
 (512.50)
Proceeds from borrowings
 14,512.63 
 (143.20)
Net cash flows from financing activities
 754.94 
 (1,255.63)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
 (54.09)
 (231.73)
Opening cash and cash equivalents on account of merger (refer 
note 37)
 153.65 
 - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
 99.56 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 56.05 
 287.77 
Cash and cash equivalents at year ended
 155.61 
 56.05 
Components of cash and cash equivalents:
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
 151.91 
 55.16 
Cash on hand
 3.70 
 0.89 
 155.61 
 56.05 
Summary of significant accounting policies	
2-45
The accompanying notes are integral part of the 
financial statements
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 159
Financial Review
Standalone Statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2023
a)  Equity share capital
Particulars
 Nos. 
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
As at April 1, 2021
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
Add: Equity share issued during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022*
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
Add: Equity share issued during the year
 - 
 - 
Less: Adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
 (77,910,000)
 (7,791.00)
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
b) Other equity
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Other equity
Shares 
pending 
issuance 
(refer note 
13 and 37)
Total 
equity
 
Capital 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
account
Equity 
component 
on 
guarantee 
Retained 
earnings
Employees 
Stock 
Options
Remea-
surement 
Loss on 
defined 
benefit 
plan Other 
compre-
hensive 
income
Equity 
Compo-
nent -Com-
pulsorily 
Convert-
ible De-
bentures 
(CCD)
As at March 31, 2021
 - 
 - 
 70.92 
 (5,107.26)
 25.57 
 (9.79)
 57,164.00 
 - 
 52,143.44 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 526.46 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 526.46 
Other comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
 - 
 3.93 
 - 
 - 
 3.93 
Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP) 
given during the year (refer note 33)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 40.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 40.07 
Equity component of compulsorily 
convertible debentures
 - 
 - 
 86.51 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 86.51 
As at March 31, 2022*
 - 
 - 
 157.43 
 (4,580.80)
 65.64 
 (5.86)
 57,164.00 
 - 
 52,800.41 
Add: Adjustment on account of merger 
(refer note 37)
 13,042.52 
 50,086.75 
 (157.43)
 46,560.18 
 94.24 
 -  (57,164.00)
 14,694.66 
 67,156.92 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
 13,042.52 
 50,086.75 
 - 
 41,979.38 
 159.88 
 (5.86)
 - 
 14,694.66 
 119,957.33 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,275.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,275.45 
Other comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 9.16 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.70 
 24.86 
Equity portion of Compulsory Convertible 
Debentures (CCD)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.48 
Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP) 
given during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 98.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 98.06 
Expiry of share options under Employee 
Stock Option Plans (ESOP) scheme
 - 
 - 
 - 
 28.83 
 (28.83)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 13,042.52 
 50,095.91 
 - 
 45,289.15 
 229.11 
 (5.85)
 - 
 14,710.36 
 123,361.19 
* also refer note 37
Summary of significant accounting policies	
2-45
The accompanying notes are integral part of the 
financial statements
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
160 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Max Estates Limited (the Company) is a 
Company registered under Companies Act, 2013 
and incorporated on March 22, 2016. The 
Company is engaged in the business of real 
estate development. 
	
Registered office of the Company is located at 
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Village Railmajra, 
Tehsil Balachaur, Nawanshehar, Punjab – 144533
	
During the year, the Company has completed the 
merger of Max Ventures and Industries Limited 
(‘Transferor Company’) (appointed date April 01, 
2022) pursuant to the scheme of merger filed 
under the provisions of Section 230 to 232 read 
with Section 66 and other applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made 
thereunder. The Hon’ble National Company Law 
Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench (“Hon’ble NCLT”) 
vide its order dated July 03, 2023, approved the 
aforesaid Scheme. The comparative financial 
information for previous year ended March 31, 
2022, has not been restated. Refer note 37 for 
further details related to merger.
The standalone Ind AS financial statements were 
authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution by the Board of directors of the 
Company on August 18, 2023.
2. Significant accounting policies
2A	 Basis of preparation
These standalone Ind AS financial statements of the 
Company have been prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (IND AS) 
notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to 
time) and presentation requirements of division II 
of Schedule III to the Companies Act 2013 (Ind AS 
Compliant Schedule III), as applicable to these 
separate standalone Ind AS financial statements.
The standalone Ind AS financial statements have 
been prepared on a historical cost basis, except 
for certain assets and liabilities which have been 
measured at fair value (refer accounting policy 
regarding financial instruments).
	
The standalone Ind AS financial statements are 
presented in INR and all values are rounded 
to nearest Lakhs (INR 00,000) except when 
otherwise indicated.
	
The Company has prepared the financial 
statements on the basis that it will continue to 
operate as a going concern.
2B	 Summary of significant accounting policies
a.	
Current versus non-current classification
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities 
in the balance sheet based on current/ non-
current classification. An asset is treated as 
current when it is:
a)	
Expected to be realized or intended 
to be sold or consumed in normal 
operating cycle;
b)	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
c)	
Expected to be realized within twelve 
months after the reporting period; or
d)	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle 
a liability for at least twelve months after 
the reporting period
All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
a)	
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle;
b)	
It is held primarily for the purpose of 
trading;
c)	
It is due to settled within twelve months 
after the reporting period; or
d)	
There is no unconditional right to defer 
the settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting period
The terms of the liability that could, at the 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 161
Financial Review
option of the counterparty, result 
in its settlement by the issue of 
equity instruments do not affect its 
classification.
	
The Company classifies all other 
liabilities as non-current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
classified as non-current assets and 
liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between 
the acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realization in cash and cash 
equivalents. The Company has identified 
twelve months as its operating cycle.
b. 	 Business Combinations
	
Common control business combinations 
include transactions, such as transfer of 
subsidiaries or businesses, between entities 
within a Company. Business combinations 
involving entities or businesses under 
common control are accounted for using the 
pooling of interests method. The pooling of 
interest method is considered to involve the 
following: 
(i)	
The assets and liabilities of the 
combining entities are reflected at their 
carrying amounts. 
(ii)	 No adjustments are made to reflect fair 
values, or recognise any new assets 
or liabilities. The only adjustments that 
are made are to harmonise accounting 
policies. 
(iii)	 The 
financial 
information 
in 
the 
financial statements in respect of prior 
periods is restated as if the business 
combination had occurred from the 
beginning of the preceding period in 
the financial statements, irrespective 
of the actual date of the combination. 
However, if business combination had 
occurred after that date, the prior period 
information shall be restated only from 
that date. 
(iv)	 The balance of the retained earnings 
appearing in the financial statements 
of the transferor is aggregated with the 
corresponding balance appearing in the 
financial statements of the transferee.
c.	
Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Property, Plant and equipment including 
capital work in progress are stated at 
cost, less accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
The cost comprises of purchase price, 
taxes, duties, freight and other incidental 
expenses directly attributable and related to 
acquisition and installation of the concerned 
assets and are further adjusted by the 
amount of GST credit availed wherever 
applicable. When significant parts of plant 
and equipment are required to be replaced 
at intervals, the Company depreciates them 
separately based on their respective useful 
lives. Likewise, when a major inspection 
is performed, its cost is recognized in the 
carrying amount of the plant and equipment 
as 
a 
replacement 
if 
the 
recognition 
criteria are satisfied. All other repair and 
maintenance costs are recognized in profit 
or loss as incurred.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment 
and any significant part initially recognized 
is derecognized upon disposal or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from 
its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset) is included in the income statement 
when the asset is derecognized.
	
The Company identifies and determines 
cost of each component/ part of the asset 
separately, if the component/ part has a cost 
which is significant to the total cost of the 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
162 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
asset and has useful life that is materially 
different from that of the remaining asset.
	
Capital work- in- progress includes cost 
of property, plant and equipment under 
installation / under development as at the 
balance sheet date.
	
The residual values, useful lives and methods 
of depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate.
	
Depreciation 
on 
property, 
plant 
and 
equipment is provided on pro rata basis on 
straight-line method using the useful lives of 
the assets estimated by management and 
in the manner prescribed in Schedule II of 
the Companies Act 2013. The useful life is as 
follows:
Assets
Useful lives 
estimated by the 
management 
(years)
Furniture and fixtures
10 Years
Office equipment
5 Years
Computers
6 Years
Vehicles
8 Years
Leasehold improvements are amortised over 
the period of lease.
d. 	 Investment Property
	
Recognition and initial measurement:
	
Investment properties are properties held 
to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or 
both. Investment properties are measured 
initially at their cost of acquisition including 
transaction costs The cost comprises 
purchase 
price, 
borrowing 
cost, 
if 
capitalization criteria are met and directly 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its 
working condition for the intended use. Any 
trade discount and rebates are deducted 
in arriving at the purchase price When 
significant parts of the investment property 
are required to be replaced at intervals, 
the Company depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives.
	
Property held under lease is classified as 
investment property when it is held to earn 
rentals or for capital appreciation or for 
both, rather than for sale in the ordinary 
course of business or for use in production 
or administrative functions. Subsequent 
costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with the 
item will flow to the Group All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in 
statement of profit and loss as incurred The 
cost includes the cost of replacing parts and 
borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met 
When significant parts of the investment 
property are required to be replaced at 
intervals, the Group depreciates them 
separately based on their specific useful 
lives All other repair and maintenance costs 
are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
	
Depreciation on investment properties is 
provided on the straight-line method, over 
the useful lives of the assets are as follows:
Asset category’
Estimated 
life 
Buildings and related 
equipment 
15 to 60
Plant & Machinery & other 
equipment 
6 to 10
	
Estimated useful life of Leasehold land is 
over the period of lease
	
Though the Company measures investment 
property using cost-based measurement, the 
fair value of investment properly is disclosed 
in the notes Fair values are determined 
based on an annual evaluation performed 
by the company applying a valuation model 
acceptable.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 163
Financial Review
De-recognition
Investment properties are de-recognised 
either when they have been disposed of 
or when they are permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefit is 
expected from their disposal. The difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset is recognised 
in statement of profit and loss in the period 
of de-recognition.
Depreciation on investment property has 
been provided on straight line method over 
the useful life of assets Useful life of assets 
are as under
Building and related 
equipments
 15 to 60 
years
Plant & machinery, furniture 
& fixtures and other 
equipments
 6 to 10 years
e.	
Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are 
measured on initial recognition at cost. 
Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. Internally generated intangibles, 
excluding capitalized development cost, are 
not capitalized and the related expenditure 
is reflected in statement of Profit and Loss 
in the period in which the expenditure is 
incurred. Cost comprises the purchase price 
and any attributable cost of bringing the 
asset to its working condition for its intended 
use.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are 
assessed as either finite or indefinite. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are 
amortized over their useful economic lives 
and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and 
the amortization method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at 
least at the end of each reporting period. 
Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset is 
accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
The amortization expense on intangible 
assets with finite lives is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss in the expense 
category consistent with the function of the 
intangible assets.
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful 
lives are not amortized, but are tested for 
impairment annually, either individually 
or at the cash-generating unit level. The 
assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite 
life continues to be supportable. If not, the 
change in useful life from indefinite to finite 
is made on a prospective basis.
	
Gains or losses arising from disposal of 
the intangible assets are measured as 
the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss when the assets are 
disposed-off.
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are 
amortized on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful life of 3-6 years.
f.	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Company assesses at each reporting 
date whether there is an indication that an 
asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing 
for an asset is required, the Company 
estimates the asset’s, recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher 
of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s 
(CGU) net fair value less cost of disposal 
and its value in use. The recoverable amount 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
164 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows 
that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Where 
the carrying amount of asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-
tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
net fair value less cost of disposal, recent 
market transactions are taken into account, 
if available. If no such transactions can be 
identified, an appropriate valuation model is 
used. These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, quoted share prices for 
publicly traded companies or other available 
fair value indicators.
	
The 
Company 
bases 
its 
impairment 
calculation on detailed budgets and forecast 
calculations which are prepared separately 
for each of the Company’s cash-generating 
units to which the individual assets are 
allocated. These budgets and forecast 
calculations are generally covering a period 
of five years. For the remaining economic 
life of the asset or cash-generating unit 
(CGU), a long term growth rate is calculated 
and applied to project future cash flows 
after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow 
projections beyond periods covered by 
the most recent budgets/forecasts, the 
Company extrapolates cash flow projections 
in the budget using a steady or declining 
growth rate for subsequent years, unless an 
increasing rate can be justified. In this case, 
the growth rate does not exceed the long-
term average growth rate for the products, 
industries, or country or countries in which 
the entity operates, or for the market in 
which the asset is used.
	
After impairment, depreciation is provided 
on the revised carrying amount of the asset 
over its remaining economic life.
	
An assessment is made at each reporting 
date as to whether there is any indication that 
previously recognized impairment losses 
no longer exist or may have decreased. 
If such indication exists, the Company 
estimates the asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s recoverable amount. A previously 
recognized impairment loss is reversed only 
if there has been a change in the assumptions 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was 
recognized. The reversal is limited so that 
the carrying amount of the asset does not 
exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed 
the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognized for 
the asset in prior years. Such reversal is 
recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss unless the asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the reversal is treated 
as a revaluation increase.
g.	
Financial Instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that 
gives rise to a financial asset of one entity 
and a financial liability or equity instrument 
of another entity.
(i) 	 Financial assets
	
The Company classified its financial assets 
in the following measurement categories: -
-	
Those to be measured subsequently 
at fair value (either through other 
comprehensive income or through 
profit & loss)
-	
Those measured at amortized cost
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial assets (other than equity in 
subsidiaries) are recognized initially at fair 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 165
Financial Review
value plus, in the case of financial assets 
not recorded at fair value through profit or 
loss, transaction costs that are attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Equity 
investment 
in 
subsidiaries 
are 
recognised at cost. Purchases or sales of 
financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within a time frame established by 
regulation or convention in the market place 
(regular way trades) are recognized on the 
trade date, i.e., the date that the Company 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. The 
difference between the transaction amount 
and amortised cost in case of interest free 
loan to subsidiaries based on expected 
repayment period is considered as deemed 
investment.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
For purposes of subsequent measurement, 
financial assets are classified in following 
categories:
a)	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
b)	
Debt 
instruments 
and 
equity 
instruments at fair value through profit 
or loss (FVTPL)
	
Debt instruments at amortized cost
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortized cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
(i) 	 Business model test: The asset is held within 
a business model whose objective is to hold 
assets for collecting contractual cash flows 
(rather than to sell the instrument prior to its 
contractual maturity to released its fair value 
change), and
(ii) Cash flow characteristics test: Contractual 
terms of the asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
After initial measurement, such financial assets 
are subsequently measured at amortized 
cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) 
method. Amortized cost is calculated 
by taking into account any discount or 
premium on acquisition and fees or costs 
that are an integral part of the EIR. EIR is 
the rate that exactly discount the estimated 
future cash receipts over the expected 
life of the financial instrument or a shorter 
period, where appropriate to the gross 
carrying amount of financial assets. When 
calculating the effective interest rate the 
company estimate the expected cash flow 
by considering all contractual terms of the 
financial instruments. The EIR amortization 
is included in finance income in the 
statement of profit or loss. The losses arising 
from impairment are recognized in the profit 
or loss. This category generally applies to 
trade and other receivables.
Debt instruments at Fair value through profit 
and loss
FVTPL is a residual category for financial 
instruments. Any financial instrument, which 
does not meet the criteria for amortized 
cost or FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL. 
gain or loss on a Debt instrument that is 
subsequently measured at FVTPL and is not 
a part of a hedging relationship is recognized 
in statement of profit or loss and presented 
net in the statement of profit and loss within 
other gains or losses in the period in which 
it arises. Interest income from these Debt 
instruments is included in other income.
Equity investments of other entities
All equity investments in scope of IND AS 109 are 
measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading and contingent 
consideration recognized by an acquirer in 
a business combination to which IND AS103 
applies are classified as at FVTPL. For all 
other equity instruments, the Company may 
make an irrevocable election to present in 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
166 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
other comprehensive income all subsequent 
changes in the fair value. The Company 
makes such election on an instrument-by-
instrument basis. The classification is made 
on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
If the Company decides to classify an equity 
instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value 
changes on the instrument, excluding 
dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There 
is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to 
profit and loss, even on sale of investment. 
However, the Company may transfer the 
cumulative gain or loss within equity. Equity 
instruments included within the FVTPL 
category are measured at fair value with all 
changes recognized in the Profit and loss.
Investment 
in 
Compound 
Financial 
Instruments issued by subsidiaries
Company considers issuance of Zero Coupon 
Non-Convertible Debentures by subsidiary 
as compound instrument comprising a loan 
with market terms and a capital injection 
and hence treat the difference between the 
cash paid and fair value on initial recognition 
as an addition to the investment in the 
subsidiary and presented separately as 
‘Equity component of Zero Coupon Non-
Convertible Debentures under ‘Non-Current 
Investments’. Equity Component is not 
subsequently remeasured.
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part 
of a financial asset or part of a Company 
of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognized 
(i.e., 
removed 
from 
the 
Company’s statement of financial position) 
when:
-	
the rights to receive cash flows from the 
asset have expired, or
-	
the Company has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset 
or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under a 
“pass through” arrangement and either;
a)	
the Company has transferred the rights 
to receive cash flows from the financial 
assets or
b)	
the 
Company 
has 
retained 
the 
contractual right to receive the cash 
flows of the financial asset, but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay the cash 
flows to one or more recipients.
	
Where the Company has transferred its right 
to receive cash flows from an asset or has 
entered into a pass-through agreement, 
the Company evaluates whether it has 
transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the ownership of the financial 
assets. In such cases, the financial asset 
is derecognized. Where the entity has 
not transferred substantially all the risks 
and rewards of the ownership of the 
financial assets, the financial asset is not 
derecognized.
	
Where the Company has transferred an 
asset, the Company evaluates whether 
it has transferred substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the ownership of the 
financial assets. In such cases, the financial 
asset is derecognized. Where the entity 
has not transferred substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the ownership of the 
financial assets, the financial asset is not 
derecognized.
Impairment of financial assets
In accordance with IND AS 109, the Company 
applies 
expected 
credit 
losses 
(ECL) 
model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss on the following financial 
asset and credit risk exposure.
-	
Financial assets measured at amortised 
cost; e.g. Loans, Security deposits, 
trade receivable, bank balance, other 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 167
Financial Review
financial assets etc;
-	
Financial assets measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI);
-	
Financial guarantee contracts are which 
are not measured at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL)
	
The Company follows “simplified approach” 
for recognition of impairment loss allowance 
on trade receivables. Under the simplified 
approach, the Company does not track 
changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime 
ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. The Company uses a 
provision matrix to determine impairment 
loss allowance on the portfolio of trade 
receivables. The provision matrix is based 
on its historically observed default rates over 
the expected life of trade receivable and is 
adjusted for estimates. At every reporting 
date, the historical observed default rates 
are updated and changes in the estimates 
are analysed.
For recognition of impairment loss on other 
financial assets and risk exposure, the 
Company 
determines whether there has been a 
significant increase in the credit risk since 
initial recognition. If
credit risk has not increased significantly, 
12-month ECL is used to provide for 
impairment loss. 
However, if credit risk has increased 
significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in 
subsequent period, credit quality of the 
instrument improves such that there is no 
longer a significant increase in credit risk 
since initial recognition, then the Company 
reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12- months ECL.
Reclassification of financial assets
The Company determines classification 
of financial assets and liabilities on initial 
recognition. After initial recognition, no 
reclassification is made for financial assets 
which are equity instruments and financial 
liabilities. For financial assets which are 
debt instruments, a reclassification is made 
only if there is a change in the business 
model for managing those assets. Changes 
to the business model are expected to 
be 
infrequent. 
The 
Company’s 
senior 
management determines change in the 
business model as a result of external or 
internal changes which are significant to the 
its operations. Such changes are evident to 
external parties. A change in the business 
model occurs when the Company either 
begins or ceases to perform an activity 
that is significant to its operations. If the 
Company reclassifies financial assets, it 
applies the reclassification prospectively 
from the reclassification date which is the 
first day of the immediately next reporting 
period following the change in business 
model. The Company does not restate 
any previously recognized gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) or 
interest.
(ii)	 Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified at initial 
recognition as financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
and payables, net of directly attributable 
transaction costs. The Company financial 
liabilities include loans and borrowings 
including bank overdraft, trade payable, 
trade deposits, retention money and other 
payables.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
The measurement of financial liabilities 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
168 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
depends on their classification, as described 
below:
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss
	
Financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss include financial liabilities 
held for trading and financial liabilities 
designated upon initial recognition as at 
fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading 
if they are incurred for the purpose of 
repurchasing in the near term. Gains or 
losses on liabilities held for trading are 
recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss. Financial liabilities designated upon 
initial recognition at fair value through profit 
or loss are designated as such at the initial 
date of recognition, and only if the criteria 
in IND AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities 
designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ 
losses attributable to changes in own credit 
risk are recognised in OCI. These gains/ 
losses are not subsequently transferred to 
profit and loss. However, the Company may 
transfer the cumulative gain or loss within 
equity. All other changes in fair value of such 
liability are recognised in the statement 
of profit or loss. The Company has not 
designated any financial liability as at fair 
value through profit and loss.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 
(Loans and borrowings)
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair 
value, net of transaction cost incurred. After 
initial recognition, interest-bearing loans 
and borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the EIR method. 
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or 
loss when the liabilities are derecognised 
as well as through the EIR amortization 
process. Amortised cost is calculated by 
taking into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization 
is included as finance costs in the statement 
of profit and loss.
Financial guarantee contracts
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are those contracts that require a 
payment to be made to reimburse the holder 
for a loss it incurs because the specified 
debtor fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt 
instrument. Financial guarantee contracts 
are recognised initially as a liability at fair 
value, adjusted for transaction costs that 
are directly attributable to the issuance of 
the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is 
measured at the higher of the amount of loss 
allowance determined as per impairment 
requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount 
recognised less cumulative amortisation.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged 
or cancelled or expires. When an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from 
the same lender on substantially different 
terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or 
modification is treated as the derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition 
of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities 
are offset and the net amount is reported 
in the balance sheet if there is a currently 
enforceable 
legal 
right 
to 
offset 
the 
recognized amounts and there is an intention 
to settle on a net basis, to realize the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
h.	
Investment in subsidiaries
	
The investment in subsidiaries are carried at 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 169
Financial Review
cost as per IND AS 27. Investment carried at 
cost is tested for impairment as per IND AS 
36. An investor, regardless of the nature of 
its involvement with an entity (the investee), 
shall determine whether it is a parent by 
assessing whether it controls the investee.
	
On disposal of investment, the difference 
between it carrying amount and net disposal 
proceeds is charged or credited to the 
statement of profit and loss.
i.	
Revenue recognition
	
Revenue is recognized to the extent that it 
is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Company and the revenue can 
be reliably measured. The following specific 
recognition criteria must also be met before 
revenue is recognized:
	
Revenue is recognised over time if either of 
the following conditions is met:
a. 	 Buyers take all the benefits of the 
property as real estate company 
construct the property.
b. 	 Buyers obtain physical possession of 
the property.
c. 	 The property unit to be delivered is 
specified in the contract and real estate 
entity does not have an alternative use 
of the unit, the buyer does not have the 
discretion to terminate the contract 
and the entity has right to payment 
for work completed to date Revenue 
is recognized to the extent that it is 
probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Company and the revenue 
can be reliably measured. 
	
In case none of these conditions is met, 
revenue would be recognised at a point 
in time when the control of the property is 
passed on to the customer.
	
Revenue from shared services 
Revenue is recognised over period of 
time in respect of shares services on an 
accrual basis, in accordance with the 
terms of the respective contract as and 
when the Company satisfies performance 
obligations by delivering the services as per 
contractually agreed terms.
Revenue 
from 
project 
management 
consultancy / secondment 
Revenue 
from 
project 
management 
consultancy / secondment is recognized as 
per the terms of the agreement on the basis 
of sei vices rendered
Gain on sale of investments 
On disposal of an investment, the difference 
between the carrying amount and net 
disposal proceeds is recognised to the profit 
and loss statement.
Interest and direct expenditure attributable 
to specific projects are capitalized in the 
cost of project,
other interest and indirect costs are treated 
as ‘Period Cost’ and charged to Profit & Loss 
account in the period in which it is incurred. 
All other incomes and expenditures are 
accounted for on accrual basis.
j. 	
Taxes
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities in accordance with the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 and the income computation 
and disclosure standards (ICDS) enacted 
in India by using tax rates and tax laws that 
are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date.
	
Current income tax relating to items 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
170 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
recognized outside profit or loss is recognized 
outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). Current 
tax items are recognized in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or 
directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability 
method on temporary differences between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting 
purposes at the reporting date. 
	
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences except:
-	
When the deferred tax liability arises 
from the initial recognition of goodwill 
or an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects 
neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss;
-	
In 
respect 
of 
taxable 
temporary 
differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, when the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary differences 
can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future
	
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all 
deductible temporary differences, the carry 
forward of unused tax credits and any 
unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are 
recognized to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, 
and the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses can be utilized except:
-	
When the deferred tax asset relating 
to the deductible temporary difference 
arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit 
or loss;
-	
In respect of deductible temporary 
differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are 
recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that the temporary differences 
will reverse in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be 
utilised
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date and reduced 
to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available 
to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset 
to be utilized. Unrecognized deferred tax 
assets are re-assessed at each reporting 
date and are recognized to the extent that 
it has become probable that future taxable 
profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be 
recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the year when the asset is realized 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates 
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
Deferred tax relating to items recognized 
outside profit or loss is recognized outside 
the statement of profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Deferred tax items are recognized in 
correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
are offset if a legally enforceable right exists 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 171
Financial Review
to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate 
to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
k.	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing cost includes interest expense as 
per effective interest rate [EIR]. Borrowing 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that 
necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or 
sale are capitalized as part of the cost of 
the asset until such time that the asset is 
substantially ready for their intended use. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in 
the period in which they occur. Borrowing 
costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the 
borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also 
includes exchange differences to the extent 
regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing 
costs.
l.	
Leases
	
The Company assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. 
That is, if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration.
	
Company as a lessee
	
The Company applies a single recognition 
and measurement approach for all leases, 
except for short-term leases and leases of 
low-value assets. The Company recognises 
lease liabilities to make lease payments and 
right-of-use assets representing the right to 
use the underlying assets.
i)    Right-of-use assets
	
The Company recognises right-of-use 
assets at the commencement date of 
the lease (i.e., the date the underlying 
asset is available for use). Right-of-
use assets are measured at cost, less 
any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The 
cost of right-of-use assets includes the 
amount of lease liabilities recognised, 
initial direct costs incurred, and lease 
payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease 
incentives received. Right-of-use assets 
are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and 
the estimated useful lives of the assets.
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers 
to the Company at the end of the lease 
term or the cost reflects the exercise 
of a purchase option, depreciation is 
calculated using the estimated useful 
life of the asset.
	
The right-of-use assets are also subject 
to impairment. Refer to the accounting 
policies in section (d) Impairment of 
non-financial assets.
ii)   Lease Liabilities
	
At the commencement date of the lease, 
the Company recognises lease liabilities 
measured at the present value of lease 
payments to be made over the lease 
term. The lease payments include fixed 
payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives 
receivable, variable lease payments 
that depend on an index or a rate, and 
amounts expected to be paid under 
residual value guarantees. The lease 
payments also include the exercise price 
of a purchase option reasonably certain 
to be exercised by the Company and 
payments of penalties for terminating 
the lease, if the lease term reflects 
the Company exercising the option to 
terminate. Variable lease payments that 
do not depend on an index or a rate are 
recognised as expenses (unless they are 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
172 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
incurred to produce inventories) in the 
period in which the event or condition 
that triggers the payment occurs.
	
In calculating the present value of 
lease payments, the Company uses 
its incremental borrowing rate at the 
lease commencement date because 
the interest rate implicit in the lease 
is not readily determinable. After the 
commencement date, the amount of 
lease liabilities is increased to reflect 
the accretion of interest and reduced for 
the lease payments made. In addition, 
the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, 
a change in the lease term, a change 
in the lease payments (e.g., changes 
to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to 
determine such lease payments) or a 
change in the assessment of an option 
to purchase the underlying asset.
	
The Company’s lease liabilities are 
included in Interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings.
iii)  Short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets
	
The Company applies the short-term 
lease recognition exemption to its short-
term leases of equipment (i.e., those 
leases that have a lease term of 12 months 
or less from the commencement date 
and do not contain a purchase option). 
It also applies the lease of low-value 
assets recognition exemption to leases 
of office equipment that are considered 
to be low value. Lease payments on 
short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets are recognised as expense 
on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term.
	
Company as a sub lessor
	
The Company is intermediate lessor 
as it subleases an asset leased from 
another lessor (the ‘head lessor’). The 
Company classifies the sublease as a 
finance lease or as an operating lease 
with reference to the right-of-use asset 
arising from the head lease. That is, 
the Company treats the right-of-use 
asset as the underlying asset in the 
sublease, not the underlying asset that 
it leases from the head lessor. At the 
commencement date of the sublease, if 
the Company cannot readily determine 
the interest rate implicit in the sublease, 
then it uses the discount rate that it uses 
for the head lease to account for the 
sublease, adjusted for any initial direct 
costs associated with the sublease. 
However, if the head lease is a short-
term lease for which the company, as a 
lessee, has elected the short-term lease 
exemption, then the company classifies 
the sublease as an operating lease.
m.	 Provision and contingent liabilities
	
Provisions
	
A provision is recognized when the 
Company has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of past event, 
it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. Provisions are not discounted to 
their present value (except where time value 
of money is material) and are determined 
based on the best estimate required to settle 
the obligation at the reporting date when 
discounting is used, the increase in provision 
due to passage of time is recognised as 
finance cost. These estimates are reviewed 
at each reporting date and adjusted to 
reflect the current best estimates.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 173
Financial Review
	
Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation 
that arises from past events whose existence 
will be confirmed by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future 
events beyond the control of the Company 
or a present obligation that is not recognized 
because it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases, where there is a 
liability that cannot be recognized because 
it cannot be measured reliably. the Company 
does not recognize a contingent liability 
but discloses its existence in the financial 
statements unless the probability of outflow 
of resources is remote.
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent 
assets and commitments are reviewed at 
each balance sheet date.
n. 	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Provident fund
	
The Company contributed to employee’s 
provident fund benefits through a trust “Max 
Financial Services Limited Provident Fund 
Trust” managed by Max Financial Services 
Limited (erstwhile Max India Limited) 
whereby amounts determined at a fixed 
percentage of basic salaries of the employees 
are deposited to the trust every month. The 
benefit vests upon commencement of the 
employment. The interest rate payable by 
the trust to the beneficiaries every year 
is notified by the government and the 
Company has an obligation to make good 
the shortfall, if any, between the return from 
the investments of the trust and the notified 
interest rate. The Company has obtained 
actuarial valuation to determine the shortfall, 
if any, as at the Balance Sheet date.
	
Gratuity
	
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit 
obligation and is provided for on the basis 
of an actuarial valuation on projected unit 
credit method made at the end of each 
financial year
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset 
ceiling, excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability 
and the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability), are recognized 
immediately in the Balance Sheet with a 
corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through OCI in the period in 
which they occur. Remeasurements are not 
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
periods.
Net interest is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net defined benefit 
(liabilities/assets). 
The Company recognized the following 
changes in the net defined benefit obligation 
under 
employee 
benefit 
expenses 
in 
statement of profit and loss
a)	
Service 
cost 
comprising 
current 
service cost, past service cost, gain & 
loss on curtailments and non-routine 
settlements.
b)	
Net interest expenses or income
Compensated absences
Accumulated leave, which is expected to 
be utilized within the next 12 months, is 
treated as short-term employee benefit. 
The Company measures the expected cost 
of such absences as the additional amount 
that it expects to pay as a result of the 
unused entitlement that has accumulated at 
the reporting date.
The Company treats accumulated leave 
expected to be carried forward beyond 
twelve months, as long-term employee 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
174 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
benefit for measurement purposes. Such 
long-term 
compensated 
absences 
are 
provided for based on the actuarial valuation 
using the projected unit credit method at 
the yearend. Actuarial gains/losses are 
immediately taken to the statement of profit 
and loss and are not deferred. The Company 
presents the leave as a current liability in the 
balance sheet, to the extent it does not have 
an unconditional right to defer its settlement 
for 12 months after the reporting date. Where 
Company has the unconditional legal and 
contractual right to defer the settlement for 
a period 12 months, the same is presented as 
non-current liability.
Short-term obligations
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including 
non-monetary benefits that are expected 
to be settled wholly within twelve months 
after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service are 
recognized in respect of employee service 
up to the end of the reporting period and are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. the liabilities 
are presented as current employee benefit 
obligations in the balance sheet.
Long term incentive plan
The Company has a long-term incentive 
plan for certain employees. The Company 
recognises benefit payable to employee as 
an expenditure, when an employee renders 
the related service on actual basis.
o.	
Share-based payments
	
Employees 
of 
the 
Company 
receive 
remuneration in the form of share-based 
payment transaction, whereby employees 
render services as a consideration for equity 
instruments (equity- settled transactions).
	
Equity-settled transactions
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions 
is determined by the fair value at the date 
when the grant is made using an appropriate 
valuation model.
That cost is recognized, together with a 
corresponding increase in share-based 
payment (SBP) reserves in equity, over the 
period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled in employee 
benefits expense. The cumulative expense 
recognized for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and the Company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for a period 
represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognized as at the beginning 
and end of that period and is recognized in 
employee benefits expense.
Service 
and 
non-market 
performance 
conditions are not taken into account when 
determining the grant date fair value of 
awards, but the likelihood of the conditions 
being met is assessed as part of the 
Company’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest. Market performance conditions are 
reflected within the grant date fair value. Any 
other conditions attached to an award, but 
without an associated service requirement, 
are considered to be non-vesting conditions. 
Non-vesting conditions are reflected in 
the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless 
there are also service and/or performance 
conditions.
No expense is recognized for awards that 
do not ultimately vest because non-market 
performance and/or service conditions have 
not been met. Where awards include a market 
or non-vesting condition, the transactions 
are treated as vested irrespective of whether 
the market or non-vesting condition is 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 175
Financial Review
satisfied, provided that all other performance 
and/or service conditions are satisfied.
When the terms of an equity-settled 
award are modified, the minimum expense 
recognized is the expense had the terms 
had not been modified, if the original terms 
of the award are met. An additional expense 
is recognized for any modification that 
increases the total fair value of the share-
based payment transaction or is otherwise 
beneficial to the employee as measured at 
the date of modification. Where an award is 
cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, 
any remaining element of the fair value of 
the award is expensed immediately through 
profit or loss.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.
Cash-settled transactions
The cost of cash-settled transactions is 
measured initially at fair value at the grant 
date using a binomial model. This fair value 
is expensed over the period until the vesting 
date with recognition of a corresponding 
liability. The liability is remeasured to fair 
value at each reporting date up to, and 
including the settlement date, with changes 
in fair value recognized in employee benefits 
expense.
p.	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance 
sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand 
and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less, which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value.
q.	
Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated 
by dividing the net profit or loss for the 
period attributable to equity shareholders 
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period. The 
weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the period is adjusted for 
events such as bonus issue, bonus element 
in a rights issue, share split, and reverse 
share split (consolidation of shares) that 
have changed the number of equities shares 
outstanding, 
without 
a 
corresponding 
change in resources.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted 
earnings per share, the net profit or loss for 
the year and the weighted average number 
of shares outstanding during the year 
adjusted for the effects of all potential equity 
shares.
r.	
Foreign currencies
	
Items included in the standalone Ind AS 
financial statements are measured using 
the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the company operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The Company’s 
standalone Ind AS financial statements are 
presented in Indian rupee (‘Rs.’) which is also 
the Company’s functional and presentation 
currency.
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded 
on initial recognition in the functional 
currency, using the exchange rate prevailing 
at the date of transaction. However, for 
practical reasons, the Company uses an 
average rate if the average approximates the 
actual rate at the date of the transaction.
Measurement of foreign currency items at the 
balance sheet date
Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated at the functional currency 
spot rates of exchange at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates at 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
176 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
the dates of the initial transactions. Non-
monetary items measured at fair value in 
a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value is determined.
	
Exchange differences arising on settlement 
or translation of monetary items are 
recognized as income or expense in the 
period in which they arise with the exception 
of exchange differences on gain or loss 
arising on translation of non-monetary items 
measured at fair value which is treated in 
line with the recognition of the gain or loss 
on the change in fair value of the item (i.e., 
translation differences on items whose fair 
value gain or loss is recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss are also recognized in OCI or 
profit or loss, respectively).
s.	
Fair value
	
Fair value is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The 
fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
a)	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
b)	
In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
asset or liability
	
The principal or the most advantageous 
market must be accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is 
measured using the assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing 
the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best 
interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques 
that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient date are available 
to measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value 
is measured or disclosed in the restated 
financial statements are categorized within 
the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, 
based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as 
a whole:
a)	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market 
prices in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities
b)	
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement is directly 
or indirectly observable
c)	
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized 
in the restated financial statements on a 
recurring basis, the Company determines 
whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorization (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
The Company’s management determines the 
policies and procedures for both recurring 
and non-recurring fair value measurement 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 177
Financial Review
measured at fair value.
	
At each reporting date, the management 
analyses the movements in the values of 
assets and liabilities which are required to 
be remeasured or re-assessed as per the 
Company’s accounting policies.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, 
the Company has determined classes of 
assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the asset 
or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above.
	
This note summarises accounting policy for 
fair value. Other fair value related disclosures 
are given in the relevant notes.
-	
Disclosures for valuation methods, 
significant estimates and assumptions 
(note 32)
-	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value 
measurement hierarchy (note 32)
-	
Financial instruments (including those 
carried at amortised cost) (note 32)
2C	 Significant 
accounting 
judgements, 
estimates and assumptions
	
The 
preparation 
of 
the 
Company’s 
standalone Ind AS financial statements 
requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, 
and 
the 
disclosure 
of 
contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about 
these assumptions and estimates could 
result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the 
asset or liability affected in future periods. 
Other disclosures relating to the Company’s 
exposure to risks and uncertainties includes: 
-	
Capital management Note 41
-	
Financial risk management objectives 
and policies Note 36A
	
Judgements
	
In the process of applying the Company’s 
accounting 
policies, 
management 
has 
made the following judgements, which have 
the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognized in the standalone Ind AS financial 
statements.
(a) 	 Determining 
the 
lease 
term 
of 
contracts 
with 
renewal 
and 
termination options - Company as 
lessee
The Company determines the lease 
term as the non-cancellable term of 
the lease, together with any periods 
covered by an option to extend the 
lease if it is reasonably certain to be 
exercised, or any periods covered by 
an option to terminate the lease, if it is 
reasonably certain not to be exercised.
The Company applies judgement in 
evaluating whether it is reasonably 
certain whether or not to exercise the 
option to renew or terminate the lease. 
That is, it considers all relevant factors 
that create an economic incentive 
for it to exercise either the renewal or 
termination. After the commencement 
date, the Company reassesses the lease 
term if there is a significant event or 
change in circumstances that is within 
its control and affects its ability to 
exercise or not to exercise the option to 
renew or to terminate (e.g., construction 
of significant leasehold improvements 
or significant customisation to the 
leased asset)
Estimates and assumptions
The 
key 
assumptions 
concerning 
the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the reporting 
date, that have a significant risk of 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
178 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities within the next financial year, 
are described below. The Company 
based its assumptions and estimates on 
parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing 
circumstances 
and 
assumptions 
about future developments, however, 
may change due to market changes 
or circumstances arising beyond the 
control of the Company. Such changes 
are reflected in the assumptions when 
they occur.
(a) 	 Defined benefit plans
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. 
Gratuity benefit) is determined using 
actuarial 
valuations. 
An 
actuarial 
valuation 
involves 
making 
various 
assumptions which may differ from 
actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the 
discount rate, future salary increases, 
mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the complexity of the 
valuation, the underlying assumptions 
and its long-term nature, a defined 
benefit obligation is highly sensitive 
to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each 
reporting date. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, management 
considers the interest rates of long-term 
government bonds with extrapolated 
maturity corresponding to the expected 
duration 
of 
the 
defined 
benefit 
obligation. The mortality rate is based 
on publicly available mortality tables 
for the specific countries. Future salary 
increases and pension increases are 
based on expected future inflation rates. 
Further details about the assumptions 
used, including a sensitivity analysis, 
are given in Note 30.0
(b) Fair value measurement of financial 
instruments
	
When the fair value of financial assets 
and financial liabilities recorded in the 
balance sheet cannot be measured 
based on quoted prices in active 
markets, their fair value is measured 
using valuation techniques including 
the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) 
model. The inputs to these models are 
taken from observable markets where 
possible, but where this is not feasible, 
a degree of judgement is required in 
establishing fair values. Judgements 
include considerations of inputs such 
as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 
Changes in assumptions about these 
factors could affect the reported fair 
value of financial instruments. The 
Company use Net asset value for 
valuation of investment in mutual fund. 
Refer note 32 related to fair valuation 
disclosures
(c) 	 Impairment of Financial assets
	
The impairment provisions of financial 
assets are based on assumptions 
about risk of default and expected loss 
rates. the Company uses judgement 
in making these assumptions and 
selecting the inputs to the impairment 
calculation, based on Company’s past 
history, existing market conditions as 
well as forward looking estimates at the 
end of each reporting period.
(d) 	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The 
Company 
assesses 
at 
each 
reporting date whether there is an 
indication that an asset may be impaired. 
If any indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is 
required, the Company estimates the 
asset’s recoverable amount. An assets 
recoverable amount is the higher of 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 179
Financial Review
an asset’s CGU’S fair value less cost 
of disposal and its value in use. It is 
determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets or Company’s 
assets. Where the carrying amount of 
an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable 
amount, 
the 
asset 
is 
considered 
impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable 
amount. 
In 
assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent 
market transactions are taken into 
account. If no such transactions can 
be identified, an appropriate valuation 
model is used. These calculations are 
corroborated by valuation multiples, or 
other fair value indicators.
(e) 	 Share based payments
	
The Company initially measures the 
cost of cash settled transactions with 
employees using a binomial model to 
determine the fair value of the liability 
incurred. Estimating fair value for share 
based payment transactions requires 
determination of the most appropriate 
valuation model, which is dependent on 
the terms and conditions of the grant. 
This estimate also requires determination 
of the most appropriate inputs to the 
valuation model including the expected 
life of the share option, volatility and 
dividend yield and making assumptions 
about them. For cash settled share-
based payment transactions, the liability 
needs to be remeasured at the end of 
each reporting period up to the date 
of settlement, with any changes in fair 
value recognized in the profit or loss. This 
requires a reassessment of the estimates 
used at the end of each reporting period. 
The assumptions and models used for 
estimating fair value for share based 
payment transactions are disclosed in 
note 30.1.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Amended standards adopted by the company
(i) 	 Reference to the Conceptual Framework – 
Amendments to Ind AS 103
	
The amendments replaced the reference to 
the ICAI’s “Framework for the Preparation 
and Presentation of Financial Statements 
under Indian Accounting Standards” with 
the reference to the “Conceptual Framework 
for 
Financial 
Reporting 
under 
Indian 
Accounting Standard” without significantly 
changing its requirements.
	
The amendments also added an exception 
to the recognition principle of Ind AS 103 
Business Combinations to avoid the issue 
of potential ‘day 2’ gains or losses arising for 
liabilities and contingent liabilities that would 
be within the scope of Ind AS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets 
or Appendix C, Levies, of Ind AS 37, if incurred 
separately. The exception requires entities to 
apply the criteria in Ind AS 37 or Appendix 
C, Levies, of Ind AS 37, respectively, instead 
of the Conceptual Framework, to determine 
whether a present obligation exists at the 
acquisition date. 
	
The amendments also add a new paragraph 
to IFRS 3 to clarify that contingent assets do 
not qualify for recognition at the acquisition 
date.
	
These amendments had no impact on the 
financial statements of the company as 
there were no contingent assets, liabilities 
or contingent liabilities within the scope of 
these amendments that arose during the 
period.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
180 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(ii) Property, Plant and Equipment: Proceeds 
before Intended Use – Amendments to Ind 
AS 16
	
The amendments modified paragraph 17(e) 
of Ind AS 16 to clarify that excess of net sale 
proceeds of items produced over the cost 
of testing, if any, shall not be recognised 
in the statement of profit and loss but 
deducted from the directly attributable costs 
considered as part of cost of an item of 
property, plant, and equipment.
	
The amendments are effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 April 2022. These amendments had 
no impact on the standalone financial 
statements of the company as there were no 
sales of such items produced by property, 
plant and equipment made available for 
use on or after the beginning of the earliest 
period presented.
(iii) Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments – Fees in 
the ’10 per cent’ test for derecognition of 
financial liabilities
	
The amendment clarifies the fees that an 
entity includes when assessing whether the 
terms of a new or modified financial liability 
are substantially different from the terms 
of the original financial liability. These fees 
include only those paid or received between 
the borrower and the lender, including fees 
paid or received by either the borrower or 
lender on the other’s behalf. 
	
These amendments had no impact on the 
financial statements of the company as there 
were no modifications of the company’s 
financial instruments which were covered 
by amendment.
(iv) Onerous Contracts – Costs of Fulfilling a 
Contract – Amendments to Ind AS 37
	
An onerous contract is a contract under 
which the unavoidable of meeting the 
obligations under the contract costs (i.e., the 
costs that the Group cannot avoid because 
it has the contract) exceed the economic 
benefits expected to be received under it. 
	
The 
amendments 
specify 
that 
when 
assessing whether a contract is onerous 
or loss-making, an entity needs to include 
costs that relate directly to a contract to 
provide goods or services including both 
incremental costs (e.g., the costs of direct 
labour and materials) and an allocation of 
costs directly related to contract activities 
(e.g., depreciation of equipment used to 
fulfil the contract and costs of contract 
management and supervision). General and 
administrative costs do not relate directly 
to a contract and are excluded unless they 
are explicitly chargeable to the counterparty 
under the contract.
	
Standards issued but not yet effective
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2023 dated 31 March 
2023 to amend the following Ind AS which 
are effective from 01 April 2023.
(i) Definition of Accounting Estimates - 
Amendments to Ind AS 8
	
The amendments clarify the distinction 
between changes in accounting estimates 
and changes in accounting policies and the 
correction of errors. It has also been clarified 
how entities use measurement techniques 
and inputs to develop accounting estimates. 
	
The amendments are effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April 
2023 and apply to changes in accounting 
policies 
and 
changes 
in 
accounting 
estimates that occur on or after the start of 
that period. 
	
The amendments are not expected to have 
a material impact on the company financial 
statements.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 181
Financial Review
(ii) Disclosure of Accounting Policies - 
Amendments to Ind AS 1
	
The amendments aim to help entities 
provide 
accounting 
policy 
disclosures 
that are more useful by replacing the 
requirement for entities to disclose their 
‘significant’ accounting policies with a 
requirement to disclose their ‘material’ 
accounting policies and adding guidance on 
how entities apply the concept of materiality 
in making decisions about accounting policy 
disclosures. 
	
The amendments to Ind AS 1 are applicable 
for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 April 2023. Consequential amendments 
have been made in Ind AS 107. The company 
is currently revisiting their accounting 
policy information disclosures to ensure 
consistency with the amended requirements.
(iii)	 Deferred Tax related to Assets and 
Liabilities 
arising 
from 
a 
Single 
Transaction - Amendments to Ind AS 12
	
The amendments narrow the scope of the 
initial recognition exception under Ind AS 12, 
so that it no longer applies to transactions 
that give rise to equal taxable and deductible 
temporary differences.
	
The amendments should be applied to 
transactions that occur on or after the 
beginning of the earliest comparative 
period presented. In addition, at the 
beginning of the earliest comparative period 
presented, a deferred tax asset (provided 
that sufficient taxable profit is available) 
and a deferred tax liability should also be 
recognised for all deductible and taxable 
temporary 
differences 
associated 
with 
leases and decommissioning obligations. 
Consequential amendments have been 
made in Ind AS 101. The amendments to 
Ind AS 12 are applicable for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 April 2023.
	
The company is currently assessing the 
impact of the amendments.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
182 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 3 	 (i) 	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
Office 
equipment
Furniture 
and fixture
Motor 
vehicles 
Computers 
and data 
processing 
units
Leashold 
Improvement
Total
Gross Block 
As at April 1, 2021
 2.26 
 1.02 
 95.65 
 36.33 
 - 
 135.26 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 35.61 
 19.48 
 - 
 55.10 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 22.67 
 - 
 22.67 
As at March 31, 2022*
 2.26 
 1.02 
 131.26 
 33.14 
 - 
 167.68 
Add: adjustments on 
account of merger 
(refer note 37)
 9.57 
 72.47 
 174.55 
 65.79 
 392.01 
 714.39 
As at April 1, 2022 
(post merger effect)
 11.83 
 73.49 
 305.81 
 98.93 
 392.01 
 882.07 
Additions
 23.35 
 63.54 
 42.39 
 48.77 
 200.91 
 378.96 
Disposals
 6.08 
 67.20 
 - 
 38.07 
 383.66 
 495.01 
As at March 31, 2023
 29.10 
 69.83 
 348.20 
 109.63 
 209.26 
 766.02 
 - 
Accumulated 
Depreciation
 - 
As at April 1, 2021
 1.63 
 0.28 
 23.90 
 26.41 
 - 
 52.22 
Additions
 0.31 
 0.10 
 13.97 
 7.70 
 - 
 22.08 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 21.52 
 - 
 21.53 
As at March 31, 2022*
 1.93 
 0.38 
 37.87 
 12.59 
 - 
 52.76 
Add: adjustments on 
account of merger 
(refer note 37)
 6.56 
 20.84 
 41.50 
 39.54 
 96.51 
 204.95 
As at April 1, 2022 
(post merger effect)
 8.49 
 21.22 
 79.37 
 52.13 
 96.51 
 257.71 
Additions
 3.84 
 10.07 
 37.53 
 24.65 
 39.84 
 115.94 
Disposals
 4.22 
 25.29 
 - 
 24.02 
 120.49 
 174.03 
As at March 31, 2023
 8.11 
 6.00 
 116.90 
 52.76 
 15.86 
 199.62 
Net carrying amount
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 20.99 
 63.83 
 231.30 
 56.88 
 193.40 
 566.40 
As at March 31, 2022*
 0.33 
 0.64 
 93.39 
 20.56 
 - 
 114.92 
	
Refer note 14 for charge created against property, plant and equipment.
	
* also refer note 37
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 183
Financial Review
3 	 (ii)	 Investment properties
Investment Property
Gross Block 
As at April 1, 2021
 7,494.95 
Additions
 124.15 
Disposals/capitalised during the year
 - 
As at March 31, 2022*
 7,619.10 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
 406.37 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
 8,025.47 
Additions
 119.97 
Disposals/capitalised during the year
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 7,332.70 
Accumulated Depreciation
As at April 1, 2021
 48.01 
Additions
 119.63 
Disposals
 - 
As at March 31, 2022*
 167.64 
Additions
 123.12 
Disposals
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 290.76 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2023
 7,041.94 
As at March 31, 2022*
 7,451.46 
Notes:
(i) 	 Contractual obligations
	
Refer note 30 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of investment properties.
(ii) Amount recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
(Rs. In Lakhs)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Rental income 
 717.73 
 353.83 
Less: Direct operating expenses generating rental 
income
 62.45 
 328.24 
Profit from leasing of investment properties 
 655.28 
 25.59 
Less: depreciation expense
 127.51 
 123.70 
Profit/(loss) from leasing of investment properties after 
depreciation 
 527.77 
 (98.11)
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
184 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(iii)	Fair value
	
Fair value hierarchy and valuation technique
	
The fair value of investment property has been determined by the company internally, having 
appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category 
of the property being valued. The fair value has been arrived using discounted cash flow projections 
based on reliable estimates of future cash flows considering growth in rental of 15% on every 3 
years, vacancy rate of 3% and discount rate of 12.00%.
Reconciliation of fair value:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Opening balance as at April 1, 2021
Rs.8,500 to 10,000 Lakhs
Increase of Fair value 
-
Decline in fair value 
-
Closing balance as at March 31, 2022*
Rs.8,500 to 10,000 Lakhs
Increase of Fair value 
-
Decline in fair value 
-
Closing balance as at March 31, 2023
Rs.8,500 to 10,000 Lakhs
	
Valuation models applied for valuation:
	
Discounted cash flow method - net present value is determined based on projected cash flows 
discounted at an appropriate rate
	
* also refer note 37
4 	 (i)	 Other Intangible assets
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Computer software
Total
Gross Block 
 As at April 1, 2021 
 17.43 
 17.43 
Additions
 0.42 
 0.42 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2022* 
 17.85 
 17.85 
Additions
 337.07 
 337.07 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 354.91 
 354.91 
Amortization
 As at April 1, 2021 
 11.65 
 11.65 
Additions
 2.75 
 2.75 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2022* 
 14.40 
 14.40 
Additions
 7.49 
 7.49 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 21.89 
 21.89 
 - 
Net carrying amount
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 333.02 
 333.02 
 As at March 31, 2022* 
 3.45 
 3.45 
*also refer note 37
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 185
Financial Review
4	
(ii)	 Right of use assets
	
	
The Company has lease contracts for buidlings from related parties. The Company’s obligations under 
its leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets. The Company is restricted from assigning 
or sub leasing the leased assets.
	
	
The carrying amounts of right-of-use assets recognised and the movements during the year:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
As at April 01, 2022
 - 
 - 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Depreciation expense
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022**
 - 
 - 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
 2,482.66 
 2,482.66 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
 2,482.66 
 2,482.66 
Additions
 1,153.42 
 1,153.42 
Deletion*
 (2,050.96)
 (2,050.96)
Depreciation expense
 (267.57)
 (267.57)
As at March 31, 2023
 1,317.55 
 1,317.55 
	
	
*During the year, the Company has sub-leased its premises and has assessed that this sub-lease fulfills 
the criteria of a finance lease as per Ind AS 116. Consequently, the Company has recognised lease 
receivables from sub-lease in its books and has de-recognised the leasehold improvements as well as 
right of use asset related to the original lease. Consequently, an amount of Rs. 135.97 Lakhs has been 
recognised as profit on de-recognition of right of use assets under the head ‘Other income’.
	
The carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movement during the year:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
As at April 01, 2021
 - 
 - 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Accretion of interest
 - 
 - 
Payments
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022**
 - 
 - 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
 2,838.53 
 2,838.53 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
 2,838.53 
 2,838.53 
Additions
 1,074.17 
 1,074.17 
Accretion of interest
 377.56 
 377.56 
Payments
 (565.09)
 (565.09)
As at March 31, 2023
 3,725.17 
 3,725.17 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
186 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
Classification of lease liabilities into Current and Non-Current:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Current lease liabilities
 236.66 
 - 
Non-current lease liabilities
 3,488.51 
 - 
Total
 3,725.17 
 - 
	
The details regarding the maturity analysis of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022** 
on an undiscounted basis:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Within one year
 541.06 
 - 
After one year but not more than five years
 2,380.33 
 - 
More than five years
 1,837.03 
 - 
Total
 4,758.42 
 - 
	
Considering the lease term of the leases, the effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 11%.
	
The Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current 
assets are sufficient to meet the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
	
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 267.57 
 - 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 377.56 
 - 
Rent expenses
 13.12 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
 658.25 
 - 
	
** also refer note 37
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 187
Financial Review
5.	
Non Current financial assets
	
Investment
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Investment in equity instrument (value at cost)
Investments in subsidiaries
Unquoted equity shares
(a) 	Max Towers Private Limited 
	
6,50,60,000 Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid up (March 
31, 2022 - 6,50,60,000 Equity Shares)
 6,506.00 
 6,506.00 
(b) 	Max Square Limited 
	
5,89,51,600 Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid up (March 
31, 2022 - 3,57,10,000 Equity shares)
 5,895.16 
 3,571.00 
(c) 	Pharmax Corporation Limited
	
(4,71,22,747 Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid up (March 
31, 2022 - 4,71,22,747 Equity shares)
 6,073.05 
 6,073.05 
(d) 	Max Asset Services Limited 
	
2,050,000 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Equity shares of Rs. 10 each 
fully paid up
 205.00 
 - 
(e)	 Max I Limited
	
50,000 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully 
paid up
 5.00 
 - 
(f) 	Max Estates 128 Private Limited
	
29,25,15,000 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Equity shares of Rs. 10 
each fully paid up
 29,251.50 
 - 
(g) 	Acreage Builders Private Limited
	
29,49,33,900 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Equity shares of Rs. 10 
each fully paid up
 29,493.39 
 - 
(h) 	Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
	
100,000 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Equity shares of Rs. 10 each 
fully paid up
 10.00 
 - 
	
Cumulative Convertible Preference Shares
(a) 	Pharmax Corporation Limited
	
(3,00,000 10% Cumulative Convertible Preference shares of 
Rs. 100 each fully paid up (March 31, 2022- 3,00,000)
 3,900.00 
 3,900.00 
	
Unquoted Compulsory Convertible Debentures
(a) 	Max Towers Private Limited 
	
6,972 Debentures of Rs. 1,00,000 each fully paid up (March 31, 
2022- 26,020 Debentures)
 6,972.58 
 26,020 
(b) 	Max Square Limited 
	
5,32,50,000 Debentures of Rs. 10 each fully paid up (March 31, 
2022- 3,57,10,000 Debentures)
 5,325.84 
 3,571.00 
	
Investment in NCD Equity portion of Max Towers Private 
Limited
 1,370.18 
 - 
	
Max Asset Services Limited
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
188 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
	
2,214 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Zero Coupon Compulsory 
Convertible Debentures of Rs. 100,000 each fully paid up##
 2,214.00 
 - 
	
Max I Limited
	
Equity portion of 51 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Zero Coupon Non 
Convertible Debentures of Rs. 100,000 each fully paid up (net 
of deferred tax)
 2,106.96 
 - 
c) 	 Additional investments on account of Employee Stock 
Option and guarantee given on behalf of subsidiary
(i) 	 Max Towers Private Limited (formerly known as Wise Zone 
Builders Private Limited)
 388.70 
 47.75 
(ii) 	Max Square Limited (formerly known as Northern Propmart 
Solutions Limited)
 283.88 
 57.87 
(iii)	Equity portion of interest-free loan to Pharmax Corporation 
Limited (net of deferred tax)
 9.19 
 - 
(iv)	Additional investment in Max Asset Services Limited 
 13.02 
 - 
(v) 	Additional investment in MEL 128
 57.82 
 - 
(vi)	Pharmax Corporation Limited
 427.46 
 257.20 
 100,508.72 
 50,003.88 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 100,508.72 
 50,003.88 
Aggregate book value of at cost
 100,508.72 
 50,003.88 
	
## 2,214 (March 31, 2022 - 2,214) Zero coupon compulsory convertible debentures remain outstanding 60 
months from the date of their issue and allotment shall be compulsory converted into 22,140,000 equity 
shares.
	
* Additional investments include guarantee given by the Company on behalf of its subsidiaries Max Towers 
Private Limited -loan of Rs. 24,603.34 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 8,213.07 Lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at 
March 31, 2023 Rs. 24,900.00 Lakhs, March 31, 2022: Rs. 11,700 Lakhs) from HDFC Bank Limited and ICICI 
bank respectively, Pharmax Corporation Limited -loan of Rs. 4,016.20 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 792.57 
Lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022: Rs.6,500.00 Lakhs and Nil respectively) 
from IDFC First Bank Limited, Max Square Limited -loan of Rs. 21,998.13 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 
12,855.95.00 Lakhs) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022- Rs. 24,000.00 Lakhs from 
Axis Bank) and Max 128 Limited -loan of Rs. 14,839.00 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Nil) (Sanctioned Limit as at 
March 31, 2023 Rs. 15,000.00 Lakhs and March 31, 2022: Nil) from Aditya Birla Finance Bank respectively. 
Also refer Note 30.
	
# also refer note 37
6.	
Other bank balances
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Deposits with remaining maturity for more than 12 months
 335.35 
 239.37 
 335.35 
 239.37 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 189
Financial Review
	
Non Current financial assets
7.	
Other financial assets
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Security deposits
 171.93 
 29.90 
Rent equalisation reserve
 11.26 
 134.57 
Lease receivable (refer note 4)
 2,384.75 
 - 
Interest accrued on CCD's
 2,014.64 
 1,328.07 
 4,582.58 
 1,492.54 
8 	
Non-current tax assets
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Tax deducted at source recoverable
 771.72 
 350.14 
 771.72 
 350.14 
9 	
Other non current assets
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Deferred guarantee fee 
 24.37 
 52.86 
Capital advances
 - 
 550.55 
 24.37 
 603.41 
10	 Inventories
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Work-in-process
 186.75 
 186.75 
Construction materials
 8.35 
 19.66 
Finished goods
 - 
 1,138.84 
 195.10 
 1,345.25 
11.	 Current financial assets
(i)	 Trade receivables
	
Unsecured:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
 Okhla
Unsecured, considered good *
 394.02 
 162.94 
 394.02 
 162.94 
	
* includes Rs. 98.41 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 150.14 Lakhs) due from related parties
	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and have average credit period of 60 days. No trade or other 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
190 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
receivable are due from directors or others officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other 
person. The sales to related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length 
transactions. (Refer note 38(b))
Ageing of trade receivable 
as on 31 March 2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Undisputed Trade 
receivables – considered 
good 
Less than 
6 months
6 
months-1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years More than 
3 years
Total
As on March 31, 2023
365.70
 12.00 
 3.30 
 13.02 
 - 
 394.02 
As on March 31, 2022 #
146.64
 3.28 
13.02
 - 
 - 
 162.94 
(ii)	 Other investment
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Quoted mutual funds (valued at fair value through profit and 
loss)
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth - Face value - Rs. 10 
 1,501.96 
 - 
Units - 60,057, NAV - 2,500.89 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) 
 - 
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth - Face value 
- Rs. 10 
 1,502.25 
 - 
Units - 4,13,748.56, NAV - 363.08 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) 
 - 
SBI Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth- Face value - Rs. 10 
 1,501.95 
 - 
Units - 42,629.04, NAV - 3,523.30 (March 31, 2022: Nil) 
 - 
UTI Liquid Cash Plan - Direct - Growth- Face value - Rs. 10 
 1,502.17 
 - 
Units: 40,613.46, NAV - 3,689.41 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) 
 - 
DSP Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth- Face value - Rs. 10 
 2,361.16 
 - 
Units: 59,205.73, NAV - 3213.09 (March 31, 2022: Nil)
 - 
Tata Liquid Fund- Face value - Rs. 10 
 2,045.29 
 - 
Units - 57,590.82  , NAV - 3551.41 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) 
 10,414.79 
 - 
Aggregate book value of quoted Invesment
 10,414.79 
 - 
Market value of quoted Investment
 10,414.79 
 - 
	
Mutual fund units were lien marked against letter of credit facility availed in Max Towers Private Limited of 
Rs.744 Lakhs.
(iii)	 Cash and cash eq\uivalents
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
 151.91 
 55.16 
Cash on hand
 3.70 
 0.89 
 155.61 
 56.05 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 191
Financial Review
(iv)	 Bank balances other than (iii) above
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Deposits with remaining maturity for more than 3 months but 
less than 12 months
 1,389.79 
 3,304.51 
 1,389.79 
 3,304.51 
(v)	 Loans
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Loans to related parties (refer note 38b)**
 17,375.14 
 3,089.57 
 17,375.14 
 3,089.57 
	
Loans to related parties are repayable on demand and carries interest ranging from Nil to 9.25% (March 31, 
2022: Nil).
(vi)	 Other financial assets
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Rent equalisation reserve
 94.49 
 70.52 
Interest accrued on deposits and others**
 438.50 
 128.86 
Security deposit
 2.02 
 2.03 
Lease receivable (refer note 4 (ii))
 69.80 
 - 
 604.81 
 201.41 
	
**During the current financial year ended March 31, 2023, based on the recoverability assessment, the 
Company has reversed the provision of Rs. 1,062 lakhs created in respect of loan given to its subsidiary 
Max Asset Services Limited (MASL), which has been recognised as Other Income. The Company has also 
recognised the cumulative interest income of Rs. 356.34 lakhs in current financial year, which has been 
recognised under the head Revenue from operations.
12.	 Other current assets
	
(Unsecured, considered good)
	
Advances:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
 - to related party
 447.75 
 36.37 
 - to others
 29.62 
 14.33 
Deferred guarantee fee 
 - 
 4.12 
Prepaid expenses
 64.45 
 95.67 
Balance with statutory authorities
 330.26 
 183.21 
 872.09 
 333.69 
# also refer note 37
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
192 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
13.	 Share capital and other equity
(i)	 Equity share capital
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particular
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 #
a) Authorized**
150,000,000 (March 31, 2022 - 150,000,000) equity shares 
of Rs.10/- each
 15,000.00 
 7,800.00 
 15,000.00 
 7,800.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up*
Zero equity shares of Rs.10/- each fully paid up (March 31, 
2022 - 7,79,10,000 equity shares of Rs.10/- each)
 - 
 7,791.00 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital
 - 
 7,791.00 
	
*Subsequent to the year end and upon the coming into effect of the Scheme of amalgamation, and in 
consideration of the transfer, 1 (one) equity shares of the face value of INR 10 each fully paid-up of the 
Company are required to be issued against every 1 (one) equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up 
held by the shareholders of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. Consequent to this, the Company 
shall issue 146,946,000 equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up for 146,946,000 equity shares of INR 
10 each fully paid-up of Max Ventures and Industries Limited.
	
These shares have been disclosed as ‘Share capital pending issuance’ as at March 31, 2023 and as at 
April 01, 2022.
	
**As an integral part of the scheme, and, upon the coming into effect of the scheme, the authorized 
share capital of the Company shall automatically stand increased, without any further act, instrument or 
deed on the part of the Company, such that upon the coming into effect of this scheme, the authorized 
share capital of the Company shall be INR 1,500,000,000/- divided into 150,000,000 equity shares 
of INR 10 each. Consequently, Clause V of the Memorandum of Association of the Company shall, 
upon the coming into effect of this scheme and without any further act or deed, be and stand altered, 
modified and substituted pursuant to section 13, 61 and 230 and 232 and other applicable provisions 
of the Act, as the case may be. Also refer note 37.
b)	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting year
Equity shares
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022 #
No. of 
shares
(Rs. In 
Lakhs)
No. of 
shares
 (Rs. In 
Lakhs) 
At the beginning of the year
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00  77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
Add: Shares issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less: adjustment in accordance with merger 
(refer note 37)
 
(77,910,000)
 (7,791.00)
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 - 
 -  77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
c)	
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of Rs. 10 per share. Each 
holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The dividend if any, proposed by the Board 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 193
Financial Review
of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive 
remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be 
in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
d)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Name of the Shareholder
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022 #
No. of shares
% held
No. of shares
% held
Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid-
up
Max Ventures & Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 77,909,994 
99.9999%
e)	
Details of shares held by holding company
Name of the Shareholder
 
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022 #
No. of shares
% held No. of shares
% held
Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid-
up
Max Ventures & Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
 77,909,994 
99.9999%
f)	
Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five 
years immediately preceding the reporting date - NIL
g)	 Shareholding of promoters
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year
As at
Promoter Name
 
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
% Change 
during the 
year
March 31, 2023
Max Ventures & Industries 
Limited
 - 
 - 
100%
March 31, 2022 #
Max Ventures & Industries 
Limited
 77,909,994 
99.9999%
0%
	
# also refer note 37
(ii)	 Other equity
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Capital reserve (refer note a below)
           13,042.52 
         - 
Securities premium account (refer note b below)
           50,095.91 
         - 
Employee stock options outstanding (refer note c below)
            229.11 
        65.64 
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCD) (refer note d below)
              - 
       57,164.00 
Equity component on guarantee (refer note e below)
              - 
        157.43 
Retained earnings (refer note f below)
           45,289.15 
       (4,580.80)
Other comprehensive income (refer note g below)
             (5.85)
        (5.86)
          108,650.83 
      52,800.40 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
194 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Notes:
a) 	 Capital reserve 
Balance as at beginning of the year/year
              - 
         - 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
           13,042.52 
         - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
           13,042.52 
At the end of the year
           13,042.52 
         - 
b) 	 Securities premium account
At the beginning of the year
              - 
         - 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
           50,086.75 
         - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
           50,086.75 
Add: premium on issue of employee stock options
             9.16 
         - 
At the end of the year
           50,095.91 
         - 
c) 	
Employee stock options outstanding
At the beginning of the year
             65.64 
        25.57 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
             94.24 
         - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
            159.88 
         - 
Add: expense recognized during the year
             98.06 
        40.07 
Less: expiry of share option under ESOP scheme
            (28.83)
         - 
At the end of the year
            229.11 
        65.64 
d) 	 Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCD)
At the beginning of the year
           57,164.00 
       57,164.00 
Less: adjustment in accordance with merger (refer note 37)
           (57,164.00)
         - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
              - 
At the end of the year
              - 
      57,164.00 
e) 	
Equity component on guarantee 
At the beginning of the year
            157.43 
        70.92 
Less: adjustment in accordance with merger (refer note 37)
            (197.88)
         - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
            (40.45)
Add: additions on account equity created on guarantee fees & 
ESOP
             40.45 
         - 
Add: Tax impact on equity portion of interest free loan
              - 
        86.51 
At the end of the year
              - 
       157.43 
f) 	
Retained earnings
At the beginning of the year
           (4,580.80)
       (5,107.26)
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
           46,560.18 
         - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
           41,979.38 
         - 
Profit/(Loss) for the year
            3,275.46 
        526.46 
Equity portion of Compulsory Convertible Debentures (CCD)
             5.48 
         - 
Expiry of share options under Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP) 
scheme
             28.83 
         - 
At the end of the year
           45,289.15 
      (4,580.80)
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 195
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
g) 	 Other comprehensive income
At the beginning of the year
             (5.86)
        (9.79)
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
              - 
         - 
Re-measurement of post employment benefit obligation (net of tax) 
(item of OCI)
             0.01 
         3.93 
At the end of the year
             (5.85)
        (5.86)
Nature and purpose of reserves
a) 	 Capital reserve 
	
The Company recognises profit or loss on purchase, sale issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity 
instruments to Capital Reserve.	
b) 	 Securities premium	
	
	
	
Securities Premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for 
limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013.
c) 	 Employee stock options outstanding	
	
	
	
	
The employee stock options based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options 
issued to employees under Employee Stock Option plan.
d) 	 Retained earnings	 	
	
	
	
The profits of the Company available for distribution as dividend.	
e) 	 Other Comprehensive Income	
	
	
	
	
Loss from remeasurement on defined benefit plans.	 	
	
	
	
# also refer note 37	 	
	
	
14 (i) Borrowings
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
 Non-current borrowings 
 Term loans (secured) 
 From banks 
 10,218.54 
 3,793.64 
 Vehicle loans from Bank (secured) 
 47.80 
 31.34 
 10,266.34 
 3,824.98 
 Less: Amount disclosed under "Short term borrowings" 
[refer note 16(i)] 
 534.50 
 163.10 
 9,731.84 
 3,661.88 
 Aggregate Secured loans 
 10,266.34 
 3,824.98 
	
Vehicle loan :-	
	
	
	
	
Vehicle loans amounting to Rs.47.80 Lakhs (March 31,2022 - Rs. 31.34 Lakhs) are secured by way of 
hypothecation of respective vehicles. The loans are repayable in 1-3 years. Rate of interest is 7.60% to 9.00%.
Term Loan from Banks :-	
	
	
	
 i) 	 The Company has taken secured term loan facility for 4,500 Lakhs loan from ICICI Bank Limited. Out 
of this facility the company has drawn 3,905 Lakhs till March 31, 2023.Max Towers Private Limited -loan 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
196 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
of Rs. 24603.34 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 8,213.07 Lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at March 31, 2023 Rs. 
24900.00 Lakhs) from HDFC Bank Limited, Pharmax Corporation Limited -loan of Rs. 4,016.20 Lakhs 
(March 31, 2022: Rs. 792.57) (Sanctioned limit as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022: Rs.6,500.00 
Lakhs and Nil respectively) from IDFC First Bank Limited, Max Square Limited -loan of Rs. 21,998.13 
Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 12,855.95.00) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022- 
Rs. 24,000.00 Lakhs from Axis Bank) and Max 128 Limited -loan of Rs. 14,839.00 Lakhs (March 31, 
2022:Nil) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2023 Rs. 15,000.00 Lakhs from Aditya Birla Finance Bank 
respectively. The Facility, all interest thereon, costs, charges, expenses and all other monies in respect 
thereof shall be secured by:	
	
a). 	 Exclusive charge by way of equitable mortgage over the Project being developed by the Borrower 
on the Property;	
	
	
b). 	 Exclusive charge by way of hypothecation on the Scheduled Receivables of the Projectand all 
insurance proceeds, both present and future;
c). 	 Exclusive charge by way of hypothecation on the Escrow Accounts of the Project and the DSR 
Account and all monies cred- ited/deposited therein (in whatever form the same may be), and all 
investments in respect thereof (in whatever form the same may be);
d). 	 Post creation of security, the Project shall provide a security cover of 1.50 times during the entire 
tenure of the Facility on the outstanding loan amount of facility;	
e). 	 Bank guarantee of Rs 5,000 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 5,000 Lakhs).	
	
	
	
Repayment terms:	
	
	
	
	
The repayment of principal amount of facility need to be made in 108 instalments commencing from 1 
month from the first drawdown date
	
# also refer note 37	
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
(ii)
Lease liabilities
Lease liability (refer note 4(ii))
 3,488.51 
 - 
 3,488.51 
 - 
(iii)
Other non current financial liabilities
Security Deposit received
 990.57 
 762.02 
Deferred Guarantee Income
 450.18 
 22.32 
Deferred Finance Income (Security deposit)
 - 
 67.99 
 1,440.75 
 852.34 
15.	  Long term provision
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
 Provision for employee benefits 
 Provision for gratuity (refer note 31) 
 119.21 
 56.82 
 119.21 
 56.82 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 197
Financial Review
16.	 Current financial liabilities
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
(i) 
 Borrowings 
Loan from related party ( Unsecured )
 6,536.72 
 2,667.00 
Current maturity of long term borrowings (refer note 14)
 534.50 
 163.10 
 7,071.22 
 2,830.10 
(ii)
Lease liabilities
Lease liability (refer note 4(ii))
 236.66 
 - 
 236.66 
 - 
(iii) 
 Trade payables 
 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises* 
 - 
 4.63 
 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises 
 977.22 
 307.96 
 977.22 
 312.59 
Trade Payables ageing schedule as on 31st March 2023
Particulars 
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(ii) Others
 - 
 954.66 
 22.56 
 - 
 - 
 977.22 
(iii) Disputed dues-MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed dues -others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
Trade Payables ageing schedule as on 31st March 2022 #
Particulars
Not due
 Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
(i) MSME
 - 
 4.63 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4.63 
(ii) Others
 - 
 296.09 
 11.87 
 - 
 - 
 307.96 
(iii) Disputed dues-MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed dues -others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 Other current financial liabilities
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
 50.23 
 13.34 
Security deposits
 52.67 
 74.06 
Deferred Guarantee Income
 134.15 
 17.54 
Deferred Finance Income (Security deposit)
 28.85 
 2.72 
 265.90 
 107.66 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
198 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
17.	 Other current liabilities
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Statutory dues
 184.35 
 89.48 
Others
 7.58 
 - 
Advance from Customers
 6.38 
 254.08 
 198.31 
 343.56 
18.	 Provisions
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022 #
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity (refer note 31(i))
 1.11 
 0.83 
Provision for leave encashment (refer note 31(ii))
 196.16 
 81.92 
 197.27 
 82.75 
	
# also refer note 37
19.	 Revenue from operations
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Revenue from contracts with customers
- Sale of constructed properties
 1,852.82 
 2,857.10 
- Rental income
 717.73 
 358.48 
- Development Management fees/ Others
 485.51 
 685.63 
- Income from shared services
 1,355.75 
 - 
 4,411.81 
 3,901.22 
Other operating revenues
Income on loans to subsidiary companies {also refer note 
11(vi)}
 517.42 
 - 
 517.42 
 - 
Total revenue from operations
 4,929.23 
 3,901.22 
	
Performance obligation
	
The performance obligation is satisfied upon completion of the services/sale of property.
	
Refer note 11 for contract balances (trade receivables)
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 199
Financial Review
20.	 Other income
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Interest income
- on security deposits
 39.21 
 - 
- on fixed deposits
 470.22 
 227.21 
- on Compulsory convertible debentures (CCD's)
 987.94 
 714.20 
- on Non convertible debentures (NCD's)
 583.77 
 - 
- on unwinding of loan
 312.70 
 - 
- on others
 149.06 
 - 
Profit on sale of mutual fund
 90.67 
 - 
Guarantee fee
 82.50 
 14.72 
Liability no longer required written back
 - 
 30.57 
Profit on sale of Investment
 944.14 
 14.69 
Miscellaneous income
 84.00 
 45.10 
Profit on derecognition of Right-of-use assets
 135.97 
 - 
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value 
through profit or loss
 13.78 
 - 
Provision for doubtful advances written back {also refer 
note 11(vi)}
 1,062.00 
 - 
 4,955.96 
 1,046.49 
21	 Cost of material consumed, construction & other related project cost
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Inventories at beginning of year
 19.66 
 40.73 
Add: adjustment on account of merger (refer note 37)
 13.84 
Add: Purchases
 - 
 - 
Construction materials
 - 
 - 
Civil construction work
 (32.37)
 (21.07)
 1.13 
 19.66 
Less: inventory at the end of year
 1.13 
 19.66 
Cost of material consumed, construction & other 
related project cost
 - 
 - 
Decrease in inventories of work-in-progress and 
finished goods
Inventories at end of year
Finished Goods
 - 
 1,138.84 
Work-in-process
 186.75 
 186.75 
 186.75 
 1,325.59 
Inventories at beginning of the year
Finished Goods
 1,138.84 
 2,835.54 
Work-in-process
 186.75 
 341.00 
Total
 1,325.59 
 3,176.54 
Decrease in inventories of work-in-progress and 
finished goods
 1,138.84 
 1,850.95 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
200 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
22.	 Employee benefits expense
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Salaries, wages and bonus
 1,468.09 
 497.39 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 83.31 
 33.91 
Employee stock option scheme (refer note 33)
 100.60 
 39.57 
Gratuity expense (refer note 31 (i))
 36.93 
 20.48 
Staff welfare expenses
 61.80 
 7.39 
 1,750.73 
 598.73 
23.	 Finance costs
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Interest on borrowings
 721.42 
 682.60 
Interest on lease (refer note 4(ii))
 377.56 
 - 
Bank charges
 33.81 
 43.28 
 1,132.79 
 725.88 
24.	 Depreciation and amortization expense
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Depreciation on Investment property & property, plant and 
equipment (refer note 3)
 239.05 
 141.72 
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 4(ii))
 267.57 
 - 
Amortization of intangible assets (refer note 4(i))
 7.49 
 2.75 
 514.11 
 144.47 
25.	 Other expenses
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
Rent
 14.73 
 0.05 
Insurance
 41.75 
 20.45 
Rates and taxes 
 43.79 
 79.45 
Repairs and maintenance
 217.64 
 158.84 
Printing and stationery
 3.76 
 0.51 
Travelling and conveyance
 131.05 
 18.57 
Communication
 14.47 
 2.56 
Legal and professional
 1,095.10 
 421.38 
Net loss on sale/disposal of fixed assets 
 - 
 0.42 
Brokerage Expenses
 66.22 
 - 
Directors' sitting fees
 63.00 
 - 
Membership & Subscription
 69.45 
 24.52 
Marketing Expenses
 74.22 
 252.50 
Business Promotion
 - 
 36.82 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
 19.79 
 - 
Facility Management Charges
 9.03 
 64.94 
Audit fee*
 27.89 
 1.25 
Miscellaneous expenses
 129.77 
 18.96 
 2,021.66 
 1,101.22 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 201
Financial Review
	
* Payment to auditor
(Rs. In Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37) 
(a)
As auditor:
Audit fee
 27.89 
 0.75 
Other services (Limited review & certification fees)
 - 
 0.50 
 27.89 
 1.25 
(b)
Details of CSR expenditure*
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company 
during the year
 19.79 
 - 
Amount spent during the year
i) Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
ii) On purposes other than (i) above
 19.79 
 - 
 c)  Details related to spent / unspent obligations: 
 i)   Contribution to public trust 
                                   -                                      -   
 ii) Contribution to charitable trust 
                                   -                                      -   
 iii) Unspent amount in relation to: 
 - Ongoing project 
                                   -                                      -   
 - Other than ongoing project 
 19.79                                    -   
 d)  Note for other than ongoing project: 
 In case of Section 135(5) (Other than ongoing 
project)
 Opening balance 
 With Company 
 - 
 - 
 In separate CSR unspent account 
 - 
 - 
 Amount deposited in specified fund of Schedule VII 
within 6 months 
 - 
 - 
 Amount required to be spent during the year 
 19.79 
 - 
 Amount spent during the year 
 From Company’s bank A/c 
 19.79 
 - 
 From separate CSR unspent a/c 
 - 
 - 
 Closing balance 
 With Company 
 - 
 - 
 In separate CSR unspent account 
 - 
 - 
There are no ongoing projects for the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
202 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
For the year ended
March 31, 2022 #
(a) Statement of profit and loss :
Current income tax :
Current tax 
 2,050.58 
 - 
Adjustment of current tax related to earlier years
 - 
Sub total (a)
 2,050.58 
 - 
Deferred tax :
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
 (1,998.98)
 - 
Adjustment of deferred tax related to earlier years
 - 
 - 
Sub total (b)
 (1,998.98)
 - 
Income tax expense charged in the statement of 
profit and loss (a+b)
 51.59 
 - 
(b) OCI section :
Deferred tax relating to re-measurement gains on 
defined benefit plans
 - 
Income tax charged in other comprehensive 
income
 - 
 - 
(c) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting 
profit multiplied by India's domestic tax rate for March 
31, 2023 and March 31, 2022:
Accounting profit before tax
 3,327.06 
Accounting profit before income tax
 3,327.06 
 - 
At India's statutory income tax rate of 25.17 % (March 
31, 2022: 25.17 %)
 837.42 
 - 
Non-Taxable income for tax purposes:
Guarantee fees
 (20.76)
Non taxable income for tax purpose
 (950.72)
 - 
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes:
Non deductible tax expense
 30.30 
Items taxed at different rate
 155.35 
 - 
At the effective income tax rate
 51.59 
 - 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit 
and loss
 51.59 
 - 
Total tax expense
 51.59 
 - 
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 - 
 - 
Gross deferred tax liabilities (a)
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax assets
Effect of expenditure debited to the statement of profit 
and loss in the current year/earlier years but allowed 
for tax purposes in following years
 205.07 
 86.51 
Gross deferred tax assets (b)
 205.07 
 86.51 
Deferred tax assets (net) (a-b)
 (205.07)
 (86.51)
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 203
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2023
For the year ended
March 31, 2022 #
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net):
 205.07 
 86.51 
Opening balance as of 1st April
 (86.51)
 - 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
 1,793.45 
 - 
Tax expense during the period recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss
 (1,998.98)
 - 
Adjustment of deferred tax related to earlier years
 0.46 
 - 
Others
 86.51 
 (86.51)
Closing balance
 (205.07)
 (86.51)
	
The company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income 
taxes levied by the same tax authority. 
	
# also refer note 37
27	 Other comprehensive income
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 #
Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans
 0.02 
 3.93 
Income tax effect
 (0.01)
 - 
 0.01 
 3.93 
28	 Earning Per Share
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 #
Basic EPS
Profit after tax (Rs. in Lakhs)
 3,275.45 
 526.46 
Less: dividends on convertible preference shares & tax 
thereon
Net profit for calculation of basic EPS
 3,275.45 
 526.46 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year (Nos.)*
 147,060,581 
 77,910,000 
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
 2.23 
 0.67 
Dilutive EPS
Profit after tax (Rs. in Lakhs)
 3,275.45 
 526.46 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year for dilutive earnings per share (Nos.)
 147,796,024 
 447,550,000 
Diluted earnings per share (Rs.)
 2.22 
 0.12 
	
# also refer note 37
	
*Shares pending issuance have been included in the computation of Basic Earning per share as per 
guidance given in Ind AS 33 ‘Earnings per share’.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
204 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
29	 Other notes to accounts
	
Investment in subsidiaries
(a)	 These financial statement are separate financial statements prepared in accordance with Ind AS-27” 
Separate Financial Statements”.
(b)	 The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are as under:
Name of the Subsidiary
Country of 
incorporation
Portion of 
ownership 
interest as 
at March 31, 
2023
Portion of 
ownership 
interest as at 
March 31, 
2022 (also 
refer note 37)
Method used 
to account 
for the 
investment 
Max Towers Private Limited
India
100%
100%
Refer Note 5
Max Square Limited
India
51%
51%
Refer Note 5
Pharmax Corporation Limited
India
100%
85%
Refer Note 5
Max Asset Services Limited
India
100%
0%
Refer Note 5
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
India
100%
0%
Refer Note 5
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
India
100%
0%
Refer Note 5
Acreage Builders Private Limited
India
100%
0%
Refer Note 5
Max I. Limited
India
100%
0%
Refer Note 5
30	 Commitments and contingencies
i)	
Capital commitments
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
 March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 37)
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed 
on capital account and not accounted for
 34.94 
 6.82 
Less: Capital Advances
 - 
 0.98 
Net Commitment
 34.94 
 5.84 
ii)	
Contingent liabilities
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37)
Bank Guarantee
 5,000.00 
 5,000.00 
Uttarakhand VAT case
 21.24 
 21.24 
iii) 	 Financial guarantee
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37)
Guarantees to banks against credit facilities extended to 
group companies
 65,456.67 
 21,861.52 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 205
Financial Review
	
Guarantee given by the Company on behalf of its subsidiary and step down subsidiaries, Max Towers 
Private Limited -loan of Rs. 24,603.34 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 8,213.07 Lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at 
March 31, 2023 Rs. 24,900.00 Lakhs) from HDFC Bank Limited, Pharmax Corporation Limited -loan of Rs. 
4,016.20 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 792.57 Lakhs) (Sanctioned limit as at March 31, 2023, and March 31, 
2022: Rs.6,500.00 Lakhs and Nil respectively) from IDFC First Bank Limited, Max Square Limited - loan of 
Rs. 21,998.13 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 12,855.95.00) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2023 and March 
31, 2022- Rs. 24,000.00 Lakhs from Axis Bank) and Max 128 Limited -loan of Rs. 14,839.00 Lakhs (March 31, 
2022: Nil) (Sanctioned Limit as at March 31, 2023 Rs. 15,000.00 Lakhs, March 31, 2022: Nil from Aditya Birla 
Finance Bank respectively.
31 (i) Gratuity
	
The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Under Gratuity Plan, every employee who has completed 
five years or more of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 days of last drawn salary for each completed 
year of service.
	
The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the act, employee who has 
completed five years of service is entitled to specific benefit. The level of benefits provided depends on the 
member’s length of service and salary at retirement age. 
	
Description of Risk exposures
	
Valuations are based on certain assumptions, which are dynamic in nature and vary over time. As such 
company is exposed to various risks as follow:
i) 	
Salary Increases- Actual salary increases will increase the Plan’s liability. Increase in salary increase 
rate assumption in future valuations will also increase the liability.
ii) 	 Discount Rate : Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can increase the plan’s liability.
iii) 	 Mortality & disability – Actual deaths & disability cases proving lower or higher than assumed in the 
valuation can impact the liabilities.
	
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of 
profit or loss and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans:
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 #
 a)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of 
defined benefit obligation
 Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 57.65 
 43.09 
Add: adjustments on account of merger (refer note 37)
 40.55 
 - 
As at April 1, 2022 (post merger effect)
 98.20 
Interest expense
 7.13 
 2.92 
Current service cost
 29.80 
 17.56 
Benefit paid
 (21.59)
 (1.99)
Acquisition adjustment
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss in other comprehensive 
income
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
206 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 #
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions
 6.98 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience 
adjustments
 (0.01)
 (3.93)
 Defined benefit obligation at year end
 120.50 
 57.65 
 b)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of fair 
value of plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
Expected return on plan assets
 - 
 - 
Employer contribution
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement of (Gain)/loss in other comprehensive 
income
 - 
 - 
Fair value of plan assets at year end
 - 
 - 
 c)
Net defined benefit asset/ (liability) recognized in the 
balance sheet
Fair value of plan assets
Present value of defined benefit obligation
 120.50 
 57.65 
Amount recognized in balance sheet- liability
 120.50 
 57.65 
 d)
Net defined benefit expense (recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss for the year )
Current service cost
 29.80 
 17.56 
Interest cost on benefit obligation
 7.13 
 2.92 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement of 
profit and loss 
 36.93 
 20.48 
e)
Remeasurment (gain)/loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience 
adjustments
 (0.01)
 (3.93)
Recognised in other comprehensive income
 (0.01)
 (3.93)
 f)
Broad categories of plan assets as a percentage of total 
assets
Insurer managed funds
0%
0%
Assumption particulars
 g)
Principal assumptions used in determining defined 
benefit obligation
Discount rate
7.26%
7.26%
Salary escalation rate
10.00%
10.00%
Mortality Rate (% of IALM 12-14)
100.00%
100.00%
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 207
Financial Review
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 #
 h)
Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant 
assumptions is as below:
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined benefits 
obligations at the end of the year
Discount rate
Increase by 0.50%
 (8.53)
 (4.11)
Decrease by 0.50%
 9.41 
 4.54 
Salary growth rate
Increase by 0.50%
 6.83 
 4.40 
Decrease by 0.50%
 (6.21)
 (4.03)
Attrition rate
Increase by 0.50%
Decrease by 0.50%
 i)
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation 
at the end of the reporting year is 18.91 Years (March 31, 2022 
: 15.97 years)
 j)
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in 
actuarial valuation are after taking into account inflation, 
seniority, promotion and other relevant factors including 
supply and demand in the employment market. The above 
information is as certified by the Actuary. 
 k)
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of 
Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date 
for the estimated term of the obligations.
 l)
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined 
based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined 
benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key 
assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting year.
31 (ii) Leave Encashment (unfunded)
	
The Company recognises the leave encashment expenses in the Statement of Profit & Loss based on 
actuarial valuation.
	
The expenses recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss and the Leave encashment liability at the 
beginning and at the end of the year :
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 # 
Liability at the beginning of the year
 81.92 
 78.57 
Benefits paid during the year
 (12.80)
 (3.53)
Provided during the year
 127.10 
 6.88 
Liability at the end of the year
 196.22 
 81.92 
	
# also refer note 37
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
208 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
32	 The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits received Presidential assent in 
September 2020. However, effective date and the final rules/interpretation have not yet been notified/
issued. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of the Code and will recognize the impact, 
if any, based on its effective date.
33	 Employee Stock Option Plan
	
Employee Stock Option Plan – 2016 (“the 2016 Plan”):
	
The Max Ventures and Industries Limited had constituted an Employee Stock Option Plan - 2016 which had 
been approved by the Board in the meeting held on 9th August 2016 and by shareholders of Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited in its annual general meeting held on September 27, 2016. 
	
The details of activity under the scheme are summarized below:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022 #
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price 
(Rs.)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise price 
(Rs.)
Outstanding at the start of the 
year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Add- Adjustment on account of 
merger (refer note 37)
 829,156 
 17.83 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the start of the 
year (post merger effect)
 829,156 
 17.83 
 - 
 - 
Options granted during the year
 297,538 
 53.87 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited during the year
 75,740 
 12.90 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the year
 156,978 
 15.84 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end
 893,976 
 30.59 
 - 
 - 
Exercisable at the end
 88,962 
 13.99 
 - 
 - 
	
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was Rs.15.84 
per share. (March 31, 2022 #: Nil)
	
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2023 and 
March 31, 2022 are as follows:
Date of grant
As at March 31, 2023
As at March 31, 2022 #
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average
remaining life 
in years
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average
remaining life 
in years
04-06-2020 (Grant Type III)
 487,528 
 1.17 
 - 
 - 
02-07-2021 (Grant Type IV)
 96,231 
 2.17 
 - 
 - 
02-07-2021 (Grant Type V)
 12,679 
 2.17 
 - 
 - 
25-07-2022 (Grant Type VI)
 285,299 
 3.32 
 - 
 - 
08-11-2022 (Grant Type VII)
 12,239 
 3.61 
 - 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 209
Financial Review
	
The Company has constituted an Employee Stock Option Plan - 2016 which have been approved by the 
Board in the meeting held on 9th August 2016 and by shareholders of the Company in its annual general 
meeting held on September 27, 2016 based on similar terms and conditions to the relevant ESOP plan of 
MFSL. During the year ended March 31, 2023, 1,56,978 (March 31, 2022 # - Nil) number of stock options were 
exercised by the aforesaid option holders. The 2016 Plan provides for grant of stock options aggregating 
not more than 5% of number of issued equity shares of the Company to eligible employees of the Company. 
Further, the Company extended the ESOP plan to directors and employees of its subsidiaries by obtaining 
approval of the shareholders in its annual general meeting held on September 24, 2019. The 2016 Plan is 
administered by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee constituted by the Board of Directors. 
	
The 2016 Plan gives an option to the employee to purchase the share at a price determined by Nomination 
and Remuneration committee (NRC) subject to minimum par value of shares (Rs. 10/-). The Company has 
valued Employee Stock Option outstanding as at year end presuming all the employees will exercise their 
option in favor of equity settlement based on trend.
	
Upon the coming into effect of the Scheme, the Transferee Company shall take necessary steps to 
formulate stock option schemes by adopting the MVIL ESOP Plan of the Transferor Company. All stock 
options under the MVIL ESOP Plan which have not been granted as of the Effective Date, shall lapse 
automatically without any further act, instrument or deed by the Transferor Company, the employee or 
the Transferee Company and without any approval or acknowledgement of any third party. In respect of 
the stock options granted by the Transferor Company under the MVIL ESOP Plan to the employees of the 
Transferor Company who are proposed to be transferred as part of this Scheme to the Transferee Company, 
which have been granted (whether vested or not) but have not been exercised as on the Record Date 
(“Eligible Employees”), the Transferee Company shall grant 1 (one) employee stock options of Transferee 
Company under a new employee stock option scheme created by the Transferee Company in lieu of every 
1 (one) stock option (whether vested or unvested) held by such Eligible Employees under the MVIL ESOP 
Plan in accordance with the Amalgamation Share Entitlement Ratio mentioned in the Scheme (i.e. 1:1) and 
the existing stock options held by them under the MVIL ESOP Plan shall stand cancelled. The terms and 
conditions of the new stock option plan of the Transferee Company shall not be less favourable than those 
provided under the MVIL ESOP Plan. 
	
# also refer note 37
34	 Provident Fund
	
The Company is participating in a provident fund trust “Max Financial Services Limited Employees 
Provident Trust Fund” which is a common fund for Max India Limited and its affiliates, which is managed by 
Max Financial Services Limited. The provident fund trust requires that interest shortfall shall be met by the 
employer, accordingly it has been considered as a defined benefit plan as per Ind AS-19.
	
The interest rate payable to the members of the Trust shall not be lower than the statutory rate of interest 
declared by the Central government under the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions 
Act, 1952, and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Company.
	
The Actuarial Society of India has issued the final guidance for measurement of provident fund liabilities. 
The actuary has accordingly provided a valuation for “Max Financial Services Limited Employees Provident 
Trust Fund” which is a common fund for Max Financial Services Limited and its affiliates based on 
assumptions provided below.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
210 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
The details of fund and plan asset position as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 as per the actuarial 
valuation of active members are as follows:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37)
Plan assets at year end at fair value
 701.64 
 - 
Present value of defined benefit obligation at period/year 
end
 697.96 
 - 
Surplus as per actuarial certificate
 4.10 
 - 
Shortfall recognized in balance sheet
 - 
 - 
Active members as at year end (Nos.)
 8 
	
Assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of the interest rate guarantee under the 
deterministic approach:
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37)
Discount rate
7.20%
0.00%
Yield on existing funds
8.15%
0.00%
Expected guaranteed interest rate
8.15%
0.00%
	
Contribution to Defined benefit Plan, recognized as expense for the year is as under:
(in Rs. Lakhs)
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022 
(also refer note 37)
Employer's Contribution towards Provident Fund (PF)
 33.52 
 - 
 33.52 
 - 
35	 Segment information
	
As the Company’s business activity primarily falls within a single business and geographical segment, 
thus there are no additional disclosures to be provided under Ind AS 108 - “ Operating Segment’. The 
management considers that having investments in various subsidiaries and providing shared services to 
group companies constitutes single business segment, since the risk and reward from these services are 
not different from one another. The Company has 2 major customers contributing to 10% or more of total 
amount of revenue- Rs. 1,159.44 Lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 1,178.40 Lakhs).
	
Non - current operating assets
	
The company has non- current operating assets within India only. Hence, separate figures for domestic as 
well as overseas market are not required to be furnished.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 211
Financial Review
36A.  Fair Value of Financial instruments
	
The comparison of carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories that are not measured 
at fair value are as follows:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Category
Carrying Value
Fair Value
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 
#
March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 
#
1) Financial asset at 
amortized cost
Non Current
Loans
 4,582.58 
 1,492.54 
 4,582.58 
 1,492.54 
Investments
 100,508.72 
 50,003.88 
 100,508.72 
 50,003.88 
Current 
Loans
 17,375.14 
 3,089.57 
 17,375.14 
 3,089.57 
Other financial assets 
 604.81 
 201.41 
 604.81 
 201.41 
Trade receivables
 394.02 
 162.94 
 394.02 
 162.94 
Cash and cash equivalents
 1,545.40 
 3,360.57 
 1,545.40 
 3,360.57 
2) Financial liabilities at 
amortized cost
Non Current
Borrowings
 9,731.84 
 3,661.88 
 9,731.84 
 3,661.88 
Current
Borrowings
 7,071.22 
 2,830.10 
 7,071.22 
 2,830.10 
Other financial liabilities
 265.90 
 107.66 
 265.90 
 107.66 
Trade payables
 977.21 
 312.59 
 977.21 
 312.59 
	
Investment in equity shares of subsidiaries are measured at cost as per Ind AS 27- “Separate Financial 
Statements” and are not required to be disclosed here.
	
The management assessed that carrying value of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, other bank 
balances, loans and advances to related parties, interest receivable, trade payables, capital creditors are 
considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short term nature.
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could 
be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The 
following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
	
Long Term Fixed-rate borrowings are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest 
rates, specific country risk factors, individual creditworthiness of the customer and the risk characteristics 
of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken into account for the expected credit 
losses of these receivables.
	
The fair value of non - current investment, loans taken, other financial assets and other financial liabilities 
are estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, 
credit risk and remaining maturities. The valuation requires management to use observable inputs in the 
model, of which the significant observable inputs is the market rate of interest of 9.5%-11%. Management 
regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant observable inputs and 
determines their impact on the total fair value.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
212 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
B. 	 Fair value hierarchy
	
The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial 
instruments by valuation technique:
	
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are 
observable, either directly or indirectly
	
Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not 
based on observable market data
(i) 	 Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on March 31, 2023
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value
March 31, 2023
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current
Investments
 100,508.72 
 - 
 - 
 100,508.72 
Current
Loans
 17,375.14 
 - 
 17,375.14 
Other financial assets 
 604.81 
 604.81 
 - 
Trade receivables
 394.02 
 - 
 - 
 394.02 
Cash and cash equivalents
 1,545.40 
 - 
 - 
 1,545.40 
(ii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on March 31, 2022
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value
March 31, 2022 #
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Loans
 3,089.57 
 - 
 3,089.57 
 - 
Other financial assets 
 201.41 
 - 
 - 
 201.41 
Trade receivables
 162.94 
 - 
 - 
 162.94 
Cash and cash equivalents
 3,360.57 
 - 
 - 
 3,360.57 
Investments
 50,003.88 
 - 
 - 
 50,003.88 
(iii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on March 31, 2023
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value
March 31, 2023
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non Current
Borrowings
 9,731.84 
 - 
 9,731.84 
 - 
Current
Borrowings
 7,071.22 
 - 
 - 
 7,071.22 
Other financial liabilities
 265.90 
 - 
 - 
 265.90 
Trade payables
 977.21 
 - 
 - 
 977.21 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 213
Financial Review
(iv)	 Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on March 31, 2022
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value
March 31, 2022 #
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non Current
Borrowings
 3,661.88 
 - 
 3,661.88 
 - 
Current
Borrowings
 2,830.10 
 - 
 - 
 2,830.10 
Other financial liabilities
 107.66 
 - 
 - 
 107.66 
Trade payables
 312.59 
 - 
 - 
 312.59 
# also refer note 37
36A	 Financial risk management objectives and policies
	
The Company’s has instituted an overall risk management programme which also focuses on the 
unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Company’s 
financial performance. The Corporate Finance department, evaluates financial risks in close co-operation 
with the various stakeholders. 
	
The Company is exposed to capital risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are managed 
pro-actively by the Senior Management of the Company, duly supported by various Groups and Committees.
a) 	 Capital risk
	
The Company’s objective when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going 
concern in order to provide returns to its shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to 
provide for sufficient capital expansion. The capital structure of the Company consists of debt, which 
includes the borrowings disclosed in notes 11 and 14, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 8 
and equity as disclosed in the statement of financial position. 
b) 	 Liquidity risk 
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they 
become due. The Company employees prudent liquidity risk management practices which inter alia 
means maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through 
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Given the nature of the underlying businesses, the 
corporate finance maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit 
lines and this way liquidity risk is mitigated by the availability of funds to cover future commitments. 
Cash flow forecasts are prepared not only for the entities but the Group as a whole and the utilized 
borrowing facilities are monitored on a daily basis and there is adequate focus on good management 
practices whereby the collections are managed efficiently. The Company while borrowing funds for 
large capital project, negotiates the repayment schedule in such a manner that these match with the 
generation of cash on such investment. Longer term cash flow forecasts are updated from time to time 
and reviewed by the Investment and Performance Review Committee of the Board.
	
The table below represents the maturity profile of Company’s financial liabilities at the end of March 
31, 2023 and March 31, 2022# based on contractual undiscounted payments :-
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
214 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
March 31, 2022 #
0-1 Years
1-5 Years
More than 5 
Years
Total
Interest bearing borrowings
 2,830.10 
 3,661.88 
 - 
 6,491.98 
Trade payable
 312.59 
 - 
 - 
 312.59 
Other financial liabilities
 960.00 
 - 
 - 
 960.00 
% to Total
54.77%
45.23%
0.00%
100.00%
March 31, 2023
Interest bearing borrowings
 7,071.22 
 9,731.84 
 - 
 16,803.06 
Trade payable
 977.21 
 - 
 - 
 977.21 
Other financial liabilities
 1,706.65 
 - 
 - 
 1,706.65 
% to Total
54.77%
45.23%
0.00%
100.00%
c) 	 Credit risk
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument or 
customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating 
activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks, 
foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
(i) 	 Trade receivables
	
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established 
policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Management 
evaluate credit risk relating to customers on an ongoing basis. Receivable control management 
Department assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, 
past experience and other factors. The Company provides credit to individuals on exceptional 
basis only. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis.
	
Trade receivables
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at
 March 31, 2023
As at
 March 31, 2022#
Neither past due or impaired
 - 
 -
0 to 180 days due past due date
 365.70 
 146.64 
More than 180 days due past due date
 28.32 
 16.30 
Total trade receivables
 394.02 
 162.94 
(ii) 	 Financial instruments and cash deposit
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s 
treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are 
made in bank deposits and other risk free securities. The limits are set to minimize the concentration 
of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counter party’s potential failure to make 
payments. Credit limits of all authorities are reviewed by the management on regular basis. All 
balances with banks and financial institutions is subject to low credit risk due to good credit 
ratings assigned to the Company.
	
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 215
Financial Review
March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022# is the carrying amounts as illustrated in note 11 and the 
liquidity table above.
d) 	 Market risk
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, 
interest rate risk and other price risks, such as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial 
instruments affected by market risks include loans and borrowings, deposits, investments and foreign 
currency receivables and payables. The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the 
position as at March 31, 2023 and March 31 2022. The analyses exclude the impact of movements in 
market variables on; the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations; provisions; 
and the non-financial assets and liabilities. The sensitivity of the relevant Profit and Loss item is the 
effect of the assumed changes in the respective market risks. This is based on the financial assets and 
financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2023.
(i) 	 Interest rate risk
	
Interest rate is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate 
because of changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market 
interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s long term debt obligation at fixed interest rate.
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Period
Increase/decrease 
in interest rate
Impact on profit 
before tax 
March 31,2023
0.50%
 84.02 
March 31,2022 #
0.50%
 32.46 
(j) 	 Foreign currency risk
	
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes 
in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when revenue, expense 
or capital expenditure is denominated in foreign currency). Foreign currency exchange rate exposure 
is partly balanced by purchasing of goods in foreign currency. The Company evaluates exchange rate 
exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and follows established risk management policies.
	
The Company does not have any material foreign currency risk as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 
2022 #.
	
# also refer note 37
37	 Business Combination
	
The Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement (‘Scheme’) amongst Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited (‘Transferor Company’) and Max Estates Limited (‘Company’ or ‘Transferee Company’) 
and their respective shareholders and Creditors was filed during the year under the provisions of Section 
230 to 232 read with Section 66 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder. The Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench (“Hon’ble NCLT”) vide 
its order dated July 03, 2023 approved the aforesaid Scheme. As per the Scheme, the merger of Transferor 
Company into Company has been accounted with effect from April 01, 2022 (‘Appointed Date’) to comply 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
216 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
with the accounting treatment prescribed in the Scheme, which is in compliance with the MCA general 
circular no. 09/2019 dated August 21, 2019.
	
Being a common control business combination, Ind AS 103 Business Combinations requires the Company 
to account for business combination from the combination date (i.e., the date on which control has been 
transferred) or the earliest date presented in the financial statements, whichever is later.
	
Therefore, the comparative financial information for previous year ended March 31, 2022 has not been 
restated since the scheme of merger approved by the NCLT prevails over the applicable accounting 
requirements.
	
The impact of the scheme in these Ind AS financial statements is given below:
(a) 	 All assets, liabilities and reserves of the transferor company have been recorded in the books of 
account of the Company at their existing carrying amounts and in the same form.
(b) 	 To the extent that there are inter-company loans, advances, deposits, balances or other obligations as 
between the transferor Company and the Company, have been eliminated.
(c) 	 Upon the coming into effect of this Scheme and in consideration of the transfer, 1 (one) equity shares 
of the face value of INR 10 each fully paid-up of the Company are required to be issued against every 
1 (one) equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up held by the shareholders of the transferor company. 
Consequent to this, the Company shall issue 146,946,000 equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up for 
146,946,000 equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up of the transferor company.
	
These shares have been disclosed as ‘Share capital pending issuance’ as at March 31, 2023 and as at 
April 01, 2022. These shares have been issued subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2023.
(d) 	 The balance of assets and liabilities transferred from the transferor company as on April 01, 2022 are 
as follows:
Amounts in Rs. Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2022
Inter company 
Elimination
As at 
April 01, 2022
1
Non Current Assets
Property, Plant and Equipment
 509.44 
 509.44 
Intangible assets
 0.84 
 0.84 
Right of Use assets
 2,482.66 
 2,482.66 
Investements
 82,017.31 
 (65,057.26)
 16,960.05 
Other Financial asset
 99.99 
 99.99 
Non-Current Tax assets
 258.83 
 258.83 
2
Current Assets
Trade receivable
 180.11 
 180.11 
Investments
 3,391.14 
 3,391.14 
Cash & cash equivalents
 153.65 
 153.65 
Bank balances 
 37,732.62 
 37,732.62 
Loans
 3,975.96 
 (2,667.00)
 1,308.96 
Other financial asset
 308.19 
 308.19 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 217
Financial Review
Amounts in Rs. Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2022
Inter company 
Elimination
As at 
April 01, 2022
Other current asset
 95.84 
 95.84 
Total assets (A)
 131,206.58 
 (67,724.26)
 63,482.32 
3
Non Current Liabilities
Lease liabilities
 2,705.14 
 2,705.14 
Other finacial liabilities
 20.00 
 20.00 
Long term provision
 39.95 
 39.95 
Other non current liabilty
 106.87 
 106.87 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 1,793.92 
 1,793.92 
4
Current Liabilities
Lease liabilities
 133.40 
 133.40 
Trade payable
 869.96 
 869.96 
Other financial liability
 3.36 
 3.36 
Other current liability
 265.65 
 265.65 
Short term provision
 113.35 
 113.35 
Total Liabilties (B)
 6,051.60 
 - 
 6,051.60 
5
Retained Earnings and Other Equity in 
same form (C)
Capital reserve
 13,042.52 
 13,042.52 
Security premium account
 50,086.74 
 50,086.74 
Employee stock options outstanding
 159.88 
 159.88 
Retained earnings
 47,171.18 
 47,171.18 
Total (C)
 110,460.32 
 - 
 110,460.32 
Total Liabilties and equity  
(B) + (C) = (D)
 116,511.92 
 - 
 116,511.92 
Net Assets /Liabilities (A) - (D) = (E)
 14,694.66 
 (67,724.26)
 (53,029.60)
Extinguishment of inter company 
liabilities/equity of the Company on 
account of merger
- Share capital
 - 
 7,791.00 
 7,791.00 
- Compulsory Convertible Debentures 
(CCD)
 - 
 57,266.26 
 57,266.26 
- Short term borrowings
 - 
 2,667.00 
 2,667.00 
Total (F)
 - 
 67,724.26 
 67,724.26 
Equity to be issed to shareholders of 
Transferor Company (G) = (E) - (F) 
 14,694.66 
 - 
 14,694.66 
Amount debted to capital reserve  
(H) = (E) + (F) - (G)
 - 
 - 
 - 
	
In addition to the above, the merger also requires the Company to file combined income tax return for 
the year ended March 31, 2023. Consequently, tax liability on combined basis has been recomputed by 
the Company, resulting in lower tax liability of ~Rs. 149 lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2023.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
218 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
38	 Related party disclosures
	
Names of related parties where control exists irrespective of whether transactions have taken place 
or not
Subsidiary companies
 
 
 
 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
Max Square Limited
Max I. Limited
Max Asset Services Limited
Max Towers Private Limited
Max Estates 128 Private Private Limited (wef June 17, 2022)
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited (wef September 05, 2022)
Acreage Builders Private Limitd (wef October 27, 2022)
Names of other related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year
Key management personnel 
 
 
 
Mr. Sahil Vachani (Managing Director and CEO)
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal (Chief Financial Officer)
Mr. Saket Gupta (upto January 31, 2022)
Other Non-Executive/ Independent 
Directors
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Analjit Singh (Director)
Mr. Mohit Talwar
Mr. K. Narasimha Murthy
Mr. Niten Malhan (w.e.f. November 8, 2019)
Mr. Ashok Brijmohan Kacker (upto November 8, 2020)
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan
Relatives of Key Management 
personnel
Mr. Veer Singh (Son of Mr. Analjit Singh - Director)
Entities controlled or jointly 
controlled by person or entities 
where person has significantly 
influence 
Max Ventures Private Limited
Piveta Estates Private Limited
Siva Realty Ventures Private Limited
New Delhi House Services Limited
Vana Enterprises Limited
Four Season Foundation
Lake View Enterprises
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
Siva Enterprises Private Limited
Pharmax Corporation Limited
Max India Limited
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
Riga Foods LLP
Max Financial Services Limited
Max UK Limited
Employee benefit Trust 
 
Max Financial Services Limited Employees’ Provident Fund Trust
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 219
Financial Review
38(a) Details of transactions and balance outstandings with related parties
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
S. 
No.
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 (also 
refer note 37) 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reimbursement 
of expenses 
(Received from)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Towers Private Limited 
(Expenses)
 - 
 13.61 
Max Towers Private Limited (Shared 
Service)
 45.20 
 63.36 
Acreage Builders Private Limited
 100.99 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited
 14.80 
 22.24 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 73.46 
 267.86 
Max Square Limited 
 13.64 
 5.29 
Max I. Limited
 7.87 
 - 
Max Towers Private Limited
 0.04 
 - 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 0.04 
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 0.07 
 - 
Total
 256.10 
 372.36 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Reimbursement 
of expenses (Paid 
to)
 
 
 
 
 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 - 
 7.63 
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
 4.07 
 2.43 
Max Towers Private Limited
 - 
 2.06 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 406.70 
 - 
Saket Gupta
 - 
 0.01 
Riga Foods LLP
 5.62 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nitin Kumar
 0.13 
 - 
Rishiraj
 5.10 
 0.99 
Max Life Insurance Company
 6.27 
 - 
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
 8.85 
 - 
Total
 436.74 
 13.12 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income from 
shared services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Asset Services Limited
 101.50 
 - 
Max I. Limited
 6.95 
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 66.75 
 - 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 77.66 
 - 
Acreage Builders Private Limited
 71.30 
 - 
Max Square Limited
 350.00 
 - 
Total
 674.16 
 - 
4
 
Shared services 
expenses
 
Max India Limited
 50.00 
 - 
Total
 50.00 
 - 
5
 
 
Interest income 
from loans 
to subsidiary 
companies
Max I. Limited
 49.44 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited
 464.03 
 - 
Total
 513.47 
 - 
6
 
 
 
Repair & 
Maintenance
 
 
New Delhi House Services Limited
 44.35 
 - 
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 17.95 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limtied
 28.27 
 - 
Total
 90.57 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
220 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
S. 
No.
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 (also 
refer note 37) 
7
 
 
 
Lease payments
 
 
 
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
 447.78 
 - 
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 60.00 
 - 
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
 37.44 
 - 
Total
 545.22 
 - 
8
 
Contribution to 
Provident Fund 
Trust
Max financial services limited 
Employees’ Provident Fund Trust
 65.38 
 - 
Total
 65.38 
 - 
9
 
 
 
 
 
Directors' sitting 
fees
 
 
 
 
 
Analjit Singh
 6.00 
 - 
K.N Murthy
 11.00 
 - 
D.K Mittal
 19.00 
 - 
Gauri Padmanabhan
 10.00 
 - 
Niten Malhan
 17.00 
 - 
Total
 63.00 
 - 
10
 
Security deposit 
received
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 40.00 
 40.00 
Total
 40.00 
 40.00 
11
 
Security deposit 
paid
 
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
 76.41 
 - 
Total
 76.41 
 - 
12
 
Performace 
guarentee 
received
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 43.34 
Total
 - 
 43.34 
13
 
Rent received
 
Max Asset Services Limited
 89.74 
 77.50 
Total
 89.74 
 77.50 
14
 
Interest on 
unsecured loan 
(paid to)
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 - 
 268.65 
Total
 - 
 268.65 
15
 
 
 
Key managerial 
remuneration 
- short term 
employment 
benefits
Sahil Vachani
 160.43 
 - 
Nitin Kumar Kansal
 80.99 
 
Ankit Jain
 17.49 
 
Total
 258.91 
 - 
16
 
 
 
Key managerial 
remuneration - 
post employment 
benefits 
Sahil Vachani
 9.37 
 - 
Nitin Kumar Kansal
 5.60 
 
Ankit Jain
 1.05 
 
Total
 16.02 
 - 
17
 
 
 
Investment made
 
 
 
Max Square Limited- deemed equity
 33.64 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited- deemed 
equity
 4.07 
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited - 
deemed equity
 8.56 
 - 
Total
 46.27 
 - 
18
 
 
Loan taken
 
 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 - 
 892.00 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 6,425.85 
 - 
Total
 6,425.85 
 892.00 
19
 
Loan repayment
 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 1,485.00 
Total
 - 
 1,485.00 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 221
Financial Review
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
S. 
No.
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022 (also 
refer note 37) 
20
 
 
 
Brokerage 
income
 
 
Trophy Estates Private Limited
 - 
 50.11 
Analjit Singh
 - 
 58.48 
Analjit Singh HUF
 - 
 10.15 
Total
 - 
 118.74 
21
 
Interest received 
on Compulsory 
Convertible 
Debentures
Max Square Limited 
 1,390.78 
 714.20 
Total
 1,390.78 
 714.20 
22
Project 
management 
consultancy 
(rendered to)
Max India Limited
 - 
 20.00 
 
Total
 - 
 20.00 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guarantee fees
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 - 
 4.12 
Pharmax Corporation Limited 
 5.40 
 4.28 
Max Square Limited 
 30.06 
 14.56 
Max Towers Private Limited
 10.35 
 - 
Max Square Limited
 30.06 
 - 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 6.63 
 - 
Total
 82.50 
 22.96 
24
 
 
 
 
Loan repayment 
received
 
 
 
 
Max Towers Private Limited
 1,641.24 
 1,009.96 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 940.60 
 369.21 
Max Asset Services Limited
 585.00 
 - 
Max I. Limited
 75.00 
 - 
Total
 3,241.84 
 1,379.17 
25
 
Developer's 
manager fee 
income
Max Square Limited 
 485.51 
 362.29 
Total
 485.51 
 362.29 
26
 
Shared Services 
charges (paid to) 
 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 - 
 39.51 
Total
 - 
 39.51 
27
 
Management fee 
(included in legal 
and professional 
expenses)
 
Analjit Singh
 225.00 
 - 
Total
 225.00 
 - 
28
 
Expenditure on 
corporate social 
responsibility
Max India Foundation
 20.00 
 - 
Total
 20.00 
 - 
29
 
Rent paid
 
Max Asset Services Limited
 3.20 
 - 
Total
 3.20 
 - 
30
 
 
 
 
 
Loan given
 
 
 
 
 
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited
 5,176.00 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited
 730.00 
 - 
Max I. Limited
 74.00 
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 1,867.80 
 2,390.00 
Max Towers Private Limited
 2,314.28 
 1,102.02 
Total
 10,162.08 
 3,492.02 
	
* The remuneration to the key managerial personal does not include the provisions made for gratuity and 
leave benefits, as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
222 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
38 (b)	 Balances outstanding at year end
(Rs. In Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 (also 
refer note 37)
1
Statutory dues 
payable
Max Financial services Limited 
Employees’ Provident Fund Trust
 4.95 
 - 
Total
 4.95 
 - 
2
Trade 
Receivables
Max Ventures Private Limited
 3.19 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited
 16.48 
 - 
Piveta Estates Private Limited
 6.29 
 - 
Acreage Builders Private Limited
 71.29 
 - 
Max Towers Private Limited
 - 
 18.19 
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Limited
 - 
 13.02 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 - 
 3.01 
Max India Limited
 - 
 23.60 
Max Square Limited
 1.16 
 - 
Trophy Estates Private Limited
 - 
 45.24 
Analjit Singh HUF
 - 
 9.17 
Mr. Analjit Singh
 - 
 52.80 
Total
 98.41 
 165.04 
3
Advance to party
Max India Foundation
 5.00 
 - 
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
 0.25 
 - 
Total
 5.25 
 - 
4
Interest Accured 
on Corporate 
Deposit 
Receivable
Max Asset Services Limited
 356.32 
 - 
Max I. Limited
 0.08 
 - 
Total
 356.40 
 - 
6
Provision made 
against above
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
Total
 - 
5
Trade payables 
and Capital 
Creditors
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
 (0.36)
 0.36 
Max Asset Services Limited
 6.69 
 1.85 
Rishiraj
 (2.50)
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 - 
 3.93 
Max Square Limited
 - 
 3.29 
Total
 3.83 
 9.42 
6
Other receivables Max Asset Services Limited
 5.11 
 - 
Max Ventures Private Limited
 5.46 
 - 
Piveta Estates Private Limited
 2.83 
 - 
Max Towers Private Limited
 20.00 
 - 
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
 1.70 
 0.01 
Acreage Builders Private Limited
 218.72 
 - 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 406.70 
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 17.07 
 17.07 
Max Square Limited
 16.48 
 16.81 
Max I. Limited
 2.54 
 - 
Total
 696.61 
 33.89 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 223
Financial Review
(Rs. In Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 (also 
refer note 37)
7
Loan
Max Towers Private Limited
 860.59 
 187.55 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 5,176.00 
 - 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 3,997.92 
 3,159.22 
Max Asset Services Limited
 1,992.26 
Max I. Limited
 522.70 
Total
 12,549.47 
 3,346.77 
8
Investment in 
Debentures
Max Asset Services Limited
 2,214.00 
 - 
Max I Limited - deemed equity
 2,052.55 
 - 
Max I. Limited
 54.40 
 - 
Max Square Limited - deemed equity
 150.61 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited - deemed 
equity
 13.02 
 - 
Max Towers Private Limited- deemed 
equity
 17.71 
 - 
Max Estates 128 Private Limited - 
deemed equity
 57.82 
 - 
Max Towers Private Limited - deemed 
equity
 340.95 
 - 
Total
 4,901.06 
 - 
9
Trade payables 
and capital 
creditors
Max Financial services Limited 
Employees
 31.77 
 - 
Max India Limited
 50.00 
 - 
Total
 81.77 
 - 
10
Security deposit 
made
Max Asset Services Limited
 21.90 
 - 
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
 244.30 
 - 
Delhi Guest House Limited
 15.00 
 - 
SKA Diagnostic Private Limited
 9.37 
 - 
Total
 290.57 
 - 
11
Investment 
outstanding
Max Towers Private Limited
 6,506.00 
 6,506.00 
Max Square Limited
 3,571.00 
 3,571.00 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 6,073.05 
 6,073.05 
Total
 16,150.05 
 16,150.05 
12
Compulsorily 
convertible 
debentures
Max Towers Private Limited
 26,020.00 
 26,020.00 
Max Square Limited
 3,571.00 
 3,571.00 
Total
 29,591.00 
 29,591.00 
13
Guarantee fees
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 91.81 
 28.48 
Total
 91.81 
 28.48 
14
Compulsorily 
convertible 
preference shares
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 3,900.00 
 3,900.00 
Total
 3,900.00 
 3,900.00 
15
Security deposit 
(Received)
Max Asset Services Limited
 59.66 
 59.66 
Total
 59.66 
 59.66 
16
Interest accrued 
on CCD
Max Square Limited
 1,328.07 
 1,328.07 
Total
 1,328.07 
 1,328.07 
17
Guarantee fees 
receivable
Max Square Limited
 68.92 
 38.54 
Total
 68.92 
 38.54 
18
Loan Outstanding Max Estates 128 Private Limited
 5,176.00 
 - 
Total
 5,176.00 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
224 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
a) 	 The transactions with related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length 
transactions
39	 Disclosure required under Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
(a)	 Particulars of Loans given:
(Rs. In Lakhs)
Sr. 
No 
Name of the 
Loanee
Opening 
Balance as 
on March 
31, 2022 #
Merger Ad-
justment
As at April 
1, 2022 
(post 
merger 
effect)
Loan given
Loan 
repaid
Closing 
Balance as 
on March 
31, 2023
Purpose
 1 
Max Towers 
Private limited
 187.55 
 - 
 187.55 
 1,037.45 
 365.00 
 860.00  Operational Cash 
Flow requirement 
 2 
Max Asset 
Services Limited
 - 
 1,847.26 
 1,847.26 
 730.00 
 585.00 
 1,992.26  Operational Cash 
Flow requirement 
 3 
Max I. Limited
 - 
 523.70 
 523.70 
 74.00 
 75.00 
 522.70  Operational Cash 
Flow requirement 
 4 
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
 2,902.02 
 - 
 2,902.02 
 1,200.24 
 8.00 
 4,094.26  Operational Cash 
Flow requirement 
 5 
Max Estates 
Gurgaon Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,176.00 
 - 
 5,176.00  Operational Cash 
Flow requirement 
 6 
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,730.54 
 - 
 4,730.54  Operational Cash 
Flow requirement 
 3,089.57 
 2,370.96 
 5,460.53 
 12,948.22 
 1,033.00 
17,375.75 
 7 
Provision made 
against above*
 (1,062.00)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,089.57 
 2,370.96 
 4,398.53 
 12,948.22 
 1,033.00 
17,375.75 
	
*also refer note 11(vi)
(b)	 Particulars of Guarantee given (maximum possible exposure):
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Sr. No Name of the 
financial 
institutions / 
banks/NBFC
As at 
March 31, 
2022 #
Merger 
Adjustment
As at April 
1, 2022 
(post 
merger 
effect)
Guarantee 
given
Guarantee 
discharged
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Purpose
1
IndusInd Bank
 12,855.95 
 - 
 12,855.95 
 7,755.00 
 20,610.95 
 - 
Corporate 
gurantee 
has 
been 
given 
for loan taken for 
business purpose by 
Max Square Limited, 
subsidiary.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 225
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Sr. No Name of the 
financial 
institutions / 
banks/NBFC
As at 
March 31, 
2022 #
Merger 
Adjustment
As at April 
1, 2022 
(post 
merger 
effect)
Guarantee 
given
Guarantee 
discharged
As at 
March 31, 
2023
Purpose
2
ICICI Bank
 7,932.18 
 - 
 7,932.18 
 4,232.97 
 12,165.15 
 - 
Corporate 
gurantee 
has 
been 
given 
for 
loan 
taken 
by 
Max 
Towers 
Private Limited for 
construction of Max 
House 
Okhla 
and 
LRD of Max Towers 
respectively
3
IDFC First Bank
792.57  - 
 792.57 
 3,431.06 
 207.43 
 4,016.20 
Corporate 
gurantee 
has 
been 
given 
for 
loan 
taken 
by 
Pharmax 
Corporation Limited 
and 
Max 
Towers 
Private Limited for 
construction of Max 
House Okhla
4
Axis Bank
 - 
 21,998.13 
 - 
 21,998.13 
Corporate 
gurantee 
has 
been 
given 
for loan taken for 
business purpose by 
Max Square Limited, 
subsidiary.
5
HDFC Bank
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24,603.34 
 - 
 24,603.34 Corporate 
gurantee 
has 
been 
given 
for loan taken for 
business purpose by 
Max Towers Private 
Limited, subsidiary.
6
Aditya Birla 
Finance Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 14,839.00 
 - 
 14,839.00 Corporate 
gurantee 
has 
been 
given 
for loan taken for 
business 
purpose 
by Max Estates 128 
Private 
Limited, 
subsidiary.
 21,580.70 
 - 
 21,580.70 
 76,859.50  32,983.53 
 65,456.67 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
226 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(c)	 Particulars of Investments made in equity:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 Sr. 
No 
Name of the Investee
Opening 
Balance as 
on March 
31, 2022 #
Merger 
Adjustment
As at April 
1, 2022 
(post 
merger 
effect)
Investment 
made
Investment 
redeemed
Closing 
Balance as 
on March 
31, 2023
Purpose
Investment in subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
Max Towers Pvt Ltd 
(formerly known as 
Wise Zone Builders 
Pvt. Ltd.)
 6,506.00 
 156.69 
 6,662.69 
 184.26 
 - 
 6,846.95  Strategic investment 
 2 
Max Square Limited 
(formerly known as 
Northern Propmart 
Solutions Limited)
 3,571.00 
 48.62 
 3,619.62 
 101.99 
 - 
 3,721.61  Strategic investment 
 3 
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
 6,073.05 
 4.07 
 6,077.12 
 13.64 
 - 
 6,090.76  Strategic investment 
 4 
Max Speciality Films 
Limited
 12,214.96 
 12,214.96 
 - 
 12,214.96 
 -  Strategic investment 
 5 
Max Asset Services 
Limited
 - 
 205.00 
 205.00 
 - 
 - 
 205.00  Strategic investment 
 6 
Max I. Limited
 - 
 2,057.55 
 2,057.55 
 - 
 - 
 2,057.55  Strategic investment 
 7 
Max Asset Services 
Limited
 - 
 8.72 
 8.72 
 - 
 2.00 
 6.72  ESOP 
 8 
Max 128 Limited
 - 
 - 
 - 
 57.82 
 57.82  Corporate guarantee 
 28,365.01 
 2,480.65 
 30,845.67 
 357.71 
 12,216.96 
 18,986.41 
(c)	 Particulars of Investments made in debentures:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 Sr. 
No 
Name of the 
Investee
Opening 
Balance as 
on March 31, 
2022 #
Merger 
Adjustment
As at April 1, 
2022 (post 
merger 
effect)
Investment 
made
Investment 
redeemed
Closing 
Balance 
as on 
March 31, 
2023
Purpose
Investment in subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
Max Towers Pvt Ltd 
(formerly known as 
Wise Zone Builders 
Pvt. Ltd.)
 26,020.00 
 26,020.00 
 - 
 - 
 26,020.00  Strategic investment 
 2 
Max Square 
Limited (formerly 
known as Northern 
Propmart Solutions 
Limited)
 3,571.00 
 3,571.00 
 - 
 - 
 3,571.00  Strategic investment 
 3 
Max I. Limited
 - 
 50.37 
 50.37 
 4.03 
 - 
 54.40  Strategic investment 
 4 
Max Asset Services 
Limited
 - 
 2,214 
 2,214.00 
 - 
 - 
 2,214.00  Strategic investment 
 29,591.00 
 2,264.37 
 31,855.37 
 4.03 
 - 
 31,859.40 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 227
Financial Review
(d)	 Particulars of Investments made in Preference Shares
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 Sr. 
No 
Name of the Loanee
Opening 
Balance as 
on March 31, 
2022 #
Investment 
made
Loan 
repaid
Closing 
Balance as 
on March 
31, 2023
Purpose
 1 
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
 3,900.00 
 - 
 - 
 3,900.00  Strategic investment 
# also refer note 37
40	 Ratio Analysis and its elements
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
As at
March 31, 
2023
As at
March 31, 
2022 #
% Change
Reason for 
variance*
(i)
Current Ratio
Current Asset
 31,401.35 
 8,493.42 
Current Liability
 8,946.58 
 3,676.66 
 3.51 
 2.31 
52%
Non- Comparable 
(ii) Debt-Equity Ratio
Debt
 16,803.06 
 6,491.98 
Shareholder Equity
 123,361.19 
 60,591.40 
 0.14 
 0.11 
27%
Non- Comparable 
(iii) Debt Services Coverage Ratio
Earnings aviaiable for debt 
servies
4,459.85
1,396.81
Interest
1,132.79
725.88
Principal
515.61796
34.31
 2.71 
 1.84 
47%
Non- Comparable 
(iv) Return on Equity Ratio
Net Income (annual)
 3,275.45 
 526.46 
Shareholder Equity
 123,361.19 
 60,591.40 
 0.03 
 0.01 
206%
Non- Comparable 
(v) Inventory Turnover Ratio
Cost of Goods sold/sale
0.00
1,850.95
Average inventory
770.18
1,987.19
 - 
 0.93 
-100%
Non- Comparable 
(vi) Trade Receivables Turnover 
Ratio
Net Credit Sale
 4,929.23 
 3,901.22 
Closing Trade Receviable
 394.02 
 162.94 
 12.51 
 23.94 
52%
Non- Comparable 
(vii) Trade Payable Turnover Ratio
Net Credit Purchase
NA
NA
Since Purchase 
during the year 
is NIL. Hence not 
applicable
Average Trade payable
NA
NA
 NA 
 NA 
NA
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
228 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. In Lakhs) 
As at
March 31, 
2023
As at
March 31, 
2022 #
% Change
Reason for 
variance*
(viii) Net Capital Turnover Ratio
Net annual sale/Revenue from 
Operation 
4,929.23
3,901.22
Working Capital
22,454.77
4,816.77
 0.22 
 0.81 
-73%
Non- Comparable 
(ix) Net Profit Ratio
Net Profit
3,275.45
526.46
Net annual sale/Revenue from 
Operation 
4,929.23
3,901.22
 0.66 
 0.13 
392%
Non- Comparable 
(x) Return on Capital employed
Earning before interest and tax 
(EBIT)
4,459.85
1,252.34
Capital Employed
138,141.50
65,162.44
3.23%
1.92%
68%
Non- Comparable 
(xi) Return on Investment
Profit (PAT)
3,275.45
526.46
Investment 
138,141.50
65,162.44
2.37%
0.81%
193%
Non- Comparable 
	
*Post incorporating the effect of the merger as stated in Note 37, the figures for the year ended March 31, 
2023 are not comparable with those for the year ended March 31, 2022, since the previous years figures for 
March 2022 do not include figures related to MVIL, but figures for year ended March 31, 2023 are including 
the effect of MVIL on account of merger. Thus, both are non-comparable and hence not commented upon 
in these financial statements.
	
# also refer note 37
41 	 Capital Management
	
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity attributable to the 
equity shareholders of the Company, share premium and all other equity reserves. The primary objective 
of the Company’s capital management is that it maintain an efficient capital structure and maximize the 
shareholder value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes 
in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, The Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders 
or issue new shares. The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total 
capital plus net debt. The Company includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, trade 
and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents.
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 229
Financial Review
42 	 DETAILS OF DUES TO MICRO AND SMALL ETERPRISES AS DEFINED UNDER THE MICRO, SMALL 
AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES DEVELOPMENT (MSMED) ACT, 2006
	
The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises have been identified by the Company from the available 
information, which has been relied upon by the auditors. According to such identification, the disclosures 
as per Section 22 of ‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development (MSMED) Act, 2006’ are as 
follows:
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022 #
i) 
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining 
unpaid to any supplier 
 - Principal amount
 - 
4.63
 - Interest thereon
Nil
 Nil 
ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 
18, along with the amounts of the payment made to the 
supplier beyond the appointed day.
Nil
 Nil 
iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the year of delay 
in making payment (which have been paid but beyond 
the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under this act.
Nil
 Nil 
iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid.
Nil
 Nil 
v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable 
even in the succeeding years, until such date when the 
interest dues above are actually paid to the small investor.
Nil
 Nil 
	
The above information has been determined to the extent such parties could be identified on the basis of 
the information available with the Company regarding the status of suppliers under the MSMED.
	
# also refer note 37
43 	 (i) In previous year, the Company has acquired 1,84,600 10% Cumulative Convertible Preference shares of 
Rs. 100 each fully paid up at a premium of Rs.1,200 - value Rs.2,399.80 Lakhs.
44 	 The figures for the year ended March 31, 2023 are not comparable with those for the year ended March 31, 
2022 on account of impact of merger taken with effect from the Appointed date i.e. April 01, 2022. Also refer 
note 37.
45	 Other disclosure requirement of Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013:
(i)	
The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending 
against the Group for holding any Benami property.
(ii) 	 The Company does not have any transactions with companies that are struck off.
(iii)	 The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond 
the statutory period.
(iv) 	The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial 
year.
(v) 	 The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the  understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
230 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vi) 	The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Funding Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company 
shall:
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries)
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vii)	The Company has not made any such transaction which is  not recorded in the books of accounts 
that has been surrendered or disclosed as income during the  year in the tax assessments under the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 
1961.
(viii)	The borrowings obtained by the Company from banks and financial institutions have been applied for 
the purposes for which such loans were was taken.
(ix) 	The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the 
financial statements, are held in the name of the Company.
(x) 	 The Company does not have borrowings from banks and financial institutions on the basis of security 
of current assets. Hence, company is not required to file the the quarterly returns or statements of 
current assets with banks and financial institutions.
(xi) 	None of the entities in the group have been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
(xii) 	The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(xiii)	The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on 
current or previous financial year, other than as mentioned in Note 37.
(xiv)	The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or 
intangible assets or both during the current or previous year.
(xv)	The figures have been rounded off to the nearest Lakhs of rupees up to two decimal places. The figure 
0.00 wherever stated represents value less than Rs. 50,000/-. 
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Financial 
Review
Consolidated  
Financial Statements
232 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
To the Members of Max Estates Limited
Report on the audit of the Consolidated Ind AS 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
Ind AS financial statements of Max Estates Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”), 
its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) 
comprising of the consolidated Balance sheet as at 
March 31, 2023, the consolidated Statement of Profit 
and Loss, including other comprehensive income, 
the consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the 
consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for 
the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated 
Ind AS financial statements, including a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information 
(hereinafter 
referred 
to 
as 
“the 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based 
on the consideration of reports of other auditors 
on separate financial statements and on the other 
financial information of the subsidiaries, the aforesaid 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013, 
as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of 
the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at 
March 31, 2023, their consolidated profit including 
other comprehensive income, their consolidated cash 
flows and the consolidated statement of changes in 
equity for the year ended on that date. 
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) 
of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards 
are further described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial 
Statements’ section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the financial statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the Code 
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements.
Emphasis of Matter
We draw attention to note 45 of the consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements which states that the merger 
has been accounted from the Appointed date i.e. 
April 01, 2022 defined in the Composite Scheme of 
Amalgamation and Arrangement. However, being 
a common control business combination, Ind AS 
103, Business Combinations requires the Company 
to account for the business combination from the 
combination date (i.e., the date on which control has 
been transferred) or from the earliest date presented in 
the financial statements, whichever is later. Therefore, 
comparative financial information for previous year 
ended March 31, 2022 has not been restated since 
the Scheme prevails over the applicable accounting 
requirements Our opinion is not modified in respect 
of this matter.
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the 
Board’s report, but does not include the consolidated 
Ind AS financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. 
Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements does not cover the other information and 
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
Annual Report 2022-23 | 233
Financial Review
such other information is materially inconsistent with 
the consolidated Ind AS financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated. The Board’s report is not 
made available to us at the date of this auditor’s 
report. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities 
of 
Management 
for 
the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these consolidated Ind AS financial statements in 
terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true 
and fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and 
consolidated statement of changes in equity of the 
Group in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under 
section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are responsible for maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of their respective companies and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements that 
give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which 
have been used for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the 
Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements, the respective Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for 
assessing the ability of their respective companies to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are also responsible for 
overseeing the financial reporting process of their 
respective companies.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, 
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of these consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
yy
Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control. 
yy
Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements in place 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
yy
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
234 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management. 
yy
Conclude 
on 
the 
appropriateness 
of 
management’s use of the going concern basis 
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date 
of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
yy
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements, including the disclosures, and whether 
the consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events 
in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
yy
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group of which 
we are the independent auditors, to express an 
opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of 
the consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
of such entities included in the consolidated 
Ind AS financial statements of which we are 
the independent auditors. For the other entities 
included in the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
We 
communicate 
with 
those 
charged 
with 
governance of the Holding Company and such other 
entities included in the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements of which we are the independent auditors 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on 
our independence, and where applicable, related 
safeguards.
Other Matter
(a)	 The comparative financial information for the 
year ended March 31, 2022, included in these 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements, have not 
been subjected to audit but have been approved 
by the Board of Directors of the Company.
(b)	 We did not audit the financial statements and 
other financial information, in respect of six 
subsidiaries, whose financial statements include 
total assets of Rs. 69,021.97 lakhs as at March 31, 
2023, and total revenues of Rs. 4,290.84 lakhs and 
net cash inflows of Rs. 251.80 lakhs for the year 
ended on that date. These financial statements 
and other financial information have been audited 
by other auditors, which financial statements, 
other financial information and auditor’s reports 
have been furnished to us by the management. 
Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts 
and disclosures included in respect of these 
subsidiaries and our report in terms of sub-sections 
(3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates 
to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the 
reports of such other auditors. Our opinion above 
on the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of 
the above matters with respect to our reliance on 
the work done and the reports of the other auditors 
and the financial statements and other financial 
information certified by the Management. 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 235
Financial Review
section 143 of the Act, based on our audit and on 
the consideration of report of the other auditors 
on separate financial statements and the other 
financial information of the subsidiary companies, 
incorporated in India, as noted in the ‘Other 
Matter’ paragraph we give in the “Annexure 1” a 
statement on the matters specified in paragraph 
3(xxi) of the Order.
2. 	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on 
our audit and on the consideration of report of the 
other auditors on separate financial statements 
and the other financial information of subsidiaries, 
as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph we report, 
to the extent applicable, that:
(a)	 We/the other auditors whose report we have 
relied upon have sought and obtained all 
the information and explanations which to 
the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of 
the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements;
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of 
the aforesaid consolidation of the financial 
statements have been kept so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books 
and reports of the other auditors;
(c)	 The 
Consolidated 
Balance 
Sheet, 
the 
Consolidated 
Statement 
of 
Profit 
and 
Loss including the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the 
books of account maintained for the purpose 
of preparation of the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements;
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
Ind AS financial statements comply with 
the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as 
amended;
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on March 31, 2023 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors who are appointed under Section 139 
of the Act, of its subsidiary companies, none 
of the directors of the Group’s companies,, 
incorporated in India, is disqualified as on 
March  31,  2023 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the 
internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
of the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies, , incorporated in India, and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” to this 
report;
(g)	 In our opinion and based on the consideration 
of reports of other statutory auditors of 
the subsidiaries, incorporated in India, the 
managerial remuneration for the year ended 
March 31, 2023 has been paid / provided by 
the Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
incorporated in India to their directors in 
accordance with the provisions of section 197 
read with Schedule V to the Act;
(h)	 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with 
Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and 
to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and based on 
the consideration of the report of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements 
as also the other financial information of the 
subsidiaries, as noted in the ‘Other matter’ 
paragraph:
i.	
The 
consolidated 
Ind 
AS 
financial 
statements disclose the impact of pending 
litigations on its consolidated financial 
position of the Group in its consolidated 
Ind AS financial statements – Refer note 
34 to the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements; 
ii.	
The Group did not have any material 
foreseeable losses in long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts during the 
year ended March 31, 2023;
iii.	
There were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the Investor 
236 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Education 
and 
Protection 
Fund 
by 
the Holding Company, its subsidiaries 
incorporated in India during the year 
ended March 31, 2023.
iv.	
a)	 The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act 
have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries 
respectively that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, and as disclosed 
in the note 47 to the consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries to or in 
any other person or entity, including 
foreign 
entities 
(“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the respective Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
b)	 The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act 
have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries 
respectively that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, and as disclosed 
in the note 47 to the consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements, no funds 
have been received by the respective 
Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries from any person or entity, 
including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
and
c)	 Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiaries 
which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, 
nothing has come to our or other 
auditor’s notice that has caused us 
or the other auditors to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause 
(a) and (b) contain any material mis-
statement.
v) 	 No dividend has been declared or paid 
during the year by the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries, incorporated in India.
vi) 	As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable 
only w.e.f. April 01, 2023, for the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
incorporated in India, hence reporting 
under this clause is not applicable.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan 
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 23108044BGYZJA6816
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: August 18, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 237
Financial Review
Annexure 1 referred to in paragraph 1 of “Report on other legal and regulatory requirements” of our report 
of even date
Re: Max Estates Limited (the “Holding Company”)
According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, there are no 
qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the Companies (Auditors Report) Order (CARO) 
reports of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements except for following where the 
respective auditors have reported qualifications or adverse remarks in their audit report:
S. 
No.
Name
CIN
Holding 
company/ 
subsidiary/ 
associate/ joint 
venture
Clause number of 
the CARO report 
which is qualified or 
is adverse
1
Max Square Limited
U70200UP2019PLC118369
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
2
Max I Limited
U74999PB2016PLC045450
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
3
Max Estates 128 Private 
Limited
U55101DL2006PTC151422
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
4
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited
U70101HR2010PTC047012
Subsidiary
Clause (xvii)
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 23108044BGYZJA6816
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: August 18, 2023
238 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Report on the internal financial controls under 
clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial 
statements 
of 
Max 
Estates 
Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) as 
of and for the year ended March 31, 2023, we have 
audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the 
Group”), which are companies incorporated in India, 
as of that date. 
Management’s responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group, which are companies 
incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Holding Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention 
and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Companies Act, 2013. 
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Holding Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements based 
on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance 
Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, specified under 
section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls, both, issued by 
ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
was established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and their operating effectiveness. 
Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements included obtaining 
an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 
and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the 
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in the Other 
Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference 
to consolidated financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation 
of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal financial control 
Annexure 2 to the Independent auditor’s report of even date on the consolidated financial statements of 
Max Estates Limited 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 239
Financial Review
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain 
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on 
the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements to future periods are 
subject to the risk that the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements 
may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Group, which are companies 
incorporated in India, have maintained in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements and 
such internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2023, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Holding Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note issued by the ICAI. 
Other matters
Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company, in so 
far as it relates to the subsidiary companies, which 
are companies incorporated in India, is based on 
the corresponding reports of the auditors of such 
subsidiary.
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 301003E/E300005
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
UDIN: 23108044BGYZJA6816
Place of Signature: Gurugram
Date: August 18, 2023
240 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2023
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
 Particular 
 Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
 582.66 
 116.48 
Investment property
3a
 140,508.93 
 89,672.35 
Other intangible assets
4
 333.05 
 3.45 
Right-of-use assets
4b
 1,317.55 
 - 
Financial assets
5
 (i) Investments
5(i)
 5,363.17 
 - 
 (ii) Trade receivables
5 (ii)
 968.61 
 63.78 
 (iii) Other bank balances
5 (iii)
 1,001.35 
 10.26 
 (iv) Other financial assets
5 (iv)
 2,997.87 
 245.06 
Deferred tax assets
16
 1,998.45 
 43.83 
Non-current tax assets
6
 1,552.71 
 793.33 
Other non current assets
7
 5,337.43 
 1,790.50 
 161,961.78 
 92,739.04 
Current assets
Inventories
8
 38,691.83 
 1,375.52 
Financial assets
9
(i) Investments
9 (i)
 10,596.36 
 1,274.28 
(ii) Trade receivables
9 (ii)
 578.06 
 193.31 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
9 (iii)
 1,762.70 
 272.20 
(iv) Bank Balances other than (iii) above
9 (iv)
 2,374.31 
 4,566.40 
(v) Other financial assets
9 (v)
 4,665.46 
 1,268.01 
Other current assets
10
 2,088.39 
 849.20 
 60,757.11 
 9,798.92 
Total assets
 222,718.89 
 102,537.96 
Equity
Equity share capital
11
 - 
 7,791.00 
Shares pending for allotment
 14,710.36 
 - 
Other equity
12
 106,410.14 
 53,095.73 
Equity attributable to equity holders of parent 
company
 121,120.50 
 60,886.73 
Non-controlling interest
42 
 4,266.94 
 3,423.27 
Total equity
 125,387.44 
 64,310.00 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
13
 75,081.26 
 28,335.38 
(ii) Lease liabilities
4b
 3,488.11 
 - 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 241
Financial Review
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
 Particular 
 Notes
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
(iii) Other non current financial liabilities
14
 4,536.85 
 3,742.96 
Long term provisions
15
 169.33 
 72.94 
Deferred tax liabilities
16
 1,083.41 
 391.19 
 84,358.96 
 32,542.47 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
17 (i)
 7,358.04 
 3,176.68 
(ii) Trade payables
 (a) Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
17 (ii)
 501.79 
 96.52 
 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other 
than micro enterprises and small enterprises 
17 (ii)
 2,201.72 
 900.96 
(iii) Lease liabilities
4b
 236.66 
 - 
(iv) Other current financial liabilities
17 (iii)
 1,655.24 
 762.99 
Other current liabilities
18
 767.41 
 633.89 
Short term provisions
19
 251.63 
 114.45 
 12,972.49 
 5,685.49 
Total liabilities
 97,331.45 
 38,227.96 
Total equity and liabilities
 222,718.89 
 102,537.96 
Summary of significant accounting policies 	
2
Other notes to accounts	
3-47
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
242 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2023
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 Notes 
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
INCOME
Revenue from operations
20
 10,734.20 
 6,928.87 
Other income
21
 2,393.63 
 464.60 
Total income
 13,127.83 
 7,393.47 
EXPENSES
Cost of land, plots, development rights, constructed 
properties and others
22
 1,015.55 
 - 
Change in inventories of constructed properties
23
 1,138.84 
 1,850.94 
Employee benefits expense
24
 1,537.73 
 347.49 
Finance costs
25
 1,861.87 
 1,616.92 
Depreciation and amortization expense
26
 1,490.82 
 1,068.14 
Other expenses
27
 3,874.82 
 1,664.90 
Total expenses
 10,919.63 
 6,548.39 
Profit before tax 
 2,208.20 
 845.08 
Tax expenses
Current income tax charge
30
 2,050.11 
 - 
Adjustment in respect of tax relating to earlier years
30
 4.17 
 77.82 
Deferred tax credit
30
 (1,692.78)
 275.06 
Total tax expense
 361.50 
 352.88 
Profit after tax 
 1,846.70 
 492.20 
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the parent
 1,901.49 
 499.89 
 Non-controlling interests
 (54.79)
 (7.69)
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified 
to profit or loss in subsequent years:
Re-measurement loss of defined benefit plans
30
 0.02 
 3.93 
Income tax effect
 (0.01)
 (0.99)
Net comprehensive income not to be reclassified 
to profit or loss in subsequent years:
 0.01 
 2.94 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of 
tax
 0.01 
 2.94 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 1,846.71 
 495.14 
Attributable to:
 Equity holders of the parent
 1,901.50 
 502.83 
 Non-controlling interests
 (54.79)
 (7.69)
Earnings per equity share (Nominal value of share 
Rs.10/-)
Basic (Rs.)
32
 1.29 
 1.30 
Diluted (Rs.)
32
 1.29 
 0.64 
Summary of significant accounting policies 	
2
Other notes to accounts	
3-47
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 243
Financial Review
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2023
 (Rs. in lakhs) 
 Particulars 
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
Operating activities
Profit before tax
 2,208.20 
 845.08 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 1,490.82 
 1,068.14 
Expense recognised on employee stock option scheme
 105.87 
 - 
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
 (13.78)
 - 
Net gain on sale of non- current investments
 (944.14)
 - 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 - 
 0.42 
Profit on derecognition of right of use assets
 (135.97)
 - 
Gain on sale of financial instruments 
 (101.82)
 - 
Liabilities/provisions no longer required written back
 - 
 (30.57)
Revenue from Rental (Equilisation as pre INDAS)
 - 
 (176.41)
Interest income
 (25.25)
 (338.37)
Unwinding of interest on security deposit
 (319.88)
 - 
Finance costs
 1,861.87 
 1,616.94 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 4,125.90 
 2,985.23 
Working capital adjustments:
Increase in trade and other receivables and prepayments
 (436.37)
 (296.64)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories
 (37,299.88)
 1,886.95 
Increase/ (decrease) in provisions
 - 
 17.92 
Decrease/(increase) in current and non-current asset
 (10,160.40)
 (187.39)
(Decrease)/increase in current and non- current liability
 (145.30)
 1,640.74 
Decrease in trade and other payables
 1,505.44 
 (1,189.26)
Decrease in financial asset
 - 
 (346.15)
Cash generated from operations
 (42,410.61)
 4,511.42 
Income tax paid (net of refund)
 (3,224.62)
 (440.60)
Net cash flows from operating activities
 (45,635.23)
 4,070.82 
Investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 (2,096.87)
 (10,841.98)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment 
property (including intangible assets and capital advances)
 (50,143.71)
 (2,039.73)
Interest received
 1,190.35 
 357.79 
Net (investment)/redemption of deposits with remaining 
maturity for more than 3 months
 38,933.62 
 464.19 
(Purchase)/ sale of current investments (net)
 (6,270.64)
 (35.27)
Proceeds from sale of non current investments
 13,172.86 
 - 
Net cash flows used in investing activities
 (5,214.39)
 (12,095.01)
Financing activities
244 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. in lakhs) 
 Particulars 
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
Proceeds from issuance of equity share capital including 
security premium
 24.86 
 - 
Proceeds from issue of equity shares of subsidiary
 1,851.13 
 - 
Repayment of lease liability (including interest)
 886.26 
 - 
Proceeds from short term borrowings
 6,856.75 
 892.64 
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
 81,470.46 
 12,181.54 
Repayment of long-term borrowings
 (34,724.58)
 (2,804.05)
Interest paid
 (4,236.05)
 (2,471.84)
Net cash flows from financing activities
 52,128.83 
 7,798.29 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 1,279.21 
 (225.90)
Add Merger adjustement
 211.29 
 - 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 272.20 
 498.10 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 1,762.70 
 272.20 
Components of cash and cash equivalents:
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
 1,705.68 
 268.91 
Cash on hand
 57.02 
 3.28 
 1,762.70 
 272.20 
The above cash flow statement has been prepared under the “ Indirect Method” as set out in Indian 
Accounting Standard-7 , “Statement of cash flow”.
Summary of significant accounting policies 	
2
Other notes to accounts	
3-47
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 245
Financial Review
Consolidated Statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2023
a) 	 Equity share capital
Particulars
 Nos. 
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
Shares of Rs. 10/- each, issued, subscribed and fully paid
As at April 01, 2021
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
Add: Shares issued for stock options exercised during the year (refer note 
11)
As at March 31, 2022*
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
Add: Merger effect
 (77,910,000)
 (7,791.00)
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
b)	 Other equity
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Other equity
Non-
controlling 
interest 
(refer note 
42)
Total
Capital 
reserve 
(refer note 
12)
Securities 
premium 
(refer note 
12)
Employ-
ee stock 
options 
outstand-
ing (refer 
note 12)
Retained 
earnings 
(refer note 
12)
Total other 
equity
As at April 01, 2021
 
-
381.03
(4,965.43)
(4,584.39)
3,430.96
(1,153.43)
Profit for the year
-
-
-
499.89
499.89
(7.69)
492.19
Other comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
(3.93)
(3.93)
-
(3.93)
Expense recognized during the year
-
-
20.17
-
20.17
-
20.17
As at March 31, 2022*
-
-
401.20
(4,469.47)
(4,068.27)
3,423.27
(645.00)
Add: Merger effect
13,042.52
50,084.05
(239.92)
45,759.07
108,645.72
1,013.91
109,659.63
As at April 01, 2022 (Post Merger Effect)
13,042.52
50,084.05
161.28
41,289.60
104,577.45
4,437.18
109,014.64
Profit for the year
-
-
-
1,901.49
1,901.49
(54.79)
1,846.70
Other comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
0.01
0.01
-
0.01
Less: adjustment on account of capital 
reduction in PCL (refer note 42)
-
(183.66)
-
-
(183.66)
-
(183.66)
Net movement in Non controlling interest (refer 
note 42)
-
-
-
-
-
(115.45)
(115.45)
Forfeiture of share option under Employee 
stock option scheme
-
-
(8.49)
8.49
-
-
-
Exercise of share option under Employee stock 
option scheme
-
50.75
(41.58)
-
9.17
-
9.17
Expense recognized during the year
-
-
105.69
-
105.69
-
105.69
As at March 31, 2023
13,042.52
49,951.14
216.90
43,199.59
106,410.14
4,266.94
110,677.10
* also refer note 46
Summary of significant accounting policies 	
2
Other notes to accounts	
3-47
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
246 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
1	
Corporate Information
	
The Consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
comprise financial statements of Max Estates 
Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively, the Group) for the year ended 
March 31, 2023. The Company is registered 
in India under Companies Act, 2013 and was 
incorporated on March 22, 2016. 
	
Registered office of the Company is located at 
419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Village Railmajra, 
Tehsil Balachaur, Nawanshehar, Punjab - 144533.
	
The Group is principally engaged in the business 
of: 
-	
Construction and development of residential 
and commercial properties;
-	
Making investments in various companies 
and primarily engaged in growing and 
nurturing these business investments;
-	
Providing facility management services and 
managed office services
-	
Providing shared services to its other group 
companies
	
During the year, the Company has completed the 
merger of Max Ventures and Industries Limited ( 
‘Transferor Company’) (appointed date April 01, 
2022). Pursuant to the scheme of merger filed 
under the provisions of Section 230 to 232 read 
with Section 66 and other applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made 
thereunder. The Hon’ble National Company Law 
Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench (“Hon’ble NCLT”) 
vide its order dated July 03, 2023, approved the 
aforesaid Scheme. The comparative financial 
information for previous year ended March 31, 
2022, has not been restated. Refer note 45 for 
further details related to merger.
	
The consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution by the Board of directors of the 
Company on August 18, 2023.
2	
Significant accounting policies
2.1	 a) 	 Basis of preparation
	
	
These consolidated financial statements of 
the Group have been prepared in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standards (IND 
AS) notified under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards)  Rules,  2015 (as 
amended from time to time) and presentation 
requirements of division II of Schedule III to 
the Companies Act 2013 (Ind AS Compliant 
Schedule III). 
	
The consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
have been prepared on a historical cost 
basis, except for the following assets and 
liabilities which have been measured at fair 
value
(i)	
Certain financial assets and liabilities 
(refer 
accounting 
policy 
regarding 
financial  instruments)
(ii)	 Defined benefit plans - plan assets 
	
The 
Consolidated 
Ind 
AS 
Financial 
Statements are presented in INR and all 
values are rounded to nearest Lakhs (INR 
00,000) except when otherwise stated
	
The 
accounting 
policies 
have 
been 
consistently applied by the Group.
b) 	 Basis of Consolidation
	
The 
Consolidated 
Ind 
AS 
Financial 
Statements (CFS) comprises the financial 
statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries as at March 31, 2023. Control 
is achieved when the Group is exposed, 
or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the investee. Specifically, the 
Group controls an investee if and only if the 
Group has:
•  
Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights 
that give it the current ability to direct 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 247
Financial Review
the relevant activities of the investee) 
► Exposure, or rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee, 
and
• 
The ability to use its power over the 
investee to affect its returns
	
Generally, there is a presumption that a 
majority of voting rights result in control. 
To support this presumption and when 
the Group has less than a majority of the 
voting or similar rights of an investee, the 
Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has 
power over an investee, including:
• 
The contractual arrangement with the 
other vote holders of the investee
• 
Rights arising from other contractual 
arrangements 
• 
The 
Group’s 
voting 
rights 
and 
potential 
voting 
rights 
► The size of the group’s holding of 
voting rights relative to the size and 
dispersion of the holdings of the other 
voting rights holders
	
The 
Group 
re-assesses 
whether 
or 
not it controls an investee if facts and 
circumstances indicate that there are 
changes to one or more of the three 
elements of control. Consolidation of a 
subsidiary begins when the Group obtains 
control over the subsidiary and ceases when 
the Group loses control of the subsidiary. 
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of 
a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during 
the year are included in the consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements from the date the 
Group gains control until the date the Group 
ceases to control the subsidiary. 
	
Consolidated Ind AS financial statements 
are prepared using uniform accounting 
policies for like transactions and other 
events in similar circumstances. If a member 
of the group uses accounting policies other 
than those adopted in the consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements for like transactions 
and 
events 
in 
similar 
circumstances, 
appropriate adjustments are made to that 
group member’s financial statements in 
preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements to ensure conformity with the 
group’s accounting policies.
	
The financial statements of all entities used 
for the purpose of consolidation are drawn 
up to same reporting date as that of the 
parent company, i.e., year ended March 31. 
When the end of the reporting period of the 
parent is different from that of a subsidiary, 
the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation 
purposes, additional financial information as 
of the same date as the financial statements 
of the parent to enable the parent to 
consolidate the financial information of the 
subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do 
so.
	
Consolidation procedure:
(i)	
Combine like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
of the parent with those of its subsidiaries. 
For this purpose, income and expenses of 
the subsidiary are based on the amounts of 
the assets and liabilities recognised in the 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements at 
the acquisition date.
(ii)	 Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of 
the parent’s investment in each subsidiary 
and the parent’s portion of equity of each 
subsidiary. 
(iii)	 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and 
cash flows relating to transactions between 
entities of the Group (profits or losses 
resulting 
from 
intragroup 
transactions 
that are recognised in assets, such as 
inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated 
in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
248 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
impairment that requires recognition in the 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements. 
IND AS12 Income Taxes applies to temporary 
differences that arise from the elimination of 
profits and losses resulting from intragroup 
transactions.
	
Profit or loss and each component of other 
comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed 
to the equity holders of the parent of the 
Group and to the non-controlling interests, 
even if this results in the non-controlling 
interests having a deficit balance. When 
necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to 
bring their accounting policies into line 
with the Group’s accounting policies. All 
intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows relating 
to transactions between members of the 
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
	
A change in the ownership interest of a 
subsidiary, without a loss of control, is 
accounted for as an equity transaction. If the 
Group loses control over a subsidiary, it:
• 
Derecognises the assets (including 
goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary 
at their carrying amounts at the date 
when control is lost
• 
Derecognises the carrying amount of 
any non-controlling interests
• 
Derecognises the cumulative translation 
differences recorded in equity
• 
Recognises the fair value of the 
consideration received
• 
Recognises the fair value of any 
investment retained
• 
Recognises any surplus or deficit in 
profit or loss
	
Reclassifies the parent’s share of 
components previously recognised in 
OCI to profit or loss or retained earnings, 
as appropriate, as would be required if 
the Group had directly disposed of the 
related assets or liabilities.
	
The Group recognises any non-controlling 
interest in the acquired entity on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at 
fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquired entity’s 
net identiﬁable assets. Subsequent to 
acquisition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interests is the amount of those 
interests at initial recognition plus the non-
controlling interests’ share of subsequent 
changes in equity. Total comprehensive 
income is attributed to non-controlling 
interests even if it results in the non-
controlling interest having a deﬁcit balance.
2.2	 Summary of significant accounting policies
a.	
Current versus non-current classification
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet based on current/ non-current 
classification. An asset is treated as current when 
it is:
(i)	
Expected to be realized or intended to be 
sold or consumed in normal operating cycle
(ii)	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading
(iii)	 Expected to be realized within twelve 
months after the reporting period, or 
(iv)	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted 
from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the 
reporting period
All other assets are classified as non-current. 
A liability is current when:
(i)	
It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle
(ii)	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 249
Financial Review
(iii)	 It is due to settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
(iv)	 There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
	
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-
current.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified 
as non-current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. The 
Group has identified twelve months as its 
operating cycle.
b.	
Property, Plant and Equipment and Investment 
Property
(i) 	 Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Property, Plant and equipment including 
capital work in progress are stated at cost, less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. The cost comprises 
of purchase price, taxes, duties, freight 
and other incidental expenses directly 
attributable and related to acquisition and 
installation of the concerned assets and are 
further adjusted by the amount of GST credit 
availed wherever applicable. Cost includes 
borrowing cost for long term construction 
projects if recognition criteria are met. When 
significant parts of plant and equipment 
are required to be replaced at intervals, the 
Group depreciates them separately based 
on their respective useful lives. Likewise, 
when a major inspection is performed, its 
cost is recognized in the carrying amount 
of the plant, property and equipment as a 
replacement if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance 
costs are recognized in profit or loss as 
incurred.
	
An item of property, plant and equipment 
and any significant part initially recognized 
is derecognized upon disposal or when no 
future economic benefits are expected from 
its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition of the asset (calculated 
as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset) is included in the income statement 
when the asset is derecognized.
The Group identifies and determines cost 
of each component/ part of the asset 
separately, if the component/ part has a 
cost which is significant to the total cost of 
the asset and has useful life that is materially 
different from that of the remaining asset.
Capital work- in- progress includes cost 
of property, plant and equipment under 
installation / under development as at the 
balance sheet date.
The residual values, useful lives and methods 
of depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate.
In respect to tangible and intangible assets 
acquired under the business transfer 
agreement, the Group has calculated 
depreciation/amortization on straight-line 
basis using the rates arrived at based on a 
technical estimate of the residual useful lives 
estimated by an independent engineering 
consultancy professional firm. 
In respect of other assets, depreciation is 
calculated on pro rata basis on straight-line 
basis over estimated useful lives estimated 
by the management and in the manner 
prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies 
Act 2013. The useful life is as follows:
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
250 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Assets
Useful lives 
estimated by the 
management 
(years)
Leasehold 
Improvements
Over life of lease 
or life of asset 
whichever is less
Factory building
 30
Other building
 60
Plant and 
Equipment 
 15-25
Office Equipment
 3 - 5
Computers & Data 
Processing Units
3 - 6
Furniture and 
Fixtures
 10
Motor Vehicles
 3 - 8
(ii) 	 Investment Property
	
Recognition and initial measurement:
	
Investment properties are properties held 
to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or 
both. Investment properties are measured 
initially at their cost of acquisition including 
transaction costs The cost comprises 
purchase 
price, 
borrowing 
cost, 
if 
capitalization criteria are met and directly 
attributable cost of bringing the asset to its 
working condition for the intended use. Any 
trade discount and rebates are deducted 
in arriving at the purchase price When 
significant parts of the investment property 
are required to be replaced at intervals, 
the Company depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives.
	
Property held under lease is classified as 
investment property when it is held to earn 
rentals or for capital appreciation or for 
both, rather than for sale in the ordinary 
course of business or for use in production 
or administrative functions. Subsequent 
costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with the 
item will flow to the Group All other repair 
and maintenance costs are recognised in 
statement of profit and loss as incurred The 
cost includes the cost of replacing parts and 
borrowing costs for long-term construction 
projects if the recognition criteria are met 
When significant parts of the investment 
property are required to be replaced at 
intervals, the Group depreciates them 
separately based on their specific useful 
lives All other repair and maintenance costs 
are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
	
Depreciation on investment properties is 
provided on the straight-line method, over 
the useful lives of the assets are as follows:
Asset category’
Estimated life 
Buildings and related 
equipment 
15 to 60
Plant & Machinery & 
other equipment 
6 to 10
	
Estimated useful life of Leasehold land is 
over the period of lease
	
Though the Company measures investment 
property using cost-based measurement, the 
fair value of investment properly is disclosed 
in the notes Fair values are determined 
based on an annual evaluation performed 
by the company applying a valuation model 
acceptable.
	
De-recognition
	
Investment properties are de-recognised 
either when they have been disposed of 
or when they are permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefit is 
expected from their disposal. The difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset is recognised 
in statement of profit and loss in the period 
of de-recognition.
	
Depreciation on investment property has 
been provided on straight line method over 
the useful life of assets Useful life of assets 
Notes forming part of the Standalone Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 251
Financial Review
are as under
Building and related 
equipments
 15 to 60 years
Plant & machinery, 
furniture & 
fixtures and other 
equipments
 6 to 10 years
c.	
Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets acquired separately are 
measured on initial recognition at cost. 
Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortization and accumulated impairment 
losses, if any. Internally generated intangibles, 
excluding capitalized development cost, are 
not capitalized and the related expenditure 
is reflected in statement of Profit and Loss 
in the period in which the expenditure is 
incurred. Cost comprises the purchase price 
and any attributable cost of bringing the 
asset to its working condition for its intended 
use.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are 
assessed as either finite or indefinite. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are 
amortized over their useful economic lives 
and assessed for impairment whenever there 
is an indication that the intangible asset may 
be impaired. The amortization period and 
the amortization method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at 
least at the end of each reporting period. 
Changes in the expected useful life or the 
expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset is 
accounted for by changing the amortization 
period or method, as appropriate and are 
treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
The amortization expense on intangible 
assets with finite lives is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss in the expense 
category consistent with the function of the 
intangible assets.
	
Intangible assets with indefinite useful 
lives are not amortized, but are tested for 
impairment annually, either individually 
or at the cash-generating unit level. The 
assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite 
life continues to be supportable. If not, the 
change in useful life from indefinite to finite 
is made on a prospective basis.
	
Gains or losses arising from disposal of 
the intangible assets are measured as 
the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset and are recognized in the statement of 
profit and loss when the assets are disposed 
off.
	
Intangible assets with finite useful life are 
amortized on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful life of 3-6 years.
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. 
Development expenditures on an individual 
project are recognised as an intangible asset 
when the Group can demonstrate:
(a) The technical feasibility of completing 
the intangible asset so that the asset 
will be available for use or sale
(b) Its intention to complete and its ability 
and intention to use or sell the asset
(c) How the asset will generate future 
economic benefits
(d) The availability of resources to complete 
the asset
(e) The ability to measure reliably the 
expenditure during development
	
Following 
initial 
recognition 
of 
the 
development expenditure as an asset, the 
asset is carried at cost less any accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortisation of the asset begins 
when development is complete, and the 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
252 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
asset is available for use. It is amortised 
over the period of expected future benefit. 
Amortisation expense is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss unless such 
expenditure forms part of carrying value of 
another asset.
	
During the period of development, the asset 
is tested for impairment annually.
d.	
Business combinations 
	
Common control business combinations 
include transactions, such as transfer of 
subsidiaries or businesses, between entities 
within a Company. Business combinations 
involving entities or businesses under 
common control are accounted for using the 
pooling of interests method. The pooling of 
interest method is considered to involve the 
following: 
(i)	
The assets and liabilities of the 
combining entities are reflected at their 
carrying amounts. 
(ii)	 No adjustments are made to reflect fair 
values, or recognise any new assets 
or liabilities. The only adjustments that 
are made are to harmonise accounting 
policies. 
(iii)	 The 
financial 
information 
in 
the 
financial statements in respect of prior 
periods is restated as if the business 
combination had occurred from the 
beginning of the preceding period in 
the financial statements, irrespective 
of the actual date of the combination. 
However, if business combination had 
occurred after that date, the prior period 
information shall be restated only from 
that date. 
(iv)	 The balance of the retained earnings 
appearing in the financial statements 
of the transferor is aggregated with the 
corresponding balance appearing in the 
financial statements of the transferee.
e.	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset 
may be impaired. If any indication exists, 
or when annual impairment testing for an 
asset is required, the Group estimates the 
asset’s, recoverable amount. An asset’s 
recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) 
net fair value less cost of disposal and its 
value in use. The recoverable amount is 
determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows 
that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Where 
the carrying amount of asset or CGU 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to 
its recoverable amount. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-
tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
net fair value less cost of disposal, recent 
market transactions are taken into account, 
if available. If no such transactions can be 
identified, an appropriate valuation model is 
used. These calculations are corroborated by 
valuation multiples, quoted share prices for 
publicly traded companies or other available 
fair value indicators.
	
The Group bases its impairment calculation 
on detailed budgets and forecast calculations 
which are prepared separately for each 
of the Group’s cash-generating units to 
which the individual assets are allocated. 
These budgets and forecast calculations 
are generally covering a period of five years. 
For the remaining economic life of the asset 
or cash-generating unit (CGU), a long-term 
growth rate is calculated and applied to 
project future cash flows after the fifth year. 
To estimate cash flow projections beyond 
periods covered by the most recent budgets/
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 253
Financial Review
forecasts, the Group extrapolates cash flow 
projections in the budget using a steady or 
declining growth rate for subsequent years, 
unless an increasing rate can be justified. In 
this case, the growth rate does not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for the 
products, industries, country in which the 
entity operates, or for the market in which 
the asset is used.
Impairment losses including impairment on 
inventories, are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss.
After impairment, depreciation is provided 
on the revised carrying amount of the asset 
over its remaining economic life.
An assessment is made at each reporting 
date as to whether there is any indication that 
previously recognized impairment losses 
no longer exist or may have decreased. If 
such indication exists, the Group estimates 
the 
asset’s 
or 
cash-generating 
unit’s 
recoverable amount. A previously recognized 
impairment loss is reversed only if there 
has been a change in the assumptions 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was 
recognized. The reversal is limited so that 
the carrying amount of the asset does not 
exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed 
the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation, had 
no impairment loss been recognized for 
the asset in prior years. Such reversal is 
recognized in the statement of profit and 
loss unless the asset is carried at a revalued 
amount, in which case the reversal is treated 
as a revaluation increase.
Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite lives
Goodwill and intangible assets that have 
an indefinite useful life are not subject to 
amortisation and are tested annually for 
impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that 
they might be impaired. Other assets are 
tested for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the 
amount by which the asset’s carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and 
value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows which are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other 
assets or groups of assets (cash-generating 
units). Non – financial assets other than 
goodwill that suffered an impairment 
are reviewed for possible reversal of the 
impairment at the end of each reporting 
period.
Goodwill is not amortised but it is tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that it might be impaired, and is carried at 
cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity 
include the carrying amount of goodwill 
relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating 
units for the purpose of impairment 
testing. The allocation is made to those 
cash-generating units or groups of cash-
generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which 
the goodwill arose. The units or groups of 
units are identified at the lowest level at 
which goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes, which in our case 
are the operating segments.
f.	
Financial Instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that 
gives rise to a financial asset of one entity 
and a financial liability or equity instrument 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
254 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
of another entity.
(i) 	 Financial assets
	
The Group classified its financial 
assets in the following measurement 
categories:
- 	
Those to be measured subsequently 
at fair value (either through other 
comprehensive income or through 
profit & loss)
- 	
Those measured at amortized cost
Initial recognition and measurement
All financial assets are recognized 
initially at fair value plus, in the case 
of 
financial 
assets 
not 
recorded 
at fair value through profit or loss, 
transaction costs that are attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets 
that require delivery of assets within a 
time frame established by regulation or 
convention in the market place (regular 
way trades) are recognized on the 
trade date, i.e., the date that the Group 
commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
The difference between the transaction 
amount and amortised cost in case 
of interest free loan to subsidiaries 
based on expected repayment period is 
considered as deemed investment.
Subsequent measurement
For 
purposes 
of 
subsequent 
measurement, financial assets are 
classified in four categories:
(i) 	 Debt instruments at amortized cost
(ii)	 Debt 
instruments 
and 
equity 
instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss (FVTPL)
Debt instruments at amortized cost
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the 
amortized cost if both the following 
conditions are met:
(i) 	 Business model test: The asset 
is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows 
(rather than to sell the instrument 
prior to its contractual maturity to 
realise its fair value change), and
(ii)	 Cash flow characteristics test: 
Contractual terms of the asset 
give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
	
This category is the most relevant to 
the Group. After initial measurement, 
such financial assets are subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. 
Amortized cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. EIR is the 
rate that exactly discount the estimated 
future cash receipts over the expected 
life of the financial instrument or a 
shorter period, where appropriate to 
the gross carrying amount of financial 
assets. When calculating the effective 
interest rate the Group estimate the 
expected cash flow by considering 
all contractual terms of the financial 
instruments. 
The 
EIR 
amortization 
is included in finance income in the 
profit or loss. The losses arising from 
impairment are recognized in the profit 
or loss. This category generally applies 
to trade and other receivables.
	
Debt instruments at FVTPL
	
FVTPL is a residual category for 
financial instruments. Any financial 
instrument, which does not meet the 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 255
Financial Review
criteria for amortized cost or FVTOCI, is 
classified as at FVTPL. A gain or loss on 
a Debt instrument that is subsequently 
measured at FVTPL and is not a part 
of a hedging relationship is recognized 
in statement of profit or loss and 
presented net in the statement of profit 
and loss within other gains or losses in 
the period in which it arises. Interest 
income from these Debt instruments is 
included in other income.
Equity investments of other entities
All equity investments in scope of IND 
AS 109 are measured at fair value. 
Equity instruments which are held for 
trading and contingent consideration 
recognized by an acquirer in a business 
combination to which IND AS103 
applies are classified as at FVTPL. For 
all other equity instruments, the Group 
may make an irrevocable election to 
present in other comprehensive income 
all subsequent changes in the fair 
value. The Group makes such election 
on an instrument-by-instrument basis. 
The classification is made on initial 
recognition and is irrevocable.
If the Group decides to classify an 
equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then 
all fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognized in 
the OCI. There is no recycling of the 
amounts from OCI to profit and loss, 
even on sale of investment. However, the 
Group may transfer the cumulative gain 
or loss within equity. Equity instruments 
included within the FVTPL category are 
measured at fair value with all changes 
recognized in the Profit and loss.
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, 
a part of a financial asset or part of a 
Group of similar financial assets) is 
primarily derecognized (i.e., removed 
from the Group’s statement of financial 
position) when:
-	
the rights to receive cash flows 
from the asset have expired, or
-	
the Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the 
asset or has assumed an obligation 
to pay the received cash flows 
in full without material delay to a 
third party under a “pass through” 
arrangement and either;
(a)	 the Group has transferred the 
rights to receive cash flows 
from the financial assets or
(b) 	 the 
Group 
has 
retained 
the 
contractual 
right 
to 
receive the cash flows of the 
financial asset, but assumes 
a contractual obligation to pay 
the cash flows to one or more 
recipients.
Where the Group has transferred an 
asset, the Group evaluates whether 
it has transferred substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the ownership 
of the financial assets. In such cases, 
the financial asset is derecognized. 
Where the entity has not transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the ownership of the financial assets, 
the financial asset is not derecognized.
Where 
the 
Group 
has 
neither 
transferred a financial asset nor retains 
substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the 
financial asset is derecognized if the 
Group has not retained control of the 
financial asset. Where the Group retains 
control of the financial asset, the asset 
is continued to be recognized to the 
extent of continuing involvement in the 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
256 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
financial asset.
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
In accordance with IND AS 109, the 
Group applies expected credit losses 
(ECL) model for measurement and 
recognition of impairment loss on the 
following financial asset and credit risk 
exposure
- 
Financial 
assets 
measured 
at 
amortised cost; e.g. Loans, security 
deposits, trade receivable, bank 
balance.
- 	
Financial assets measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive 
income (FVTOCI);
The Group follows “simplified approach” 
for recognition of impairment loss 
allowance on trade receivables. Under 
the simplified approach, the Group 
does not track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognizes impairment loss 
allowance based on lifetime ECLs at 
each reporting date, right from its initial 
recognition. the Group uses a provision 
matrix to determine impairment loss 
allowance on the portfolio of trade 
receivables. The provision matrix is 
based on its historically observed 
default rates over the expected life of 
trade receivable and is adjusted for 
forward looking estimates. At every 
reporting date, the historical observed 
default rates are updated and changes 
in the forward looking estimates are 
analysed.
For recognition of impairment loss on 
other financial assets and risk exposure, 
the Group determines whether there has 
been a significant increase in the credit 
risk since initial recognition. If credit 
risk has not increased significantly, 
12-month ECL is used to provide for 
impairment loss. However, if credit risk 
has increased significantly, lifetime ECL 
is used. If, in subsequent period, credit 
quality of the instrument improves such 
that there is no longer a significant 
increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition, then the Group reverts to 
recognizing impairment loss allowance 
based on 12- months ECL.
Reclassification of financial assets
The Group determines classification of 
financial assets and liabilities on initial 
recognition. After initial recognition, no 
reclassification is made for financial 
assets which are equity instruments 
and financial liabilities. For financial 
assets which are debt instruments, a 
reclassification is made only if there 
is a change in the business model 
for managing those assets. Changes 
to the business model are expected 
to be infrequent. The Group’s senior 
management 
determines 
change 
in the business model as a result of 
external or internal changes which are 
significant to the Group’s operations. 
Such changes are evident to external 
parties. A change in the business model 
occurs when the Group either begins 
or ceases to perform an activity that is 
significant to its operations. If the Group 
reclassifies financial assets, it applies 
the reclassification prospectively from 
the reclassification date which is the first 
day of the immediately next reporting 
period following the change in business 
model. The Group does not restate any 
previously recognized gains, losses 
(including impairment gains or losses) 
or interest.
(ii) 	 Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial liabilities are classified at 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 257
Financial Review
initial recognition as financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss, loans 
and borrowings, and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. 
The Group financial liabilities include 
loans and borrowings including bank 
overdraft, trade payable, trade deposits, 
retention money and other payables.
Subsequent measurement
The measurement of financial liabilities 
depends on their classification, as 
described below:
Trade Payables
These amounts represent liabilities 
for goods and services provided to 
the Group prior to the end of financial 
year which are unpaid. Trade and other 
payables are presented as current 
liabilities unless payment is not due 
within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognised initially at 
fair value and subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using EIR method.
Financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss include financial liabilities 
held for trading and financial liabilities 
designated upon initial recognition 
as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Financial liabilities are classified as 
held for trading if they are incurred for 
the purpose of repurchasing in the near 
term. Gains or losses on liabilities held for 
trading are recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss. Financial liabilities 
designated upon initial recognition 
at fair value through profit or loss are 
designated as such at the initial date 
of recognition, and only if the criteria in 
IND AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities 
designated as FVTPL, fair value gains/ 
losses attributable to changes in own 
credit risk are recognised in OCI. These 
gains/ losses are not subsequently 
transferred to profit and loss. However, 
the Group may transfer the cumulative 
gain or loss within equity. All other 
changes in fair value of such liability are 
recognised in the statement of profit or 
loss. The Group has not designated any 
financial liability as at fair value through 
profit and loss.
Loans and borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair 
value, net of transaction cost incurred. 
After initial recognition, interest-bearing 
loans and borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using 
the EIR method. Gains and losses are 
recognised in profit or loss when the 
liabilities are derecognised as well as 
through the EIR amortization process. 
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any discount or premium 
on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 
amortization is included as finance 
costs in the statement of profit and loss.
Financial guarantee contracts
Financial guarantee contracts issued 
by the Group are those contracts 
that require a payment to be made 
to reimburse the holder for a loss it 
incurs because the specified debtor 
fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a 
debt instrument. Financial guarantee 
contracts are recognised initially as 
a liability at fair value, adjusted for 
transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the issuance of the 
guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is 
measured at the higher of the amount 
of loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of Ind AS 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
258 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
109 and the amount recognised less 
cumulative amortisation.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised 
when the obligation under the liability 
is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
When an existing financial liability is 
replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an 
exchange or medication is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability 
and the recognition of a new liability. 
The difference in the respective carrying 
amounts is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss.
Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities 
are offset and the net amount is reported 
in the consolidated balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal 
right to offset the recognized amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a 
net basis, to realize the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
Compound financial instruments
Compound 
financial 
convertible 
instruments are separated into liability 
and equity components based on the 
terms of the contract. On issuance of 
the convertible instruments, the fair 
value of the liability component is 
determined using a market rate for an 
equivalent non-convertible instrument. 
This amount is classified as a financial 
liability measured at amortised cost 
(net of transaction costs) until it 
is extinguished on conversion or 
redemption. The remainder of the 
proceeds is allocated to the conversion 
option that is recognised and included 
in equity since conversion option meets 
Ind AS 32 criteria for fixed to fixed 
classification. Transaction costs are 
deducted from equity, net of associated 
income tax. The carrying amount of the 
conversion option is not remeasured in 
subsequent years. Transaction costs are 
apportioned between the liability and 
equity components of the convertible 
instruments based on the allocation 
of proceeds to the liability and equity 
components when the instruments are 
initially recognised.
g.	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
Revenue is recognized to the extent that it 
is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Group and the revenue can be 
reliably measured.
	
The Group has applied five step model as 
per Ind AS 115 ‘Revenue from contracts with 
customers’ to recognise revenue in the Ind 
AS financial statements. The Group satisfies 
a performance obligation and recognises 
revenue over time, if one of the following 
criteria is met:
a) 	 The customer simultaneously receives 
and consumes the benefits provided 
by the Group’s performance as the 
Company performs; or
b) 	 The Group’s performance creates or 
enhances an asset that the customer 
controls as the asset is created or 
enhanced; or
c) 	 The Group’s performance does not 
create an asset with an alternative 
use to the Group and the entity has 
an enforceable right to payment for 
performance completed to date.
	
For performance obligations where any of 
the above conditions are not met, revenue is 
recognised at the point in time at which the 
performance obligation is satisfied.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 259
Financial Review
	
Revenue from contracts with customers is 
recognised when control of the goods or 
services are transferred to the customer at 
an amount that reflects the consideration 
to which the Group expects to be entitled 
in exchange for those goods or services. 
The Group has generally concluded that it 
is the principal in its revenue arrangements, 
because it typically controls the goods or 
services before transferring them to the 
customer. The following specific recognition 
criteria must also be met before revenue is 
recognized:
	
Revenue is recognised over period of time 
in respect of rental services on an accrual 
basis, in accordance with the terms of 
the respective contract as and when the 
Company satisfies performance obligations 
by delivering the services as per contractual 
agreed terms.
Revenue from shared services 
Revenue is recognised over period of 
time in respect of shares services on an 
accrual basis, in accordance with the 
terms of the respective contract as and 
when the Company satisfies performance 
obligations by delivering the services as per 
contractually agreed terms.
Revenue 
from 
project 
management 
consultancy / secondment 
Revenue 
from 
project 
management 
consultancy / secondment is recognized as 
per the terms of the agreement on the basis 
of sei vices rendered.
Gain on sale of investments 
On disposal of an investment, the difference 
between the carrying amount and net 
disposal proceeds is recognised to the profit 
and loss statement.
Facility Management
Revenue from facility management is 
recognised as per the terms of the agreement 
on the basis of services rendered.
Revenue from constructed properties
Revenue is recognised over time if either of 
the following conditions is met: 
a. 	 Buyers take all the benefits of the 
property as real estate developers 
construct the property. 
b. 	 Buyers obtain physical possession of 
the property
c. 	 The property unit to be delivered is 
specified in the contract and real estate 
entity does not have an alternative use 
of the unit; the buyer does not have the 
discretion to terminate the contract and 
the entity has right to payment for work 
completed to date. 
In case none of these conditions is met, 
revenue would be recognised at a point 
in time when the control of the property is 
passed on to the customer.
Contract balances
Contract assets
A contract asset is initially recognised 
for revenue earned from shared services 
because the receipt of consideration is 
conditional on successful completion of the 
contract. Upon completion of the contract 
and acceptance by the customer, the amount 
recognised as contract assets is reclassified 
to trade receivables.
Contract assets are subject to impairment 
assessment. Refer to accounting policies on 
impairment of financial assets in section e) 
Financial instruments – initial recognition 
and subsequent measurement.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
260 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Trade receivables
A receivable is recognised if an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional (i.e., 
only the passage of time is required before 
payment of the consideration is due). Refer 
to accounting policies of financial assets 
in section e) Financial instruments – initial 
recognition and subsequent measurement.
Contract liabilities
A contract liability is recognised if a payment 
is received or a payment is due (whichever 
is earlier) from a customer before the Group 
transfers the related services. Contract 
liabilities are recognised as revenue when 
the Group performs under the contract (i.e., 
transfers control of the related services to 
the customer).
The Group assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. 
That is, if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration.
The specific recognition criteria described 
below must also be met before revenue is 
recognized.
h.	
Inventories
	
Inventories in real estate business
	
Inventories also comprise completed units 
for sale and property under construction 
(Work in progress):
(A) 	Completed Unsold inventory is valued 
at lower of cost and net realizable value. 
Cost is determined by including cost 
of land, materials, services and related 
overheads.
(B) 	 Work in progress is valued at cost. 
Cost comprises value of land (including 
development rights), materials, services 
and other overheads related to projects 
under construction.
i.	
Taxes
	
Current income tax
	
Current income tax assets and liabilities 
are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation 
authorities in accordance with the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 and the income computation 
and disclosure standards (ICDS) enacted 
in India by using tax rates and tax laws that 
are enacted or substantively enacted, at the 
reporting date.
	
Current income tax relating to items 
recognized outside profit or loss is recognized 
outside profit or loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). Current 
tax items are recognized in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or 
directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is provided using the liability 
method on temporary differences between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts for financial reporting 
purposes at the reporting date. Deferred 
tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
•   
When the deferred tax liability arises 
from the initial recognition of goodwill 
or an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects 
neither the accounting profit nor taxable 
profit or loss
• 
In 
respect 
of 
taxable 
temporary 
differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, associates and interests 
in joint ventures, when the timing of the 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 261
Financial Review
reversal of the temporary differences 
can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future
	
Deferred tax assets are recognized for 
all deductible temporary differences, 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and any unused tax losses. Deferred 
tax assets are recognized to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the 
deductible temporary differences, and 
the carry forward of unused tax credits 
and unused tax losses can be utilized 
except:
• 
When the deferred tax asset relating 
to the deductible temporary difference 
arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is 
not a business combination and, at the 
time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit 
or loss
• 
In respect of deductible temporary 
differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, associates and interests 
in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are 
recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that the temporary differences 
will reverse in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be 
utilised
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each reporting date 
and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be 
available to allow all or part of the deferred 
tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized 
deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each 
reporting date and are recognized to the 
extent that it has become probable that 
future taxable profits will allow the deferred 
tax asset to be recovered.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the year when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates 
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognized 
outside profit or loss is recognized outside 
the statement of profit or loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity). 
Deferred tax items are recognized in 
correlation to the underlying transaction 
either in OCI or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
are offset if a legally enforceable right exists 
to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate 
to the same taxable entity and the same 
taxation authority.
GST (Goods and Service tax)/ Sales tax/ 
value added taxes paid on acquisition of 
assets or on incurring expenses
Expenses and assets are recognised net of 
the amount of GST (Goods and Service tax)/ 
Sales tax/ value added taxes paid, except:
•  
When the tax incurred on a purchase 
of assets or services is not recoverable 
from the taxation authority, in which 
case, the tax paid is recognised as part of 
the cost of acquisition of the asset or as 
part of the expense item, as applicable 
► When receivables and payables are 
stated with the amount of tax included
	
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or 
payable to, the taxation authority is included 
as part of Other current assets or liabilities in 
the balance sheet.
j.	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing cost includes interest expense as 
per effective interest rate [EIR]. Borrowing 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
262 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
construction or production of an asset that 
necessarily takes a substantial period of 
time to get ready for its intended use or 
sale are capitalized as part of the cost of 
the asset until such time that the asset are 
substantially ready for their intended use. 
Where fund are borrowed specifically to 
finance a project, the amount capitalized 
represents the actual borrowing incurred. 
	
Where surplus funds are available out of 
money borrowed specifically to finance 
project, the income generated from such 
current investments is deducted from the 
total capitalized borrowing cost. Where 
funds used to finance a project form part of 
general borrowings, the amount capitalized 
is calculated using a weighted average of 
rate applicable to relevant general borrowing 
of the Group during the year. Capitalisation 
of borrowing cost is suspended and charged 
to profit and loss during the extended 
periods when the active development on the 
qualifying project is interrupted. All other 
borrowing costs are expensed in the period 
in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist 
of interest and other costs that an entity 
incurs in connection with the borrowing 
of funds. Borrowing cost also includes 
exchange differences to the extent regarded 
as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
k.	
Leases
	
The Group assesses at contract inception 
whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. 
That is, if the contract conveys the right to 
control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration.
Group as a lessee
The Group applies a single recognition and 
measurement approach for all leases, except 
for short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets. The Group recognises lease 
liabilities to make lease payments and right-
of-use assets representing the right to use 
the underlying assets.
i)    Right-of-use assets
	
The Group recognises right-of-use 
assets at the commencement date of 
the lease (i.e., the date the underlying 
asset is available for use). Right-of-
use assets are measured at cost, less 
any accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses, and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities. The 
cost of right-of-use assets includes the 
amount of lease liabilities recognised, 
initial direct costs incurred, and lease 
payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease 
incentives received. Right-of-use assets 
are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and 
the estimated useful lives of the assets.
	
If ownership of the leased asset transfers 
to the Group at the end of the lease 
term or the cost reflects the exercise 
of a purchase option, depreciation is 
calculated using the estimated useful 
life of the asset.
	
The right-of-use assets are also subject 
to impairment. Refer to the accounting 
policies in section (d) Impairment of 
non-financial assets.
ii)   Lease Liabilities
	
At the commencement date of the lease, 
the Group recognises lease liabilities 
measured at the present value of lease 
payments to be made over the lease 
term. The lease payments include fixed 
payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives 
receivable, variable lease payments 
that depend on an index or a rate, and 
amounts expected to be paid under 
residual value guarantees. The lease 
payments also include the exercise 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 263
Financial Review
price of a purchase option reasonably 
certain to be exercised by the Group and 
payments of penalties for terminating 
the lease, if the lease term reflects 
the Group exercising the option to 
terminate. Variable lease payments that 
do not depend on an index or a rate are 
recognised as expenses (unless they are 
incurred to produce inventories) in the 
period in which the event or condition 
that triggers the payment occurs.
	
In calculating the present value of 
lease payments, the Group uses its 
incremental borrowing rate at the 
lease commencement date because 
the interest rate implicit in the lease 
is not readily determinable. After the 
commencement date, the amount of 
lease liabilities is increased to reflect 
the accretion of interest and reduced for 
the lease payments made. In addition, 
the carrying amount of lease liabilities 
is remeasured if there is a modification, 
a change in the lease term, a change 
in the lease payments (e.g., changes 
to future payments resulting from a 
change in an index or rate used to 
determine such lease payments) or a 
change in the assessment of an option 
to purchase the underlying asset.
	
The 
Group’s 
lease 
liabilities 
are 
included in Interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings.
iii)	 Short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets
	
The Group applies the short-term lease 
recognition exemption to its short-term 
leases of equipment (i.e., those leases 
that have a lease term of 12 months 
or less from the commencement date 
and do not contain a purchase option). 
It also applies the lease of low-value 
assets recognition exemption to leases 
of office equipment that are considered 
to be low value. Lease payments on 
short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets are recognised as expense 
on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term.
	
Group as a lessor
	
Leases in which the Group does not 
transfer substantially all the risks and 
rewards incidental to ownership of an 
asset are classified as operating leases. 
Rental income arising is accounted for 
on a straight-line basis over the lease 
terms. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating and arranging an operating 
lease are added to the carrying amount 
of the leased asset and recognised 
over the lease term on the same basis 
as rental income. Contingent rents are 
recognised as revenue in the period in 
which they are earned.
l.	
Provision and Contingent liabilities
	
Provisions
	
A provision is recognized when the 
Group has a present obligation (legal or 
constructive) as a result of past event, it 
is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. Provisions are not discounted 
to their present value and are determined 
based on the best estimate required to settle 
the obligation at the reporting date. These 
estimates are reviewed at each reporting 
date and adjusted to reflect the current best 
estimates.
	
Contingent liabilities
	
A contingent liability is a possible obligation 
that arises from past events whose existence 
will be confirmed by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future 
events beyond the control of the Group or 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
264 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
a present obligation that is not recognized 
because it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. A contingent liability also arises 
in extremely rare cases, where there is a 
liability that cannot be recognized because 
it cannot be measured reliably. the Group 
does not recognize a contingent liability 
but discloses its existence in the financial 
statements unless the probability of outflow 
of resources is remote.
	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent 
assets and commitments are reviewed at 
each balance sheet date.
m.	 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Provident fund
	
The Group has contributed to employees 
provident fund benefits through a trust “Max 
Financial Services Limited Provident Fund 
Trust” managed by Max Financial Services 
Limited (erstwhile Max India Limited) 
whereby amounts determined at a fixed 
percentage of basic salaries of the employees 
are deposited to the trust every month. The 
benefit vests upon commencement of the 
employment. The interest rate payable by the 
trust to the beneficiaries every year is notified 
by the government and the Group has an 
obligation to make good the shortfall, if any, 
between the return from the investments 
of the trust and the notified interest rate. 
The Group has obtained actuarial valuation 
to determine the shortfall, if any, as at the 
Balance Sheet date. The Group recognizes 
contribution payable to the provident fund 
as an expense, when the employee renders 
the related service.
Gratuity
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit 
obligation and is provided for on the basis 
of an actuarial valuation on projected unit 
credit method made at the end of each 
financial year. Max Speciality Films Limited, 
subsidiary of the Company has also made 
contribution to Life Insurance Corporation 
(LIC) towards a policy to cover the gratuity 
liability of the employees to an extent. The 
difference between the actuarial valuation 
of the gratuity of employees at the year-end 
and the balance of funds with LIC is provided 
for as liability in the books.
Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial 
gains and losses, the effect of the asset 
ceiling, excluding amounts included in net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability 
and the return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest on the net 
defined benefit liability), are recognized 
immediately in the Balance Sheet with a 
corresponding debit or credit to retained 
earnings through OCI in the period in 
which they occur. Remeasurements are not 
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 
periods.
Net interest is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net defined benefit 
(liabilities/assets). The Group recognized 
the following changes in the net defined 
benefit obligation under employee benefit 
expenses in statement of profit and loss
(i) 	 Service 
cost 
comprising 
current 
service cost, past service cost, gain & 
loss on curtailments and non-routine 
settlements.
(ii) 	 Net interest expenses or income
	
Compensated absences
	
Accumulated leave, which is expected to 
be utilized within the next 12 months, is 
treated as short-term employee benefit .The 
Group measures the expected cost of such 
absences as the additional amount that 
it expects to pay as a result of the unused 
entitlement that has accumulated at the 
reporting date.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 265
Financial Review
The 
Group 
treats 
accumulated 
leave 
expected to be carried forward beyond 
twelve months, as long-term employee 
benefit for measurement purposes. Such 
long-term 
compensated 
absences 
are 
provided for based on the actuarial valuation 
using the projected unit credit method at 
the year end. Actuarial gains/losses are 
immediately taken to the statement of profit 
and loss and are not deferred. The Group 
presents the leave as a current liability in 
the balance sheet as the Company does 
not have an unconditional right to defer its 
settlement for 12 months after the reporting 
date.
Short-term obligations
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including 
non-monetary benefits that are expected 
to be settled wholly within twelve months 
after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service are 
recognized in respect of employee service 
upto the end of the reporting period and are 
measured at the amount expected to be paid 
when the liabilities are settled. the liabilities 
are presented as current employee benefit 
obligations in the balance sheet.
Long term incentive plan
Employees of the Group receives defined 
incentive, 
whereby 
employees 
render 
services for a specified period. Long term 
incentive is measured on accrual basis over 
the period as per the terms of contract.
n.	
Share-based payments
	
Employees 
of 
the 
Company 
receive 
remuneration in the form of share based 
payment transaction, whereby employees 
render services as a consideration for equity 
instruments (equity- settled transactions).
Equity-settled transactions
The cost of equity-settled transactions 
is determined by the fair value at the date 
when the grant is made using an appropriate 
valuation model.
That cost is recognized, together with a 
corresponding increase in share-based 
payment (SBP) reserves in equity, over the 
period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled in employee 
benefits expense. The cumulative expense 
recognized for equity-settled transactions 
at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and the Group’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for a period 
represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognized as at the beginning 
and end of that period and is recognized in 
employee benefits expense.
Service 
and 
non-market 
performance 
conditions are not taken into account 
when determining the grant date fair 
value of awards, but the likelihood of the 
conditions being met is assessed as part 
of the Group’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest. Market performance conditions are 
reflected within the grant date fair value. Any 
other conditions attached to an award, but 
without an associated service requirement, 
are considered to be non-vesting conditions. 
Non-vesting conditions are reflected in 
the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless 
there are also service and/or performance 
conditions.
No expense is recognized for awards that 
do not ultimately vest because non-market 
performance and/or service conditions have 
not been met. Where awards include a market 
or non-vesting condition, the transactions 
are treated as vested irrespective of whether 
the market or non-vesting condition is 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
266 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
satisfied, provided that all other performance 
and/or service conditions are satisfied.
	
When the terms of an equity-settled 
award are modified, the minimum expense 
recognized is the expense had the terms 
had not been modified, if the original terms 
of the award are met. An additional expense 
is recognized for any modification that 
increases the total fair value of the share-
based payment transaction or is otherwise 
beneficial to the employee as measured at 
the date of modification. Where an award is 
cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, 
any remaining element of the fair value of 
the award is expensed immediately through 
profit or loss.
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.
o.	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance 
sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand 
and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less, which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value.
p.	
Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated 
by dividing the net profit or loss for the 
period attributable to equity shareholders 
by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period. The 
weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the period is adjusted for 
events such as bonus issue, bonus element 
in a rights issue, share split, and reverse 
share split (consolidation of shares) that 
have changed the number of equity shares 
outstanding, 
without 
a 
corresponding 
change in resources. For the purpose of 
calculating diluted earnings per share, the 
net profit or loss for the year attributable to 
equity shareholders of the parent company 
and weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the period are adjusted 
for the effects of all dilutive potential equity 
shares 
q.	
Foreign currencies
	
Items included in the financial statements 
are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the 
entity operates (‘the functional currency’). 
The Group’s consolidated Ind AS financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee 
(Rs.) which is also the Group’s functional 
and presentation currency.
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded 
on initial recognition in the functional 
currency, using the exchange rate prevailing 
at the date of transaction. However, for 
practical reasons, the Group uses an average 
rate if the average approximates the actual 
rate at the time of the transaction.
	
Measurement of foreign currency items at 
the balance sheet date
	
Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated at the functional currency 
spot rates of exchange at the reporting date.
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates at 
the dates of the initial transactions. Non-
monetary items measured at fair value in 
a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value is determined.
r.	
Fair value measurement
	
The Group measures financial instruments, 
such as, derivatives at fair value at each 
balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 267
Financial Review
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. The 
fair value measurement is based on the 
presumption that the transaction to sell the 
asset or transfer the liability takes place 
either:
(i) 	 In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
(ii)	 In the absence of a principal market, in 
the most advantageous market for the 
asset or liability
The principal or the most advantageous 
market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is 
measured using the assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing 
the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best 
interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that 
are appropriate in the circumstances and 
for which sufficient date are available to 
measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising 
the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value 
is measured or disclosed in the financial 
statements are categorized within the fair 
value hierarchy, described as follows, based 
on the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement as a whole:
(i)	
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market 
prices in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities 
(ii)	 Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement is directly 
or indirectly observable
(iii)	 Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable
For assets and liabilities that are recognized 
in the financial statements on a recurring 
basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in 
the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization 
(based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as 
a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
The Group’s management determines the 
policies and procedures for both recurring 
and non-recurring fair value measurement, 
such as derivative instruments measured at 
fair value.
External valuers are involved for valuation 
of significant assets, such as properties and 
financial assets and significant liabilities. 
Involvement of external valuers is decided 
upon annually by the management. The 
management decides, after discussions with 
the Group’s external valuers which valuation 
techniques and inputs to use for each case.
At each reporting date, the management 
analyses the movements in the values of 
assets and liabilities which are required to 
be remeasured or re-assessed as per the 
Group’s accounting policies.
The management in conjunction with the 
Group’s external valuers, also compares the 
change in the fair value of each asset and 
liability with relevant external sources to 
determine whether the change is reasonable.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
268 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
the Group has determined classes of assets 
and liabilities on the basis of the nature, 
characteristics and risks of the asset or 
liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above
This note summarises accounting policy for 
fair value. Other fair value related disclosures 
are given in the relevant notes.
Disclosures 
for 
valuation 
methods, 
significant estimates and assumptions (note 
36)
Quantitative 
disclosures 
of 
fair 
value 
measurement hierarchy (note 36)
Financial 
instruments 
(including 
those 
carried at amortised cost) (note 5, 13, 14, 18)
t.	
Government Grants 
	
Government grants are recognized where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant 
will be received and all attached conditions 
will be complied with. When the grant relates 
to an expense item, it is recognized as income 
on a systematic basis over the periods that 
the related costs, for which it is intended 
to compensate, are expensed. When the 
grant relates to an asset, it is recognized as 
income on the basis of accomplishment of 
export obligations.
	
The Group has inventorized the duty saved 
on import of raw material and recognised 
Government grant as liability. Deferred 
income is recognised in statement of profit 
and loss as and when export obligations are 
fulfiled and government grant is reduced by 
deferred income recognised.
2.3	 Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
	
The preparation of the Group’s Consolidated Ind 
AS financial statements requires management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities, and the grouping 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions 
and estimates could result in outcomes that 
require a material adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the asset or liability affected in future 
periods.
	
Judgements
	
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, management has made the following 
judgements, which have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognized in the financial 
statements.
(a) Operating lease commitments - Group as 
lessee
	
The Group has taken various commercial 
properties on leases. the Group has 
determined, based on an evaluation of the 
terms and conditions of the arrangements, 
such as the lease term not constituting a 
substantial portion of the economic life of 
the commercial property, and that it does not 
retain all the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership of these properties and accounts 
for the contracts as operating leases. Refer 
Note 4ii.
	
Estimates and assumptions
	
The 
key 
assumptions 
concerning 
the 
future and other key sources of estimation 
uncertainty at the reporting date, that 
have a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year, 
are described below. The Group based its 
assumptions and estimates on parameters 
available when the financial statements 
were prepared. Existing circumstances and 
assumptions about future developments, 
however, may change due to market changes 
or circumstances arising that are beyond 
the control of the Group. Such changes are 
reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 269
Financial Review
(a) 	 Taxes
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the 
interpretation of complex tax regulations, 
changes in tax laws, and the amount and 
timing of future taxable income. Given the 
wide range of business relationships and 
the long-term nature and complexity of 
existing contractual agreements, differences 
arising between the actual results and the 
assumptions made, or future changes to 
such assumptions, could necessitate future 
adjustments to tax income and expense 
already recorded. The Group establishes 
provisions, based on reasonable estimates. 
The amount of such provisions is based on 
various factors, such as experience of previous 
tax audits and differing interpretations of tax 
regulations by the taxable entity and the 
responsible tax authority. Such differences 
of interpretation may arise on a wide variety 
of issues depending on the conditions 
prevailing in the respective domicile of the 
companies.
(b) 	 Defined benefit plans
	
The cost of defined benefit plans (i.e. 
Gratuity 
benefit) 
is 
determined 
using 
actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation 
involves making various assumptions which 
may differ from actual developments in the 
future. These include the determination of 
the discount rate, future salary increases, 
mortality rates. Due to the complexity of 
the valuation, the underlying assumptions 
and its long-term nature, a defined benefit 
obligation is highly sensitive to changes 
in these assumptions. All assumptions 
are reviewed at each reporting date. In 
determining 
the 
appropriate 
discount 
rate, management considers the interest 
rates of long-term government bonds 
where remaining maturity if such bond 
corresponding to the expected duration of 
the defined benefit obligation. The mortality 
rate is based on publicly available mortality 
tables for the specific countries. Future 
salary increases and pension increases are 
based on expected future inflation rates. 
Further details about the assumptions used, 
including a sensitivity analysis, are given in 
Note 31.
(c)	 Fair value measurement of financial 
instrument
	
When the fair value of financial assets and 
financial liabilities recorded in the balance 
sheet cannot be measured based on quoted 
prices in active markets, their fair value 
is measured using valuation techniques 
including the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) 
model. The inputs to these models are taken 
from observable markets where possible, 
but where this is not feasible, a degree of 
judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations 
of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk 
and volatility. Changes in assumptions 
about these factors could affect the reported 
fair value of financial instruments. The 
Group uses Net asset value for valuation of 
investment in mutual funds. Refer Note 36 
related to Fair value disclosures.
2.4	 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:
A.	 Amended standards adopted by the 
company
(i) 	 Reference 
to 
the 
Conceptual 
Framework – Amendments to Ind AS 
103
	
The 
amendments 
replaced 
the 
reference to the ICAI’s “Framework 
for the Preparation and Presentation 
of 
Financial 
Statements 
under 
Indian Accounting Standards” with 
the reference to the “Conceptual 
Framework for Financial Reporting 
under Indian Accounting Standard” 
without 
significantly 
changing 
its 
requirements.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
270 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
The 
amendments 
also 
added 
an 
exception to the recognition principle 
of Ind AS 103 Business Combinations 
to avoid the issue of potential ‘day 2’ 
gains or losses arising for liabilities 
and contingent liabilities that would be 
within the scope of Ind AS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets or Appendix C, Levies, of Ind AS 
37, if incurred separately. The exception 
requires entities to apply the criteria 
in Ind AS 37 or Appendix C, Levies, of 
Ind AS 37, respectively, instead of the 
Conceptual Framework, to determine 
whether a present obligation exists at 
the acquisition date. 
	
The amendments also add a new 
paragraph to IFRS 3 to clarify that 
contingent assets do not qualify for 
recognition at the acquisition date.
	
These amendments had no impact on 
the financial statements of the Group 
as there were no contingent assets, 
liabilities or contingent liabilities within 
the scope of these amendments that 
arose during the period.
(ii) 
Property, Plant and Equipment: 
Proceeds before Intended Use – 
Amendments to Ind AS 16
	
The amendments modified paragraph 
17(e) of Ind AS 16 to clarify that excess 
of net sale proceeds of items produced 
over the cost of testing, if any, shall not 
be recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss but deducted from the directly 
attributable costs considered as part of 
cost of an item of property, plant, and 
equipment.
	
The amendments are effective for 
annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 April 2022. These 
amendments had no impact on the 
consolidated financial statements of the 
Group as there were no sales of such 
items produced by property, plant and 
equipment made available for use on or 
after the beginning of the earliest period 
presented.
(iii) Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments 
– Fees in the ’10 per cent’ test for 
derecognition of financial liabilities
	
The amendment clarifies the fees that 
an entity includes when assessing 
whether the terms of a new or modified 
financial 
liability 
are 
substantially 
different from the terms of the original 
financial liability. These fees include 
only those paid or received between the 
borrower and the lender, including fees 
paid or received by either the borrower 
or lender on the other’s behalf. 
	
These amendments had no impact on 
the financial statements of the Group 
as there were no modifications of the 
Group’s financial instruments which 
were covered by amendment.
(iv) Onerous Contracts – Costs of Fulfilling 
a Contract – Amendments to Ind AS 
37
	
An onerous contract is a contract under 
which the unavoidable of meeting the 
obligations under the contract costs 
(i.e., the costs that the Group cannot 
avoid because it has the contract) 
exceed the economic benefits expected 
to be received under it. 
	
The amendments specify that when 
assessing 
whether 
a 
contract 
is 
onerous or loss-making, an entity needs 
to include costs that relate directly to a 
contract to provide goods or services 
including 
both 
incremental 
costs 
(e.g., the costs of direct labour and 
materials) and an allocation of costs 
directly related to contract activities 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 271
Financial Review
(e.g., depreciation of equipment used to 
fulfil the contract and costs of contract 
management and supervision). General 
and administrative costs do not relate 
directly to a contract and are excluded 
unless they are explicitly chargeable to 
the counterparty under the contract.
B.	
Standards issued but not yet effective
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2023 dated 31 March 
2023 to amend the following Ind AS which 
are effective from 01 April 2023.
(i) Definition of Accounting Estimates - 
Amendments to Ind AS 8
	
The amendments clarify the distinction 
between 
changes 
in 
accounting 
estimates and changes in accounting 
policies and the correction of errors. It 
has also been clarified how entities use 
measurement techniques and inputs to 
develop accounting estimates. 
	
The amendments are effective for 
annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 April 2023 and apply to 
changes in accounting policies and 
changes in accounting estimates that 
occur on or after the start of that period. 
	
The amendments are not expected to 
have a material impact on the Group 
financial statements.
(ii)	 Disclosure of Accounting Policies - 
Amendments to Ind AS 1
	
The amendments aim to help entities 
provide accounting policy disclosures 
that are more useful by replacing the 
requirement for entities to disclose 
their ‘significant’ accounting policies 
with a requirement to disclose their 
‘material’ 
accounting 
policies 
and 
adding guidance on how entities apply 
the concept of materiality in making 
decisions about accounting policy 
disclosures. 
	
The amendments to Ind AS 1 are 
applicable for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 April 2023. Consequential 
amendments have been made in Ind 
AS 107. The Group is currently revisiting 
their accounting policy information 
disclosures to ensure consistency with 
the amended requirements.
(iii) Deferred Tax related to Assets and 
Liabilities arising from a Single 
Transaction - Amendments to Ind AS 
12
	
The amendments narrow the scope of 
the initial recognition exception under 
Ind AS 12, so that it no longer applies 
to transactions that give rise to equal 
taxable 
and 
deductible 
temporary 
differences.
	
The amendments should be applied to 
transactions that occur on or after the 
beginning of the earliest comparative 
period presented. In addition, at the 
beginning of the earliest comparative 
period 
presented, 
a 
deferred 
tax 
asset (provided that sufficient taxable 
profit is available) and a deferred tax 
liability should also be recognised for 
all deductible and taxable temporary 
differences associated with leases 
and 
decommissioning 
obligations. 
Consequential amendments have been 
made in Ind AS 101. The amendments 
to Ind AS 12 are applicable for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 
2023.
	
The Group is currently assessing the 
impact of the amendments.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
272 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
3.	
Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
Leasehold 
improve-
ments
Plant and 
equipment
Furniture 
and fixture
Office 
equipment 
Computers 
and data 
processing 
units
Motor 
vehicles
Total
Gross Block
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 1, 2021
 - 
 - 
 1.02 
 9.79 
 38.51 
 95.65 
 144.98 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 20.82 
 35.61 
 56.43 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (22.67)
 - 
 (22.67)
March 31, 2022*
 - 
 - 
 1.02 
 9.79 
 36.67 
 131.27 
 178.74 
Add Merger Effect
 392.01 
 54.07 
 65.51 
 4.77 
 100.12 
 174.17 
 790.65 
Additions
 200.91 
 - 
 63.11 
 26.72 
 51.04 
 39.50 
 381.28 
Disposals
 (383.66)
 - 
 (67.20)
 (6.08)
 (38.07)
 - 
 (495.01)
Add: adjustment for 
investment in new 
subsidiaries (refer note 29)
 - 
 15.36 
 2.81 
 - 
 1.70 
 - 
 19.87 
March 31, 2023
 209.26 
 69.43 
 65.25 
 35.20 
 151.46 
 344.93 
 875.53 
Accumulated Depreciation
April 1, 2021
 - 
 - 
 0.28 
 6.49 
 28.31 
 23.90 
 58.97 
Depreciation for the year
 - 
 - 
 0.10 
 2.75 
 8.00 
 13.97 
 24.81 
Disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (21.52)
 - 
 (21.52)
March 31, 2022*
 - 
 - 
 0.38 
 9.24 
 14.78 
 37.87 
 62.26 
Add Merger Effect
 96.51 
 45.15 
 21.15 
 1.77 
 67.24 
 39.27 
 271.09 
 Depreciation for the year 
 39.84 
 0.37 
 9.77 
 4.78 
 26.03 
 37.84 
 118.63 
 Disposals for the year 
 (120.49)
 - 
 (25.29)
 (4.22)
 (24.02)
 - 
 (174.02)
Add: adjustment for 
investment in new 
subsidiaries (refer note 29)
 - 
 12.45 
 2.08 
 - 
 0.36 
 - 
 14.90 
March 31, 2023
 15.86 
 57.97 
 8.09 
 11.57 
 84.39 
 114.98 
 292.86 
 Net carrying amount 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 193.40 
 11.45 
 57.16 
 23.63 
 67.07 
 229.95 
 582.66 
 As at March 31, 2022* 
 - 
 - 
 0.64 
 0.55 
 21.89 
 93.40 
 116.48 
Notes :
a) 	 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) given as security
	
Refer note no 13 for charge created on property, plant and equipment as security against borrowings.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 273
Financial Review
3A	 Investment property
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
Particulars
 Investment 
property 
 Land 
 Investment 
property 
(under 
development) 
 Total 
Gross Block
April 1, 2021
 56,680.60 
 - 
 15,894.84 
 72,575.44 
Additions/ adjustments
 2,097.25 
 - 
 17,871.65 
 19,968.90 
Disposals/ adjustments
 - 
 - 
 (99.40)
 (99.40)
March 31, 2022*
 58,777.85 
 - 
 33,667.10 
 92,444.95 
Add Merger Effect
 (3,228.49)
 8,874.50 
 (5,612.37)
 33.64 
Additions/ adjustments
 1,735.61 
 - 
 50,279.72 
 52,015.33 
Disposals/ adjustments
 - 
 - 
 (82.19)
 (82.19)
March 31, 2023
 57,284.97 
 8,874.50 
 78,252.26 
 144,411.73 
Accumulated Depreciation
April 1, 2021
 1,732.03 
 - 
 - 
 1,732.03 
Depreciation charge for the year
 1,040.57 
 - 
 - 
 1,040.57 
Disposals/ adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2022*
 2,772.60 
 - 
 - 
 2,772.60 
Add Merger Effect
 31.37 
 - 
 - 
 31.37 
Depreciation charge for the year
 1,098.82 
 - 
 - 
 1,098.82 
Disposals/ adjustments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2023
 3,902.79 
 
 - 
 3,902.80 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2023
 53,382.18 
 8,874.50 
 78,252.26 
 140,508.93 
As at March 31, 2022*
 56,005.25 
 - 
 33,667.10 
 89,672.35 
	
Investment property as at March 31, 2023 includes property under construction at Sector 65 Gurugram under 
Acreage Builders Private Limited, a subsidiary company, property under construction at Sector 129 Noida 
under Max Square Limited, a subsidiary company and property under construction at Okhla, Delhi under 
Pharmax Corporation Limited, a subsidiary company. (Investment property as at April 01, 2022 included 
property under construction at Sector 129 Noida under Max Square Limited, a subsidiary company and 
property under construction at Okhla, Delhi under Pharmax Corporation Limited, a subsidiary company).
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
274 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
i) 	
For investment property under development, ageing as at March 31, 2023:
 
Amount in investment property under 
development for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Max Square Limited
 12,975.06 
 9,513.80 
 5,891.34 
 11,101.58 
 39,481.78 
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited
 33,957.46 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33,957.46 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 3,347.21 
 1,465.82 
 - 
 - 
 4,813.03 
Total
 50,279.72 
 10,979.62 
 5,891.34 
 11,101.58 
 78,252.26 
ii) 	 For investment property under development, ageing as at March 31, 2022*:
 
Amount in investment property under 
development for a period of
Total
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Max Square Limited
 11,221.97 
 7,134.88 
 13,544.43 
 - 
 31,901.28 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 1,765.82 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,765.82 
Total
 12,987.79 
 7,134.88 
 13,544.43 
 - 
 33,667.10 
Notes:
(i) 	 Contractual obligations
	
Refer note 34 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of investment 
properties.
(ii) 	 Capitalised borrowing cost
	
During the year, the Group has capitalised Rs. 3,297.57 lakhs (March 31, 2022- Rs. 883.95 lakhs) 
under investment property. Refer note 25
(iii) 	Amount recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
(Rs. in Lakhs)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
Rental income 
 5,187.56 
 3,588.03 
Less: Direct operating expenses generating rental 
income
 (445.04)
 (941.69)
Profit from leasing of investment properties 
 4,742.52 
 2,646.34 
Less: depreciation expense
 (1,098.82)
 (1,040.57)
Profit from leasing of investment properties after 
depreciation 
 3,643.70 
 1,605.77 
(iv) 	Fair value
	
Fair value hierarchy and valuation technique
	
The fair value of investment property has been determined by the company internally, having 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 275
Financial Review
appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and 
category of the property being valued. The fair value has been arrived using discounted cash flow 
projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows considering growth in rental of 15% 
on every 3 years, vacancy rate of 3% and discount rate of 12.00%.
Reconciliation of fair value:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Opening balance as at April 01, 2021
Rs.63,500 to 71,000 lakhs
Increase of Fair value 
NA
Decline in fair value 
NA
Closing balance as at March 31, 2022*
Rs.63,500 to 71,000 lakhs
Increase of Fair value 
Rs. 1000 lakhs
Decline in fair value 
NA
Closing balance as at March 31, 2023 **
Rs.64,500 to 72,000 lakhs
** Other than Investment property (under development)
* also refer note 46
	
Valuation models applied for valuation:
	
Discounted cash flow method - net present value is determined based on projected cash flows 
discounted at an appropriate rate.
4.	
Other Intangible assets
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particular
Computer 
software
Total
Intangible 
assets under 
development
Gross carrying amount
April 1, 2021
 17.43 
 17.43 
 - 
Additions
 0.42 
 0.42 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2022*
 17.85 
 17.85 
 - 
Add Merger Effect
 8.23 
 8.23 
 12.95 
As at April 01, 2022 (Post Merger Effect)
 26.08 
 26.08 
 12.95 
Additions
 329.11 
 329.11 
 - 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2023
 355.19 
 355.19 
 12.95 
Amortisation
April 1, 2021
 11.65 
 11.65 
 - 
Amortisation charge for the year
 2.75 
 2.75 
 - 
Disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2022*
 14.40 
 14.40 
 - 
Add Merger Effect
 7.37 
 7.37 
 12.95 
As at April 01, 2022 (Post Merger Effect)
 21.77 
 21.77 
 12.95 
Amortisation charge for the year
 0.37 
 0.37 
 - 
Disposals for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2023
 22.14 
 22.14 
 12.95 
Net carrying amount
March 31, 2023
 333.05 
 333.05 
 - 
March 31, 2022*
 3.45 
 3.45 
 - 
* also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
276 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
4b	 Right of use assets
	
The Company has lease contracts for buildings from related parties. The Company’s obligations under its 
leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets.
	
The carrying amounts of right of use assets recognised and the movements during the year:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
April 1, 2021
 - 
 - 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Depreciation expense
 - 
 - 
Less: adjustment for sale of stake in MSFL
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2022**
 - 
 - 
Add Merger Effect
 2,482.65 
 2,482.65 
As at April 01, 2022 (Post Merger Effect)
 2,482.65 
 2,482.65 
Additions
 1,153.43 
 1,153.43 
Adjustment on account of sub-lease*
 (2,050.96)
 (2,050.96)
Depreciation expense
 (267.57)
 (267.57)
March 31, 2023
 1,317.55 
 1,317.55 
	
*During the year, the Company has sub-leased its premises and has assessed that this sub-lease fulfills the 
criteria of a finance lease as per Ind AS 116. Consequently, the Company has recognised lease receivable 
from sub-lease in its books and has de-recognised the Leasehold improvements as well as right of use 
assets related to the original lease. Consequently, an amount of Rs. 135.97 lakhs has been recognised as 
profit on de-recognition of right of use assets under the head ‘Other income’.
	
The carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movement during the year:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Building
Total
April 1, 2021
 - 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Accretion of interest
 - 
 - 
Payments
 - 
 - 
March 31, 2022**
 - 
 - 
Add Merger Effect
 2,838.51 
 2,838.51 
As at April 01, 2022 (Post Merger Effect)
 2,838.51 
 2,838.51 
Additions
 1,073.51 
 1,073.51 
Accretion of interest
 377.56 
 377.56 
Payments
 (564.81)
 (564.81)
March 31, 2023
 3,724.77 
 3,724.77 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 277
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Non-current lease liabilities
 3,488.11 
 - 
Current lease liabilities
 236.66 
 - 
Total
 3,724.77 
 - 
	
The details regarding the maturity analysis of lease liabilities as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 on 
actual rent payments as per schedule:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Within one year
 541.06 
 - 
After one year but not more than five years
 2,380.33 
 - 
More than five years
 1,837.03 
 - 
Total
 4,758.42 
 - 
	
Considering the lease term of the leases, the effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 11%.
	
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities as the current assets 
are sufficient to meet the obligations  related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
	
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 267.57 
 - 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 377.56 
 - 
Rent (refer note 27)
 14.73 
 - 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
659.86
 - 
** also refer note 46
5.	
Non-Current financial assets
(i)	 Investments
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
a)
Investment in preference shares (valued at fair 
value through profit and loss) (unquoted)
Azure Hospitality Private Limited
 4,445.06 
 - 
16,234,829 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Series-C preference 
shares of nominal value Rs. 20 each fully paid up
b)
Smart Joules Private Limited (unquoted)
232 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Series - A Compulsorily 
Convertible Preference Shares of norminal value Rs. 10 
each fully paid up*
 200.00 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
278 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
c)
Aliferous Technologies Private Limited (unquoted)
461 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) Compulsorily Covertible 
Preference Shares (Seed Series A1 CCPS) of Nominal 
Value Rs.100 each fully paid up**
 49.92 
 - 
d)
Investment in IAN Fund (unquoted)
219,272.98 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) units of nominal value 
Rs. 100 each fully paid up
 219.27 
 - 
Investment others
e)
Birla Sun Life Cash Plus - Direct Plan ***
 448.92 
 - 
1,23,648.78 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) units of nominal value 
Rs. 100 each fully paid up
 5,363.17 
 - 
Non-Current
 5,363.17 
 - 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 5,363.17 
 - 
Note:
*0.001% Non cumulative Series A Compulsory convertible partcipating preference shares will be 
convertible into one equity share per preference share, maximum after ten years from the date of issue. 
**0.001% Non cumulative Compulsory convertible preference shares will be convertible into one 
equity share per preference share, maximum after nineteen years from the date of issue. The Group 
has committed to invest further Rs. 49.90 lakhs towards these preference shares. Refer note 34B.
*** Pledged as security for Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA) for borrowing
(ii) 	 Trade receivables
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022**
Trade receivable (unsecured)
 968.61 
 63.78 
 968.61 
 63.78 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 279
Financial Review
	
Trade Receivable Ageing 
	
As at March 31, 2023
 (Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
 
 Total 
Less 
than 6 
months
6 
Months 
- 1 year
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 (I)	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables- considered 
good 
 968.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  968.61 
 (ii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables- Which have 
significant in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables- Credit 
impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iv)	Disputed Trade receivables-
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (v)	Disputed Trade receivables-
which have significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (vi)	Disputed Trade receivables-
credit Impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total 
 968.61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  968.61 
	
Trade Receivable Ageing 
	
As at March 31, 2022#
 (Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
 Total 
Less 
than 6 
months
6 
Months 
- 1 year
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
(I) 	 Undisputed Trade 
receivables- considered 
good 
 63.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 63.78 
(ii) 	Undisputed Trade 
receivables- Which have 
significant in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii)	Undisputed Trade 
receivables- 
Credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iv) Disputed Trade 
receivables-considered 
good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (v) Disputed Trade receivables-
which have significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (vi) Disputed Trade 
receivables- credit Impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total 
 63.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 63.78 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
280 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
(iii) Other bank balances
Deposits with original maturity for more than 12 months
 1,001.35 
 10.26 
 1,001.35 
 10.26 
(iv) Other non current financial assets
Security deposits {also refer note 39(b) for deposits made with 
related parties}
 496.14 
 245.06 
Rent receivable (Equalisation)
 116.98 
 - 
Lease Receivable (Refer Note 4b)
 2,384.75 
 - 
 2,997.87 
 245.06 
6.	
Non-current tax assets
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
Advance income tax and tax deducted at source (Net)
 1,552.71 
 793.33 
 1,552.71 
 793.33 
7.	
Other non current assets
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
Uunsecured considered good unless otherwise stated
Capital advances (Refer Note 34B)
 5,329.50 
 1,304.85 
Prepaid expenses
 - 
 404.58 
Balance with statutory authorities
 7.93 
 - 
Deferred guarantee fee 
 - 
 81.07 
 5,337.43 
 1,790.50 
# also refer note 46
8	
Inventories (at cost or Net realisable value whichever is less)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022**
Raw materials (construction materials)
 8.35 
 49.93 
Plots and construction work in progress
 186.75 
 186.75 
Finished goods 
 - 
 1,138.84 
Land
 38,496.73 
 - 
 38,691.83 
 1,375.52 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 281
Financial Review
9.	
Current financial assets
(i) 	 Other investment
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
Quoted mutual funds (valued at fair value through profit 
and loss)
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
 1,501.96 
 - 
Face value - Rs. 10 ( March 31, 2023 - Units - 60,057) (March 
31, 2022 - Units -  NIL)
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
 1,602.92 
 - 
Face value - Rs. 10 (March 31, 2023 - Units - 4,41,477.23) 
(March 31, 2022 - Units -  NIL) 
SBI Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
 1,501.95 
 - 
Face value - Rs. 10 ( March 31, 2023 - Units - 42,629.04 ) 
(March 31, 2022 - Units - NIL)
UTI Liquid Cash Plan - Direct - Growth
 1,502.17 
 - 
Face value - Rs. 10 ( March 31, 2023 - Units - 40,613.46 ) (March 
31, 2022 - Units - NIL)
DSP Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
 2,442.07 
 - 
Face value - Rs. 10 (March 31, 2023 - Units - 76,003.98) (March 
31, 2022 - Units -  NIL) 
Birla Sun Life Cash Plus - Direct Plan 
 - 
 672.26 
Face value - Rs. 10 Face value - Rs. 10 ( March 31, 2023 - 
Units - NIL )( March 31, 2022 - Units - 1,95,914.05) 
Tata Liquid Fund
 2,045.29 
 602.02 
Face value - Rs. 10 Face value - Rs. 10 ( March 31, 2023 - Units 
- 57,590.82 )( March 31, 2022 - Units - 43,053.20) 
 10,596.36 
 1,274.28 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 - 
 - 
Aggregate value of quoted investments
 10,596.36 
 1,274.28 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 10,596.36 
 1,274.28 
(ii) 	 Trade receivables
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022#
(a) Trade Receivables considered good - Secured;
 - 
 - 
(b) Trade Receivables considered good - Unsecured;
 578.06 
 193.31 
(c) Trade Receivables which have significant increase in 
credit risk; and
 - 
 - 
(d) Trade Receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 578.06 
 193.31 
	
No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or 
jointly with any other person. 
	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 0 to 120 days. 
	
	
For terms and conditions relating to receivables from related parties, refer note 39
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
282 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
Trade Receivable ageing As at March 31, 2023
 (Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Not due Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
 
 Total 
Less 
than 6 
month
6 
months 
- 1 year
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 (i) Undisputed Trade 
receivables- considered 
good 
 32.93 
 494.71 
 10.35 
 17.57 
 13.31 
 9.19 
 578.06 
 (ii) Undisputed Trade 
receivables- which have 
significant in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iii) Undisputed Trade 
receivables- Credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iv) Disputed Trade receivables-
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (v) Disputed Trade receivables-
which have significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (vi) Disputed Trade receivables-
credit Impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total 
 32.93 
 494.71 
 10.35 
 17.57 
 13.31 
 9.19  578.06 
 Less: Allowance for credit loss 
 - 
 Net Trade Receivables 
 578.06 
	
Trade Receivable Ageing As at March 31, 2022**
 (Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Not due Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
 
 Total 
Less 
than 6 
month
6 
months 
- 1 year
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
 (i) 	Undisputed Trade 
receivables- considered 
good 
 - 
 160.42 
 10.39 
 13.31 
 3.19 
 6.00 
 193.31 
 (ii) Undisputed Trade 
receivables- which have 
significant in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iii) Undisputed Trade 
receivables- 
Credit impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (iv) Disputed Trade receivables-
considered good 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (v) Disputed Trade receivables-
which have significant 
increase in credit risk 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (vi) Disputed Trade receivables-
credit Impaired 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Total 
 -  160.42 
 10.39 
 13.31 
 3.19 
 6.00 
 193.31 
 Less: Allowance for credit loss 
 - 
 Net Trade Receivables 
 193.31 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 283
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022**
Balances with banks:
On current accounts
 1,705.68 
 268.91 
Cash on hand
 57.02 
 3.28 
 1,762.70 
 272.20 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above
Deposits:
Deposits with original maturity for less than 12 months
 2,374.31 
 4,566.40 
 2,374.31 
 4,566.40 
(v) 	 Other current financial assets (unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022**
Interest accrued on deposits
 27.17 
 - 
Interest accrued on fixed deposits
 24.20 
 - 
Security deposits (refer note 36A)
 3,908.09 
 32.45 
Interest accrued on deposits and others
 90.56 
 189.33 
Other recoverables
 119.59 
 - 
Rent equalisation 
 426.05 
 1,046.23 
Lease Receivable (Refer Note 4b)
 69.80 
 - 
 4,665.46 
 1,268.01 
Break up of financial assets at amortised cost
Non-current financial assets 
Trade receivables {refer note 5(ii)}
 968.61 
 63.78 
Other bank balances {refer note 5(iii)}
 1,001.35 
 10.26 
Current financial assets
Trade receivables {refer 9(ii)}
 578.06 
 193.31 
Cash and cash equivalents {refer 9(iii)}
 1,762.70 
 272.20 
Other bank balances {refer note 9(iv)}
 2,374.31 
 4,566.40 
Other current financial assets {refer 9(v)}
 4,665.46 
 1,268.01 
 11,350.49 
 6,373.96 
10.	 Other current assets (unsecured considered good, unless otherwise stated)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022**
Other advances*
 561.05 
 71.76 
Prepaid expenses
 108.49 
 159.21 
Deferred guarantee fee 
 - 
 21.60 
Balance with statutory authorities
 1,418.85 
 596.63 
 2,088.39 
 849.20 
*refer note 39(b) for advances to related parties
** also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
284 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
11.	 Equity share capital
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022#
a) Authorized share capital**
150,000,000 (March 31, 2022# - 150,000,000) equity shares of 
Rs.10/- each
 15,000.00 
 15,000.00 
 15,000.00 
 15,000.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up*
77,910,000 (March 31, 2022# - 77,910,000) equity shares of 
Rs.10/- each fully paid up
 - 
 7,791.00 
Total issued, subscribed and fully paid-up share capital
 - 
 7,791.00 
	
*Subsequent to the year end and upon the coming into effect of the Scheme of amalgamation, and in 
consideration of the transfer, 1 (one) equity shares of the face value of INR 10 each fully paid-up of the 
Company are required to be issued against every 1 (one) equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up held 
by the shareholders of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. Consequent to this, the Company shall issue 
146,946,000 equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up for 146,946,000 equity shares of INR 10 each fully 
paid-up of Max Ventures and Industries Limited.
	
These shares have been disclosed as ‘Share capital pending issuance’ as at March 31, 2023 and as at April 
01, 2022
	
**As an integral part of the scheme, and, upon the coming into effect of the scheme, the authorized share 
capital of the Company shall automatically stand increased, without any further act, instrument or deed 
on the part of the Company, such that upon the coming into effect of this scheme, the authorized share 
capital of the Company shall be INR 1,500,000,000/- divided into 150,000,000 equity shares of INR 10 each. 
Consequently, Clause V of the Memorandum of Association of the Company shall, upon the coming into 
effect of this scheme and without any further act or deed, be and stand altered, modified and substituted 
pursuant to section 13, 61 and 230 and 232 and other applicable provisions of the Act, as the case may be. 
Also refer note 45.
b)	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period
Equity shares
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
No. of shares (Rs. in Lakhs)
No. of shares
 (Rs. in 
Lakhs) 
At the beginning of the year
 77,910,000 
 7,791 
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
Add: Merger Adjustment
 (77,910,000)
 (7,791)
 - 
 - 
Add: Shares issued for stock 
options exercised (Refer note no 
35.1)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year
 - 
 - 
 77,910,000 
 7,791.00 
c)	
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of Rs. 10 per share. Each holder 
of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian 
rupees. The dividend if any, proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 285
Financial Review
shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the 
holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution 
of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held 
by the shareholders.
d)	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Name of the Shareholder
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
No. of 
shares
% held
No. of 
shares
% held
Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully 
paid-up
Max Ventures and Industries Limited.
 - 
0.00%
 77,909,994 
99.99%
e)	
Details of shares held by holding company
Name of the Shareholder
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
No. of 
shares
% held
No. of 
shares
% held
Equity shares of Rs. 10 each fully 
paid-up
Max Ventures and Industries Limited.
 - 
0.00%
 77,909,994 
99.99%
f)	
Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five 
years immediately preceding the reporting date
	
The Company has issued 156,978 equity shares during the year ended March 31, 2023 and 322,586 
equity shares during the year ended March 31, 2022# on exercise of options granted under the 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2016 of Max Ventures and Industries Limited. For details refer note 35.1.
g)	 Shareholding of promoters
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year
As at
Promoter Name
No. of 
Shares
% of total 
shares
% change 
during the 
year
March 31, 2023
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 - 
 - 
100%
March 31, 2022#
Max Ventures and Industries Limited
 77,909,994 
99.99%
Nil
# also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
286 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
12.	 Other equity
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 As at 
March 31, 2022*
Capital reserve (refer note a below)
 13,042.52 
 - 
Securities premium (refer note b below)
 49,951.14 
 - 
Employee stock options outstanding (refer note c below)
 216.90 
 401.20 
Retained earnings (refer note d below)
 43,199.59 
 (4,469.47)
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCD) (refer note e 
below)
 - 
 57,164.00 
 106,410.14 
 53,095.73 
Notes:
a) 	Capital reserve 
At the beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
Add : Merger Adjustment
 13,042.52 
 - 
 13,042.52 
 - 
b) 	Securities premium
At the beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
Add : Merger Adjustment
 50,084.05 
 - 
Add - Exercise of share option under Employee stock 
option scheme
 50.75 
 - 
Less: adjustment on account of capital reduction in 
PCL (refer note 42)
 (183.66)
 - 
 49,951.14 
 - 
c) 	 Employee stock options outstanding
At the beginning of the year
 401.20 
 381.03 
Add : Merger Adjustment
 (239.92)
 - 
Add: expense recognized during the year
 105.69 
 20.17 
Less: Exercise of share option under Employee stock 
option scheme
 (41.58)
 - 
Less: Forfeiture of share option under Employee stock 
option scheme
 (8.49)
 - 
 216.90 
 401.20 
d) 	Retained earnings (attributable to equity holders of 
the parent)
At the beginning of the year
 (4,469.47)
 (4,965.43)
Add : Merger Adjustment
 45,759.07 
 - 
Profit for the year
 1,901.49 
 499.89 
Forfeiture of share option under Employee stock option 
scheme
 8.49 
 - 
Equity option of CCD
 - 
 - 
Re-measurement of post employment benefit 
obligation (net of tax) (item of OCI)
 0.01 
 (3.93)
 43,199.59 
 (4,469.47)
e) Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCD)
At the beginning of the year
 57,164.00 
 57,164.00 
Less : Merger Adjustment
 (57,164.00)
 - 
At the end of the year
 - 
 57,164.00 
a) 	 Capital reserve 
	
The Group recognizes profit or loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own 
equity instruments to capital reserve
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 287
Financial Review
b) 	 Securities premium
	
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised 
only for limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
c) 	 Employee stock options outstanding
	
The employee stock options based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of 
options issued to employees under Employee stock option plan.
d) 	 Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the proﬁts that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general 
reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
	
* also refer note 46
13.	 Borrowings
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
 Non-current borrowings :
 
 
From banks
Term loans (secured) [refer note (i) to (ix) below]
 67,301.75 
 24,873.08 
Vehicle loans (secured) [refer note (x) below]
 30.19 
 31.34 
Others
Debt portion of compulsory convertible debentures 
[refer note (xi) below]
 7,749.32 
 3,430.96 
Current maturity of long term borrowings :
Term loans (secured) [refer note (i) to (ix) below]
 1,081.06 
 509.00 
Vehicle loans (secured) [refer note (x) below]
 17.61 
 - 
Total
 76,179.93 
 28,844.38 
 Less: amount disclosed under "current financial liabilities" 
[refer note 18(i)] 
 1,098.67 
 509.00 
Total
 75,081.26 
 28,335.38 
 Aggregate Secured loans 
 68,430.61 
 25,413.42 
 Aggregate Unsecured loans 
 7,749.32 
 3,430.96 
Term loan from banks :
i)	
Term loan facility from ICICI Bank Limited amounting to NIL (March 31, 2022: Rs. 7,932.18 lakhs) is 
secured by way of exclusive charge of mortgage/hypothecation/assignment/security interest/charge/
pledge upon following (both present and future) on:
1 	
Pari-passu charge over project developed on the property;
2 	
All present and future tangible moveable assets, including movable plant and machinery, 
machinery spares, tools and accessories, furniture, fixture and all other moveable fixed assets in 
relation to the property
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
288 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
3 	
All present and future scheduled receivables to the extent received by the borrower
4 	
The escrow account alongwith all monies credited / deposited therein
5 	
The Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA)
6 	
30% of shareholding of the company (Max Towers) being held by Max Estates Limited
7 	
The security as required by the lender shall be created and perfected in form and manner 
satisfactory to the lenders and shared on pari passu basis between the lenders
8 	
Post creation of security, the project shall provide a security cover of 2 times during the entire 
tenure of facility on outstanding loan amount 
ii)	
Term loan facility from ICICI Bank Limited amounting to Rs. 10218.74 lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 3,793.64 
lakhs) is secured by way of exclusive charge of mortgage/hypothecation/assignment/security interest/
charge/pledge upon following (both present and future) on:
1 	
Pari-passu charge over project developed on Max House Okhla Project;
2 	
All present and future tangible moveable assets, including movable plant and machinery, 
machinery spares, tools and accessories, furniture, fixture and all other moveable fixed assets in 
relation to the property
3 	
All present and future scheduled receivables to the extent received by the borrower
4 	
The escrow account alongwith all monies credited / deposited therein
5 	
The Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA)
6 	
Corporate guarantee from Pharmax Corporation Limited
7 	
The security as required by the lender shall be created and perfected in form and manner 
satisfactory to the lenders and shared on pari passu basis between the lenders
8 	
Post creation of security, the Project shall provide a security cover of 1.50 times during the entire 
tenure of the Facility on the outstanding loan amount of Facility
iii)	 The subsidiary company has fully repaid term loan from ICICI Bank mentioned in point (i) above during 
the year. The subsidiary has taken secured term loan facility for Rs. 24,603.24 lakhs loan from HDFC 
Bank Limited at an effective weighted average rate of 7.91% . The loan is repayable in 204 installments 
commencing from 1 month from the first drawdown date. An exclusive charge by way of mortgage / 
hypothecation / assignment / security interest / charge / pledge upon following (both present and 
future) on:
a)	
The escrow account opened before the first drawdown along with all monies to be received from 
the lessee, present and future, pertaining to the property, credited / deposited therein.
b)	
The Debt Service Reserve Account equivalent to 3 months peak debt servicing (interest and 
principal) to be maintained throughout the tenor of the Facilities. Debt Service Coverage Ratio 
shall be created upfront & by way of Fixed Deposit lien marked to the lenders.
c)	
Minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.3x to be maintained, to be tested on 31st March and 
30th September every year.
d)	
Bank guarantee of Rs. 5,000 lakhs to be issued from Max Estates Ltd. which will be cash 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 289
Financial Review
collateralized by 50% in case National Company Law Tribunal Order comes in favour of Max 
Estates Limited
e)	
Minimum security cover of 1.54x implying maximum Loan to Value of 65% to be maintained 
throughout the tenor of the facility.
iv)	 Term loan facility from IndusInd Bank Limited amounting to NIL (March 31, 2022: Rs. 12,863.68 lakhs) 
is secured by exclusive charge by way of mortgage/hypothecation/assignment/security interest / 
charge/pledge upon following (both present and future) on:
1 	
Equitable mortgage on Project land;
2 	
All present and future current assets, including lease rental receivables, parking rentals, Common 
Area Maintainence income, security deposit, sales receivable, any income generated pertaing to 
the project
3 	
The escrow account alongwith all monies credited/deposited therein
4 	
The Debt Service Reserve Account (DSRA)
5 	
30% of shares to be pledged by the borrower company (Max Square Limited)
6 	
Corporate guarantee from Max Estates Limited
v)	
Axis Bank Limited (Secured)
	
The subsidiary company has fully repaid term loan from Indusind Bank mentioned in point (iii) above 
during the year. The subsidiary has taken secured term loan facility for Rs. 21,998.13 lakhs.
i) 	
 Primary and collateral security: 
a)	
Exclusive charge on by way of equitable mortgage on project land of 2.6 acre land and 
building with complete available leasable area of 7 lakhs sqft in Max square project, being 
developed in Sector 129, Noida. 
b) 	 First charge by way of assignment/hypothecation over all present and future current assets 
including lease rental receivables, parking rentals, CAM income, security deposit, sales 
receivables, any other income generated pertaining to the project 
c) 	 First charge on DSRA, Escrow account maintained with Axis pertaining to rental receivables 
of the project, wherever maintained, present & future. 
d) 	 Minimum security cover to be 1.5 times based on market values of the property to be 
maintained throughout tenure of the facility 
e)	
Corporate guarantee of Max Estates Limited 
 f) 	 Debt service reserve account (DSRA) - 3 months interest to be created 
g) 	 Borrower to open Escrow account with IBL
h) 	 Debt : equity of 1.371x to be maintained throughout the facility. Any cost overrun to be funded 
through additional equity from the promoters. 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
290 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
Repayment terms:-
	
Loan will be payable in bullet installment on maturity at December 31, 2025
vi)	 Term loan facility from IDFC First Bank Limited amounting to Rs. 4,016.20 lakhs (March 31, 2022: 
Rs. 792.57 lakhs) is secured by exclusive charge by way of mortgage/ hypothecation/ assignment/ 
security interest/ charge/pledge upon following (both present and future) on:
1 	
Equitable mortgage on Project land;
2 	
All present and future current assets, including lease rental receivables, parking rentals, CAM 
income, security deposit, sales receivable, any income generated pertaing to the project
3 	
The escrow account alongwith all monies credited/deposited therein
4 	
The DSRA
5 	
30% of shares to be pledged by the borrower company (Pharmax Corporation Limited)
6 	
Corporate guarantee from Max Estates Limited
vii)	 As per the terms of loan agreements entered by the Group with its lenders, the Group is required 
to meet certain financial and non-financial covenants such as Debt service coverage ratio, Debt 
to Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) ratio etc. In case of non-
compliance with any of these covenants the non-compliance would be treated as event of default 
giving lender a right to charge either penal interest or recall the loan or both. During the year, there 
was no default in meeting any of the covenants.
viii)	 The Company has taken secured lean loan facility for Rs.14,839.09 Lakhs loan from Aditya Birla 
Finance Limited.
I) 	
Primary and collateral security:
a) 	 Exclusive charge on by way of equitable mortgage on project land admeasuring 10 acres 
owned by the borrower situated al Sector 128, Noida for total debt facility amount of wp 
to Rs. 150 cr (1st Pari- passu to be shared with incoming lender.
b) 	 Corporate Guarantee of Max Ventures & Industries Limited.
c) 	 First charge on DSRA with Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund.
d) 	 Debt service reserve account (DSRA) - 3 months interest to be created
ii) 	 Repayment terms:-
	
Loan will be payable in bullet installment on maturity at September 30, 2025
	
Vehicle loan (secured) :
ix)	 Vehicle loans amounting to Rs. 30.19 lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 47.80 lakhs ) are secured by way of 
hypothecation of respective vehicles. The loans are repayable in 3 to 5 years. The rate of interest varies 
between 7.90% p.a. to 10.00% p.a.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 291
Financial Review
Others:
x)	
i) 	 Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (Unsecured)
	
Terms of series A-CCD
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of Rs. 10 each.
-	
Interest - Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows - 
-	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, calculated 
from the Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
-	
Balance surplus cash flow shall be utilised to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on the Series A 
CCDs
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 on 
Conversion Date
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) the date when Series B CCDs are being converted; or (b) the date 
on which the Series A CCDs are required by Law to be mandatorily converted 
Terms of Series B - CCD
-	
Unsecured compulsorily convertible debentures having a face value of Rs. 10 each. 
-	
Interest 
- 	
Interest at the rate of 20% per annum, compounded annually, payable as follows - 
-	
No interest shall be payable unless the Company has surplus cash flows in the financial year
-	
Surplus cash flow will be used to pay all accrued but unpaid interest on Series B CCD, 
calculated from the Closing Date till March 31 of the relevant financial year
-	
Conversion - automatically and mandatorily be converted into Equity Shares in the ratio of 1:1 
on Conversion Date
-	
Conversion date - earlier of, (a) at any time after three years from the Closing Date; or (b) 
date of full exit by New York Life Insurance Corporation from the Company; or (c) the date on 
which the Series B CCDs are required by Law to be mandatorily converted
14.	  Other non current financial liabilities
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Security deposits
 3,315.14 
 2,380.36 
Interest accrued on Compulsorily convertible 
debentures{refer note 13(xi)}
 1,192.36 
 1,190.50 
Deferred liabilities
 29.35 
 - 
Unearned Financial Guarantee Fees
 - 
 25.10 
Deferred Finance Income (Security deposit)
 - 
 147.00 
 4,536.85 
 3,742.96 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
292 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
15.	  Long term provision
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
 Provision for employee benefits 
 Provision for gratuity (refer note 35) 
 169.33 
 72.94 
 169.33 
 72.94 
16.	  Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets 
 	
Deferred tax liabilities
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 
 (1,083.41)
 (391.19)
 Gross deferred tax liabilities (a) 
 (1,083.41)
 (391.19)
 Deferred tax assets 
 Expenses allowable on payment basis 
 768.19 
 - 
 Other items giving rise to temporary differences 
 886.29 
 43.83 
 Unabosorbed depreciation/losses 
 343.97 
 - 
 Gross deferred tax assets (b) 
 1,998.45 
 43.83 
 Deferred tax asset/(liabilities) (net) 
 915.04 
 (347.36)
 Disclosed as 
 Deferred tax liabilities 
 (1,083.41)
 (391.19)
 Deferred tax asset 
 1,998.45 
 43.83 
 915.04 
 (347.36)
17.	 Current financial liabilities
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
 (i) Borrowings 
 Current maturity of long term borrowings 
 1,098.67 
 509.68 
 Short term borrowings* 
 6,259.37 
 2,667.00 
 7,358.04 
 3,176.68 
	
*Short term borrowings includes loan taken in one of the subsidiary companies, which will be repaid during 
the financial year 2023-24 from the proceeds of residential project and there is no hypotheciation for such 
borrowings.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 293
Financial Review
 (ii) Trade payables
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises (MSME) 
 501.79 
 96.52 
 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises # 
 2,201.72 
 900.96 
 2,703.51 
 997.48 
	
# Trade payables include due to related parties. Refer note 39 (b) for amount due to related parties.
	
Terms and conditions of the above:
	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 0 - 180 day terms
March 31, 2023
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
 
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
MSME
1.15
 500.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 501.79 
Others
677.70
 978.25 
 207.60 
 146.70 
 191.47 
 2,201.72 
Disputed dues-MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues-Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 678.85 
 1,478.89 
 207.60 
 146.70 
 191.47 
 2,703.51 
March 31, 2022  
(also refer note 46)
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
 
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 
3 years
MSME
 - 
 96.52 
 96.52 
Others
 - 
 550.29 
 158.91 
 90.13 
 101.63 
 900.96 
Disputed dues-MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues-Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 - 
 646.81 
 158.91 
 90.13 
 101.63 
 997.48 
(iii)	Other current financial liabilities
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Security deposits
 123.46 
 76.15 
Capital creditors
 761.15 
 533.02 
Interest accrued
 534.34 
 13.34 
Deferred liabilities
 161.83 
 - 
Deferred Guarantee Income
 - 
 43.56 
Deferred Finance Income (Security deposit)
 - 
 96.92 
Others
 74.46 
 - 
 1,655.24 
 762.99 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
294 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
18.	 Other current liabilities
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Advance from customers
 18.75 
 255.71 
Deferred finance income
 28.84 
 - 
Statutory dues
 712.25 
 378.18 
Others
 7.57 
 - 
 767.41 
 633.89 
19.	 Short term provision
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Provision for employee benefits
- Provision for leave encashment
 249.73 
 113.69 
- Provision for gratuity (refer note 35)
 1.90 
 0.75 
 251.63 
 114.44 
20.	 Revenue from operations
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Revenue from operations
Revenue from sale of constructed properties, lease income 
and facility management
 9,917.19 
 6,928.87 
Total 
 9,917.19 
 6,928.87 
Revenue from services
Income from shared services {refer note 39(a)}
 817.01 
 - 
Total
 10,734.20 
 6,928.87 
	
Performance obligation
	
The performance obligation is satisfied upon completion of the services/ sale of property.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 295
Financial Review
21.	 Other income
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Interest income on
- on fixed deposits *
 563.95 
 356.25 
- on security deposit *
 319.88 
 - 
Profit on derecognition of Right of use asset
 135.97 
 - 
Gain on mutual fund investments
 101.82 
 4.28 
Fair value gain on financial instruments at fair value 
through profit or loss
 13.78 
 - 
Liabilities/provisions no longer required written back
 - 
 30.57 
Other non-operating income
 - 
 14.69 
Gain on stake sale of investment {refer note 28}
 944.14 
 - 
Interest others
 149.06 
 - 
Miscellaneous income
 165.03 
 58.81 
 2,393.63 
 464.60 
* on financial assets at amortised cost
22.	 Cost of land, plots, development rights, constructed properties and others
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Inventories at beginning of year
 49.93 
 85.94 
Construction Materials
 - 
 14.94 
Civil Construction Work
 981.33 
 21.07 
Less: inventory at the end of year
 15.70 
 49.93 
Cost of land, plots, development rights, constructed 
properties and others
 1,015.55 
 - 
23.	 Change in inventories of constructed properties
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
a) 	 Inventories at the end of the year
Work in progress- 
Real Estate
 186.75 
 1,325.59 
 186.75 
 1,325.59 
b) 	 Inventories at the beginning of the year
	
Work in progress- 
	
Real Estate
 1,325.59 
 3,176.54 
 1,325.59 
 3,176.54 
	
Net decrease in inventories of constructed 
properties (b-a)
 1,138.84 
 1,850.94 
# also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
296 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
24.	 Employee benefits expense
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Salaries, wages and bonus
 1,230.64 
 253.23 
Contribution to provident and other funds (refer note 35.2)
 94.76 
 34.35 
Employee stock option scheme* (refer note 35.1)
 103.17 
 39.57 
Gratuity expense (refer note 35) 
 40.56 
 12.87 
Staff welfare expenses
 68.60 
 7.48 
 1,537.73 
 347.49 
	
*net of amount capitalised in Investment Property under development Rs. 12.65 lakhs (March 31, 2022: Rs. 
9.61 Lakhs)
25.	 Finance costs
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Interest expense on Term Loan
 4,541.68 
 2,449.72 
Interest on lease liabilities (refer note 4b)
 377.56 
 - 
Interest on others
 110.08 
 - 
Bank charges
 130.12 
 51.15 
 5,159.44 
 2,500.87 
Less: Finance cost capitalised (refer note 3a)
 (3,297.57)
 (883.95)
 1,861.87 
 1,616.92 
26.	 Depreciation and amortization expense
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Depreciation of tangible assets and investment property 
(refer note 3 and 3a)
 1,222.88 
 1,065.39 
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 4b)
 267.57 
 - 
Amortization of intangible assets (refer note 4)
 0.37 
 2.75 
 1,490.82 
 1,068.14 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 297
Financial Review
27.	 Other expenses
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Rent
 14.73 
 256.15 
Insurance expenses
 60.62 
 35.95 
Rates and taxes 
 187.58 
 117.56 
Repairs and maintenance:
Building
 1,526.46 
 10.49 
Others
 258.50 
 163.77 
Facility Management Charges
 - 
 64.94 
Travelling and conveyance
 133.18 
 18.83 
Communication costs
 17.42 
 2.58 
Legal and professional
 948.22 
 483.86 
Directors' sitting fees {refer note no 39(a)}
 70.32 
 5.48 
Membership & subscription
 - 
 24.52 
Printing and stationery
 - 
 0.51 
Advertisement and sales promotion
 330.13 
 448.94 
Brokerage
 77.26 
 - 
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
 - 
 0.42 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure (refer 
note no 40)
 39.79 
 10.07 
Miscellaneous expenses
 210.61 
 20.85 
 3,874.82 
 1,664.90 
28	 Discontinued Operations
	
The Board of Directors of the Company, in its meeting dated November 14, 2021, had approved the 
divestment of remaining 51% shareholding in Max Speciality Films Limited (MSFL), a subsidiary of the 
Company to Toppan Inc., a 49% strategic partner in MSFL, in two separate tranches at an enterprise value 
of INR 135,000 lakhs, subject to customary closing conditions, including but not limited to shareholder or 
other approvals. The shareholder approval for the aforesaid transaction was received on December 16, 
2021. Pursuant to this, on February 01, 2022, 41% shareholding representing 17,189,600 shares in MSFL, 
were transferred by the Company for a total consideration of INR 49,442 lakhs. Hence, MSFL ceased to be 
a subsidiary of the Company w.e.f. February 01, 2022.  
	
As per the executed agreement, the remaining 10% shareholding representing 4,192,585 shares in MSFL 
were transferred on March 28, 2023, for an aggregate consideration of INR 13,172.88 lakhs. Since the 
investment was already carried at fair value, thus, this did not have any significant impact on the profit for 
the year ended March 31, 2023, except for interest recognized during the year.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
298 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(a)	 The results of discontinued operations for the period/year are presented below:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Revenue
Revenue from operations
 - 
126,984.14
Other Income
 - 
 1,029.34 
Total income (I)
 - 
 128,013.48 
Cost of materials consumed 
 - 
 83,266.01 
Increase/ decrease in inventories of finished goods and 
work in progress
 - 
 (816.89)
Employee benefits expense
 - 
 3,830.98 
Finance Costs
 - 
 2,175.91 
Depreciation & amortisation expense
 - 
 3,215.94 
Other expenses
 - 
 14,517.31 
Total expense (II)
 - 
 106,189.26 
Profit before tax
 - 
 21,824.22 
Tax expense
 - 
Current tax
 - 
 3,840.18 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
 - 
Deferred tax charge
 - 
 3,468.15 
Total income tax expense
 - 
 7,308.33 
Profit after tax
 - 
 14,515.89 
# also refer note 46
29	 The subsidiaries follow financial year as accounting year. The financial statements of Max Estates 128 Private 
Limited, Mas Estates Gurgaon Limited and Acreage Builders Private Limited have been consolidated from 
the date of incorporation/acquisition of these entities till the date of their deconsolidation (as applicable). 
The below is the summary of principal activities of these entities and proportion of ownership of the Holding 
Company:
Name of the 
subsidiary
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion of ownership as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Max I. Limited 
Making investments in 
various companies and 
primarily engaged in 
growing and nurturing 
these business 
investments
India
100%
-
Max Asset 
Services Limited
Facility management 
services for commerical 
real estate
India
100%
-
Max Square 
Limited 
Construction and 
development of residential 
and commercial properties
India
51%
51%
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 299
Financial Review
Name of the 
subsidiary
Principal activities
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion of ownership as at
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022
(also refer note 46)
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
Construction and 
development of residential 
and commercial properties
India
100%
85%
Max Towers 
Private Limited 
Construction and 
development of residential 
and commercial properties
India
100%
100%
Max Estates 128 
Private Limited 
(w.e.f. June 17, 
2022)
Construction and 
development of residential 
and commercial properties
India
100%
-
Mas Estates 
Gurgaon Limited 
(w.e.f. September 
05, 2022)
Construction and 
development of residential 
and commercial properties
India
100%
-
Acreage Builders 
Private Limited 
(w.e.f. October 27, 
2022)
Construction and 
development of residential 
and commercial properties
India
100%
-
30	 Income taxes
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
(a) Income tax expense in the statement of profit and 
loss comprises :
Current Income Tax
Current income tax charge
 2,050.11 
 - 
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of previous 
year
 4.17 
 77.82 
Deferred Tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
 (1,692.78)
 275.06 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit 
or loss 
 361.50 
 352.88 
31	 Components of Other comprehensive income (OCI) (Retained earnings)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
 
 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Re-measurement (gains)/ losses on defined benefit plans 
(refer note: 34.0 )
 0.02 
 3.93 
Income tax related to items recognized in OCI during the 
year
 (0.01)
 (0.99)
Income tax related to items recognized in OCI during 
the year
 0.01 
 2.94 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
300 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
32	 Earnings per share (EPS)
 
 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Profit after tax (Rs. in Lakhs)
 1,901.49 
 499.89 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year (Nos.)*
 147,060,581 
 77,910,000 
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
 1.29 
 1.30 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for 
dilutive earnings per share (Nos)
 147,796,024 
 77,910,000 
Diluted earnings per share (Rs.)
 1.29 
 0.64 
Profit/(Loss) for the year 
Equity holders of parent company
 1,846.70 
 492.20 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year (Nos.)
 147,060,581 
 77,910,000 
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)
 1.26 
 0.64 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for 
dilutive earnings per share (Nos)
 147,796,024 
 77,910,000 
Diluted earnings per share (Rs.)
 1.25 
 0.63 
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year for diluted earnings per share (Nos)
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the year (Nos.)
 147,060,581 
 77,910,000 
Add: ESOPs
 735,443 
 - 
 147,796,024 
 77,910,000 
	
# also refer note 46
	
*Shares pending issuance have been included in the computation of Basic Earning per share as per 
guidance given in Ind AS 33 ‘Earnings per share’.
33	 Income Tax
	
The major components of income tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022# are:
	
Statement of profit and loss :
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Current income tax :
Current tax 
 2,050.11 
 - 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years
 4.17 
 77.82 
Deferred tax :
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
 (1,692.78)
 275.06 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit 
and loss
 361.50 
 352.88 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 301
Financial Review
	
OCI section :
	
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during in the year :
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Net (gain) on remeasurements of defined benefit plans
 (0.01)
 (0.99)
Income tax effect on cost of hedging reserve
 - 
 - 
Tax related to items recognized in OCI during the year
 (0.01)
 (0.99)
	
Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for the year 
ended March 31, 2023 and year ended March 31, 2022#:
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations
 2,208.20 
 845.08 
Accounting profit before income tax
 2,208.20 
 845.08 
At India's statutory income tax rate of 25.17%
 977.41 
 212.68 
Non-Taxable Income for tax purposes:
Others
 (801.86)
Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes:
Other non-deductible expenses 
 14.49 
 8.81 
Tax relating to earlier years
 - 
 77.82 
Others
Items taxed at different rate
 155.35 
 - 
Others
 66.72 
 59.06 
Losses of subsidiary not being considered for deferred tax
 (50.61)
 (5.49)
 At the effective income tax rate 
 361.50 
 352.88 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and 
loss
 361.50 
 352.88 
Total tax expense
 361.50 
 352.88 
#refer note 46
	
Deferred tax relates to the following:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes
 (1,083.41)
 (885.76)
Gross deferred tax liabilities (a)
 (1,083.41)
 (885.76)
Deferred tax assets
Expenses allowable on payment basis
 768.19 
 - 
Other items giving rise to temporary differences
 886.29 
 43.83 
Unabosorbed depreciation/losses
 343.97 
 494.57 
Gross deferred tax assets (b)
 1,998.45 
 538.40 
Deferred tax (liabilities)/asset (net)
 915.04 
 (347.36)
Disclosed as:
Deferred tax liabilities
 (1,083.41)
 (391.19)
Deferred tax asset
 1,998.45 
 43.83 
 915.04 
 (347.36)
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
302 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net):
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Opening balance at the beginning of year
 347.36 
 (5.52)
Add Merger Adjustment
 1,596.31 
 - 
Tax on equity component of CCD 
 (1,165.94)
 - 
Tax expense/(income) during the year recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss
 (1,692.78)
 352.88 
Tax expense/(income) during the year recognised in OCI
 0.01 
 - 
Net balance
 (915.04)
 347.36 
Closing balance at the end of year
 (915.04)
 347.36 
	
The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income 
taxes levied by the same tax authority.
	
# also refer note 46
34	 Commitments and contingencies
A.	 Contingent liabilities not provided for
(Rs. in Lakhs)
S. No.
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022#
i.
Bank guarantee {Refer note (a)}
 5,000.00 
 5,000.00 
ii.
Uttarakhand VAT case
 21.24 
 21.24 
Note:
a.	
The Group has given a bank guarantee of Rs. 5,000 lakhs issued by HDFC Bank Limited (March 
31, 2022: Rs. 5,000 lakhs issued by ICICI Bank Limited) in favour of Piramal Enterperises for 
bid submitted for Delhi One project.Max Estates Limited, had submitted its resolution plan for 
resolution of Boulevard Projects Private Limited. The Hon’ble NCLT, New Delhi has approved the 
said Resolution Plan,for the development of commercial plot admeasuring 34,697 sq mtrs, located 
in NOIDA under the project name ‘Delhi One’. This acquisition has potential to add ~3 million sq. 
ft. of additional development footprint to the portfolio of Max Estates Limited. The implementation 
of the Resolution Plan is subject to receipt of requisite approvals from regulatory and statutory 
authorities. 
B	
Capital and other commitments
a. 	 Capital commitment
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022#
Estimated amount of contracts remaining 
to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for*
 28,953.51 
 7,712.12 
Less: Capital advances (refer note 7)
 (5,456.78)
 (643.26)
Net capital commitment for acquisition of 
capital assets
 23,496.73 
 7,068.86 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 303
Financial Review
b. 	 Other commitment
	
During the earlier year, the Group had invested Rs.49.92 lakhs (March 31, 2022: Nil) in 0.001% 
non cumulative compulsory convertible preference shares of Aliferous Technologies Private 
Limited. The Group has committed to invest further Rs.49.90 lakhs (March 31, 2022: Nil) 
towards these preference shares.
	
*Capital commitment includes an amount of INR 17,600 lakhs (March 31, 2022: Nil) , being 
the remaining amount payable for purchase of 2 land parcels situated in Sector 129, Noida 
(U.P.), India (“Land Parcels”), which were auctioned by Axis Bank Limited. The acquisition is 
subject to customary statutory approvals. The cost of acquisition of aforesaid Land Parcels is 
~ INR 22,000 lakhs. The Company had paid the amount of INR 4,400 lakhs till March 31, 2023 
(March 31, 2022: Nil), which is disclosed under the head capital advances in the consolidated 
financial statements.
	
# also refer note 46
35	 Gratuity 
	
The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Under Gratuity Plan, every employee who has completed 
five years or more of service gets a gratuity on departure at 15 days of last drawn salary for each completed 
year of service.
	
The gratuity plan is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. 
	
Description of risk exposures
	
Valuations are based on certain assumptions, which are dynamic in nature and vary over time. As such the 
Company is exposed to various risks as follows:
i) 	
Salary Increases- Actual salary increases will increase the Plan’s liability. Increase in salary increase 
rate assumption in future valuations will also increase the liability.
ii) 	 Discount Rate : Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can increase the plan’s liability.
iii) 	 Mortality & disability – Actual deaths & disability cases proving lower or higher than assumed in the 
valuation can impact the liabilities.
iv) 	 Investment Risk – If Plan is funded then assets liabilities mismatch & actual investment return on 
assets lower than the discount rate assumed at the last valuation date can impact the liability
	
The following table summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit 
or loss and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the respective plans :
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
 a)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of 
defined benefit obligation
Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the 
year
 73.69 
 56.99 
Merger Agjustment
 63.50 
 - 
Less - adjustment on account of stake sale in Max 
Speciality Films Limited (refer note 28)
 - 
Interest costs
 1.98 
 3.84 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
304 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Current service cost
 38.58 
 9.03 
Benefit paid
 (6.54)
 (0.10)
Remeasurement of (gain)/loss in other 
comprehensive income
Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
demographic assumptions
 - 
 Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 0.02 
 3.93 
 Actuarial changes arising from changes in 
experience adjustments
 - 
 Defined benefit obligation at year end
 171.23 
 73.69 
 b)
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of 
fair value of plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
Less - adjustment on account of stake sale in Max 
Speciality Films Limited (refer note 28)
 - 
 - 
Fair value of plan assets at year end
 - 
 - 
 c)
Net defined benefit (liability)/ asset recognized in 
the balance sheet
Fair value of plan assets
 - 
 - 
Present value of defined benefit obligation
 (171.23)
 (73.69)
Amount recognized in balance sheet - (liability)/ 
asset
 (171.23)
 (73.69)
Current 
 (1.90)
 (0.75)
Non current
 (169.33)
 (72.94)
 (171.23)
 (73.69)
 d)
Other comprehensive income 
 . 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial 
assumptions
 0.02 
 3.93 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in experience 
adjustments
 - 
Capitalised as investment property/cost of goods 
sold
 - 
 0.02 
 3.93 
 e)
Net defined benefit expense (recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss for the year)
Current service cost
 15.26 
 5.37 
Interest cost on benefit obligation
 21.64 
 7.50 
Expected return on plan assets
 0.74 
 - 
Capitalised as investment property / cost of goods 
sold
 2.92 
 - 
Net defined benefit expense debited to statement 
of profit and loss 
 40.56 
 12.87 
 f)
Principal assumptions used in determining 
defined benefit obligation
Discount rate
7.26%
7.26%
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 305
Financial Review
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Future Salary Increases
10.00%
10.00%
Mortality Rate (% of IALM 12-14)
100.00%
100.00%
g)
Quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant 
assumptions is as below:
Increase / (decrease) on present value of defined 
benefits obligations at the end of the period/year
Discount rate
Increase by 0.50%
 (8.71)
 (40.08)
Decrease by 0.50%
 9.57 
 45.09 
Salary growth rate
Increase by 0.50%
 7.00 
 41.06 
Decrease by 0.50%
 (6.44)
 (36.90)
 h)
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 
(valued on undiscounted basis)
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting 
period)
2.29
 0.60 
Between 2 and 5 years 
13.40
 1.96 
Beyond 5 Years
155.54
 71.13 
Total expected payments
 171.23 
 73.69 
# also refer note 46
i)	
The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 7- 21 years 
(March 31, 2022#: 7 - 21 years)
j)	
The Group expects to contribute Rs Nil (March 31, 2022: Nil) to the planned assets during the next financial 
year.
k)	
The estimates of rate of escalation in salary considered in actuarial valuation are after taking into account 
inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors including supply and demand in the employment 
market. The above information is as certified by the actuary. 
l)	
Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance 
sheet date for the estimated term of the obligations.
m)	 The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on 
defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period.
n)	
Risk Exposure
	
Valuations are performed on certain basic set of pre-determined assumptions and other regulatory 
framework which may vary over time. Thus, the Group is exposed to various risks in providing the above 
gratuity benefit which are as follows: 
	
Interest Rate risk: The plan exposes the Group to the risk of fall in interest rates. A fall in 
interest rates will result in an increase in the ultimate cost of providing the above benefit and 
will thus result in an increase in the value of the liability (as shown in financial statements). 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
306 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Liquidity Risk: This is the risk that the Group is not able to meet the short-term gratuity payouts. This may 
arise due to non availability of enough cash / cash equivalent to meet the liabilities or holding of illiquid 
assets not being sold in time. 
	
Salary Escalation Risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan is calculated with the assumption of 
salary increase rate of plan participants in future. Deviation in the rate of increase of salary in future for plan 
participants from the rate of increase in salary used to determine the present value of obligation will have 
a bearing on the plan’s liability. 
	
Demographic Risk: The Group has used certain mortality and attrition assumptions in valuation of the 
liability. The Group is exposed to the risk of actual experience turning out to be worse compared to the 
assumption.
35.1	Employee Stock Option Plan
	
Employee Stock Option Plan – 2006 (“the 2006 Plan”):
	
The Max Ventures and Industries Limited had constituted an Employee Stock Option Plan - 2016 which had 
been approved by the Board in the meeting held on 9th August 2016 and by shareholders of Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited in its annual general meeting held on September 27, 2016.
	
The details of activity under the scheme are summarized below:
Particulars
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise 
price (Rs.)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average 
exercise 
price (Rs.)
Outstanding at the start of the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Add- Adjustment on account of merger (refer 
note 37)
 829,156 
 17.83 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the start of the year (post 
merger effect)
 829,156 
 17.83 
 - 
 - 
Option grant during the year
 297,538 
 53.87 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited during the year
 75,740 
 12.90 
 - 
 - 
Exercised during the year
 156,978 
 15.84 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end
 893,976 
 30.59 
 - 
 - 
Exercisable at the end
 88,962 
 13.99 
 - 
 - 
	
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was 15.84 
(March 31, 2022: Nil) per share.
	
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 307
Financial Review
	
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2023 and 
March 31, 2022 are as follows:
Date of grant
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average
remaining life in 
years
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average
remaining life in 
years
04-06-2020 (Grant Type III)
 487,528 
 1.17 
 - 
 - 
02-07-2021 (Grant Type IV)
 96,231 
 2.17 
 - 
 - 
02-07-2021 (Grant Type V)
 12,679 
 2.17 
 - 
 - 
25-07-2022 (Grant Type VI)
 285,299 
 3.32 
 - 
 - 
08-11-2022 (Grant Type VII)
 12,239 
 3.61 
 - 
 - 
# also refer note 46
	
During the year ended March 31, 2023, 1,56,978 (March 31, 2022 - Nil) number of stock options were exercised 
by the aforesaid option holders. The 2016 Plan provides for grant of stock options aggregating not more 
than 5% of number of issued equity shares of the Company to eligible employees of the Company. Further, 
the erstwhile holding company extended the ESOP plan to directors and employees of its subsidiaries by 
obtaining approval of the shareholders in its annual general meeting held on September 24, 2019. The 2016 
Plan is administered by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee constituted by the Board of Directors. 
 
The 2016 Plan gives an option to the employee to purchase the share at a price determined by Nomination 
and Remuneration committee (NRC) subject to minimum par value of shares (Rs. 10/-). The Company has 
valued Employee Stock Option outstanding as at year end presuming all the employees will exercise their 
option in favor of equity settlement based on trend.
	
Upon the coming into effect of the Scheme, the Transferee Company shall take necessary steps to 
formulate stock option schemes by adopting the MVIL ESOP Plan of the Transferor Company. All stock 
options under the MVIL ESOP Plan which have not been granted as of the Effective Date, shall lapse 
automatically without any further act, instrument or deed by the Transferor Company, the employee or 
the Transferee Company and without any approval or acknowledgement of any third party. In respect of 
the stock options granted by the Transferor Company under the MVIL ESOP Plan to the employees of the 
Transferor Company who are proposed to be transferred as part of this Scheme to the Transferee Company, 
which have been granted (whether vested or not) but have not been exercised as on the Record Date 
(“Eligible Employees”), the Transferee Company shall grant 1 (one) employee stock options of Transferee 
Company under a new employee stock option scheme created by the Transferee Company in lieu of every 
1 (one) stock option (whether vested or unvested) held by such Eligible Employees under the MVIL ESOP 
Plan in accordance with the Amalgamation Share Entitlement Ratio mentioned in the Scheme (i.e. 1:1) and 
the existing stock options held by them under the MVIL ESOP Plan shall stand cancelled. The terms and 
conditions of the new stock option plan of the Transferee Company shall not be less favourable than those 
provided under the MVIL ESOP Plan.
	
# also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
308 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
35.2	Provident fund
	
The Holding Company is participating in a provident fund trust “Max Financial Services Limited Employees 
Provident Trust Fund” which is a common fund for Max India Limited and its affiliates, which is managed by 
Max Financial Services Limited. The provident fund trust requires that interest shortfall shall be met by the 
employer, accordingly it has been considered as a defined benefit plan as per Ind AS-19.
	
The interest rate payable to the members of the Trust shall not be lower than the statutory rate of interest 
declared by the Central government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions 
Act, 1952, and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Group.
	
The Actuarial Society of India has issued the final guidance for measurement of provident fund liabilities. 
The actuary has accordingly provided a valuation for “Max Financial Services Limited Employees Provident 
Trust Fund” which is a common fund for Max Financial Services Limited and its affiliates based on 
assumptions provided below.
	
The details of fund and plan asset position as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 as per the actuarial 
valuation of active members are as follows:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Plan assets at year end at fair value
 701.66 
 - 
Present value of defined benefit obligation at year end
 697.56 
 - 
Surplus as per actuarial certificate
 4.10 
 - 
Shortfall recognized in balance sheet
 - 
 - 
Active members as at year end (Nos)
 8 
 - 
	
Assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of the interest rate guarantee under the 
deterministic approach:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Discount rate
7.20%
 - 
Yield on existing funds
8.15%
 - 
Expected guaranteed interest rate
8.15%
 - 
	
Contribution to Defined benefit Plan, recognized as expense for the year is as under:
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Employer's Contribution towards Provident Fund (PF)
 33.52 
 - 
 33.52 
 - 
	
#refer note 46
36	 The Company has executed a Binding Memorandum of Understanding (‘MOU’) on February 03, 2023, with 
New York Life Insurance Company, for investment of Rs. 28,571.90 lakhs in Acreage Builders Private Limited, 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Max Estates Limited. Max Estates Limited and New York Life Insurance 
Company shall be 51:49 shareholders in Acreage Builders Private Limited.
36 A Max Estates Gurgaon Limited(MEGL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Max Estates Limited, has entered into 
a Joint Development Agreement for the development of land parcels. MEGL has paid to the land owners a 
sum of Rs. 4900 Lakhs as an interest free refundable security as per JDA.The security deposit is refundable 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 309
Financial Review
to the company as and when Revenue accrues in the hands of the land owners.
36B	(a) 	 The Company has executed a Share Purchase Agreement on June 04, 2022, for acquisition of 100% 
equity share capital of Max Estates 128 Private Limited (formerly Accord Hotels and Resorts Private 
Limited) for a total consideration of INR 30,600 lakhs. The ~10-acre land parcel will be used for the 
purpose of developing a mixed-use residential community.
(b) 	 The Company has executed a Share Purchase Agreement on September 06, 2022, for acquisition of 
100% equity share capital of Acreage Builders Private Limited for a total enterprise value of INR 32,500 
lakhs. The reason to acquire Acreage Builders Private Limited is to use its asset i.e. a 6.24 acre land 
with a license to develop commercial project over an area measuring 7.15 acres, located at Golf Course 
Extension Road, Gurugram. The potential leasable area of the commercial project is ~1.6 million sq. ft.
37	 Fair value of financial instruments
	
The comparison of carrying value and fair value of financial instruments by categories that are not measured 
at fair value:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Category
 
Carrying value
Fair value
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
Financial asset at amortized cost
 
 
 
 
 Non-Current
 
 
 
 
Financial assets (refer note no 5(iii))
 1,001.35 
 10.26 
 1,001.35 
 10.26 
 Current
 
 
 
 
Other-current financial assets (refer note 
no 9(v))
 4,665.46 
 1,268.01 
 4,665.46 
 1,268.01 
Financial asset measured at fair value
 
 
 
 
 Non-Current
 
 
 
 
 Investments (refer note no 5(i))
 5,363.17 
 - 
 5,363.17 
 - 
 Current
 
 
 
 
Current investments (refer note no 9(i))
 10,596.36 
 1,274.28 
 10,596.36 
 1,274.28 
Financial liabilities at amortized cost
 
 
 
 
Non-Current borrowings (refer note 13)
 75,081.26 
 28,335.38 
 75,081.26 
 28,335.38 
Current borrowings (refer note 17(i))
 7,358.04 
 3,176.68 
 7,358.04 
 3,176.68 
	
The Group’s management assessed that trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, 
loans and advances to related parties, interest receivable, trade payables, capital creditors and other 
current financial assets and liabilities are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short 
term nature.
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could 
be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The 
following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
	
Long-term fixed-rate borrowings are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates, 
specific country risk factors, individual creditworthiness of the customer and the risk characteristics of the 
financed project. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses 
of these receivables.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
310 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
The fair value of loan taken, other non current financial assets and other non current financial liabilities 
are estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, 
credit risk and remaining maturities. The valuation requires management to use observable inputs in the 
model, of which the significant observable inputs are market rate of interest which is 9-11% approximately. 
Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant observable 
inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
	
The fair value of investment in unquoted equity shares/ debt instruments and preference shares have been 
estimated using a discounted cash flow model. The valuation requires the management to make certain 
assumptions about the model inputs, including growth rate , discount rate etc. The probabilities of the 
various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s estimate of 
fair value for these unquoted investments
	
The Group has investment in quoted mutual funds being valued at quoted market price in active markets.
	
The fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using DCF method using 
discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-
performance risk as at March 31, 2023 was assessed to be insignificant.
	
Fair value hierarchy
	
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments 
by valuation technique:
	
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
	
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are 
observable, either directly or indirectly
	
Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not 
based on observable market data
(i) 	 Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on March 31, 2023
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying 
value 
March 31, 
2023
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Other non-current financial assets
(refer note no 5(iii))
 1,001.35 
 - 
 - 
 1,001.35 
Other-current financial assets
(refer note no 9(v))
 4,665.46 
 - 
 - 
 4,665.46 
Non-Current investments (refer note no 5(i))
 5,363.17 
 - 
 - 
 5,363.17 
Current investments (refer note no 9(i))
 10,596.36 
 10,596.36 
 - 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 311
Financial Review
(ii) 	 Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial assets as on March 31, 
2022#
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 
2022# 
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Other non-current financial assets 
(refer note no 5(iii))
 10.26 
 - 
 - 
 10.26 
Other-current financial assets 
(refer note no 9(v))
 1,268.01 
 - 
 - 
 1,268.01 
Current investments (refer note no 
9(i))
 1,274.28 
 1,274.28 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on March 31, 
2023
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Carrying value 
March 31, 2023 
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current borrowings including 
current maturities (refer note 13)
 75,081.26 
 - 
 - 
 75,081.26 
Current borrowings (refer note 
17(i))
 7,358.04 
 - 
 - 
 7,358.04 
(iv) Quantitative disclosure of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial liabilities as on March 31, 
2022#
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 
Carrying value 
March 31, 
2022# 
Fair value
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Non-Current borrowings including 
current maturities (refer note 13)
 28,335.38 
 - 
 - 
 28,335.38 
Current borrowings (refer note 
17(i))
 3,176.68 
 - 
 - 
 3,176.68 
	
Reconciliation of fair value measurement of investment in unquoted equity shares/debentures/preference 
shares/venture capital fund measured at FVTPL: (Level III)
Particulars 
(Rs. In Lakhs)
As at April 1, 2021
 - 
Purchase 
 - 
Sales 
 - 
As at March 31, 2022#
 - 
Add: Merger adjustment
 17,136.64 
Purchase
 448.92 
Sales
 (7.43)
Sales of remaining stake in MSFL (Refer Note 28)
 (12,214.97)
As at March 31, 2023
 5,363.16 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
312 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement categorised with Level 3 of the fair 
value hierarchy together with quantitative sensitivity analysis as on March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
	
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation:
Particulars
Valuation 
technique
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Increase/
decrease in 
rate
March 31, 2023
March 31, 2022#
Unquoted 
preference 
shares and 
equity shares 
of Azure 
Hospitality 
Private Limited
DCF
Discount rate
1% Increase in Discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit lower by Rs. 
644.44 lakhs and 
decrease in discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit higher by Rs. 
712.45 lakhs
Increase in Discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit lower by Rs. 
644.44 lakhs and 
decrease in discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit higher by Rs. 
712.45 lakhs
Unquoted 
preference 
shares and 
equity shares 
of Azure 
Hospitality 
Private Limited
DCF
Discount rate
1% Increase in Discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit lower by Rs. 
644.44 lakhs and 
decrease in discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit higher by Rs. 
712.45 lakhs
Increase in Discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit lower by Rs. 
644.44 lakhs and 
decrease in discount 
rate by 1% leads to 
profit higher by Rs. 
712.45 lakhs
	
The IAN Fund is a fund holding units in seed and early stage start-up companies and many of the such 
companies has recently started operations and Investment in Smart Joules Private Limited and Aliferous 
Technologies Private Limited has not undergone and significant change. The change in the valuation by 1% 
does not have material impact on the Group, hence not presented above separately.
	
# also refer note 46
38	 Financial risk management objectives and policies
	
The Group has instituted an overall risk management programme which also focuses on the unpredictability 
of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. 
Financial risk management is carried out by Finance department under policies approved by the Board 
of Directors from time to time. The Finance department, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close 
co-operation with the various stakeholders. The Board of Directors approves written principles for overall 
financial risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments.
	
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are managed pro-actively by 
the Senior Management of the Group, duly supported by various Groups and Committees.
a)	
Liquidity risk 
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become 
due. The Group employees prudent liquidity risk management practices which inter alia means 
maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed 
credit facilities. Given the nature of the underlying businesses, the corporate finance maintains 
flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines and this way liquidity risk 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 313
Financial Review
is mitigated by the availability of funds to cover future commitments. Cash flow forecasts are prepared 
and the utilized borrowing facilities are monitored on a daily basis and there is adequate focus on good 
management practices whereby the collections are managed efficiently. The Group while borrowing 
funds for large capital project, negotiates the repayment schedule in such a manner that these match 
with the generation of cash on such investment. Longer term cash flow forecasts are updated from 
time to time and reviewed by the Senior management of the Group.
	
The table below represents the maturity profile of Group’s financial liabilities at the end of March 31, 
2023 and March 31, 2022 based on contractual undiscounted payments:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
0-1 Years
1-5 Years
More than 5 
Years
Total
March 31, 2022#
Interest bearing borrowings
 3,176.68 
 28,335.38 
 - 
 31,512.06 
Trade payable
 997.48 
 - 
 - 
 997.48 
Other financial liabilities
 762.99 
 - 
 - 
 762.99 
March 31, 2023
Interest bearing borrowings
 7,358.04 
 75,081.26 
 - 
 82,439.30 
Trade payable
 2,703.51 
 - 
 - 
 2,703.51 
Other financial liabilities
 1,655.24 
 - 
 - 
 1,655.24 
Interest bearing borrowings
Excludes interest cash outflow as borrowings are on floating rate of interest.
Reconciliation of interest bearing borrowings
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Note no
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022#
(i) Non-Current borrowings
13
 75,065.32 
 28,319.44 
(ii) Short-term borrowings
17 (i)
 7,358.04 
 3,176.68 
(iii) Current maturity of long term 
borrowings
17 (i)
 7,358.04 
 3,176.68 
Processing fees adjusted from 
borrowings
 15.94 
 15.94 
 89,797.35 
 34,688.73 
	
Reconciliation of other financial liability
Note no
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022#
Other financial liabilities
17 (i)
 1,655.24 
 762.99 
 1,655.24 
 762.99 
b) 	 Credit risk
	
Credit Risk is the risk that the counter party will not meet its obligation under a financial instrument 
or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating 
activities (primarily trade receivables) , including deposits with banks, foreign exchange transactions 
and other financial assets.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
314 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(i) 	 Trade receivables
	
Customer credit risk is managed subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. Management evaluate credit risk relating to customers 
on an ongoing basis. Receivable control management team assesses the credit quality of the 
customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. Outstanding 
customer receivables are regularly monitored . An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting 
date on group\category basis. The calculation is based on historical data and available facts as on 
date of evaluation. Trade receivables comprise a widespread customer base. The Group evaluates the 
concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in across 
and industries and operate in largely independent markets.
(ii)	 Financial instruments and cash deposit
	
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury 
department in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made in bank 
deposits and other risk free securities. The limits are set to minimize the concentration of risks and 
therefore mitigate financial loss through counter party’s potential failure to make payments. Credit 
limits of all authorities are reviewed by the management on regular basis. All balances with banks and 
financial institutions is subject to low credit risk due to good credit ratings assigned to the Group.
	
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 
2023, March 31, 2022 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in note 5 and 9.
c) 	 Market risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market prices. Market risks comprises three types of risk: currency rate risk, interest rate risk 
and other price risks, such as equity price risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected 
by market risks include loans and borrowings, deposits, investments and foreign currency receivables and 
payables. The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position as at March 31, 2023 and 
March 31, 2022. The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on; the carrying values 
of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities. 
The sensitivity of the relevant Profit and Loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in the respective 
market risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held as of March 31, 2023, and 
March 31, 2022.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
# also refer note 46		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 315
Financial Review
38A	Disclosure pursuant to amendment to Ind AS 7 (Statement of Cash flows)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
 Opening 
balance 
April 1, 
2022 
Cash flows
Non-cash transactions
Closing 
balance 
March 31, 
2023
Proceeds
Repayment Processing 
cost
New 
leases
Merger 
Adjustment
Term loans from banks
24,364.08  81,449.29 
(38,960.63)
 (807.31)
 - 
 1,256.32  67,301.75 
Vehicle loans
 31.34 
 21.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (22.32)
 30.19 
Short term borrowings
 3,176.68 
 6,856.75 
 - 
 (8.39)
 -  (2,667.00)
 7,358.04 
Current lease liabilities
 - 
 103.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 133.40 
 236.66 
Non-current lease 
liabilities
 - 
 783.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,705.11 
 3,488.11 
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
 27,572.10  89,213.47 (38,960.63)
 (815.70)
 -  1,405.52  78,414.75 
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Opening 
balance 
April 1, 
2021 
Cash flows
Non-cash transactions
Closing 
balance 
March 31, 
2022#
Proceeds Repayment
Processing 
cost
New 
leases
Merger 
Adjustment
Term loans from banks
14,979.25 
 12,181.54 
 2,796.71 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24,364.08 
Vehicle loans
 38.68 
 - 
 7.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 31.34 
Short term borrowings
 2,284.04 
 892.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,176.68 
Current lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Non-current lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total liabilities from financing 
activities
 17,301.97  13,074.18 
 2,804.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27,572.10 
# also refer note 46
39	 Related party disclosures
Key management personnel 
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (Director)
Mr. Sahil Vachani (Managing Director)
Mr. Nitin Kumar Kansal (Chief Financial Officer)
Other Non-Executive/ Independent 
Directors
Mr. Analjit Singh (Director)
Mr. Rishi Raj
Mr. Ankit Jain
Ms. Kiran Sharma
Mr. Niten Malhan 
Relatives of Key Management personnel
Ms. Piya Singh (Daughter of Mr.Analjit Singh - Director)
Entities controlled or jointly controlled 
by person or entities where person has 
significantly influence
Piveta Estates Private Limited
Siva Realty Ventures Private Limited
Max Life Insurance Company Limited
Antara Senior Living Limted
Antara Purukul Senior Living Limited
Max India Limited
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
316 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
Max India Foundation
Max Financial Services Limited
Max I Limited*
Max Ventures and Industries Limited*
Max Asset Services Limited*
Riga Foods LLP
M/s Analjit Singh (HUF)
Trophy Estates Private Limited
Max Ateev Limited
New York Life Insurance Company 
RV Legal
Topline Electronics Private Limited
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
Max Ventures Investment Holding Private Limited
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
Vanavastra Private Limited
Max One Distribution And Services Limited
Max Skill First Limited
Max Learning Ventures Limited
Routes 2 Roots
Antara Care Homes Limited
Employee benefit Trust 
Max Financial Services Limited Employees’ Provident Fund 
Trust
Max Speciality Films Limited Employees Group 
Superannuation Trust
*till March 31, 2022
39	 (a)	Details of transactions and balance outstanding with related parties
(Rs. in Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reimbursement of 
expenses (Paid to)
New Delhi House Services Limited
 5.56 
 - 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 10.33 
 - 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 8.85 
 - 
RIGA Foods LLP
 17.13 
 - 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 32.99 
RV Legal
 1.50 
 - 
Nitin Kumar
 0.13 
 - 
Kiran Sharma
 1.20 
 - 
Total
 44.70 
 32.99 
2
 
 
Income from 
shared services
Antara Senior Living Limited
 - 
 125.85 
Max India Limited
 50.00 
 - 
Total
 50.00 
 125.85 
3
 
Insurance expense
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 - 
 21.33 
Total
 - 
 21.33 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 317
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
4
 
 
 
Rent expense (Paid 
to)
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 60.00 
 - 
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
 37.44 
 - 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 447.48 
 256.10 
Total
 544.92 
 256.10 
5
 
Expenditure on 
corporate social 
responsibility
Max India Foundation
 20.00 
 - 
Total
 20.00 
 - 
6
 
Contribution to 
employee benefit 
trust
Max Financial Services Limited 
Employees’ Provident Fund Trust
 65.38 
 - 
Total
 65.38 
 - 
7
 
 
 
Key managerial 
remuneration 
- Short term 
employement 
benefits
Sahil Vachani
 153.09 
 - 
Nitin Kumar Kansal 
 76.94 
 - 
Ankit Jain 
 34.09 
 - 
Total
 264.12 
 - 
8
 
 
 
Key managerial 
remuneration - 
Post employement 
benefits*
Sahil Vachani
 7.88 
 - 
Nitin Kumar Kansal 
 5.04 
 - 
Ankit Jain 
 1.49 
 - 
Total
 14.41 
 - 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
Directors' sitting 
fees paid to 
Directors of 
Holding Company
Analjit Singh
 6.00 
 - 
K.N Murthy
 11.00 
 - 
D.K Mittal
 19.00 
 - 
Gauri Padmanabhan
 14.00 
 - 
Kiran Sharma
 0.45 
 - 
Niten Malhan
 17.00 
 - 
Total
 67.45 
 - 
10
 
 
Repair & 
Maintenance
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 17.95 
 - 
New Delhi House Services Limited
 44.35 
 - 
Total
 62.30 
 - 
11
 
CCD interest Paid
New York Life Insurance Company 
 766.92 
 686.19 
Total
 766.92 
 686.19 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
Security deposit 
(received)
Routes 2 Roots
 - 
 0.40 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 0.90 
Max Learning Ventures Private 
Limited
 - 
 23.87 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 7.87 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 5.03 
 - 
Max India Limited
 17.58 
 - 
Total
 30.48 
 25.17 
13
 
Security deposit 
(given)
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 76.41 
 - 
Total
 76.41 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
318 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
14
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from 
Auditorium Rental 
and Food Charges
Antara Senior Living Limited
 8.07 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 0.34 
 - 
Max India Limited
 0.34 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 0.26 
 - 
Max Speciality Films Limited
 0.25 
 - 
Total
 9.26 
 - 
15
 
 
 
Revenue from 
Extra Hours 
Operation Charges
Antara Senior Living Limited
 0.45 
 - 
Max India Limited
 0.26 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 0.10 
 - 
Total
 0.81 
 - 
16
 
Management Fee
Analjit Singh 
 225.00 
 
Total
 225.00 
 - 
17
Revenue from 
Lease Rent
Antara Care Homes Limited
 0.66 
 - 
 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 1.32 
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Ateev Limited
Max Learning Ventures Limited
Max Skill First Limited
Siva Realty Ventures Private 
Limited
Total
 0.20 
 - 
 0.24 
 - 
 0.66 
 - 
 66.00 
 - 
 69.08 
 - 
18
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from 
Maintenance 
Charges
Antara Senior Living Limited
 29.74 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 22.59 
 - 
Max India Limited
 31.49 
 - 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 6.23 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 4.54 
 - 
Total
 94.59 
 - 
19
 
 
 
 
Revenue from 
Rental
 
Topline Electronics Private Limited
 42.23 
 - 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 5.20 
 - 
RIGA Foods LLP
 21.50 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 23.57 
 - 
Total
 92.50 
 - 
20
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from DG 
Charges
Antara Senior Living Limited
 0.43 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 0.40 
 - 
Max India Limited
 1.54 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 0.17 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 0.18 
 - 
Total
 2.72 
 - 
21
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from 
Electricity Charges
Antara Senior Living Limited
 6.48 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 4.94 
 - 
Max India Limited
 4.94 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 3.26 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 2.78 
 - 
Total
 22.40 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 319
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenue from 
Miscellaneous 
Charges 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 0.37 
 - 
Max India Limited
 0.01 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 0.01 
 - 
Riga Foods LLP
 0.55 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 0.02 
 - 
Total
 0.96 
 - 
23
 
 
 
 Revenue from 
Other Charges 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 58.90 
 - 
Vanavastra Private Limited
 - 
 8.97 
Routes 2 Roots
 1.17 
 1.08 
Total
 60.07 
 10.05 
24
 
 Issue of 
Compulsory 
Convertible 
Debentures 
New York Life Insurance Company 
 5,390.47 
 - 
Total
 5,390.47 
 - 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reimbursement of 
expenses (Paid to) 
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 127.85 
Max Life Insurance Co. Limited
 - 
 2.43 
Antara Purukul Senior Living 
Limited
 - 
 0.10 
Max Towers Private Limited
 - 
 2.33 
New Delhi House Services Limited
 - 
 3.98 
Mr Saket Gupta
 - 
 0.01 
RIGA Foods LLP
 - 
 0.32 
Mr. Rishiraj
 - 
 0.99 
Mr. Nitin Kumar
 - 
 0.01 
Total
 - 
 138.03 
26
 
Shared Services 
charges (paid to) 
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 389.91 
Total
 - 
 389.91 
27
 
Performace 
Guarentee 
Received
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 86.68 
Total
 - 
 86.68 
28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rent received
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 78.43 
Antara Senior Living Limted
 - 
 5.20 
Routes to roots
 - 
 20.75 
Max Ateev Limited
 - 
 0.22 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 - 
 1.44 
Max Skill First Limited
 - 
 0.72 
Max Learning Ventures
 - 
 0.72 
Antara Care Homes Limited
 - 
 0.72 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 77.50 
Siva Realty Ventures Private 
Limited
 - 
 0.08 
RIGA Foods LLP
 - 
 0.90 
Total
 - 
 186.68 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
320 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
S.No
Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2023
 
For the year ended
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue from 
Covid Vaccination 
Charges
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 0.29 
Max Ventures Private Limited
 - 
 0.03 
Routes to Roots
 - 
 0.43 
Max India Limited
 - 
 0.13 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 - 
 5.92 
Azure Hospitality Private Limited
 - 
 2.23 
Antara Senior Living Limted
 - 
 0.67 
Antara Assisted Care Services 
Limited
 - 
 0.51 
Max Financials Services Limited
 - 
 0.20 
Max India Foundation
 - 
 1.79 
Max Skill First Limited
 - 
 0.05 
New Delhi House Services Limited
 - 
 1.49 
Piveta Estates Private Limited
 - 
 0.04 
Max Speciality Films Limited
 - 
 0.09 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 1.82 
Sahil Vachani
 - 
 0.62 
Max Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited
 - 
 0.66 
Total
 - 
 16.97 
30
 
Loan repayment
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 1,685.00 
Total
 - 
 1,685.00 
31
 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Max India Foundation
 - 
 10.07 
Total
 - 
 10.07 
32
 
 
 
Brokerage Income
Trophy Estates Private Limited
 - 
 50.11 
Mr Analjit Singh
 - 
 58.48 
Analjit Singh HUF
 - 
 10.15 
Total
 - 
 118.74 
33
 
Project 
Management 
Consultancy 
(rendered to)
Max India Limited
 - 
 20.00 
Total
 - 
 20.00 
34
 
Guarantee Fees
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 26.61 
Total
 - 
 26.61 
35
 
Loan taken
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 1,092.00 
Total
 - 
 1,092.00 
36
 
Interest on 
Unsecured Loan 
(Paid to)
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 268.65 
Total
 - 
 268.65 
37
 
Issue of Equity 
Share Capital
New York Life Insurance Company 
 5,390.47 
 - 
Total
 5,390.47 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 321
Financial Review
39	 (b)	Balances outstanding at the year end
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
S.No Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
1
 
Statutory dues 
payable
 
Max Financial Services Limited 
Employees’ Provident Fund Trust 
 4.95 
 - 
Total
 4.95 
 - 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Ventures Private Limited
 3.19 
 - 
Piveta Estates Private Limited
 6.29 
 - 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 2.27 
 - 
Max One Distribution and Services 
Limited
 0.03 
 - 
Max Skill First Limited
 0.28 
 - 
Siva Realty Ventures Private 
Limited
 0.09 
 - 
RIGA Foods LLP
 3.53 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 2.34 
 1.93 
Max Ventures Investment Holdings 
Private Limited
 23.20 
 - 
Max One Distribution And Services 
Limited
 - 
 0.03 
Max Towers Private Limited
 - 
 18.19 
The Unstuffy Hotel Co Limited
 - 
 13.02 
Antara Senior Living Limted
 - 
 1.95 
Max Skill First Limited
 - 
 0.34 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 - 
 3.01 
Max India Limited
 - 
 23.60 
Trophy Estates Private Limited
 - 
 45.24 
Analjit Singh HUF
 - 
 9.17 
Siva Realty Ventures (P) Ltd.
 - 
 0.09 
Mr. Analjit Singh
 - 
 52.80 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 20.06 
 - 
Total
 61.28 
 169.39 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
322 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
S.No Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Receivables
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Piveta Estates Private Limited
 2.83 
 - 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 1.70 
 - 
Antara Care Homes Limited
 0.69 
 - 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 0.57 
 - 
Rishiraj
 2.50 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 0.28 
 - 
Max Ventures Private Limited
 5.46 
 - 
Max Square Limited
 - 
 16.82 
Antara Purukul Senior Living 
Limited
 0.36 
 - 
Siva Realty Ventures Private 
Limited
 0.07 
 - 
Total
 14.46 
 16.82 
4
 
 
Advance to party
 
 
Max India Foundation
 5.00 
 39.93 
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
 0.25 
 1.12 
Total
 5.25 
 41.05 
5
 
 
 
Security deposit 
made
SKA Diagnostics Private Limited
 15.00 
 12.50 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 244.30 
 167.89 
Delhi Guest House Private Limited
 9.38 
 15.00 
Total
 268.67 
 195.39 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Security deposit 
(receivable)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 7.87 
 - 
Vanavastra Private Limited
 18.11 
 10.59 
Routes 2 Roots
 5.40 
 3.94 
Topline Electronics Private Limited
 10.56 
 - 
Max Ventures Investment Holdings 
Private Limited
 1.58 
 - 
Max India Limited
 7.87 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 5.03 
 - 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 23.87 
 - 
Total
 80.29 
 14.53 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 323
Financial Review
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
S.No Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade payables
Max India Limited
 60.50 
 - 
Max Skill First Limited
 0.25 
 - 
Vana Enterprises Limited
 1.91 
 - 
Max Financial Services Limited
 34.83 
 - 
Antara Senior Living Limited
 2.08 
 - 
Antara Purukul Senior Living 
Limited
 - 
 0.36 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 20.02 
Antara Assisted Care Services Ltd
 - 
 0.13 
New Delhi House Services Ltd.
 - 
 0.48 
Max Life Insurance Company 
Limited
 - 
 91.78 
Vana Retreats Pvt. Ltd.
 - 
 1.91 
Max Skill First Limited
 - 
 0.18 
Max Learning Ventures Limited
 2.27 
 - 
Gauri Padmanabhan
 1.80 
 - 
RIGA Foods LLP
 0.64 
 - 
Routes 2 Roots
 0.90 
 - 
Total
 105.18 
 114.86 
8
 
Compulsorily 
convertible 
debentures
New York Life Insurance Company 
 5,116.97 
 3,430.96 
Total
 5,116.97 
 3,430.96 
9
 
Equity Share 
Capital Issued
 
New York Life Insurance Company 
 539.05 
 3,430.96 
Total
 539.05 
 3,430.96 
10
 
 
Loan Receivables
 
 
Max Towers Private Limited
 - 
 187.55 
Pharmax Corporation Limited
 - 
 3,159.22 
Total
 - 
 3,346.77 
11
 
Guarantee Fees
 
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 
144.29
Total
 - 
 144.29 
12
 
 
 
Security Deposit 
(Received)
 
 
 
Max Asset Services Limited
 - 
 414.38 
Routes 2 roots
 - 
 4.38 
Max Learning Ventures Private 
Limited
 - 
 23.87 
Total
 - 
 442.63 
13
 
Loan outstanding
 
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 2,667.00 
Total
 - 
 2,667.00 
14
 
Compulsorily 
convertible 
debentures
 
Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited
 - 
 57,164.00 
Total
 - 
 57,164.00 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
324 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
 (Rs. in Lakhs) 
S.No Nature of 
transaction
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2023
 
 As at 
March 31, 2022
 (also refer note 46) 
15
Interest accrued 
but not due on 
CCD
New York Life Insurance Company 
 1,848.35 
 1,190.50 
 
 
Total
 1,848.35 
 1,190.50 
40	 Expenditure on corporate social responsibility activities :
	
As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, a corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee has 
been framed by the Group. The areas for CSR activities are promoting preventive health care, promoting 
education, promoting gender equality and empowering women, ensuring environment sustainability and 
protection of flora and fauna, training to promote rural sports and rural development projects.
	
Amount required to be spent during the year Rs. 39.79 lakhs (March 31, 2022#: Rs. 10.02 lakhs)
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Sr. 
No.
 Particulars 
For the year ended  
March 31, 2023
For the year ended 
March 31, 2022#
In cash Yet to be 
paid 
in cash
Total 
In cash Yet to be 
paid 
in cash
Total 
i)
 Construction/acquisition of 
any asset 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ii)
 On purposes other than (i) 
above : 
 a) Promoting education 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 b) Ensuring environment 
sustainability and 
 protection of flora and fauna 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 c) Health care services 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 d) Rural development 
projects 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 e) Training to promote rural 
sports 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 f) Promoting gender equality 
and empowering
 women 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 g) Contribution to skill 
development programms 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 h) Others 
 39.79 
 - 
 39.79 
 10.07 
 - 
 10.07 
Total
 39.79 
 - 
 39.79 
 10.07 
 - 
 10.07 
There are no ongoing projects as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022#.
# also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 325
Financial Review
41	 Segment reporting
	
For management purposes, based on the guiding principles given in IND AS 108 on “Operating Segments” 
the Group’s business segments include real estate and allied businesses . During the current period, 
the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) of the Company has re-assessed the business segments, 
whereby Real Estate, Facility Management and Business Investments have been combined as “Real Estate 
& Others”. This was primarily driven by the fact that all these three segments were related to Real estate 
activities. 
	
The Management reviews the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making 
decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated 
based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolidated financial 
statements. Also, the Group’s financing (including finance costs and finance income) and income taxes are 
managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
	
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions 
with third parties.
PARTICULARS 
Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Audited 
31.03.2022 #
Unaudited 
A. Segment Revenue 
Real Estate & Others 
10,734.20
6,928.87
Revenue 
10,734.20
6,928.87
B. Segment Results 
Profit before finance cost and tax from each segment 
Real Estate & Others 
4,070.07
2,462.00
Total 
4,070.07
2,462.00
Less: adjustments: 
Finance cost 
1,861.87
1,616.92
Profit before tax 
2,208.20
845.08
C. Segment Assets 
Real Estate & Others 
220,571.72
101,700.80
Total 
220,571.72
101,700.80
Unallocated assets 
1998.45
837.16
Total 
222,570.17
102,537.96
D. Segment Liabilities (including borrowings) 
Real Estate & Others 
96,248.04
37,836.77
Total 
96,248.04
37,836.77
Unallocated liabilities (excluding Non-controlling interest) 
1,083.41
391.19
Total 
97,331.45
38,227.96
	
Adjustments and eliminations
	
Finance income and costs, and fair value gains and losses on financial assets are not allocated to individual 
segments as the underlying instruments are managed on a Group basis. Current taxes, deferred taxes and 
certain financial assets and liabilities are not allocated to those segments as they are also managed on a 
group basis. Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets 
and investment properties including assets from the acquisition of subsidiaries. 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
326 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
The following table shows the distribution of the Group’s consolidated revenue by geographical market, 
regardless of where the goods were produced.
	
Gross Revenue
(Rs. in Lakhs)
For year ended 
March 31, 2023
For year ended 
March 31, 2022#
i. within India
 10,734.20 
 6,928.87 
ii. Outside India
 - 
 - 
 10,734.20 
 6,928.87 
	
The revenue from external customers does not include revenue from any one customer which is equal to 
10% or more of entity’s revenue.
	
Trade receivables
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at
 March 31, 2023
As at
 March 31, 2022#
 i. within India 
 1,546.67 
 257.09 
 ii. Outside India 
 - 
 - 
 Total Trade receivables (Gross) 
 1,546.67 
 257.09 
 Less: Provision for doubtful receivables 
 - 
 - 
 Trade receivables 
 1,546.67 
 257.09 
	
The Group has common property, plant and equipment (PPE) for manufacturing goods for domestic market 
and overseas market. Hence, separate figures for PPE/additions to PPE cannot be furnished.
b)	
Non-current assets other than investments, tax assets, net defined benefit assets (relating to post-
employment benefit plans), and rights arising under insurance contracts:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at
 March 31, 2023
As at
 March 31, 2022#
i. within India
 151,046.68 
 91,690.39 
ii. outside India
 - 
 - 
 151,046.68 
 91,690.39 
# also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 327
Financial Review
42 	 Material partly owned subsidiaries
	
All the subsidiaries are incorporated in India. The financial information of subsidiaries that have material 
non-controlling interests as at March 31, 2023 is provided below:
a) 	 Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests:
Particulars
Max Square Limited
Pharmax Corporation Limited
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 2023
March 31, 
2022#
Proportion of equity interest held by 
non-controlling interests
49.00%
49.00%
 - 
14.83%
b)	 Information regarding non-controlling interest
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Max Square 
Limited
Pharmax 
Corporation 
Limited
Total
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 
2022#
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 
2022#
March 
31, 2023
March 
31, 
2022#
Accumulated balances of non-
controlling interest
 4,266.94 
 1,210.15 
 - 
 2,213.12  4,266.94  3,423.27 
Total Comprehensive income 
allocated to non-controlling interest
 (54.79)
 (7.73)
 - 
 0.04 
 (54.79)
 (7.70)
	
The summarised financial information of the subsidiaries is provided below. This information is based 
on amounts before inter-company eliminations.
	
Summarised statement of profit and loss for the year ended March 31, 2023 and March 31,2022#:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Max Square Limited
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
Revenue (including other 
incomes)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 367.39 
 - 
 367.39 
Total expenses
 111.80 
 33.04 
 - 
 319.06 
 111.80 
 352.09 
Profit before tax
 (111.80)
 (33.04)
 - 
 48.33 
 (111.80)
 15.29 
Less: Tax expense
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Profit for the year
 (111.80)
 (33.04)
 - 
 48.33 
 (111.80)
 15.29 
Add/(Less): Other 
Comprehensive Income/
loss
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive 
income
 (111.80)
 (33.04)
 - 
 48.33 
 (111.80)
 15.29 
Attributable to non-
controlling interests 
 (54.79)
 (7.69)
 - 
 0.04 
 (54.79)
 (7.65)
Dividends paid to non-
controlling interests
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
328 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
Summarised balance sheet as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022#
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Max Square Limited
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
Current assets, including 
cash and cash equivalents 
 1,439.18 
 727.64 
 - 
 2,047.01 
 1,439.18 
 2,774.64 
Non-current assets
 47,523.61 
 29,394.72 
 - 
 4,911.52 
 47,523.61  34,306.23 
Current liabilities, including 
tax payable 
 807.67 
 699.26 
 - 
 3,402.80 
 807.67 
 4,102.06 
Non-current liabilities, 
including deferred tax 
liabilities 
 33,890.74  22,400.43 
 - 
 1,342.61 
 33,890.74 
 23,743.04 
Total equity
 14,264.40 
 7,022.67 
 - 
 2,213.12  14,264.40 
 9,235.78 
Attributable to:
 - 
Equity holders of parent
 9,997.46 
 3,581.56 
 - 
 328.21 
 9,997.46 
 3,909.76 
Non-controlling interest
 4,266.94 
 1,538.36 
 - 
 1,884.91 
 4,266.94 
 3,423.27 
	
Summarised cash flow information as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022#
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Particulars
Max Square Limited
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
Total
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2022#
Operating 
 (2,286.22)
 1,533.07 
 - 
 (56.95)
 (2,286.22)
 1,476.12 
Investing 
 (11,962.75)  (11,468.47)
 -  (2,725.39)
 (11,962.75)
 (14,193.86)
Financing 
 1,036.76 
 9,919.36 
 - 
 2,813.36 
 1,036.76 
 12,732.73 
Net increase in cash and 
cash equivalents
 1,003.67 
 (16.04)
 - 
 31.02 
 1,003.67 
 14.98 
	
During the year, the subsidiary company Pharmax Corporation Limited has reduced its capital and paid 
back the money to non-controlling interest shareholders.
	
# also refer note 46
43 	 Capital Management
	
For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital attributable 
to the equity shareholders of the Group, securities premium and all other equity reserves. The primary 
objective of the Group’s capital management is that it maintain an efficient capital structure and maximize 
the shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes 
in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, The Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders 
or issue new shares. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total 
capital plus net debt. The Group’s policy is to keep the gearing ratio between 30% to 60%. The Group 
includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash and 
cash equivalents, other bank balances.
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 329
Financial Review
(Rs. in Lakhs)
As at
March 31, 2023
As at
March 31, 2022#
Borrowings
 82,439.30 
 31,512.06 
Other financial liabilities
 6,192.09 
 4,505.95 
Trade payables
 2,703.51 
 997.48 
Less: Cash and Cash equivalents
 1,762.70 
 272.20 
 Other bank balances
 3,375.66 
 4,576.66 
Net debt
 86,196.54 
 32,166.63 
Equity share capital
 - 
 7,791.00 
Other equity
 106,410.14 
 53,095.73 
Non-controlling interest
 4,266.94 
 3,423.27 
Total equity
 110,677.08 
 64,310.00 
Total capital and net debt
 196,873.62 
 96,476.63 
Gearing ratio
43.78%
33.34%
# also refer note 46
44 	 Additional disclosures:
	
As at and for the year ended March 31, 2023:
Name of the entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit/(loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
Share in total income
As % of 
consoli-
dated net 
assets
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of 
consol-
idated 
profit/
(loss)
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
other com-
prehensive 
income
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of 
consoli-
dated total 
compre-
hensive 
income
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of to-
tal income
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
Parent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Estates Limited
183.55%
230,155.66 
168.34%
 3,109.09 
100.00%
 0.01 
168.36%
 3,109.10 
 5,166.49 
39.36%
Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max I. Limited
1.69%
 2,118.04 
(3.48%)
 (64.22)
0.00%
 - 
-3.48%
 (64.22)
 17.77 
0.14%
Max Square Limited
11.38%
 14,264.40 
(6.05%)
 (111.81)
0.00%
 - 
-6.05%
 (111.81)
 - 
0.00%
Pharmax Corporation Limited
1.28%
 1,610.89 
16.09%
 297.17 
0.00%
 - 
16.09%
 297.17 
 754.34 
5.75%
Max Asset Services Limited
2.06%
 2,582.79 
5.10%
 94.20 
0.00%
 - 
5.10%
 94.20 
 3,794.57 
28.90%
Max Towers Private Limited 
8.09%
 10,149.81 
16.81%
 310.41 
0.00%
 - 
16.81%
 310.41 
 3,591.68 
27.36%
Max Estates 128 Private Limited 
(w.e.f. June 17, 2022)
0.67%
 834.84 
(7.50%)
 (138.43)
0.00%
 - 
-7.50%
 (138.43)
 - 
0.00%
Mas Estates Gurgaon Limited 
(w.e.f. September 05, 2022)
0.01%
 9.94 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
 - 
0.00%
Acreage Builders Private 
Limited (w.e.f. October 27, 
2022)
16.26%
 20,385.80 
(0.20%)
 (3.78)
0.00%
 - 
-0.20%
 (3.78)
 - 
0.00%
Non controlling interests in 
all subsidiaries
3.40%
 4,266.94 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
 - 
0.00%
Eliminations
(128.40%)  (160,991.68)
(89.13%)
 (1,645.93)
0.00%
 - 
-89.13%
 (1,645.93)
 (197.02)
(1.50%)
 
100.00%
 125,387.44 
100.00%
 1,846.70 
100.00%
 0.01 
100.00%
 1,846.71 
 13,127.83 
100.00%
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
330 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
	
As at and for the year ended March 31, 2022#:
Name of the entity in the 
Group
Net Assets i.e. total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit/(loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
Share in total income
As % of 
consoli-
dated net 
assets
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of 
consolidat-
ed profit/
(loss)
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of 
consolidated 
other com-
prehensive 
income
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of con-
solidated 
total com-
prehensive 
income
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
As % of total 
income
(Rs. in 
Lakhs)
Parent
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Estates Limited
94.08%
 60,504.83 
108.64%
 534.73 
100.00%
 2.94 
108.59%
 537.67 
 4,947.71 
66.92%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Max Square Limited
10.90%
 7,009.42 
(6.71%)
 (33.05)
0.00%
 - 
(6.67%)
 (33.05)
 - 
0.00%
Pharmax Corporation 
Limited
3.44%
 2,215.36 
10.27%
 50.57 
0.00%
 - 
10.21%
 50.57 
 375.61 
5.08%
Max Towers Private 
Limited 
53.34%
 34,305.48 
143.24%
 705.04 
0.00%
 - 
142.39%
 705.04 
 3,161.21 
42.76%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 
 
 
Non controlling interests 
in all subsidiaries
5.32%
 3,423.27 
(1.56%)
 (7.69)
0.00%
 - 
(1.55%)
 (7.69)
 - 
0.00%
Eliminations
(67.09%)
 (43,148.36)
(153.88%)
 (757.40)
0.00%
 - 
(152.97%)
 (757.40)
 (3,539.38)
(47.87%)
 
100.00%
 64,310.00 
100.00%
 492.20 
100.00%
 2.94 
100.00%
 495.14 
 7,393.47 
100.00%
45	 The Composite Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement (‘Scheme’) amongst Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited (‘Transferor Company’) and Max Estates Limited (‘Company’ or ‘Transferee Company’) 
and their respective shareholders and Creditors was filed during the year under the provisions of Section 
230 to 232 read with Section 66 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder. The Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chandigarh Bench (“Hon’ble NCLT”) vide 
its order dated July 03, 2023 approved the aforesaid Scheme. As per the Scheme, the merger of Transferor 
Company into Company has been accounted with effect from April 01, 2022 (‘Appointed Date’) to comply 
with the accounting treatment prescribed in the Scheme, which is in compliance with the MCA general 
circular no. 09/2019 dated August 21, 2019.
	
Being a common control business combination, Ind AS 103 Business Combinations requires the Company 
to account for business combination from the combination date (i.e., the date on which control has been 
transferred) or the earliest date presented in the financial statements, whichever is later.
	
Therefore, the comparative financial information for previous year ended March 31, 2022 has not been 
restated since the scheme of merger approved by the NCLT prevails over the applicable accounting 
requirements
	
Upon the coming into effect of this Scheme and in consideration of the transfer, 1 (one) equity shares of 
the face value of INR 10 each fully paid-up of the Company are required to be issued against every 1 (one) 
equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up held by the shareholders of the transferor company. Consequent 
to this, the Company shall issue 146,946,000 equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up for 146,946,000 
equity shares of INR 10 each fully paid-up of the transferor company.
	
These shares have been disclosed as ‘Share capital pending issuance’ as at March 31, 2023 and as at April 
01, 2022. 
	
# also refer note 46
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
Annual Report 2022-23 | 331
Financial Review
46	 Till the previous year ended March 31, 2022, the Company has not prepared and presented the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2022, since the Company availed the exemption 
prescribed under Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014 as amended. However, consequent to the merger as described in note 45, the Company has become 
holding Company of the group and accordingly has prepared its consolidated financial statements for the 
first time for the year ended March 31, 2023. To comply with the requirement of comparative information as 
per applicable accounting standards/ Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has prepared 
and presented the comparative information for the year ended March 31, 2022 in these financial statements 
which have been approved by the Board of Directors but these were not subjected to audit. Also refer to 
aforesaid note 45, which describes that comparative information of March 31, 2022 have not been restated 
while giving effect to the merger.
46.1 	Subsequent to the year end, one of the subsidiary company Max Estates 128 Private Limited (MEL 128) has 
achieved pre-formal launch sales of ~ INR 180,000 lakhs for its first luxury residential project, Estate 128.
47 	 Other statutory information
(i)  	 The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending 
against the Group for holding any Benami property.
(ii)  	The Group does not have any transactions with companies that are struck off.
(iii)	 The Group does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond 
the statutory period.
(iv)	 The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v) 	 The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vi) 	The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Funding Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group 
shall:
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries)
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(vii)	The Group has not made any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has 
been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(viii)	The borrowings obtained by the Group from banks and financial institutions have been applied for the 
purposes for which such loans were was taken.
(ix) 	The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Group is the lessee 
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2023
332 | Annual Report 2022-23
Financial Review
and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in Note 3 to the 
financial statements, are held in the name of the Group.
(x) 	 None of the entities in the group have been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution 
or government or any government authority.
(xi) 	The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
(xii)	The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on 
current or previous financial year except as mentioned in Note 45.
(xiii)	The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or 
intangible assets or both during the current or previous year.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of  
Max Estates Limited
For S.R. Batliboi & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration  
Number: 301003E/E300005
Dinesh Kumar Mittal
(Director)
DIN: 00040000
Sahil Vachani
(Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer)
DIN: 00761695
per Pravin Tulsyan
Partner
Membership Number: 108044
Nitin Kumar Kansal
(Chief Financial Officer)
Abhishek Mishra
 (Company Secretary) 
Place: Gurugram
Date: 18/08/2023
Place: Noida
Date: 18/08/2023
Max House (actual image)
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
Max Towers, L-15B, C-001/A/1, Sector - 16B, Noida - 201301 (U.P.)
Telephone: +91 120 4743 222 | www.maxestates.in
/MaxEstatesLtd
/@MaxEstates
/company/max-estates-ltd
/@MaxEstates
Annual Report 2022-23 | 1
NOTICE is hereby given that the Seventh Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) of the members of Max Estates Limited 
(‘the Company’) will be held on  Friday, December 22, 2023 
at 1600 hours (IST) through Video Conferencing (‘VC’) / 
Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’) to transact the following 
businesses: 
Ordinary Business:
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt: 
a.	
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company for the period ended March 31, 2023 and 
the Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors 
thereon; and
b.	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company for the period ended March 31, 2023. 
2.	
Appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution with or without modification(s), as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 139 and 142 and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), 
M/s. S. R. Batliboi & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, 
(Firm Registration No. 301003E/E300005) be and is 
hereby appointed as Statutory Auditors of the Company 
to hold office from the conclusion of this Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) till the conclusion of the 11th 
AGM of the Company to be held in the year 2027 at 
such remuneration plus applicable taxes, out of pocket 
expenses, etc., as may be mutually agreed between 
the Board of Directors (the term ‘Board of Directors’ 
includes any Committee of the Board constituted to 
exercise its powers, including the powers conferred by 
this resolution or any person authorized by the Board 
or its committee for such purpose) of the Company and 
the Statutory Auditors.”
Special Business:
3.	
Appointment of Mr. Analjit Singh (DIN: 00029641) as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and any other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) and 
Article of Association of the Company, Mr. Analjit Singh 
(DIN: 00029641) who was appointed as an Additional 
Director by the Board of Directors effective from July 31, 
2023 and whose term of office expires at this Annual 
General Meeting and in respect of whom a notice 
under Section 160 of the Act has been received from a 
member to propose Mr. Analjit Singh as a candidate for 
the office of Director, be and is hereby appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Company, liable to retire 
by rotation.”
4.	
Appointment of Mr. Sahil Vachani (DIN: 00761695) as 
Director of the Company  
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution: 
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and any other applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made 
MAX ESTATES LIMITED
(CIN: U70200PB2016PLC040200)
Registered Office: 419, Bhai Mohan Singh Nagar, Village Railmajra,  
Tehsil Balachaur, Dist. S.B.S. Nagar (Nawanshehr), Punjab – 144533, India
Corporate Office: Max Towers, L-15, C-001/A/1, Sector – 16B,  
Gautam Buddha Nagar, Noida – 201301, Uttar Pradesh, India
Tel: +91 120 474 3222; Website: www.maxestates.in
7th Annual General Meeting Notice
2 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) 
and provision contained in the Article of Association of 
the Company, Mr. Sahil Vachani (DIN: 00761695) who 
was appointed as an Additional Director by the Board 
of Directors effective from July 31, 2023, in accordance 
with the provision of Section 161 of Companies Act, 2013, 
and whose term of office expires at this Annual General 
Meeting and in respect of whom a notice under Section 
160 of the Act has been received from a member to 
propose Mr. Sahil Vachani as a candidate for the office 
of Director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director of 
the Company.”
5.	
Approval of compensation of Mr. Analjit Singh 
(DIN: 00029641), Chairman (Non-Executive) of the 
Company
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section  197, 198 and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made 
thereunder (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) read 
with Schedule V of the Act and Regulation 17(6)(ca) 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including 
any amendments, statutory modification(s) and/or re-
enactment thereof for the time being in force) and the 
Appointment Criteria, Qualification & Remuneration 
Policy of the Company and on the recommendation 
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of 
the Company and approval of the Board of Directors 
of the Company and such other approvals, consents, 
permissions and sanctions as may be necessary, the 
consent of the Members of the Company, be and is 
hereby accorded for payment of compensation of INR 
of Rs. 25,00,000/- per month, (Other than sitting fees 
and reimbursement of expenses payable for attending 
meetings of the Company) for the period from August 
1, 2023 to March 31, 2024 and which will be in excess of 
fifty percent of the total annual remuneration payable 
to all the Non-Executive Directors of the Company for 
the said period to Mr. Analjit Singh (DIN: 00029641), 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company and that the 
compensation shall be payable in such manner as the 
Board and/or a Committee thereof, may determine from 
time to time.”   
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
(the term ‘Board of Directors’ includes any Committee of 
the Board constituted to exercise its powers, including 
the powers conferred by this resolution or any person 
authorized by the Board or its committee for such 
purpose) of the Company, be and is hereby authorised 
to perform and execute all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, as may be deemed necessary, proper or 
expedient to give effect to this resolution and for the 
matters connected herewith or incidental hereto.”
6.	
Appointment of Mr. Sahil Vachani (DIN: 00761695) as 
the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO) of the Company 
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution: 
	
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the provisions 
of Sections 196, 197, 198 and 203 and other applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the 
rules made thereunder read with Schedule V of the 
Act (including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), and 
Regulation 17(6)(e) and applicable provisions, if any, of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations) (including 
any amendments, statutory modification(s) and/or re-
enactment thereof for the time being in force), subject 
to the approval of the Central Government, if required, 
and such other recommendations, approvals, sanctions 
if and when necessary, desirable and expedient in law, 
based on the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, 
the consent of the members of the Company be and 
is hereby accorded for the appointment of Mr. Sahil 
Vachani (DIN: 00761695) as the Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company for 
a period of five years effective August 1, 2023 up to July 
31, 2028, not liable to retire by rotation, upon the terms 
and conditions set out in the Explanatory Statement 
annexed to the Notice convening this meeting, with 
liberty to the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘the Board’ which term shall be deemed to include 
any Committee of the Board constituted to exercise 
its powers, including the powers conferred by this 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 3
Notice
resolution or any person authorized by the Board or its 
committee for such purpose) to alter, vary and modify 
the terms and conditions of the said appointment, in 
such manner as may be agreed upon by and between 
the Board and Mr. Sahil Vachani.  
	
RESOLVED 
FURTHER 
THAT, 
pursuant 
to 
the 
recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board of Directors, the remuneration 
payable to Mr. Sahil Vachani for the initial period of three 
years, i.e., from August 01, 2023, until July 31, 2026, shall 
not exceed INR 7,00,00,000/- (Rupees Seven Crores 
Only) per annum as broadly set out as under: 
(i)	 Fixed Pay including basic pay, Provident Fund, 
Gratuity, Flexi Pay Components (such as leave travel 
allowance, car lease rentals, fuel reimbursements, 
vehicle maintenance, driving services, medical 
reimbursements 
etc.) 
and 
special/ 
other 
allowances with the authority to the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee to determine and 
regulate the remuneration within the aforesaid 
limit, from time to time; and 
(ii)	 	Variable Pay/ Bonus to be in the range of 0-65% 
of Annual Fixed Pay based on Individual as well as 
Company’s performance and in accordance with 
the applicable Bonus Grid. The current applicable 
bonus grid is as follows: 
	
   G1-65%, G2-48.75%, G3-32.5%, G4-16.25%
	
The bonus grid is subject to review each year and 
can change at the discretion of the Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee and the Board of 
Directors based on market practices; and 
(iii)	 	Long Term Incentive Plan: As determined by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee from 
time to time. 
(iv)	 In addition to the remuneration and perquisites 
to be paid as aforesaid, and in accordance with 
the Company policy, Mr. Sahil Vachani shall be 
entitled to encashment of leave, Company Leased 
Accommodation and related expenses, housing 
loan as per company policy, personal accident 
insurance policy, health insurance (hospitalization) 
policy, travel insurance, Group Term Life Insurance, 
two club memberships and any other perquisite as 
per the policy/rules of the Company in force and/
or as may be approved by the Board/Committee, 
from time to time. The Company shall also provide 
the facility of mobile phones/other communication 
instruments, including telephones installed at his 
residence. 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to regulation 
17(6)(e) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the consent 
of the Members of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded for payment of remuneration to Mr. Sahil 
Vachani, Managing Director and CEO of the Company, 
even if the annual remuneration payable to Mr. Sahil 
Vachani may exceed INR 5 crores or 2.5 per cent 
of the profits of the Company (whichever is higher) 
individually and / or the aggregate annual remuneration 
to all Executive Directors exceeds 5 per cent of the net 
profits of the Company in any year during the tenure of 
his reappointment.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT if in any financial year, 
during the term of office of Mr. Sahil Vachani as 
Managing Director and CEO, the Company has in-
adequate profits as computed under the applicable 
provisions of the Act, he shall be entitled to receive 
the aforementioned remuneration as the minimum 
remuneration as provided under the Act.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Company or Mr. Sahil 
Vachani shall be entitled at any time to terminate this 
appointment by giving three months written notice or 
payment of fixed pay in lieu thereof.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company and/or its Committee thereof, be 
and is hereby authorized to regulate the payment of 
remuneration to Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director 
and CEO within the aforesaid limits, from time to time.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Mr. Sahil Vachani be 
and is hereby authorized to exercise such powers of 
management as may be delegated to him by the Board 
of Directors of the Company, from time to time, subject 
however, to the overall superintendence, control and 
direction of the Board/Chairman of the Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company be and is hereby authorized to do all such 
acts, deeds, matters and things and to take all such 
steps as may be necessary, proper or expedient to give 
effect to this resolution.”
4 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
7.	
Appointment of Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai (DIN: 
08748152) as a Non- Executive Director of the 
Company 
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
152, other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘Act’), the rules made thereunder (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force), and provisions contained in 
the Article of Association of the Company, Mr. Ka Luk 
Stanley Tai (DIN: 08748152) who was appointed as an 
Additional Director by the Board of Directors effective 
from July 31, 2023, in accordance with the provision of 
Section 161 of the Act, and whose term of office expires 
at this Annual General Meeting and in respect of whom 
a notice under Section 160 of the Act has been received 
from a member to propose Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai as a 
candidate for the office of Director of the Company, be 
and is hereby appointed as a Non-Executive Director of 
the Company, liable to retire by rotation.
8.	
Appointment of Mr. Niten Malhan (DIN: 00614624) as 
an Independent Director of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution with or without modification(s), as an 
Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 149, 150, 152, other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), the rules made 
thereunder read with Schedule IV of the Act, the 
applicable provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(SEBI Listing Regulations) (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force), the provisions contained in the Article of 
Association, and the Appointment Criteria, Qualification 
& Remuneration Policy of the Company, Mr. Niten 
Malhan (DIN: 00614624), who was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Independent) of the Company by 
the Board of Directors effective from July 31, 2023, and 
who holds office up to the date of this Annual General 
Meeting, in terms of Section 161 of the Act, and in 
respect of whom a notice under Section 160 of the Act 
has been received from a member proposing Mr. Niten 
Malhan as a candidate for the office of Director, be and 
is hereby appointed as a Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company to hold office for a term of 5 
(five) consecutive years, i.e., up to July 30, 2028, not 
liable to retirement by rotation.  
9.	
Appointment of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (DIN: 
00040000) as an Independent Director of the 
Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution with or without modification(s), as an Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
149, 150, 152, other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), the rules made thereunder read 
with Schedule IV of the Act, the applicable provisions of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations) (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force), the provisions contained in 
the Article of Association, and the Appointment Criteria, 
Qualification & Remuneration Policy of the Company, 
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal, who was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Independent) of the Company by 
the Board of Directors effective from July 31, 2023, and 
who holds office up to the date of this Annual General 
Meeting, in terms of Section 161 of the Act, and in respect 
of whom a notice under Section 160 of the Act has been 
received from a member proposing Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal as a candidate for the office of Director, be and 
is hereby appointed as a Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company to hold office for a term of 5 
(five) consecutive years, i.e., up to July 30, 2028, not liable 
to retirement by rotation.  
	
RESOLVED 
FURTHER 
THAT, 
pursuant 
to 
the 
provisions of Regulation 17(1A) and other applicable 
provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(including 
any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force), the approval of members of 
the Company be and is hereby granted for continuation 
of Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal (DIN: 00040000) as an 
Independent Director of the Company for a term of 
5 (five) consecutive years, i.e., up to July 30, 2028, 
notwithstanding that on January 25, 2028, he would 
attain the age of 75 years during the aforesaid tenure.” 
10.	 Appointment of Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan (DIN: 
01550668) as an Independent Director of the 
Company 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 5
Notice
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 149, 150, 152, other applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), the rules made 
thereunder read with Schedule IV of the Act, the 
applicable provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(SEBI Listing Regulations) (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the 
time being in force), the provisions contained in the 
Article of Association, and the Appointment Criteria, 
Qualification & Remuneration Policy of the Company, 
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan (DIN: 01550668), who was 
appointed as an Additional Director (Independent) of 
the Company by the Board of Directors effective from 
July 31, 2023, and who holds office up to the date of this 
Annual General Meeting, in terms of Section 161 of the 
Act, and in respect of whom a notice under Section 160 
of the Act has been received from a member proposing 
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan as a candidate for the office of 
Director, be and is hereby appointed as a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company to hold office for 
a term of 5 (five) consecutive years, i.e., up to July 30, 
2028, not liable to retirement by rotation.  
	
RESOLVED 
FURTHER 
THAT, 
pursuant 
to 
the 
provisions of Regulation 17(1A) and other applicable 
provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(including 
any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force), the approval of members of the 
Company be and is hereby granted for continuation of 
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan as an Independent Director of 
the Company for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years, 
i.e., up to July 30, 2028, notwithstanding that on October 
11, 2027 she would attain the age of 75 years during the 
aforesaid tenure.”
11.	 Approval of material related party transaction 
between Max Estates Gurgaon Limited, wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company and Antara Senior 
Living Limited, wholly owned subsidiary of Max India 
Limited
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Regulations 2(1)(zc), 
23(4) and other applicable regulations of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) 
read with the relevant rules framed thereunder (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof for the time being in force) and other applicable 
laws/ statutory provisions, if any, and the Company’s 
Policy on Related Party Transactions,  the approval 
of the shareholders of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded to the material related party contract(s)/ 
arrangement(s)/transaction(s) (whether by way of an 
individual transaction or transactions taken together 
or series of transactions or otherwise) to be entered 
into and/or carried out and/or continued  between two 
related parties of Max Estates Limited (‘Company’) i.e. 
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited (MEGL), a Wholly-owned 
Subsidiary of the Company  and Antara Senior Living 
Limited (ASLL), a Wholly-owned Subsidiary of Max 
India Limited, on material terms and conditions as set 
out in the explanatory statement to this resolution.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company (the term ‘Board of Directors’ includes 
any Committee of the Board constituted to exercise 
its powers, including the powers conferred by this 
resolution or any person authorized by the Board or 
its committee for such purpose) be and are hereby 
authorized to do all necessary acts, deeds, things and 
execute all such documents, undertaking as may be 
necessary in this regard from time to time to give effect 
to the above resolution.”
12.	 Approval for implementation of “Max Estates 
Employee Stock Option Plan 2023”
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT  in accordance with the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“MVIL” or 
“Transferor Company”) and Max Estates Limited 
(“MEL” or “Transferee Company”) and their respective 
shareholders and creditors (“Scheme”), effective from 
July 31, 2023 and in pursuant to the provisions of Section 
62(1)(b) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), 
6 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
the  provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021, (‘SEBI SBEB Regulations’), 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), the applicable 
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999, the rules and regulations framed thereunder 
and any rules, circulars, notifications, guidelines and 
regulations issued by Reserve Bank of India, as amended 
and enacted from time to time, the relevant provisions 
of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Company, and subject to such approvals, consents, 
permissions and sanctions as may be necessary and 
subject to such conditions and modifications as may 
be prescribed while granting such permissions and 
sanctions, the consent of the Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded for implementation of “Max 
Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023” (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘ESOP Plan 2023/Plan’), including by 
way of absorption of the 8,39,973 stock options held 
by eligible employees of erstwhile Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited and its subsidiaries under the 
previous Max Ventures and Industries Employee Stock 
Plan – 2016 pursuant to the Scheme of  Amalgamation 
and Arrangement amongst erstwhile Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited and Max Estates Limited and their 
respective shareholders and creditors (“Scheme of 
Arrangement”), which came into effect on July 31, 2023 
and authorising the Board of Directors of the Company 
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’, which term shall 
be deemed to include any Committee, including the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which the 
Board has constituted to exercise its powers including 
the powers conferred by this resolution and Regulation 
5 of the SEBI SBEB Regulations and SEBI Listing 
Regulations) to exercise its powers including the powers 
conferred by this resolution to adopt and implement 
the ESOP Plan 2023, the salient features of which are 
furnished in the Explanatory Statement.”
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT consent be and is hereby 
accorded to the Board to create, offer, issue, grant and 
allot from time to time, in one or more tranches, up to 
73,56,727 (Seventy Three Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand 
Seven Hundred Twenty Seven only)  employee stock 
options (‘Options’), including 8,39,973 Options granted 
under Max Ventures and Industries Employee Stock 
Plan – 2016 which are being carry forwarded, pursuant 
to the Scheme of Arrangement, to the eligible employees 
of the Company and/or group company(ies) including 
subsidiary company(ies) and/or associate company(ies) 
of the Company, exclusively working in India or outside 
other than employee who is a promoter or person 
belonging to the promoter group of the Company, 
Independent Directors and Director(s) holding directly 
or indirectly more than 10% of the outstanding equity 
shares of the Company, as determined in terms of the 
Plan, exercisable into not exceeding 73,56,727 (Seventy 
Three Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty 
Seven only) equity shares of the face value of INR 10 
(Rupees Ten only) each fully paid-up, where one (1) 
Option would convert into one (1) equity share upon 
exercise, on such terms and in such manner as the 
Board may decide in accordance with the provisions 
of the applicable laws and the provisions of ESOP Plan 
2023.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in terms of the Clause 19 
of the Scheme of Arrangement, the options granted by 
Max Estates Limited in its Board meeting held on July 
31, 2023 in the ratio of 1 (one) employee stock options of 
erstwhile Max Ventures and Industries Limited, in lieu of 
every 1 (one) stock option (whether vested or unvested) 
held by such eligible Employees under the previous Max 
Ventures and Industries Employee Stock Plan – 2016 in 
accordance with the Amalgamation Share Entitlement 
Ratio as mentioned under the Scheme be and is hereby 
ratified. 
Resolved Further That Max Estates Limited shall 
take into account the period for which the employees 
held stock options granted by erstwhile Max Ventures 
and Industries Limited for determining the minimum 
vesting period required for stock options granted under 
the present scheme.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorized to issue and allot equity shares of 
the Company directly to the Eligible Employees upon 
exercise of Options from time to time in accordance 
with the ESOP Plan 2023 and such equity shares shall 
rank pari-passu in all respects with the then existing 
equity shares of the Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case of any corporate 
action(s) such as rights issues, bonus issues, merger 
and sale of division or other re-organisation, split, 
change in capital structure of the Company, as 
applicable from time to time, if any additional Options 
are granted or equity shares are issued by the Company 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 7
Notice
to the grantees for the purpose of making a fair and 
reasonable adjustment to the Options granted earlier, 
the ceiling of total number of Options and equity shares 
specified above shall be deemed to be increased to 
the extent of such additional Options granted or equity 
shares issued.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in case the equity shares 
of the Company are either sub-divided or consolidated, 
then the number of equity shares to be allotted and the 
price of acquisition payable by the grantees under the 
Plan shall automatically stand reduced or augmented, 
as the case may be, in the same proportion as the face 
value per equity share shall bear to the revised face 
value of the equity shares of the Company after such 
subdivision or consolidation, without affecting any other 
rights or obligations of the employees who have been 
granted Options under the ESOP Plan 2023 and the 
ceiling in terms of number of shares specified above 
shall be deemed to be adjusted accordingly.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT without prejudice to the 
generality of the above, the Board be and is hereby 
authorized on behalf of the Company, to formulate, 
evolve, decide upon and implement the ESOP Plan 
2023, determine the detailed terms and conditions 
of the ESOP Plan 2023 including but not limited to 
the quantum of the Options to be granted per Eligible 
Employee, the number of Options to be granted in each 
tranche, the terms or combination of terms subject to 
which the said Options are to be granted, the exercise 
period, the vesting period, the vesting conditions, 
instances where such Options shall lapse and to grant 
such number of Options, to such Eligible Employees of 
the Company, at such price, at such time and on such 
terms and conditions as set out in the ESOP Plan 2023 
and as the Board may in its absolute discretion think fit.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee be designated as the 
Compensation 
Committee 
in 
accordance 
with 
Regulation 5(1) of the SEBI SBEB Regulations for the 
purposes of administration of ESOP Plan 2023.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorised to take requisite steps for listing of 
the equity shares allotted under the Plan on the stock 
exchanges where the equity shares of the Company are 
listed in due compliance with SEBI SBEB Regulations, 
SEBI Listing Regulations and other applicable laws.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Company shall 
conform to the accounting policies prescribed from 
time to time under the SEBI SBEB Regulations, 
Listing Regulations and any other applicable laws and 
regulations to the extent relevant and applicable to the 
Plan.”
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds and things, 
as it may, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary 
including authorising or directing to appoint merchant 
bankers, brokers, solicitors, registrars, compliance 
officer, investors service centre and other advisors, 
consultants or representatives, being incidental to the 
effective implementation and administration of the 
Plan as also to make applications to the appropriate 
authorities, parties and the institutions for their requisite 
approvals and all other documents required to be filed 
in the above connection and to settle all such questions, 
difficulties or doubts whatsoever which may arise and 
take all such steps and decisions in this regard.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is hereby 
authorised to modify, change, vary, alter, amend, suspend 
or terminate the Plan at any time subject to compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations and further subject 
to consent of the Members by way of a special resolution 
to the extent required under SEBI SBEB Regulations and 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may 
deem fit at its absolute discretion for such purpose and 
also to settle any issues, questions, difficulties or doubts 
that may arise in this regard and further to execute all such 
documents, writings and to give such directions and/or 
instructions as may be necessary or expedient to give 
effect to such modification, change, variation, alteration, 
amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan and 
do all other things incidental and ancillary thereto in 
conformity with the provisions of the Act, SEBI SBEB 
Regulations, the relevant provisions of the Memorandum 
and Articles of Association of the Company and any 
other applicable laws in force.”
13.	 Approval to extension and grant of Employee Stock 
Option to the eligible employees of the group 
company(ies), including subsidiary company(ies) 
and/or associate company(ies) (present or future) 
of the Company under “Max Estates Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023”.
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
8 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
“RESOLVED THAT  in accordance with the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“MVIL” or 
“Transferor Company”) and Max Estates Limited 
(“MEL” or “Transferee Company”) and their respective 
shareholders and creditors (“Scheme”), effective from 
July 31, 2023 and in pursuant to the provisions of Section 
62(1)(b) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) read with the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), 
the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021, (‘SEBI SBEB Regulations’), 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), the applicable 
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999, the rules and regulations framed thereunder 
and any rules, circulars, notifications, guidelines and 
regulations issued by Reserve Bank of India, as amended 
and enacted from time to time, the relevant provisions 
of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the 
Company, and subject to such approvals, consents, 
permissions and sanctions as may be necessary and 
subject to such conditions and modifications as may 
be prescribed while granting such permissions and 
sanctions, consent of the Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded to the Board of Directors 
of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’, 
which term shall be deemed to include any Committee, 
including the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
which the Board has constituted to exercise its powers 
including the powers conferred by this resolution and 
Regulation 5 of the SEBI SBEB Regulations and SEBI 
Listing Regulations) to extend the benefit and coverage 
and to offer, issue, grant and allot from time to time, 
in one or more tranches, employee stock options 
(‘Options’) under ‘Max Estates Limited Employee Stock 
Option Plan 2023’ (‘ESOP Plan 2023) to the eligible 
employees of group company(ies) including subsidiary 
company(ies) and/or associate company(ies) who are 
working on exclusive basis in or outside India [other than 
employee who is a promoter or person belonging to the 
promoter group of the Company, Independent Directors 
and Director(s) holding directly or indirectly more than 
10% of the outstanding equity shares of the Company], 
within the ceiling of total number of Options and equity 
shares, as specified in ESOP Plan 2023 along with such 
other terms and in such manner in accordance with the 
provisions of the applicable laws and the provisions of 
ESOP Plan 2023.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is 
hereby authorised to modify, change, vary, alter, amend, 
suspend or terminate the Plan at any time subject to 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations and 
further subject to consent of the Members by way of 
special resolution to the extent required under SEBI 
SBEB Regulations, and to do all such acts, deeds, 
matters and things as it may deem fit at its absolute 
discretion, for such purpose and also to settle any 
issues, questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in 
this regard and further to execute all such documents, 
writings and to give such directions and/or instructions 
as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to such 
modification, change, variation, alteration, amendment, 
suspension or termination of the Plan and do all other 
things incidental and ancillary thereto in conformity 
with the provisions of the Act, SEBI SBEB Regulations, 
the relevant provisions of the Memorandum and Articles 
of Association of the Company and any other applicable 
laws in force.”
14.	 Approval of Borrowing Powers of the Company 
under Section 180(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013. 
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“MVIL” or 
“Transferor Company”) and Max Estates Limited 
(“MEL” or “Transferee Company”) and their respective 
shareholders and creditors (“Scheme”) effective from 
July 31, 2023 and pursuant to the provisions of Section 
180(1)(c) and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), the 
provision contained in the Article of Association of the 
Company, and subject to such other approvals as may be 
required, the consent of the Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded to the Board (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘Board’, which term shall be deemed 
to include any Committee of the Board constituted to 
exercise its powers, or their delegated authority and 
to exercise its powers, including the powers conferred 
by this resolution), to borrow from time to time any 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 9
Notice
sum or sums of monies (exclusive of interest) on such 
terms and conditions as the Board of Directors of the 
Company  may determine, from anyone or more of the 
Company’s bankers and/or from anyone or more other 
banks, persons, firms, companies/bodies corporate, 
financial institutions, institutional investor(s), mutual 
funds, insurance companies, pension funds and/or any 
entity/entities or authority/authorities, whether in India 
or abroad, and whether by way of cash credit, advance or 
deposits, loans or bill discounting, issue of debentures, 
commercial papers, long/short term loans, suppliers’ 
credit securities instruments such as floating rate 
notes, fixed rate notes, syndicated loans, commercial 
borrowing from the private sector window of multilateral 
financial institutions, either in rupees and/or in such 
other foreign currencies as may be permitted by law from 
time to time and/or any other instruments/securities 
or otherwise and whether unsecured or secured by 
mortgage, charge, hypothecation or lien or pledge of 
the Company’s assets, licenses and properties, whether 
immovable or movable and all or any of the undertaking 
of the Company, notwithstanding that the moneys to be 
borrowed together with the moneys already borrowed 
by the Company (apart from temporary loans obtained 
from the Company’s bankers in the ordinary course of 
business) will or may exceed the aggregate of the paid-
up share capital, free reserves and securities premium, 
provided that the total amount upto which the moneys 
may be borrowed by the Board and outstanding at any 
time shall not exceed the sum of INR 1,100 Crore (Indian 
Rupees Eleven Hundred Crore only) plus the paid-up 
capital, free reserves and securities premium of the 
Company.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board, be and 
is hereby authorized to finalise, settle and execute 
such document(s)/ deed(s)/agreement(s)/paper(s)/ 
undertaking(s)/ declaration(s) as may be required and 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may 
in its absolute discretion deem necessary, proper or 
desirable for the purpose of giving effect to the aforesaid 
resolution.”
15.	 Approval under Section 180(1)(a) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 inter alia for creation of mortgage or 
charge on the assets, properties or undertaking(s) 
of the Company:
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT in accordance with the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“MVIL” or 
“Transferor Company”) and Max Estates Limited 
(“MEL” or “Transferee Company”) and their respective 
shareholders and creditors (“Scheme”) effective from 
July 31, 2023 and pursuant to the provisions of Section 
180(1)(a) and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), the 
provision contained in the Article of Association of the 
Company and subject to such other approvals and 
permissions as may be required, the consent of the 
Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded 
to the Board (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’, 
which term shall be deemed to include any Committee 
of the Board constituted to exercise its powers, or their 
delegated authority and to exercise its powers, including 
the powers conferred by this resolution), to mortgage 
and / or charge, in addition to the mortgages / charges 
created / to be created by the Company in such form 
and manner and with such ranking and at such time 
and on such terms and conditions as the Board of 
Directors of the Company may determine, on all or any 
of the movable and / or immovable properties of the 
Company and / or the interest held by the Company in 
all or any of the movable and / or immovable assets and 
properties, both present and future and / or the whole 
or any part of the undertaking(s) of the Company, in 
favour of lender(s), agent(s) and trustee(s) for securing 
the borrowings of the Company and/or subsidiary and/
or associate(s) or group companies or any other body 
corporate, etc., availed / to be availed by way of loan(s) (in 
foreign currency and / or rupee currency) and securities 
issued / to be issued by the Company, from time to time, 
subject to the limits approved under Section 180(1)(c) of 
the Act, from time to time, together with interest at the 
respective agreed rates, additional interest, compound 
interest in case of default, accumulated interest, 
liquidated damages, commitment charges, premia on 
prepayment, remuneration of the agent(s) and / or 
trustee(s), premium (if any) on redemption, all other 
costs, charges and expenses, including any increase 
as a result of devaluation / revaluation / fluctuation 
in the rates of exchange and all other monies payable 
by the Company in terms of the Loan Agreement(s), 
Debenture Trust Deed(s) or any other agreement / 
document, entered into / to be entered into between the 
Company and the lender(s) / investor(s) / agent(s) and 
10 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
/ or trustee(s), in respect of the said loans, borrowings 
/ debentures and containing such specific terms and 
conditions and covenants in respect of enforcement of 
security as may be stipulated in that behalf and agreed 
to between the Board and the lender(s), agent(s) and / 
or trustee(s), etc.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board, be and 
is hereby authorized to finalise, settle and execute 
such document(s)/ deed(s)/agreement(s)/paper(s)/ 
undertaking(s)/ declaration(s) as may be required and 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may 
in its absolute discretion deem necessary, proper or 
desirable for the purpose of giving effect to the aforesaid 
resolution.”
16.	 To give loans, inter corporate deposits, give 
guarantees in connection with loans made by any 
person or body corporate and acquire by way of 
subscription, purchase or otherwise the securities 
of any other body corporate under Section 186 of the 
Companies Act 2013.
	
To consider and if thought fit to pass with or without 
modification(s) the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 186 and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), the 
provision contained in the Article of Association of the 
Company  and subject to the necessary approvals, 
consents, sanctions and permissions of appropriate 
authorities, as may be necessary, consent of the 
members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to 
the Board of Directors of the Company  to give loans to/ 
invest in shares, debentures and other securities etc., to 
give corporate guarantees, provide security on behalf of 
the Company from time to time in one or more tranches 
outstanding at any point of time to the extent of INR 980 
Crores (Rupees Nine Hundred and Eighty Crores only), 
plus 60% of its paid up share capital, free reserves and 
securities premium account or 100% of its free reserves 
and securities premium account whichever is more, as 
prescribed under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013, in aggregate in Joint Ventures, subsidiaries or any 
other associate companies’/ body corporate / SPVs/JVs 
or other form of entity / entities which the Company may 
be required to form or acquire or as may be approved 
by the Board of Directors, from time to time, and as they 
may deem fit.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’, 
which term shall be deemed to include any Committee 
of the Board constituted to exercise its powers, or 
their delegated authority and to exercise its powers, 
including the powers conferred by this resolution) be 
and is hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds 
and things as may be appropriate and necessary in 
the best interest of the Company and its shareholders 
for the purpose of making loans/ investments/ giving 
guarantees etc. on behalf of the Company, from time to 
time or may authorize the officials of the company to 
give effect to the foregoing resolution.”
By Order of the Board 
  For Max Estates Limited
Sd/-
Abhishek Mishra
	
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
      Membership No. FCS- F9566
November 29, 2023
Noida
Annual Report 2022-23 | 11
Notice
NOTES:
1.	
A statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, (‘the Act’) relating to the Special Business to 
be transacted at the AGM is annexed hereto. The Board 
of Directors have considered and decided to include 
Item No. 3 to 16 given above as Special Businesses in 
the forthcoming AGM, as they are unavoidable in nature.
2.	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’), vide its General 
Circular No. 20/2020 dated May 05, 2020 read with 
General Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, 
General Circular No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 
General Circular No. 02/2021 dated January 13, 2021, 
General Circular No. 19/2021 dated December 08, 
2021, General Circular No. 21/2021 dated December 14, 
2021, General Circular No. 02/2022 dated May 05, 2022 
and General Circular No. 09/2023 dated September 
25, 2023 and other applicable circulars issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’), has 
allowed the Companies to conduct the AGM through 
Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual Means 
(OAVM) on or before September 30, 2024. In accordance 
with, the said circulars of MCA, SEBI and applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the Seventh 
AGM of the Company shall be conducted through VC 
/ OAVM. The deemed venue for the AGM shall be the 
Registered Office of the Company. National Securities 
Depositories Limited (‘NSDL’) will be providing facility 
for voting through remote e-voting, for participation 
in the AGM through VC / OAVM facility and e-voting 
during the AGM. The procedure for participating in the 
meeting through VC / OAVM is explained at Note No. 
15 below and is also available on the website of the 
Company at www.maxestates.in. 
3.	
Although, a member entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote 
on a poll instead of himself, however, since this AGM 
is being conducted through VC / OAVM, the facility for 
appointment of Proxy by the Members is not available 
for this AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance 
Slip including Route Map are not annexed to this Notice.
4.	
Details required under the provisions of Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) (‘SS-2’) and 
Regulation 36 of Listing Regulations including brief 
profile of director seeking reappointment, is annexed 
hereto.
5.	
Corporate 
members 
intending 
to 
appoint 
their 
authorised representatives to attend the AGM are 
requested to send to the Company scanned (PDF/
JPEG format) certified copy of the Board Resolution, 
authorising their representative to attend and vote on 
their behalf at the AGM.
6.	
In accordance with, the General Circular No. 20/2020 
dated May 05, 2020 read with General Circular No. 
14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, General Circular No. 
17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, General Circular No. 
02/2021 dated January 13, 2021, General Circular No. 
19/2021 dated December 08, 2021, General Circular No. 
21/2021 dated December 14, 2021, General Circular No. 
02/2022 dated May 05, 2022 and General Circular No. 
09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 issued by MCA and 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/ CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated May 12, 2020 read with Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021, 
Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated May 13, 2022 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-
2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated October 7, 2023 issued by 
SEBI, owing to the difficulties involved in dispatching of 
physical copies of the Financial Statements (including 
Report of Board of Directors, Auditor’s Report or other 
documents required to be attached therewith), said 
statements including this Notice of AGM are being sent 
in electronic mode to Members whose e-mail address 
is registered with the Company or the Depository 
Participant(s).  
7.	
The Notice of AGM along with Annual Report for the 
Financial Year 2022-23, is available on the website of 
the Company at www.maxestates.in, on the website of 
Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.
Nseindia.com and on the website of NSDL at www.
evoting.nsdl.com.  
8.	
Members are informed that in case of joint holders 
attending the AGM, only such joint holder who is higher 
in the order of names will be entitled to vote. 
9.	
Relevant documents referred to in the accompanying 
Notice shall be available for inspection by the Members 
through electronic mode, basis the request being sent on 
e-mail id of the Company at secretarial@maxestates.in. 
12 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
10.	 The Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which 
Directors are interested, maintained under Section 
189 of the Act and the Register of Directors and 
Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding, 
maintained under Section 170 of the Act and the 
Certificate from Secretarial Auditors of MVIL certifying 
that the implementation of ESOP Plan of the Company 
has being implemented in accordance with the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity)  Regulations, 
2021 will be available for inspection, basis the request 
being sent on e-mail id of the Company at secretarial@
maxestates.in. 
11.	 The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
of the Company will remain closed from Saturday, 
December 16, 2023 to Friday, December 22, 2023 (both 
days inclusive).
12.	 Members are requested to send all their correspondence 
directly to MAS Services Limited, Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent of the Company at T-34, 2nd Floor, Okhla 
Industrial Area Phase II, New Delhi – 110020. Tel – 011 – 
26387281/82/83, Fax–011–26387384; E–mail: investor@
masserv.com. 
13.	 Members are requested to notify to the Company/
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of their e-mail 
address and any change in the correspondence 
address. Also in case of shares held in dematerialized 
form the change of address needs to be amended in 
the records of the depository participants.
14.	 As you are aware, Max Ventures and Industries Limited 
merged with Max Estates Limited as per Hon’ble NCLT 
Order dated July 03, 2023.  As per MCA circular dated 
10/09/2018 no shares were allotted in physical mode. 
Hence the Company have transferred all physical 
shares in unclaimed suspense account of those 
shareholders who were holding shares in physical mode 
of Max Ventures and Industries Limited.  For claim of 
unclaimed shares from suspense account please send 
below mentioned documents to RTA (MAS SERVICES 
LIMITED, T-34 2ND FLOOR OKHLA INDUSTRIAL AREA, 
PHASE II , NEW DELHI 110020)
a.	
ISR1
b.	
ISR2 (in cases signature is mismatch with RTA 
record)
c.	
ISR4
d.	
Copy of client master 
e.	
Original cancelled cheque (name of share holder 
should be printed on it)
f.	
Copy of PAN
g.	
Original share certificate of Max Ventures and 
Industries Ltd
h.	
Address proof (in case of change of address )
15.	 Procedure for joining the AGM through VC / OAVM
1.	
In view of the massive outbreak of the COVID-19 
pandemic, social distancing is a norm to be 
followed and pursuant to the Circular No. 14/2020 
dated April 08, 2020, Circular No.17/2020 dated 
April 13, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs followed by Circular No. 20/2020 dated 
May 05, 2020, circular No. 02/2021 dated January 
13, 2021 and General Circular No. 19/2021 dated 
December 08, 2021, General Circular No. 21/2021 
dated December 14, 2021, General Circular No. 
02/2022 dated May 05, 2022 and General Circular 
No. 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 and all 
other relevant circulars issued from time to time, 
physical attendance of the Members to the AGM 
venue is not required and general meeting be held 
through video conferencing (VC) or other audio 
visual means (OAVM). Hence, Members can attend 
and participate in the ensuing AGM through VC/
OAVM.
2.	
Pursuant to the Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 
08, 2020, issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, the facility to appoint proxy to attend and 
cast vote for the members is not available for this 
AGM. However, the Body Corporates are entitled 
to appoint authorised representatives to attend the 
AGM through VC/OAVM and participate there at 
and cast their votes through e-voting.
3.	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM 
mode 30 minutes before and after the scheduled 
time of the commencement of the Meeting by 
following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. 
The facility of participation at the AGM through VC/
OAVM will be made available for 1000 members on 
first come first served basis. This will not include 
large Shareholders (Shareholders holding 2% 
or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional 
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 13
Notice
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. who are 
allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on 
account of first come first served basis.
4.	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose 
of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
5.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations 2015 (as amended), and the Circulars 
issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs dated 
April 08, 2020, April 13, 2020 and May 05, 2020 the 
Company is providing facility of remote e-Voting 
to its Members in respect of the business to be 
transacted at the AGM. For this purpose, the 
Company has entered into an agreement with 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) for 
facilitating voting through electronic means, as the 
authorized agency. The facility of casting votes by 
a member using remote e-Voting system as well 
as venue voting on the date of the AGM will be 
provided by NSDL.
6.	
In line with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) 
Circular No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, the 
Notice calling the AGM has been uploaded on the 
website of the Company at www.maxestates.in. The 
Notice can also be accessed from the websites of 
the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.
com and www.nseindia.com respectively and the 
AGM Notice is also available on the website of 
NSDL (agency for providing the Remote e-Voting 
facility) i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
7.	
AGM has been convened through VC/OAVM 
in compliance with applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with MCA Circular No. 
14/2020 dated April 08, 2020 and MCA Circular 
No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, MCA Circular No. 
20/2020 dated May 05, 2020, MCA Circular No. 
2/2021 dated January 13, 2021, General Circular No. 
19/2021 dated December 08, 2021, General Circular 
No. 21/2021 dated December 14, 2021, General 
Circular No. 02/2022 dated May 05, 2022 and 
General Circular No. 09/2023 dated September 25, 
2023. 
	THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR 
REMOTE E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL 
MEETING ARE AS UNDER:-
The remote e-voting period begins on Tuesday, 
December 19, 2023 at 0900 hours (IST) and ends on 
Thursday, December 21, 2023 at 1700 hours (IST). 
The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by 
NSDL for voting thereafter. The Members, whose 
names appear in the Register of Members / 
Beneficial Owners as on the record date (cut-off 
date) i.e. Friday, November 24, , 2023, may cast their 
vote electronically. The voting right of shareholders 
shall be in proportion to their share in the paid-up 
equity share capital of the Company as on the cut-
off date, being Friday, November 24,  2023.
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting 
system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned 
below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A) 	 Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode
	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised 
to update their mobile number and email Id in their 
demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
Login method for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode is given below:
14 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Type of 
shareholders
 Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with NSDL.
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial 
Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section , this will prompt you to enter 
your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you 
will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL 
and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.
com.  Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account 
number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After 
successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see 
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.	
1.	
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. 
The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click 
on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing my easi username & password.
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking 
the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during 
the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and 
PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate 
the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After 
successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the e-voting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders (holding 
securities in demat 
mode) login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, you will be able to see 
e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after 
successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company name or e-Voting 
service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 15
Notice
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve 
User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at abovementioned 
website.
	
Helpdesk 
for 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in demat mode for any technical issues 
related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and 
CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities 
in demat mode 
with NSDL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 022 
- 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities 
in demat mode 
with CDSL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com 
or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 
55 33
B) 	 Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for shareholders other than Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders 
holding securities in physical mode.
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web 
browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer 
or on a mobile. 
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, 
click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen.
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices 
i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.
com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once you 
log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in 
credentials, click on e-Voting and you can proceed 
to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
4.	 Your User ID details are given below :
	
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or 
CDSL) or Physical
Manner of holding 
shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or 
Physical
 Your User ID is:
a) 	For Members 
who hold shares 
in demat account 
with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed 
by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID 
is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID 
is IN300***12******.
b) 	For Members 
who hold shares 
in demat account 
with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For 
example 
if 
your 
Beneficiary 
ID 
is 
12************** then your 
user ID is 12**************
c) 	For 
Members 
holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by 
Folio Number registered 
with the company
For 
example 
if 
folio 
number is 001*** and 
EVEN is 127244 then user 
ID is 101456001***
	
Electronic Voting Identification Number (EVEN) pertaining 
to the Company: 127244
5.	 Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below: 
a)	 If you are already registered for e-Voting, then 
you can use your existing password to login 
and cast your vote.
b)	 If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the 
first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’ which was communicated to you. 
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
(i)	 If your email ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on 
your email ID. Trace the email sent to you 
from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the 
email and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf 
file. Open the .pdf file. The password to 
open the .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for 
16 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID for 
CDSL account or folio number for shares 
held in physical form. The .pdf file contains 
your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’. 
(ii)	 If your email ID is not registered, please 
follow steps mentioned below in process 
for those shareholders whose email ids 
are not registered. 
6.	 If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
“ Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
 a)	 Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If 
you are holding shares in your demat account 
with NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com.
b)	 Physical User Reset Password?” (If you 
are holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
c) 	 If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, your PAN, your 
name and your registered address etc.
d)	 Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on 
the e-Voting system of NSDL.
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
8.	 Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of 
e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join Annual 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join Annual 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle and General 
Meeting is in active status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. 
For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on 
“VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page 
opens.
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed. 
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for shareholders
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/
JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly 
authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to 
the Scrutinizer by e-mail to sanjaygrover7@gmail.com 
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. Institutional 
shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) 
can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of 
Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload 
Board Resolution / Authority Letter”  displayed 
under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website 
will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key 
in the correct password. In such an event, you will need 
to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password. 
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 
7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 or send a request to on e-mail 
at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call toll free nos. 1800 1020 990 
or 1800 22 44 30 or contact Mr. Amit Vishal, Assistant 
Vice President or Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager, 
at NSDL, 4. Floor, A - Wing, Trade World, Kamala 
Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai 400 013, at their designated e-mail addresses: 
amitv@nsdl.co.in or pallavid@nsdl.coin.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 17
Notice
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are 
not registered with the depositories for procuring 
user id and password and registration of e mail ids 
for e-voting for the resolutions set out in this notice:
1.	
All shareholders are requested to update your email 
id with your DP and follow procedure for password 
generation as given in e-voting instructions 
2.	
Alternatively shareholder/members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
3.	
In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are required 
to update their mobile number and email ID 
correctly in their demat account in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR e-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM 
is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-voting.
2.	
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility 
and have not casted their vote on the Resolutions 
through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not 
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote 
through e-Voting system in the AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting 
will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they 
will not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	
Member will be provided with a facility to attend 
the AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL 
e-Voting system. Members may access by following 
the steps mentioned above for Access to NSDL 
e-Voting system. After successful login, you 
can see link of “VC/OAVM” placed under “Join 
meeting” menu against company name. You are 
requested to click on VC/OAVM link placed under 
Join Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM will be 
available in Shareholder/Member login where the 
EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note 
that the members who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID 
and Password may retrieve the same by following 
the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in the 
notice to avoid last minute rush.
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
3.	
Further Members will be required to allow Camera 
and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
4.	
Please note that Participants Connecting from 
Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop 
connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience 
Audio/Video loss due to Fluctuation in their 
respective network. It is therefore recommended to 
use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any 
kind of aforesaid glitches.
5.	
Shareholders who would like to express their 
views/have questions may send their questions 
in advance mentioning their name demat account 
number/folio number, email id, mobile number at 
secretarial@maxestates.in. The same will be replied 
by the company suitably.
16.	 Other Information: 
1.	
The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Kapil Dev 
Taneja, failing him, Mr. Neeraj Arora, Partners, M/s 
Sanjay Grover & Associates  (Firm Registration No. 
P2001DE052900), Company Secretaries having 
office at B-88, 1st Floor, Defence Colony, New Delhi- 
110024, as a Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting 
process in a fair and transparent manner.
2.	
The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the 
conclusion of voting at the AGM, first count the votes 
cast at the meeting and thereafter unblock the votes 
cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at 
18 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
least two (2) witnesses not in the employment of 
the Company and make, within two working days of 
conclusion of the AGM, a consolidated Scrutinizer’s 
Report of the total votes cast in favour or against, 
if any, and submit forthwith to the Chairman or a 
person authorized by him in writing.
	
The Results shall be declared within two working 
days of conclusion of the AGM and the Results 
along with the consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report 
shall be immediately thereafter placed on the 
Company’s website www.maxestates.in and on the 
website of NSDL and communicated to BSE Ltd. 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
In terms of Section 102(1) read with Section 110 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) read with rules, SS-2 and 
the applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations, the 
following Explanatory Statement sets out all the material 
facts relating to the resolutions given in this Notice. 
Item No. 3 to 6
• 
Appointment and payment of compensation to Mr. 
Analjit Singh, Non-executive Chairman
Mr. 
Analjit 
Singh, 
age 
69 
years, 
is 
the 
Founder  &  Chairman of The Max Group, a US$5-bn 
Indian multi- business enterprise, with interests in life 
insurance (Max Life), real estate (Max Estates), senior 
living (Antara). The Max Group is renowned for its 
successful joint ventures with some pre-eminent firms 
including Mitsui Sumitomo & Toppan, Japan; New York 
Life Insurance Company; Bupa Plc, Life Healthcare, SA; 
DSM, Netherlands, Hutchison Whampoa; Motorola, 
Lockheed Martin and others. 
Amongst  privately held  family businesses, Mr. Singh 
is the founder of Leeu  Collection, a group of leisure 
boutique hotels in Franschhoek, South Africa; The Lake 
District, UK; and Florence, Italy. The Leeu Collection also 
includes a significant presence in wine and viticulture 
through Mullineux Leeu Family Wines in SA.
Mr. Singh was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India’s one 
of the top civilian honour, by the President of India in 2011. 
An alumnus of The Doon School and Shri Ram College 
of Commerce, University of Delhi, Mr. Singh holds an 
MBA from the Graduate School of Management, Boston 
University. He has been conferred with an  honorary 
doctorate by Amity University. 
He also served as a Director on the Board of Sofina NV/
SA, Belgium. Till August 2018, he was the non-executive 
Chairman of Vodafone India. 
Mr. Singh was a member of the Founder Executive 
Board of the Indian School of Business (ISB), India’s top 
ranked B-School  and has served as Chairman of the 
Board of Governors of The Indian Institute of Technology 
(IIT) Roorkee, and The Doon School.
Mr. Singh  has served on the Prime Minister’s Indo 
US CEO and Indo UK CEO Council and served as the 
Honorary Consul General of the Republic of San Marino 
in India. His appointment as Honorary Consul General 
of the Republic of San Marino is reinstated from March 
2022.
Mr. Singh (DIN: 00029641) was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Non-Executive) of the Company by 
the Board of Directors w.e.f. July 31, 2023 pursuant to 
Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules 
made thereunder (‘the Act’).
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Act, Mr. 
Singh   shall hold office up to the date of the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting. The Company has received 
notice in writing under the provisions of Section 160 of 
the Act from a member proposing his candidature for 
the office of Director of the Company, liable to retire by 
rotation. The Company has received from him (i) consent 
in writing to act as Director in Form DIR- 2 pursuant to 
Rule 8 of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014; and (ii) intimation in Form DIR-8 
in terms of Companies (Appointment and Qualification 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, to the effect that he is not 
disqualified under subsection (2) of Section 164 of the 
Act.
Mr. Singh, in his capacity as Promoter, Director and 
Sponsor since the inception of the Company, has 
been providing guidance, insights and counsel to the 
Company on various matters from time to time, as 
the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company. As the 
Chairman of the Company, Mr. Singh provides vision and 
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 read with Section 110 OF THE 
COMPANIES ACT, 2013   
Annual Report 2022-23 | 19
Notice
thought leadership which has helped the Company and 
its subsidiaries to achieve high standards of corporate 
governance, brand visibility and overall growth. The 
key areas where he has always advised the Company, 
inter-alia includes advising on medium- and long-term 
strategies of the Company, Joint Venture relationships, 
Business partnerships, promoting business interests, 
review of talent/human capital related subjects, board 
management, governance processes and Government 
relations.
Considering the deep involvement and time spent by 
Mr. Singh in providing guidance, insights and counsel 
to the management, it is proposed to pay a gross 
compensation of INR of Rs. 25,00,000/- per month, 
(Other than sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses 
payable for attending meetings of the Company) for 
the period from August 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024 to Mr. 
Analjit Singh as the Non-Executive Chairman of the 
Company. The compensation is subject to the approval 
of the members of the Company, payable in such manner 
as the Board and/or a Committee thereof, as may 
determine from time to time.  This compensation shall 
be over and above the sitting fees and reimbursement 
of expenses for attending the meetings of the Company. 
In terms of the provisions of Section 197 of the Act, the 
Company is required to obtain approval of members 
of the Company for payment of such compensation to 
Non-Executive Directors by way of Special Resolution. 
Further, in terms of provision of Regulation 17(6)(ca) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company is required to obtain 
approval of members of the Company, by way of Special 
Resolution, if such annual compensation to a single 
non-executive director exceeds 50% of the total annual 
compensation payable to all the non-executive directors 
in any financial year. Hence, approval of members is 
sought by way of Special Resolution to enable the 
Company to make payment of compensation to Mr. 
Analjit Singh, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company. 
• 
Appointment and payment of remuneration of 
Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director and CEO 
Mr. Sahil Vachani, age 40 years, is the CEO & Managing 
Director of Max Estates Limited. Earlier, he was the CEO 
& Managing Director of Max Ventures and Industries 
Limited (now has been merged with Max Estates Limited 
w.e.f. July 31, 2023) one of the three listed companies 
of the USD 5 billion Indian conglomerate – The Max 
Group. He also serves as a Director on the Boards of 
Max Financial Services Limited as a representative of 
the Owner Sponsor Group led by Mr. Analjit Singh.
Mr. Sahil Vachani joined the Max Group in 2016 with 
a focus on creating a powerful Real Estate brand – 
Max Estates Limited and steering Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited’s (MaxVIL) other businesses towards 
growth. Since assuming his role at MaxVIL, Sahil has 
successfully completed key transactions which will 
have an enduring impact on the Company’s growth 
journey over the next few years.
He started his career as an investment banker with 
Citigroup in London, where he worked on Mergers and 
Acquisitions across the Middle East and Africa region. 
In 2004, he joined Dixon Technologies, a consumer 
appliance manufacturing firm as Business Head and 
setup new verticals across multiple locations and was 
involved in the launch of new products, setting up of new 
manufacturing facilities and establishing relationships 
with leading brands as customers.
His next career progression was in 2008 as Co-founder 
and Managing Director of Dixon Appliances Pvt. 
Ltd., where he was responsible for the business from 
inception including designing of products, building the 
team, setting up the manufacturing facility, operations 
and building relationships with leading brands in 
India such as Panasonic, Godrej, LG, among others. 
The Company emerged as the single-largest third 
party contract manufacturer of Washing Machines for 
the Indian market. In July 2015, Mr. Vachani sold his 
shareholding in the company to pursue opportunities in 
Max Group.
He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Management Sciences 
from the University of Warwick, U.K. backed up by 
an Executive Management Program on Disruptive 
Innovation from the Harvard Business School.
The members may note that as per the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst 
Max Ventures and Industries Limited (“Transferor 
Company”) and Max Estates Limited (“Company” 
or “Transferee Company”) and their respective 
shareholders and creditors (“Scheme”), all employees 
of the Transferor Company, would be deemed to become 
the employees of the Transferee Company, on the terms 
and conditions no less favorable than those existing in 
the Transferor Company.
Therefore, Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing Director and 
CEO of the Transferor Company, would become the 
Managing Director and CEO of the Transferee Company. 
Accordingly, Mr. Sahil Vachani (DIN: 00761695) was 
20 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
appointed as an Additional Director (Non-Executive) 
of the Company by the Board of Directors w.e.f. July 
31, 2023 pursuant to Section 161 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the rules made thereunder (‘the Act’).
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Act, 
Mr. Sahil Vachani shall hold office up to the date of 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The Company 
has received notice in writing under the provisions of 
Section 160 of the Act from a proposing his candidature 
for the office of Director of the Company. The Company 
has received from him (i) consent in writing to act as 
Director in Form DIR-2 pursuant to Rule 8 of Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 
2014; and (ii) intimation in Form DIR-8 in terms of 
Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014, to the effect that he is not disqualified under 
subsection (2) of Section 164 of the Act.
Keeping in view the recommendations of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors 
of the Company in their meeting held on July 31, 2023 
recommended the appointment of Mr. Sahil Vachani 
as a “Managing Director and CEO” for a period of five 
years effective from August 1, 2023 under the provisions 
of Companies Act, 2013.
Brief particulars of the terms of appointment an d 
remuneration payable to Mr. Vachani is as under:
a.	
Remuneration: The remuneration payable to Mr. 
Sahil Vachani for the initial period of three years, 
i.e., from August 01, 2023, until July 31, 2026, shall 
not exceed Rs. 7,00,00,000/- (Rupees Seven Crores) 
per annum as set out in the resolution no. 6.
b.	
Mr. Vachani shall be entitled to reimbursement of all 
legitimate expenses incurred by him in performance 
of his duties and such reimbursement will not form 
part of his remuneration.
c.	
Mr. Sahil Vachani shall be entitled at any time to 
terminate this appointment by giving three months 
written notice or payment of fixed pay in lieu thereof.
d.	
If in any financial year, during the term of office of 
Mr. Sahil Vachani as Managing Director & CEO, the 
Company has in- adequate profits as computed 
under the applicable provisions of the Act, he 
shall be entitled to receive the aforementioned 
remuneration as the minimum remuneration as 
provided under the Act.
e.	
Nature of Duties: To carry out functions, exercise 
such powers and perform such duties as the Board 
shall, from time to time, in their absolute discretion 
determine and entrust to him and/or as empowered 
by the Companies Act, 2013.
f.	
Mr. Sahil Vachani is also authorized to exercise 
such powers of management as may be delegated 
to him by the Board of Directors of the Company, 
from time to time, subject however, to the overall 
superintendence, control and direction of the 
Board/Chairman of the Company.
g.	
The Board of Directors the term ‘Board of Directors’ 
includes any Committee of the Board constituted to 
exercise its powers, including the powers conferred 
by this resolution or any person authorized by the 
Board or its committee for such purpose of the 
Company is authorized to regulate the payment 
of remuneration to Mr. Sahil Vachani, Managing 
Director and CEO within the aforesaid limits, from 
time to time.
h.	
Managing Director and CEO shall not be liable to 
retire by rotation.
	
This Explanatory Statement may also be considered 
as the requisite abstract under Section 190 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 setting out the terms and 
conditions of appointment of Mr. Vachani as Managing 
Director & CEO of the Company.
	
The information required in terms of Clause (iv) of 
Section II of Part II of Schedule V to the Companies 
Act, 2013 is as under:
I.	
GENERAL INFORMATION 
(1)	 Nature of the Industry: The Company, a part of the 
leading Indian multi-business conglomerate Max 
Group, owns and operates a real estate business 
through its subsidiaries and is engaged or exploring 
opportunities in the following businesses.  
	
The Company is engaged in the development of 
premium commercial and residential real estate 
in Delhi and the National Capital Region through 
its subsidiaries owning either 100% of the projects 
or through joint venture and joint development 
partnerships. 
(2)	 Date of Commercial Production: Not applicable as 
the Company is not involved in any manufacturing 
activity.
(3)	 In case of new Companies, expected date of 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 21
Notice
commencement of activities as per project approved by financial institutions appearing in the prospectus: 
Not Applicable
(4)	 Financial Performance based on given indicators: The financial performance of the Company (audited) for FY 
2021-22 and 2022-23 is as under:
	
(INR in Lakhs)
Particulars 
Standalone
Consolidated
FY 2023
FY 2022
FY 2023
FY 2022
Total Income
9,885.19
4,947.71
13,127.83
7,393.47
Total Expenses
6,558.13
4,421.25
10,919.63
6,548.39
Profit/(Loss) before Tax
3,327.06
526.46
2,208.20
845.08
Profit/(Loss) after Tax
3,275.45
526.46
1,846.70
492.20
(5)	 Foreign investment or collaboration, if any: The Company has investments from New York Life International 
Holdings Limited and New York Life Insurance Company. 
II.	
INFORMATION ABOUT THE DIRECTOR
Particulars 
Mr. Analjit Singh 
Mr. Sahil Vachani
Background Details
As provided under ‘Brief Profile’ above.
Past Remuneration
Not applicable, as his appointment is for the first 
time in the Company
Not Applicable* 
Recognition or awards
Mr. Analjit Singh was awarded the Padma 
Bhushan, India’s second highest civilian honour, 
by the President of India in 2011. An alumnus 
of The Doon School and Shri Ram College of 
Commerce, University of Delhi, Mr. Analjit Singh 
holds an MBA from the Graduate School of 
Management, Boston University. He has been 
conferred with an honorary doctorate by Amity 
University.  
Job profile and his suitability As per details stated the explanatory statement.
Remuneration Proposed
As per details stated in the resolution set out at the notice and the explanatory 
statement above.
Comparative remuneration 
profile 
with 
respect 
to industry, size of the 
Company, profile of the 
position and person
Taking into consideration the size of the Company, 
the profile of Mr. Analjit Singh, the responsibilities 
shouldered on him and the industry benchmarks, 
the 
compensation 
proposed 
to 
be 
paid 
commensurate with the remuneration packages 
paid to similar senior level counterpart(s) in other 
companies.
Taking into consideration the size 
of the Company, the profile of Mr. 
Sahil Vachani, the responsibilities 
shouldered on him and the industry 
benchmarks, the compensation 
proposed to be paid commensurate 
with the remuneration packages 
paid 
to 
similar 
senior 
level 
counterpart(s) in other companies.
Pecuniary 
relationship 
directly or indirectly with the 
company, or relation with 
the managerial personnel, 
if any 
Mr. Analjit Singh does not have any pecuniary 
relations with the Company, apart from receiving 
sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for 
attending meetings of the Company.
Mr. Analjit Singh is the father in law of Mr. Sahil 
Vachani, Managing Director and CEO of the 
Company
Except to the extent of his 
employment with the Company, 
Mr. Sahil Vachani does not have 
any pecuniary relationship directly 
or indirectly with the Company or 
relationship with the managerial 
personnel.
Mr. 
Sahil 
Vachani, 
Managing 
Director and CEO is the son in law 
of Mr. Analjit Singh, Chairman of 
the Company.
	
*Pursuant to the provisions of the Scheme, Mr. Vachani was appointed in Max Estates Limited as Managing Director 
and CEO effective from July 31, 2023, therefore, the details of past remuneration of Mr. Vachani during FY23 are not 
applicable.
22 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
	
However, during FY23, he worked as “Managing Director 
and CEO” of   Max Ventures and Industries Limited (the 
Transferor Company) and he drawn a remuneration 
of Rs. 4,04,16,836/- (Rupees Four Crores Four Lakhs 
Sixteen Thousand Eight Hundred and Thirty Six Only). 
III.	 OTHER INFORMATION
(1)	 Reasons of loss or inadequate profits: The 
Company is in initial years of its operations. While 
the Company is having profits, however, the 
profits may be inadequate to cover the limits for 
contemplated compensation.
(2)	 Steps taken or proposed to be taken for 
improvement: The Company has been taking all 
measures within its control to maximize overall 
efficiencies of its operations and minimising various 
fixed and variable Costs.
(3)	 Expected increase in productivity and profits 
in measurable terms: The Company expects 
a significant increase in turnover as well as the 
profitability on account of the steps mentioned 
above in medium to long term. It is difficult to 
forecast the profitability in measurable terms. 
However, the Company expects that the profitability 
shall further improve in times to come.
	
The Board of Directors of the Company based on the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee at their meeting held on July 31, 2023 
approved and recommended to the members of the 
Company for the appointment of Mr. Analjit Singh, Non 
Executive Director (Chairman) and Mr. Sahil Vachani 
as a Director and further as the Managing Director and 
CEO of the Company for the terms and conditions as set 
out in this explanatory statement above.  
	
Mr. Analjit Singh and Mr. Sahil Vachani being relative 
of Promoter(s), the Promoter group including Mr. Analjit 
Singh and Mr. Sahil Vachani, Promoter of the Company 
will be deemed to be interested and concerned in the 
resolution. Further, Mr. Sahil Vachani and Mr. Analjit 
Singh in the capacity of a director will also be deemed 
to be interested and concerned in the resolution. Except 
to the extent mentioned herein above no other director 
or Key Managerial Personnel or their relative(s) are 
interested and/or concerned in the resolutions.
	
Save and except Mr. Analjit Singh himself and Mr. 
Sahil Vachani and their relatives to the extent of their 
shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of 
the other directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
their relatives are in any way, concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the proposed resolution.
	
The Board recommends resolutions as set out in Item 
No. 3 & 4 of the notice by way of passing of an Ordinary 
Resolution and Item No. 5 & 6 of the notice by way of 
passing of a Special Resolution.
	
Other details required pursuant to the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and SS-2 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
has been covered in Annexure-A.
Item No. 7
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai, age 61 years, holds Bachelor of 
Commerce (Honors) degree from the University of Manitoba 
and MBA from the University of Toronto. Mr. Tai has over 36 
years of investment and portfolio management experience. 
He is a Managing Director at the Office of the Chief 
Investment Officer at New York Life Insurance Company. His 
responsibilities include the oversight and implementation of 
select investment programs over various asset classes. 
Mr. Tai serves on the boards of several investment advisors 
and joint venture companies on behalf of New York Life. 
He was also a former board member of listed companies in 
Hong Kong/Thailand. He joined New York Life Enterprises 
in Hong Kong in 1999 as Vice President – Investment, 
supporting the firm’s investment activities in Asia. He was 
transferred to New York in 2003 to assume the role of NYLE’s 
Chief Investment Officer, where he was responsible for the 
firm’s international investment portfolios, setting country 
investment policies as well as optimizing performance 
within ALM and risk tolerance considerations. He moved to 
his current position in 2012. 
Mr. Tai started his career at CIBC Wood Gundy in Toronto 
– first in corporate real estate project finance and then in 
investment banking. He was relocated to Hong Kong in 
1995 to assume the role of Executive Director at CIBC CEF, 
a joint venture between CIBC and the Cheung Kong Group, 
responsible for the origination/structuring of merchant 
banking and corporate finance transactions.
Mr. Ka Luk Stanley Tai (DIN: 08748152) was appointed as an 
Additional Director (Non-Executive) of the Company by the 
Board of Directors effective from July 31, 2023 in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 161 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made thereunder.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Act, Mr. Ka 
Luk Stanley Tai shall hold office up to the date of the ensuing 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 23
Notice
Annual General Meeting. Further, the Company has received 
notice in writing under the provisions of Section 160 of the 
Act from a member proposing his candidature for the office 
of Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation. The 
Company has received from him (i) consent in writing to act 
as Director in Form DIR- 2 pursuant to Rule 8 of Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014; 
and (ii) intimation in Form DIR-8 in terms of Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, to 
the effect that he is not disqualified under subsection (2) of 
Section 164 of the Act.
The Board considers that his appointment as a Director 
of the Company would be in the interest of the Company. 
Accordingly, your Directors recommend his appointment as 
a Director of the Company who shall be liable to retire by 
rotation.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relatives except Mr. Ka Luk Stanley, whose appointment for 
tenure as mentioned above is proposed, is concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out 
at Item No. 7 of the Notice. 
Further, the details required pursuant to the provision of 
Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and SS-2 issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India has been covered in 
Annexure-A.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out 
at Item No. 7 of the Notice for approval of the members by 
way of Ordinary Resolution.
Item No. 8
Mr. Niten Malhan, age 52 years, studied Computer Science 
& Engineering at Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, 
and completed his Post Graduate Diploma in Management 
from Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. He  is 
the founder and managing partner of New Mark Advisors 
LLP, an investment firm focused on bringing a private 
markets approach to investing in the public markets. Prior to 
founding New Mark Advisors LLP in April 2018, he was the 
managing director and co-head of India at Warburg Pincus 
India Private Limited (“Warburg Pincus”), a global private 
equity firm. Mr. Malhan joined Warburg Pincus in 2001 
and became a partner at the firm in 2007. In 2012, he was 
appointed the co- head of the India business, co-leading a 
team of 15 investment professionals and a portfolio of over 
$3 billion in value. Between 2012 and 2017, he was also a 
member of the global executive management group of the 
firm, a group of senior partners who lead different offices 
and industry groups at Warburg Pincus.
Prior to joining Warburg Pincus, he worked as director 
of business development at Stratum 8, a Silicon Valley 
technology start-up company. Before that, he was an 
engagement manager at McKinsey & Company, and worked 
in the India, South East Asia and Boston offices of the firm. 
Mr. Malhan has served as member of the board of directors 
of several Warburg Pincus investee companies including 
Alliance Tire Company, AVTEC, Clean max Solar, DB Corp, 
Diligent Power Private Limited, Embassy Industrial Parks, 
Havells India Limited, Laurus Labs, Lemon Tree Hotels, 
Metropolis Healthcare Limited and Sintex Industries Limited.
Mr. Malhan currently serves as an Independent Director on 
the boards of Max India Limited, Lemon Tree Hotels, and 
Fleur Hotels Private Limited. Mr. Malhan has also served as 
the vice-chairman of the Indian Venture Capital and Private 
Equity Association and is a Founder and Trustee of Plaksha 
University.
Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’), Section 149, 161 and other applicable 
provisions of Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), Mr. Niten Malhan 
(DIN: 00614624) was appointed by the Board of Directors as 
an Additional Director (Non- executive and Independent) of 
the Company w.e.f. July 31, 2023.
He shall hold office up to the date of the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 161 of the Act. The Company has received notice in 
writing under the provisions of Section 160 of the Act from a 
member proposing his candidature for the office of Director 
of the Company. The Company has received from him (i) 
consent in writing to act as Director in Form DIR-2 pursuant 
to Rule 8 of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014; (ii) intimation in Form DIR-8 in terms 
of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014, to the effect that he is not disqualified under 
subsection (2) of Section 164 of the Act; and (iii) a declaration 
to the effect that he meets the criteria of Independence as 
provided in Section 149 of the Act.
The Board of Directors of your Company are of the opinion 
that Mr. Malhan fulfills the conditions specified in the Act and 
the rules made there under to be eligible to be appointed as 
Independent Director pursuant to the provisions of Section 
149 of the Act. The Board of Directors of your Company is also 
of the opinion that he is independent of the management of 
the Company. The Board considers that his appointment as 
a Director of the Company would be of immense benefit to 
the Company. 
24 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Accordingly, your directors recommend his appointment as 
an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation for 5 
(five) consecutive years from July 31, 2023 till July 30, 2028.
A copy of the letter of appointment of Mr. Malhan as an 
Independent Director setting out the terms and conditions 
is available for inspection at the registered office of the 
Company during normal business hours on all working days 
upto the date of Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relatives except Mr. Malhan, whose appointment for tenure 
as mentioned above is proposed, is concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 
8 of the Notice. 
Further, the details required pursuant to the provision of 
Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and SS-2 issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India has been covered in 
Annexure-A.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out 
at Item No. 8 of the Notice for approval of the members by 
way of Ordinary Resolution.
Item No. 9
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal, age 70 years, holds a Master’s 
degree in physics with specialization in Electronics from 
the University of Allahabad, India. He is a former Indian 
Administrative Service (IAS) officer from the batch of 1977 
and has served the Government of India in various capacities, 
including Secretary, Department of Financial Services, 
Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Additional 
Secretary, Department of Commerce.  He has experience 
in Infrastructure, International Trade, Urban Development, 
Renewable Energy, Agriculture Development and Micro-
Credit, Corporate Governance, Banking, Insurance, Pension 
and Finance. 
The Board of Directors of your Company are of the opinion 
that Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal fulfills the conditions specified 
in the Act and the rules made there under to be eligible 
to be appointed as Independent Director pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 149 of the Act. The Board of Directors 
of your Company is also of the opinion that he is independent 
of the management of the Company. The Board considers 
that his appointment as a Director of the Company would be 
of in the interest to the Company.
Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’), Section 149, 161 and other applicable 
provisions of Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal (DIN: 00040000) was appointed by the Board of 
Directors as an Additional Director (Non-executive and 
Independent) of the Company w.e.f. July 31, 2023.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Act, he shall 
hold office up to the date of the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting. The Company has received notice in writing under 
the provisions of Section 160 of the Act from a member 
proposing his candidature for the office of Director of the 
Company. The Company has received from him (i) consent 
in writing to act as Director in Form DIR-2 pursuant to 
Rule 8 of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014; (ii) intimation in Form DIR-8 in terms 
of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014, to the effect that he is not disqualified under 
subsection (2) of Section 164 of the Act; and (iii) a declaration 
to the effect that he meets the criteria of Independence as 
provided in Section 149 of the Act.
Further, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
has amended the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements), Regulations 2015 vide circular dated May 
9, 2018, which requires continuance of any Non-Executive 
Director who has attained the age of 75 years after seeking the 
prior approval of shareholders by way of a Special Resolution.
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Mittal shall attain the age of 75 years on 
January 25, 2028, hence approval by way of Special Resolution 
is placed before the shareholders in order to comply with the 
aforesaid circular. Apart from being a Director on the Board, 
he is also a Chaiman of the Audit Committee,  Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee & Investment & Finance Committee 
and member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and has been effectively performing her duties and providing 
valuable guidance to the Company in key strategic matters 
from time to time.   
Accordingly, your directors recommend his appointment as 
an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation for 5 
(five) consecutive years from July 31, 2023 till July 30, 2028.
A copy of the letter of appointment  of Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal as an Independent Director setting out the terms 
and conditions is available for inspection at the registered 
office of the Company during normal business hours on all 
working days upto the date of Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relatives except Mr. D. K. Mittal, whose appointment for 
tenure as mentioned above is proposed, is concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out 
at Item No. 9 of the Notice. 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 25
Notice
Further, the details required pursuant to the provision of 
Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and SS-2 issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India has been covered in 
Annexture-A.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out 
at Item No. 9 of the Notice for approval of the members by 
way of Special Resolution.
 Item No. 10
Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan, age 70 years, has done Integrated 
Master’s Program from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), 
is a Leadership Consultant with over three decades of 
diversified experience in the services sector and is presently 
an Independent Director and Leadership Advisor for well-
known listed and private companies. Till December 2022, 
Ms. Gauri was as a Global Partner leading the CEO & Board 
and Consumer Markets Practices, and also overseeing the 
Education & Life Sciences Practices, for Heidrick & Struggles 
in India. A long tenured Partner at Heidrick & Struggles, She 
joined the company in 2000 and over 22 years played a 
key role in building a significant footprint for the business 
in India. Working closely at the top with client leadership 
teams in India and the region, she assisted them solve their 
strategic talent needs, bringing a deep understanding of the 
challenges that face organisations today, especially within 
consumer centric industries. Her clients included large 
global and Indian corporations, where she partnered with 
them to build their top leadership teams during start-up / 
India entry, growth, and business transformation phases.
Throughout her career, CEO succession and Next Generation 
leadership – with an eye on business and technology trends 
has been a focus area. Partnering with her clients in driving 
their digital & diversity agendas has been of special interest 
and a passion. Ms. Gauri, currently works with a select group 
of leaders on advisory and coaching projects. 
Prior to joining Heidrick & Struggles, Ms. Gauri had a 
leadership role in a major direct-selling multinational with 
overall responsibility for customer services & delivery. Her 
career also includes general management, consulting and 
teaching stints.
Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing 
Regulations’), Section 149, 161 and other applicable provisions 
of Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan 
(DIN: 01550668) was   appointed by the Board of Directors 
as an Additional Director (Non- executive and Independent) 
of the Company effective from July 31, 2023.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Act, she shall 
hold office up to the date of the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting. The Company has received notice in writing under 
the provisions of Section 160 of the Act from a member 
proposing her candidature for the office of Director of the 
Company. The Company has   received from her (i) consent 
in writing to act as Director in Form DIR-2 pursuant to 
Rule 8 of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014; (ii) intimation in Form DIR-8 in terms 
of Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) 
Rules, 2014, to the effect that she is not disqualified under 
subsection (2) of Section 164 of the Act; and (iii) a declaration 
to the effect that she meets the criteria of Independence as 
provided in Section 149 of the Act.
The Board of Directors of your Company are of the opinion 
that Ms. Gauri Padmanabhan fulfills the conditions specified 
in the Act and the rules made there under to be eligible 
to be appointed as Independent Director pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 149 of the Act. The Board of Directors of 
your Company is also of the opinion that she is independent 
of the management of the Company. 
Further, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
has amended the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements), Regulations 2015 vide circular dated May 
9, 2018, which requires continuance of any Non-Executive 
Director who has attained the age of 75 years after seeking 
the prior approval of shareholders by way of a Special 
Resolution.
Ms. Gauri shall attain the age of 75 years on October 11, 
2027, hence approval by way of Special Resolution is placed 
before the shareholders in order to comply with the aforesaid 
circular. Apart from being a Director on the Board, she is also 
a member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
has been effectively performing her duties and providing 
valuable guidance to the Company in key strategic matters 
from time to time. 
The  Board is of the opinion that Mrs. Gauri’s appointment 
as a Director would be of immense benefit to the Company 
and her rich and diverse experience is a valuable asset to 
the Company which adds value and enriched point of view 
during Board discussions and decision making. She is also 
a person of integrity who possesses required expertise and 
her association as Non-Executive Independent Director will 
be beneficial to the Company. 
Accordingly, your Directors recommend her appointment as 
an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation for 5 
(five) consecutive years from July 31, 2023 till July 30, 2028.
A copy of the letter of appointment of Ms. Gauri 
26 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Padmanabhan as an Independent Director setting out 
the terms and conditions is available for inspection at the 
registered office of the Company during normal business 
hours on all working days upto the date of Annual General 
Meeting.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their 
relatives except Ms. Gauri, whose appointment for tenure as 
mentioned above is proposed, is concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 
10 of the Notice. 
Further, the details required pursuant to the provision of 
Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and SS-2 issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India has been covered in 
Annexure-A.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out 
at Item No. 10 of the Notice for approval of the members by 
way of Special Resolution.
Annexure – A 
Pursuant to the provision of Regulation 36(3) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and Secretarial Standard-2 issued by the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India, the following 
information is furnished about the Directors proposed to 
be appointed or re-appointed:
Particulars 
Mr. Analjit Singh
Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Mr. Ka Luk 
Stanley Tai
Mr. Niten Malhan
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal 
Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan
Date of Birth and Age
January 11, 1954 (69 
Years)
April 30, 1983, (40 
years) 
December 20, 
1961 (61 years)
August 02, 1971 (52 
years)
January 25, 1953 
(70 years)
October 11, 1952 (70 
years)
Brief resume covering 
qualification and nature of 
expertise in functional areas
Kindly refer detailed profiles of directors forming part of Explanatory Statement
Details of Remuneration 
sought to be paid 
As per details 
stated in the 
resolution set out 
at Item No. 9 of 
AGM notice 
As per details stated 
in the resolution set 
out at Item No. 10 of 
AGM notice
Not Applicable 
All non-executive Independent directors are paid sitting fees of INR 1 
Lakh per meeting for attending meetings of the Board/ Committees 
of the Board.
Details of Remuneration last 
drawn
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable *
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable as the proposed appointment will be first time in the 
Company 
Date of first Appointment on 
the Board
July 31, 2023
July 31, 2023
July 31, 2023.
July 31, 2023.
July 31, 2023.
July 31, 2023.
Shareholding in the Company
41,41,481 equity 
shares of face value 
Rs.10/- each
Nil
Nil
Nil
5,865 equity shares 
of face value 
Rs.10/- each
Nil
Number of Board Meetings 
attended in the financial year
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable 
for the Company 
for MVIL please 
refer the Corporate 
Governance Report 
attached with the 
Annual Report 
Not Applicable as the proposed appointment will be first time in the Company
Related to any other Director/
KMPs of the Company
Mr. Analjit Singh is father-in-law of Mr. 
Sahil Vachani. 
Not Related to any Director/KMPs of the Company
Annual Report 2022-23 | 27
Notice
Particulars 
Mr. Analjit Singh
Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Mr. Ka Luk 
Stanley Tai
Mr. Niten Malhan
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal 
Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan
Directorships in other Indian 
Companies (including Listed 
Companies):
• Max Financial 
Services Limited
• Max India Limited
• Delhi Guest 
Houses Private 
Limited
• Max Ventures 
Private Limited
• BAS Enterprises 
Private Limited
• Piveta Estates 
Private Limited
• Siva Realty 
Ventures Private 
Limited
• Max Ventures 
Investment 
Holdings Private 
Limited
• Max Life 
Insurance 
Company Limited
• P V T Ventures 
Private Limited
• SKA Diagnostic 
Private Limited
• Max Financial 
Services Limited
• TVP Investments 
Private Limited
• Max Ventures 
Private Limited
• Piveta Estates 
Private Limited
• Vitasta Estates 
Private Limited
• Trophy Estates 
Private Limited
• Siva Realty 
Ventures Private 
Limited
• Hometrail 
Properties Private 
Limited
• Max Ventures 
Investment 
Holdings Private 
Limited
• Max Life Insurance 
Company Limited
• Siva Enterprises 
Private Limited
• Wegmans Business 
Park Private 
Limited
• Max I Limited
• Twiggy Ventures 
Private Limited
• SKA Diagnostic 
Private Limited
• ICare Health 
Projects and 
Research Private 
Limited
• Max Skill First 
Limited
• Jacob Ballas 
Capital India 
Private Limited
• Acreage 
Builders Private 
Limited
• Max Square 
Limited
• Lemon Tree 
Hotels Limited
• Max India Limited
• Fleur Hotels 
Private Limited
• Antara Purukul 
Senior Living 
Limited
• Antara Senior 
Living Limited
• Antara Assisted 
Care Services 
Limited
• Balrampur Chini 
Mills Limited
• Max Financial 
Services Limited
• Bharti Airtel 
Limited
• Lohia Corp 
Limited
• Shivalik Small 
Finance Bank 
Limited
• Niva Bupa 
Health Insurance 
Company Limited
• Business 
Strategy Advisory 
Services Private 
Limited
• Arohan Financial 
Services Lismited
• ERGOS Business 
Solutions Private 
Limited
• Max Financial Services 
Limited
• Max Towers Private 
Limited
Chairman/ Member of the
Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Company 
• Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member 
• Audit Committee, 
Member  
• Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
member 
• Risk Management 
and Sustainability 
Committee, 
Member
• Investment 
& Finance 
Committee, 
Member
• Nil 
• Audit Committee, 
Member  
• Risk 
Management and 
Sustainability 
Committee, 
Member 
• Investment 
& Finance 
Committee, 
Member
• Audit Committee, 
Chairman 
• Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Chairman
• Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member  
• Investment 
& Finance 
Committee, 
Member 
• Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Chairperson 
• Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, member
• Risk Management 
and Sustainability 
Committee, Member
28 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Particulars 
Mr. Analjit Singh
Mr. Sahil Vachani 
Mr. Ka Luk 
Stanley Tai
Mr. Niten Malhan
Mr. Dinesh Kumar 
Mittal 
Ms. Gauri 
Padmanabhan
Memberships/Chairmanship 
in the committees of other 
Boards
• Max India 
Limited- 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member
• Max Financial 
Services Limited- 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member
• Max Life 
Insurance 
Company Limited 
- Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member
• Max India Limited- 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member
• Max Financial 
Services Limited- 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member
• Max Life Insurance 
Company Limited 
- Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member 
• Nil
1.	 Max India 
Limited
• 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member
2.	 Lemon Tree 
Hotels Limited
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Chairman
• 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Chairman 
• 
Risk 
Management 
Committee, 
Member
3.	 Fleur Hotels 
Private 
Limited
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Member
• 
Valuation 
Committee, 
member 
1.	 Max Financial 
Services 
Limited
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Chairman
• 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Member
• 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee, 
Member 
• 
Risk 
Management 
Committee, 
Member
2.	 Bharti Airtel 
Limited
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Member
• 
Stakeholders 
Relationship 
Committee, 
Member
3.	 Balrampur 
Chini Mills 
Limited
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Chairman 
4.	 Trident 
Limited
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Member
5.	 Niva Bupa   
Health   
Insurance 
Company 
Limited 
• 
Audit 
Committee, 
Chairman 
• 
Nil
Resignation from listed 
entities in the past three years 
• Max Ventures 
and Industries 
Limited 
(Amalgamated 
with Max Estates 
Limited)
• Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited 
(Amalgamated 
with Max Estates 
Limited)
• Max Ventures 
and Industries 
Limited 
(Amalgamated 
with Max 
Estates 
Limited)
• Max Ventures 
and Industries 
Limited 
(Amalgamated 
with Max Estates 
Limited)
• Max Ventures 
and Industries 
Limited 
(Amalgamated 
with Max Estates 
Limited) 
• Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited 
(Amalgamated with 
Max Estates Limited)
In case of independent 
directors, the skills and 
capabilities required for the 
role and manner in which 
the proposed independent 
director meets such 
requirement
Not Applicable 
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Please refer to the ‘Key Board qualifications, expertise and attributes’ 
mentioned in the Corporate Governance Report forming part of the 
Annual Report of the Company for FY 2023. Additionally, you may also 
refer the ‘Brief Profile’ given in the explanatory statement for the point 
no. 4 to 6 for appointment of the respective Independent Director for 
the same.   
Annual Report 2022-23 | 29
Notice
*Pursuant to the provisions of the Scheme, Mr. Vachani was 
appointed in Max Estates Limited as Managing Director and 
CEO effective from July 31, 2023, therefore, the details of past 
remuneration of Mr. Vachani during FY23 are not applicable.
However, during FY23, he worked as “Managing Director 
and CEO” of   Max Ventures and Industries Limited (the 
Transferor Company) and he drawn a remuneration of Rs. 
4,04,16,836/- (Rupees Four Crores Four Lakhs Sixteen 
Thousand Eight Hundred and Thirty Six Only). 
Item No. 11 
As per Regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, (‘SEBI LODR Regulations’), all Related 
Party transactions, if material, requires prior approval of 
shareholders, even if such transactions were in ordinary 
course of business and at arms’ length. Further, in terms of 
SEBI LODR Regulations, “related party transaction” for a 
listed company includes a transaction involving a transfer 
of resources, services or obligations between a listed 
entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related 
party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the 
other hand. Further, in terms of SEBI LODR Regulations, a 
transaction with a related party shall be considered material, 
if the transaction(s) to be entered into individually or taken 
together with previous transactions during a financial year, 
exceeds Rs. 1,000 Crores or 10% of the annual consolidated 
turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial 
statements of the listed entity, whichever is lower. 
Arising from the above regulations, the proposed contracts/ 
arrangements/ transactions (detailed below) between Max 
Estates Gurgaon Limited, a Wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company and Antara Senior Living Limited, a Wholly 
owned Subsidiary of Max India Limited, an entity owned and 
controlled by Promoter and Promoter Group of the Company, 
would qualify as a material related party transaction under 
SEBI LODR Regulations.
The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of 
the Company have approved the said material related 
party transactions and have noted that although these 
transactions are in the ordinary course of business and 
are at arm’s length price, they qualify as material related 
party transactions under the SEBI LODR Regulations. 
Accordingly, the approval of the members is sought for the 
same for which requisite details are furnished hereunder as 
per extant regulations for the perusal of the members.
Background of the transaction
Max Estates Gurgaon Limited (MEGL) (“Developer”) 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and is 
developing a Project at Village Harsaru, Sector 36-A, Sub-
Tehsil Harsaru, District Gurugram, Haryana, comprising of 
residential apartments along with various amenities wherein 
there will be two towers developed as Senior Living Project 
(hereinafter referred to as Project) by Antara Senior Living 
Limited. The Project comprised of allocated FAR of appox. 
6.07 Lakh square feet.
Antara Senior Living Limited (ASLL) has requisite 
experience, resources and expertise in the field of Senior 
Living projects. Therefore, pursuant to the Binding Term 
sheet executed between ASLL and MEGL, ASLL is being 
appointed for providing services agreed between the parties 
in relation to development of aforesaid Senior Living Project 
in Gurugram, Haryana. 
As per the terms agreed between the parties, ASLL is entitled 
to receive a Fees from MEGL, in lieu of such Services to be 
rendered for development of Senior Living Project.
ASLL shall pay a refundable Performance Deposit to MEGL 
for Services which shall be refunded either on receipt of 
entire Gross Sales Proceeds in relation to sale/conveyance/
transfer of units and areas in the Senior Living Project, or 
the date of receipt of occupancy certificate for the project, 
whichever is later, unless otherwise mutually agreed 
between the Parties.
As per SEBI LODR Regulations, all related parties of 
the Company, whether or not a party to the proposed 
transaction(s), no related party shall vote to approve this 
resolution.
Common Promoters and Promoter group controls both 
Listed Entities i.e. Max India Limited and Max Estates 
Limited.
Except as stated above, none of the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company and their relatives are, in any 
way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the 
Resolution, as set out at item no.11, except to the extent of 
their Directorship/shareholding in the Group Entities.  
The relevant details of Material Related Party Transactions 
and particulars thereof as per SEBI Listing Regulations 
along with SEBI Master Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/
CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, for which Members’ 
approval is sought are outlined below:
30 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Sr. No.
Particulars
Details of transactions
1.
Name of the related party and its 
relationship 
The material related party transaction is between the Wholly Owned subsidiary 
of the Company, viz., Max Estates Gurgaon Limited (‘MEGL or Developer') 
and Antara Senior Living Limited (‘ASLL’), Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Max 
India Limited, an entity owned and controlled by the Promoters /Promoter 
Group of the Company.
Common Promoter and Promoter group holds 50.94% Equity stake in Max 
India Limited and 49.46% Equity stake in the Company and therefore, ASLL 
and MEGL are related parties to each other in accordance with provisions of 
SEBI LODR Regulations.
2.
Details about the Transactions, 
their material terms, maximum 
amount 
of 
transaction 
for 
which approval is sought, the 
percentage of the listed entity’s 
annual consolidated turnover, 
for the immediately preceding 
financial year, that is represented 
by the value of the proposed 
transaction and the percentage 
calculated on the basis of the 
subsidiary’s annual turnover on 
a standalone basis.
MEGL shall execute following transactions (excluding applicable taxes) with 
ASLL, in terms of arrangements agreed between the parties:
1.	
After receipt of approval of shareholders on the proposed resolution, 
ASLL shall pay an amount of INR 33 Cr., a Refundable Performance 
Deposit to MEGL for Services in one or more tranches as agreed between 
the parties. 
	
The performance deposit shall be refunded by MEGL to ASLL either on 
receipt of entire Gross Sales Proceeds in relation to sale /conveyance 
/transfer of units and areas in the Senior Living Project, or the date of 
receipt of the occupancy certificate for the project, whichever is later, 
unless otherwise mutually agreed between the parties. The whole of the 
Performance Deposit is expected to be paid on or before March 31, 2025. 
•  
~30.74% of the consolidated turnover of Max Estates Limited basis 
FY 2023
•  
During FY 2023, MEGL reported NIL Revenue from operations. 
Consequently, the percentage calculated based on MEGL’s annual 
standalone turnover for FY 2023, which would represent the value of 
the proposed transaction, is provided.
2.	
ASLL is entitled to receive from MEGL, Fees of 9.5% of the Net Sales 
Revenue accrued to MEGL from the purchasers of Senior Living Project 
plus taxes as applicable, towards Services rendered by ASLL. The 
estimated sum to be received in this regard during FY 24-25 shall be 
upto Rs. 9.7 Cr. (excluding taxes).
•  
~9.04 % of the consolidated turnover of Max Estates Limited basis 
FY 2023
•  
During FY 2023, MEGL reported NIL Revenue from operations. 
Consequently, the percentage calculated based on MEGL’s annual 
standalone turnover for FY 2023, which would represent the value of 
the proposed transaction, is not provided.
3.	
In addition to the Fees, ASLL shall also be entitled to receive an additional 
fee, equivalent to 50% of the net profit arising out of the Developer’s 
entitlement in the Senior Living Project.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 31
Notice
Sr. No.
Particulars
Details of transactions
In the event the Developer incurs any loss, 50% of such loss shall be 
deducted from the Refundable Performance Deposit at the time of refund 
of the same to ASLL. Further, in such event, if 50% of the loss is higher than 
the Refundable Performance Deposit, the difference in the said amounts 
shall be recovered from ASLL by the Developer. The same shall be calculated 
and paid to or recovered from ASLL at the time of refund of the Refundable 
Performance Deposit to ASLL in accordance with Point 1 in Sr. No. 2. It is 
clarified that the additional fee payable to ASLL or the deduction on account 
of loss recoverable from ASLL as stated above shall be up to a maximum of 
Fee paid/payable by the Developer to ASLL in accordance with this Clause.  
As transactions stated at Sr. 3, are futuristic and contingent in nature, it may 
not be possible for the Company to ascribe an explicit monetary value to such 
transactions at this juncture. However, specific approval of the shareholders, 
wherever required, shall be obtained, if value of all transactions under the 
arrangement put together exceeds the materiality thresholds of RPTs, in 
terms of SEBI LODR Regulations, as stipulated from time to time, for such 
material RPTs.
3.
Value 
of 
the 
proposed 
transaction 
The amount for each transaction has been specified in Sr. No. 2 above.
4.
Nature of concern or interest 
of the related party (financial/
otherwise) 
Financial
5.
Tenure 
of 
the 
proposed 
transaction 
As detailed under Sr. No. 2.
6.
If the transaction relates to any 
loans, inter-corporate deposits, 
advance or investments made 
or given by the listed entity or its 
subsidiary:
Not Applicable as the amounts do not qualify to be a loan, Inter-Corporate 
Deposit, advance or investment by the Company or its Subsidiary. 
The Refundable Performance Deposit shall be payable in tranches by ASLL 
to MEGL (Developer) as per the stages agreed between the parties and the 
same shall be refunded by MEGL to ASLL, either on receipt of entire Gross 
Sales Proceeds in relation to sale/ conveyance/ transfer of units and areas 
in the Senior Living Project, or the date of receipt of occupancy certificate 
for the Senior Living Project whichever is later, unless otherwise mutually 
agreed between the Parties.
(i)	 details of the source of 
funds in connection with the 
proposed transaction
(ii)	 where 
any 
financial 
indebtedness 
is 
incurred 
to make or give loans, 
interoperate 
deposits, 
advances or investments,
• 
nature of indebtedness;
• 
cost of funds; and
• 
tenure;
(i)	 Applicable terms, including 
covenants, tenure, interest 
rate 
and 
repayment 
schedule, whether secured 
or unsecured; if secured, the 
nature of security 
(ii)	 The purpose for which the 
funds will be utilized by the 
ultimate beneficiary of such 
funds pursuant to the related 
party transactions
32 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Sr. No.
Particulars
Details of transactions
7.
Justification as to why the 
related party transaction is in the 
interest of the listed entity
The Company through its subsidiaries is inter alia engaged in the business 
of developing vibrant residential communities in Delhi NCR based on 
the principals of “Live Well”. One of such envisaged projects is located in 
Gurugram under the aegis of its wholly-owned subsidiary Max Estates 
Gurgaon Limited. The said project entails development of 2.4 million sq ft of 
residential area spread over 11.8 acres of land in Sector 36 A Gurugram.
In the said project, it is proposed to appoint Antara Senior Living Limited 
as service provider for a portion of the overall Project, which is envisaged 
for Senior Living customers. Antara has been a pioneer in the Senior Living 
space and has delivered marquee projects in Dehradun and developing 
another project in Noida. This transaction, as envisaged will help create a 
multi-product offering for customers as the project is being planned as an 
“inter-generational” residential development at Gurugram. 
Through this arrangement, MEGL will drive sales and marketing of two 
different product offerings within the overall Project, aided by the advisory 
services of Antara in design, conceptualization, development and promotion 
of the Senior Living product. Thus, the Project will therefore target a wider set 
of unique customer segments (i.e., Senior Living customers and otherwise) 
by effectively leveraging larger pool of distribution channels. As a result, 
the sales velocity of overall Project inventory is expected to be significantly 
accelerated. 
Additionally, the Project Management Fees (refer Sr. No. 2) payable to ASLL 
along with the Additional Fees (refer Sr. No. 2) as well as the refundable 
Performance Deposit received by MEGL (refer Sr. No. 2) works out to be 
within the range of 8-12% of Net Sales Revenue. This range is in line with the 
reports prepared by Independent Experts, International Property Consultants 
-  Savills and CBRE. 
Both these entities are growing leaders in their respective areas of expertise, 
they can suitably complement each other in the effective execution and 
completion of the overall Project.   
All these transactions are in the ordinary course of business and have been 
made as per the rights and obligations of MEGL and ASLL arising from the 
said commercial arrangement and the same is in the best interest of the 
successful completion of the overall Project.
8.
Valuation or other external party 
report 
The related party transaction(s) mentioned in this proposal has been 
evaluated by a reputed external independent consulting firm and the firm 
has confirmed that the proposed terms of the contract/agreement meet the 
arm’s length testing criteria. The related party transaction(s)/contract(s) /
arrangement(s) also qualifies as contract under ordinary course of business. 
The Valuation Report obtained in this context can be accessed by clicking 
the following weblink:
Savills’s 
Report: 
https://maxestates.in/wp-content/themes/max-
estate/html/pdf-viewer.html?pdf_url=https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/11/Savillss-Report-for-for-MEGL-and-Antara-Material-RPT.
pdf
CBRE’s 
Report: 
https://maxestates.in/wp-content/themes/max-estate/
html/pdf-viewer.html?pdf_url=https://maxestates.in/wp-content/
uploads/2023/11/CBREs-Report-for-MEGL-and-Antara-Material-RPT.pdf
Annual Report 2022-23 | 33
Notice
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out 
at Item No. 11 of the Notice for approval of the members by 
way of Ordinary Resolution.
Item No. 12 and 13 
Pursuant to Clause 19 of the Composite Scheme of 
Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst erstwhile Max 
Ventures and Industries Limited (“Transferor Company” or 
“MVIL”) and Max Estates Limited (“Company” or “Transferee 
Company” or “MEL”) and their respective shareholders and 
creditors (“Scheme of Arrangement”), which came into 
effect on July 31, 2023, the Company is required to take 
necessary steps to formulate Stock Option Plan under Max 
Estates Limited.
Clause 19 of the Scheme of Arrangement, is being re-
produced in verbatim, below:
“19.	EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS
19.1	 Upon coming into effect of the Scheme, the 
Transferee Company shall take necessary steps 
to formally adopt the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016 of the 
Transferor Company by taking the same on record 
by its Board of Directors on the Effective Date of 
the Scheme including taking note of the subsisting 
grants made by the Transferor Company to each of 
its optionees alongwith vesting schedule which will 
be implemented in the Transferee Company without 
any further act or deed, on the exercise of the said 
options by the optionees. 
19.2	Upon coming into effect of the Scheme, all the stock 
options under the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016 which have 
not been granted as on the Effective Date, shall lapse 
automatically without any further act, instrument or 
deed by the Transferor Company, the employee or 
the Transferee Company and without any approval 
or acknowledgement of any third party. 
19.3	Upon the Scheme coming into effect, in respect 
of the stock options granted by the Transferor 
Company under the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016 which 
have been granted (whether vested or not) but 
have not been exercised as on the Effective Date 
to the eligible Employees (as defined under MVIL 
ESOP Plan 2016), and in pursuance to adoption of 
the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016 as aforesaid mentioned 
under Clause 19.1, the Transferee Company 
shall grant 1 (one) employee stock options of 
Transferee Company, in lieu of every 1 (one) stock 
option (whether vested or unvested) held by such 
eligible Employees under the MVIL ESOP Plan 
2016 in accordance with the Amalgamation Share 
Entitlement Ratio as mentioned under Clause 18.1 
of this Scheme and the existing stock options held 
by them under the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016 shall stand 
cancelled.  The terms and conditions of the new 
stock option plan of the Transferee Company shall 
be as provided under the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016. 
19.4	While granting stock options, the Transferee 
Company shall take into account the period for 
which the employees held stock options granted 
by the Transferor Company prior to the issuance 
of the stock options by Transferee Company, for 
determining the minimum vesting period required for 
stock options granted by the Transferee Company, 
subject to applicable laws.
19.5	All actions taken in accordance with Clause 19.1 to 
Clause 19.4 of this Scheme shall be deemed to be 
undertaken as an integral part of the Scheme and 
shall be in full compliance of Section 42, 62 and other 
applicable provisions of the Act and any guidelines or 
regulations issued by SEBI and no further approval of 
the shareholders of the Transferor Company and the 
Transferee Company would be required to be passed 
separately in this connection. For the avoidance of 
doubt and without prejudice to the generality of the 
foregoing, it is clarified that the approvals already 
granted by the Shareholders of the Transferor 
Company and the in-principle  approvals granted 
by BSE vide its Letter No. DCS/IPO/ND/ESOP-
IP/1400/2016-17 dated October 27, 2016 and NSE 
vide its Letter NSE/LIST/93422 dated November 11, 
2016 for and in relation to the MVIL ESOP Plan 2016 
shall stand applicable to the Transferee Company 
and no further approval of the BSE and NSE and 
the shareholders of the Transferor Company and 
the Transferee Company would be required to be 
obtained separately in this connection.”
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Directors (“Committee” or “NRC”) formulated and 
recommended the detailed terms and conditions of 
the Max Estates Employee Stock Option Plan 2023 
(ESOP Plan 2023), which was duly approved by the 
Board of Directors at their Meeting held on July 31, 2023, 
subsisting ESOP grants made by MVIL and increasing 
the pool.
	
Further, the stock options granted by the MVIL under 
the Max Ventures and Industries Employee Stock Plan 
– 2016 would continue to be held by the employees 
concerned in the proposed ESOP Plan 2023 of the 
34 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
Company considering the vesting period for which 
the stock options were previously held by employees 
in MVIL with all identical terms and conditions like 
exercise price, vesting schedule, etc.
	
8,39,973 Options granted under Max Ventures and 
Industries Employee Stock Plan – 2016 are being carry 
forwarded under ESOP Plan 2023 and additionally 
fresh 65,16,754 (Sixty Five Lakhs Sixteen Thousand 
Seven Hundred Fifty-Four) stock options are propose 
to be allocatd under the ESOP Plan 2023. Therefore, 
in aggregate, 73,56,727 (Seventy Three Lakhs Fifty 
Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty Seven only) 
employee stock options, are being created, offered, 
issued and allotted from time to time, in one or more 
tranches under ESOP Plan 2023.
	
The Plan shall be adopted and implemented, subject to 
further approval of the Members of the Company.
	
In terms of Section 62(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Regulation 6 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (“SEBI 
SBEB Regulations”), the Company seeks approval 
of the Members for adoption and implementation of 
the Plan and grant of stock options thereunder to the 
employees of the Company, as the Committee may 
decide under the Plan in accordance with the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and other 
applicable laws.
	
Disclosure/main features of ESOP Plan 2023 pursuant 
to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 and the Companies Act, 2013 are as 
follows:
S. No.
Particulars
Details
1.
Brief description of the 
ESOP Plan
The ESOP Plan 2023 is aimed at attracting key employees to the Company and 
inducing key employees to remain with the Company, and encourage them to 
increase their efforts to make the Company’s business more successful, by rewarding 
the eligible employees with equity based stock options (“Options”).
The ESOP Plan 2023 provides for grant of Options to eligible employees as identified 
by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NR Committee”) from time to 
time, at a price to be determined by the NR Committee. The NR Committee shall act 
as the Compensation Committee for the administration of the Plan and has the power 
to formulate the terms and conditions of grant of Options, which are recorded in the 
agreement (“Option Agreement”) to be executed between the eligible employee and 
the Company at the time of grant of Options. Depending upon the class of employees, 
the vesting of Options is either time based or performance based or both.
2
The 
total 
number 
of 
options to be granted.
8,39,973 Options granted under Max Ventures and Industries Employee Stock Plan 
– 2016 are being carry forwarded under ESOP Plan 2023 and 65,16,754 (Sixty Five 
Lakhs Sixteen Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty-Four) employee stock options, are 
being created under the ESOP Plan 2023. Therefore, in aggregate, 73,56,727 (Seventy 
Three Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty Seven only) employee stock 
options, are being created, offered, issued and allotted from time to time, in one or 
more tranches under ESOP Plan 2023.  
73,56,727 (Seventy Three Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty Seven 
only) Options, representing 5% of the paid-up capital of the Company, in one or more 
tranches, to such eligible employees as may be determined by the NR Committee in 
terms of the Plan, that would entitle the grantees (in aggregate) to subscribe up to 
73,56,727 (Seventy Three Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty Seven 
only) fully paid-up equity shares of ₹ 10 (Rupee ten only) each. 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 35
Notice
S. No.
Particulars
Details
Further, the SEBI SBEB Regulations require that in case of any corporate action(s) 
such as rights issue, bonus issue, merger, sale of division etc., a fair and reasonable 
adjustment needs to be made to the options granted. In this regard, the Company 
shall adjust the number, class and kind of equity shares, the number of stock options 
and/or the exercise price of the options granted in such a manner that the total value 
of the options granted under the ESOP Plan 2023 remains the same after any such 
corporate action. Accordingly, if any additional options are granted by the Company 
to the option grantees for making such fair and reasonable adjustment, the ceiling 
of 73,56,727 (Seventy Three Lakhs Fifty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty Seven 
only) shall be deemed to be increased to the extent of such additional options issued. 
Options that have lapsed due to non-exercise, forfeited, surrendered and / or 
cancelled under the ESOP Plan 2023, would be available for being re-granted at a 
future date in accordance with the provisions of ESOP Plan 2023.
3
Identification of classes 
of 
employees 
entitled 
to participate and the 
beneficiaries 
in 
the 
scheme(s).
Subject to determination or selection by the NR Committee, the following classes of 
employees/directors are eligible being:
a)	 an employee as designated by the Company, who is exclusively working in India 
or outside India; 
b)	 a Director in the whole time employment of the Company, who is not a promoter 
or member of the promoter group; 
c)	
an employee as defined in sub-clauses (a) or (b), of group company(ies) and/
or subsidiary company(ies) and/or associate company(ies), in India or outside 
India;
but does not include –
(i)	
an employee who is a promoter or belongs to the promoter group; or 
(ii)	
a Director who either by himself or through his relatives or through any body 
corporate, directly or indirectly holds more than 10% of the outstanding equity 
shares of the Company; or 
(iii)	 an Independent Director.
The NR Committee while granting the Options to any eligible employee(s) of Group 
Company(ies) and/or associate company(ies) and/or subsidiary(ies), shall at 
its discretion, consider the factors including but not limited to the role(s) of such 
employee(s) for safeguarding the interest of the Company, or such employee’s 
contribution to the Company.
4
Requirements of vesting 
and period of vesting
Vesting may be time based or performance based, as determined by the NR 
Committee, from time to time, under the relevant Option Agreement.
Options shall vest essentially based on continuation of employment / service with 
the Company or its subsidiary company(ies), as applicable, and as per requirement 
of the SEBI SBEB Regulations. Apart from that the NR Committee may prescribe 
achievement of any performance condition(s) or other criteria for vesting.
Further, if the NR Committee may decide, Options shall vest with the Participant 
over such period and in such a manner, provided the Employee meets the additional 
vesting conditions pertaining to the KPIs set by the NR Committee at the time of 
grant of respective option. The vesting schedule may be varied by the Committee for 
the benefit of the Employees. Special provisions would apply in case of the death, 
permanent incapacitation, retirement, termination or resignation of the Employee.
36 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
S. No.
Particulars
Details
5.
Maximum period (subject 
to regulation 18(1) and 
24(1) of the SEBI ESOP 
Regulations, as the case 
may be) within which the 
options / SARs / benefit 
shall be vested.
All the Options granted on any date shall vest not earlier than the minimum vesting 
period of 1 (one) year and not later than 4 years from the grant date. 
Further, for the 8,39,973 Options granted under Max Ventures and Industries 
Employee Stock Plan – 2016 which are being carry forwarded, pursuant to the 
Scheme of Arrangement, Max Estates Limited shall take into account the period 
for which the employees held stock options granted by erstwhile Max Ventures and 
Industries Limited prior to the issuance of the stock options by Max Estates Limited, 
for determining the minimum vesting period required for stock options granted under 
the present scheme
6.
Exercise price or pricing 
formula
The Options granted to the Employees under this Plan shall carry an Exercise Price, 
which may be equivalent to the market price or at such to the Market Price of the 
Shares of the Company as may be determined by the NR Committee at the time of 
grant of options. However, in any case the Exercise Price shall not be less than the 
par value of the Shares of the Company.
In case of a fall in market value of Shares between the Offer Date and the date of 
Exercise, the Committee may re-price the Options that have not been vested while 
ensuring such re-pricing is not detrimental to the interest of the Grantees.
7.
Exercise period and 
process of exercise.
The Exercise period will commence from the date of vesting and extend up to not 
later than two years from the date of the vesting of the Options or such lesser period 
as may be decided by the Committee, from time to time.
Process of exercise:
The Optionee is required to provide written notice (the “Exercise Notice”) to the 
Company specifying the number of Shares in respect of which the Option to be 
exercised in terms of the ESOP Plan 2023, in such format as may be prescribed by 
the NR Committee from time to time. Exercise of options shall be considered only 
after payment of requisite exercise price and satisfaction of applicable taxes by the 
option grantee. The options shall lapse if not exercised within the specified exercise 
period.
8.
The appraisal process for 
determining the eligibility 
of employees for the 
scheme(s)
The NR Committee shall determine the grant size for the employees eligible under 
the ESOP Plan 2023 based inter-alia, on number of years of service in the Company, 
seniority in the management cadre, annual performance appraisal/review, criticality 
of the function and the significance of contribution to the Company’s growth.
9.
Maximum number of 
options, SARs, shares, as 
the case may be, to be 
issued per employee and 
in aggregate.
The NR Committee shall decide the number of options /equity shares that may 
be granted / issued to any specific employee / director of the Company or its 
subsidiary(ies) under the ESOP Plan 2023, in any financial year and in aggregate, 
but the same shall not exceed 1% of the issued capital in any one financial year.
10.
Maximum quantum of 
benefits to be provided 
per employee under a 
scheme(s).
The maximum quantum of benefits underlying the options issued to an eligible 
employee shall depend upon the market price of the equity shares as on the date 
of allotment of equity shares arising out of exercise of options vis-à-vis the exercise 
price at which options were granted.
11.
Whether the scheme(s) 
is to be implemented and 
administered directly by 
the company or through 
a trust.
The Plan shall be implemented and administered directly by the Company, under the 
superintendence of the NR Committee in terms of SEBI SBEB Regulations.
All questions of interpretation of the Plan or any option under the Scheme shall be 
determined by the NR Committee and such determination shall be final and binding 
upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or in any option issued thereunder.
Annual Report 2022-23 | 37
Notice
S. No.
Particulars
Details
12
Whether the scheme(s) 
involves new issue of 
shares by the company or 
secondary acquisition by 
the trust or both.
The Plan contemplates issue of fresh/primary equity shares by the Company.
13
The amount of loan 
to be provided for 
implementation of 
the scheme(s) by the 
company to the trust, 
its tenure, utilization, 
repayment terms, etc.
Not applicable since this is currently not contemplated under the Plan.
14
Maximum percentage of 
secondary acquisition 
(subject to limits specified 
under the regulations) 
that can be made by the 
trust for the purposes of 
the scheme(s).
Not applicable since this is currently not contemplated under the Plan.
15
a statement to the effect 
that the company shall 
conform to the accounting 
policies specified in 
regulation 15.
The Company shall follow the IND AS 102 on Share based payments and/or any 
relevant accounting standards/guidance note as may be prescribed by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India or any other competent authority, from time to 
time, including the disclosure requirements prescribed therein, in compliance with 
Regulation 15 of SEBI SBEB Regulations.
16
The method which the 
company shall use to 
value its options
The Company shall adopt ‘fair value method’ for valuation of Options as prescribed 
under IND AS 102 on Share-based payments or any accounting standard/ guidance 
note, as applicable, notified by competent authorities from time to time.
17
Declaration
In case the Company opts for expensing of share based employee benefits using 
the intrinsic value, the difference between the employee compensation cost so 
computed and the employee compensation cost that shall have been recognized if it 
had used the fair value of the Options and the impact of this difference on profits and 
on Earning Per Share (EPS) of the Company, shall also be disclosed in the Board’s 
Report.
The said Statement is not applicable to the Company since the Company is opting 
for the Fair Value Method.
18
period of lock- in
The Shares issued pursuant to exercise of vested Options shall not be subject to any 
lock-in period restriction in general. Usual restrictions as may be prescribed under 
the applicable laws including that under the code of conduct framed, if any, by the 
Company under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, shall apply.
19
Terms & conditions for 
buyback, if any, of specified 
securities covered under 
these regulations
Not applicable
38 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
S. No.
Particulars
Details
20
Transferability 
of 
Stock 
Options
The options granted to an employee shall not be transferable to any person and 
shall not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, hypothecated, sold, or otherwise 
transferred or encumbered or otherwise alienated in any manner.
However, in the event of the death of the employee while in employment, all the stock 
options granted to him/her till such date shall forthwith vest in his/her designated 
nominee or nominees (who may be named contingently or successively), or such 
employee’s legal heir, and can be exercisable by them within the time period as may 
be prescribed under the ESOP Plan 2023.
21
Rights of the option holder The option holder shall not have right to receive any dividend or to vote or in any 
manner enjoy the benefits of a shareholder in respect of option granted to him/her, 
till equity shares are allotted upon exercise of such option.
Regulation 6(1) of the SEBI SBEB Regulations requires that every employee stock 
option scheme shall be approved by the members of the Company by passing a 
special resolution in a general meeting. Further, Regulation 6(3)(c) of the SEBI SBEB 
Regulations requires that every employee stock option scheme extended to the 
employees of the subsidiary company(ies) shall be approved by the members of the 
Company by passing a special resolution in a general meeting.
22
Variation 
of 
terms 
of 
Scheme
Subject to compliance with the requirements of the SEBI SBEB Regulations and 
other applicable laws, the Company may, from time to time, amend or vary the 
Scheme or any terms and conditions in the Scheme or alter any options granted in 
such respects as the NR Committee may deem necessary or desirable, provided that 
approval of the shareholders of the Company is taken by way of a special resolution 
in a general meeting for effecting such change, if such approval is required under 
applicable law and such change is not detrimental or prejudicial to the interests of 
the grantees, provided that the Company shall be entitled to vary the terms of the 
Scheme to meet any regulatory requirements.
23
Certificate 
from 
the 
Secretarial Auditor
The Board of Directors shall at each annual general meeting place before the members 
a certificate from the Secretarial auditor of the Company that the Scheme(s) has 
been implemented in accordance with the prescribed regulations and in accordance 
with the resolution of the Company in the general meeting.
Further, as the ESOP Plan 2023 will entail further issue 
of equity shares, consent of the members is required by 
way of a special resolution pursuant to Section 62(1)(b) of 
the Companies Act. Accordingly, the Board accordingly 
recommends the Resolution set out under item no. 12 and 
13 for approval by the members of the Company as Special 
Resolutions.
The members may note that provisions of Section 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to the real estate 
entity. However, the Company is proposing this resolution 
for the approval of the members on voluntary basis.
A copy of the draft ESOP Plan 2023 is placed at the website 
of the Company at www.maxestates.in till the conclusion 
of the ensuing Annual General Meeting and the same will 
be available for inspection as mentioned in notes to AGM 
Notice.
None of the Promoters, Directors or Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company and their relative(s) is in any 
way concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, 
in the aforesaid resolution, except to the extent of their 
entitlements, if any, under the ESOP Plan 2023.
Item No. 14 
In terms of provision of Section 180(1)(c) of the Act, the 
Board of Directors of the Company cannot, except with the 
consent of the shareholders of the Company in their General 
Meeting by way of passing of Special resolution, borrow 
money(ies) apart from the temporary loans, in excess of 
aggregate of the paid-up share capital, free reserves and 
securities premium.
The members may note that as per Clause 13 of the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst Max 
Ventures and Industries Limited (“Transferor Company”) 
Annual Report 2022-23 | 39
Notice
and Max Estates Limited (“Company” or “Transferee 
Company”) and their respective shareholders and creditors 
(“Scheme”), benefits of any and all corporate approvals as 
may have already been taken by the Transferor Company, 
whether being in the nature of compliances or otherwise, 
shall without any further act, instrument or deed, cost or 
charge and without any notice or other intimation to any third 
party for the transfer of the same, be and stand transferred 
and vested in the Transferee Company by operation of law, 
and the said corporate approvals and compliances shall be 
deemed to have originally been taken/complied with by the 
Transferee Company and if any such resolutions have any 
monetary limits approved under the provisions of the Act, 
or other applicable statutory provisions, then the said limits 
shall be added to the limits, if any, under like resolutions 
passed by the Transferee Company and shall constitute the 
aggregate of the said limits in the Transferee Company. 
Accordingly, the limits under section 180(1)(c) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 approved by the Transferor Company 
has been added to the limits approved under section 180(1)
(c) of the Companies Act, 2013 by the Transferee Company,
with effect from the Appointed Date (i.e. April 1, 2022) without 
any further act or deed in terms of sanctioned scheme.
Nevertheless, as a matter of good corporate governance, the 
Company is seeking approval of members of the Company
under section 180(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013 for overall 
limited of INR 1,100 Crores plus plus the paid-up capital, free
reserves and securities premium of the Company.
Therefore, it is proposed to authorize the Board of Directors 
of the Company to borrow money (ies) upto an amount of 
Rs. 11,00,00,00,000/- (Rupees Eleven Hundred Crores) apart 
from the temporary loans plus plus the paid-up capital, free 
reserves and securities premium of the Company, in excess 
of aggregate of the paid-up capital and its free reserves, in 
compliance of the provisions of the Act.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolutions, as set 
out at Item No. 14 of the Notice, except to the extent of their 
Directorship/shareholding in the Company.
The Board accordingly recommends the Resolution set 
out under item no. 14 for approval by the members of the 
Company as a Special Resolution.
Item No. 15
In terms of provision of Section 180(1)(a) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”) the Board of Directors of the Company 
cannot, except with the consent of the Company by a Special 
resolution, create security or create mortgages, pledge, 
encumbrances, charges, hypothecation or a combination 
of the aforesaid over the movable or immovable assets 
of the Company, including shares held as investment(s) 
in subsidiaries, Associates or otherwise, which may be 
required to secure the borrowings availed by the Company 
and/or by associate or group companies (if any) or any other 
body corporate.
The members may note that as per Clause 13 of the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst Max 
Ventures and Industries Limited (“Transferor Company”) 
and Max Estates Limited (“Company” or “Transferee 
Company”) and their respective shareholders and creditors 
(“Scheme”), benefits of any and all corporate approvals as 
may have already been taken by the Transferor Company, 
whether being in the nature of compliances or otherwise, 
shall without any further act, instrument or deed, cost or 
charge and without any notice or other intimation to any third 
party for the transfer of the same, be and stand transferred 
and vested in the Transferee Company by operation of law, 
and the said corporate approvals and compliances shall be 
deemed to have originally been taken/complied with by the 
Transferee Company and if any such resolutions have any 
monetary limits approved under the provisions of the Act, 
or other applicable statutory provisions, then the said limits 
shall be added to the limits, if any, under like resolutions 
passed by the Transferee Company and shall constitute the 
aggregate of the said limits in the Transferee Company. 
Accordingly, the limits under section 180(1)(a) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 approved by the Transferor Company 
has been added to the limits approved under section 180(1)
(a) of the Companies Act, 2013 by the Transferee Company, 
with effect from the Appointed Date (i.e. April 1, 2022) without 
any further act or deed in terms of sanctioned scheme. 
Nevertheless, the Company is not required to obtain afresh 
approval of the shareholders for under section 180(1)(a). 
However, as a matter of good corporate governance and 
abundant caution, the Company is approval of shareholders 
under section 180(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013 for the 
same amount as may be approved under Section 180(1)(c) 
of the Act by the shareholders of the Company mentioned 
in the Item no. 14.
Hence, approval of the Members of the Company under 
Section 180(1)(a) is being sought for the creation of a 
mortgage or charge for the borrowings of the Company 
and/or associate(s) or group companies or any other body 
corporate (if any) subject to limit under Section 180(1)(c) of 
the Act.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
40 | Annual Report 2022-23
Notice
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolutions, as set 
out at Item No. 15 of the Notice, except to the extent of their 
Directorship/shareholding in the Company.
The Board of Directors recommends the resolution set out 
at Item No. 15 of the Notice for approval of the members by 
way of Special Resolution.
Item No. 16
In terms of the provisions of Section 186 of the Act read with 
the rules framed thereunder, the Company is required to 
obtain the prior approval of the members by way of a Special 
Resolution for acquisition by way of subscription, purchase 
or otherwise, the securities of any other body corporate or 
for giving any loan or providing any guarantee and security 
exceeding sixty percent of the aggregate of the paid up 
capital, free reserves and securities premium account or 
hundred percent of its free reserves and securities premium 
account whichever is more.
The members may note that as per Clause 13 of the Composite 
Scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement amongst Max 
Ventures and Industries Limited (“Transferor Company”) 
and Max Estates Limited (“Company” or “Transferee 
Company”) and their respective shareholders and creditors 
(“Scheme”), benefits of any and all corporate approvals as 
may have already been taken by the Transferor Company, 
whether being in the nature of compliances or otherwise, 
shall without any further act, instrument or deed, cost or 
charge and without any notice or other intimation to any third 
party for the transfer of the same, be and stand transferred 
and vested in the Transferee Company by operation of law, 
and the said corporate approvals and compliances shall be 
deemed to have originally been taken/complied with by the 
Transferee Company and if any such resolutions have any 
monetary limits approved under the provisions of the Act, 
or other applicable statutory provisions, then the said limits 
shall be added to the limits, if any, under like resolutions 
passed by the Transferee Company and shall constitute the 
aggregate of the said limits in the Transferee Company. 
Accordingly, the limits under section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 approved by the Transferor Company is required 
has been approved under section 186 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 by the Transferee Company, with effect from the 
Appointed Date (i.e. April 1, 2022) without any further act 
or deed. in terms of sanctioned scheme. Nevertheless, for 
operational convenience, the Company is submitting the 
resolution again for approval of the members.
Hence, approval of the Members of the Company under 
Section 186 is being sought to authorise the Board to 
acquire by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise 
the securities of or for giving any loan or providing any 
guarantee and security to subsidiaries/ joint ventures/ step 
down subsidiaries/ bodies corporate in India or outside upto 
the limits provided in the proposed Special Resolution.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolutions, as set 
out at Item No. 16 of the Notice, except to the extent of their 
Directorship/shareholding in the Company.
The Board accordingly recommends the Resolution set 
out under item no. 16 for approval by the members of the 
Company as a Special Resolution.
By Order of the Board 
      For Max Estates Limited
Abhishek Mishra
	
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
Membership No. FCS- 9566
November 29, 2023
Noida
